What Hath Playboy Wrought ?	Here is this perfect family - - nice Mom and Dad , clean-cut kids . The 13-year-old boy is not only a good student but a star of his high school swimming team . He's got a girl friend , Amy , who is as cute as a button , and moral too , since she won't go all the way with him . He does a lot of homework and things on the PC in his bedroom . Enter pornography . The boy discovers he can find pornography on the internet and meet girls of questionable values too . He arranges a date with one of them , who happens to be a fellow student , and five minutes after their first meeting - - no , LESS than five minutes - - she moves from her side of the drug store booth to sit next to him , presses his hand against her breast , and asks , " Why don't we go to my place ? My parents aren't home . " Well , I'll tell you . Things just go from bad to worse . This clean-cut , polite , industrious 13-year-old kid becomes " addicted to porn , " as his Mum puts it . He can't stop . He neglects his clean-cut moral girl friend , he puts off studying and lies about it , his swimming deteriorates , he gets up in the middle of the night to creep with a demonic smile into the family room where his parents have moved his PC . He somehow gets his friends ' names on some email lists and they get snotty with him , slap him a little , and call him a " twisted freak " and complain that they get a lot of Spam now . ( They evidently don't have " ignore " devices . ) He begins - - and I know this is difficult for us perfectly normal adolescent boys to believe - - he begins to dream of beautiful half-naked girls swimming around him in the pool . It gets even worse . He swipes him Mum's credit card and begins charging porn-site membership fees to her account . Not that he's all bad , though . He finally winds up in the bedroom of this high-class slut from his high school . She jumps him on her parents bed and begins tearing at his clothes . " Can we go a little slower ? " he begs . " Sure . We can go as SLOW as you like , " the nubile nympho hisses . But it's no use . " This isn't how I imagined it would be , " he says , disappointed and awed by the too-frank advances of this Jezebel . She throws him out , his virtue intact . I don't know how it ends . I couldn't sit through it . But anyone who is able to take " Reefer Madness " as a serious description of a social problem ought to enjoy " Cyberseduction . " As for criticisms , I wouldn't really know where to begin . I guess we could start with the arguable generalization that every 13-year-old boy who has ever lived on the planet Earth loves to look at dirty pictures and masturbate . Also a goodly but undetermined portion of females of all ages . and mature , happily married men . If that isn't " normal " I don't know what is . ( When I was a kid we didn't have PCs , just the bra ads in a Sears and Roebuck's catalog . A classmate of mine was caught using one of the photos in such an add for an unintended purpose and was punished by being made to memorize Tennyson's " Charge of the Light Brigade " - - every line of it . That kid is a doctor today . ) Theoretically , I suppose , it's possible to take any normal activity too far , so that it becomes an obsession . ( This could be a movie about a kid who decides to eat nothing but rib eye steak - - and lots of it . He can't stop because he's " addicted to steak . " ) The media have been doing their level best to turn the internet into a social problem - - just as they tried to do with Satanism , hypodermic syringes in cans of Pepsi , and missing children on milk cartons . I don't know why it hasn't taken off yet . It would seem to be fertile ground . Here we have this complicated machine which maybe the parents don't understand much about . Mum and Dad probably know there are " chat rooms " hanging around in the box somewhere , although who knows what goes on in them . Then too they must be aware of internet pornography . All they have to do is watch a movie like this , and there are a couple of them floating around . There's no point in going on about it . It's a meretricious piece of trash designed to add to the worries of parents who are already stressed out over second-hand smoke , peanut allergies , and trans-fatty acids . I'd start to think about it , though , if my kid did nothing but watch slasher movies and play video games in which over-muscled figures made each other's heads explode in a shower of glee , gore and glia .
This isn't Mike Tyson , this is Woody Allan	It poses as another epic boxing movie but it boils down to a piffle . I can't believe the positive comments this piece of garbage has received . Is there no end to our lack of taste ? It's a " guilty pleasure " only in the sense that having a dominatrix snap a wet towel at your bare buns in a guilty pleasure . Rocky goes through his usual homey and decidedly low-tech training routine , schlepping a huge log up a mountainside , carrying it like a yoke across his shoulders . ( Oh , Lord , let us hope this wasn't intended as a religious allusion . ) Dolf Lundgren , who cannot act , is a sullen Aryan monster . He's given a lousy haircut , in case we might not get the point , and even sports a black mouthpiece in the ring , in case we missed the haircut too . Stallone almost always has non-Latins in the role of the heavies . A couple of African-Americans , an Irish gang in Paradise Alley , a Nordic here , an Eskimo there . I wonder if he knows exactly what he's trying to tap into , what tribal animadversions are oozing out of his cortical sulci . He practically converts the Soviet Union to capitalism at the end . And all those years we were sending people like Louis Armstrong and Benny Goodman around as Goodwill Ambassadors . Let's see . Drago - - great name ! - - can land a punch that packs 2 , 000 pounds per square inch . That's 131 . 5789474 times the force of gravity at sea level . And Rocky comes away from that final bout looking put upon . And all I have to do is look in the mirror to see what gravity alone is doing to my face ! Watching this - - this - - thing - - I couldn't tear myself from the screen , any more than I could pass a highway accident without gawking at it . What an execrable piece of movie-making crap .
Complete Rubbish .	A pair of queer young men invade the summer cottage of a middle-class couple . At first the two preppy-looking boys seem clumsy but apologetic and innocent . Then they turn rude , and finally violent , taking the husband ( Tim Roth ) , the wife ( Naomi Watts ) , and the child ( Devon Gearhart ) captives . They break Roth's leg , force Watts to strip off her dress and then bind her with tape , and mistreat the child . The teasing and mistreatment get worse . Attempts to escape or phone outside are thwarted . The plot has a self-conscious quality in that the two miscreants sometimes turn to the camera and make wisecracks or ask questions of the viewer . In the German original of ten years earlier , playing with the fourth wall was one of only two tries for originality . The other was that the two goons tortured the audience as well as the filmic family . Not only does the entire family wind up dead , but the boys explain the deaths to us this way - - they had to die because in a movie like this you weren't expecting them to . I didn't watch this to see if this remake is faithful enough to the original to senselessly kill the husband , wife , and child off . I can't imagine why the original was made , let alone why it had to be remade . The first half hour is engaging enough , focusing as it does on minor transgressions like dropping the four eggs you have just borrowed from a helpful neighbor , then dropping their replacements too , then politely refusing to leave when the family asks you to . But the rest is undiluted suspense and finally unmotivated horror . We don't know the two sadistic crazy boys . We identify with the bourgeois family - - and they're murdered , so we're denied the catharsis we've earned . And just because the movie makers think it's clever . It would be just as bad if the family members showed anger or defiance or any sign of stoicism , but they don't . They play it realistically , just as in the original . The terror and the pain seem real . There are moments when Naomi Watts runs around in her underwear so that we see her flawless figure , but it's anything but erotic because the suffering is abject . Her face is red and streaked with tears . It's a slasher movie for adults , if you want to put it that way , only this time it's not just the bad kids who die - - and the virgins don't get safely away . I've never understood the appeal of slasher movies . Who gets a kick out of seeing innocent people slaughtered ? Who is this movie aimed at ? Who is the audience ?
A Horrible Tragedy .	We all know there are some movies that are so bad they're funny . " Plan Nine From Outer Space . " They needn't be old or cheap either . John Wayne's " The Conquerer " is right up there in the first rank of the fifth rate . I think what we tend to forget , between viewings , is that bad movies are also extremely dull . And after a first viewing , prompted by curiosity twenty years ago , this one was a real caution to sit through a second time . I can't truthfully say it's worse than having a colonoscopy , but then I LIKE colonoscopies . Briefly , mercifully , I'll keep the plot short . Good old Bill Harper ( Kenneth Craig ) is a high school kid , " a fine upstanding American young man , " according to his principal ( Joseph Forte , in one of the most execrable performances ever committed to celluloid ) . Fine , upstanding Bill reluctantly finds himself attending reefer parties held in an apartment owned by a gang that includes Carlton Young and Dave O'Brien . Aficionados of John Ford's mature movies will recognize Carlton Young , but you have to be knee deep into an obsession with the short comedies of the 1940s to recognize Dave O'Brien . Anyway , nature takes its natural course . Young Bill joins the others in their intoxication , neglects his upstanding young girl friend , Mary , takes up with a sleazy blond , learns to enjoy doing wild dances , and is framed for the accidental shooting death of Mary . Nobody involved in the production could have had the slightest idea of what marijuana is or does . They may have gotten their ideas from Cecil's Textbook of Medicine or someplace - - symptoms of cannabis intoxication include high pulse rate , rising blood pressure , compulsive laughter , impaired judgment , euphoria , sluggishness , and so forth . ( They left out the munchies . ) A snap of the surgically scrubbed fingers and , voilà , it's not a high at all , it's a disease . The writers scripted in some additional symptoms , for the sake of their dramatic purport , I suppose . Reefers also make you snappish and angry . They prompt you to hold up stores . They drive you insane , as they did Dave O'Brien . They lead you to drive too fast and too recklessly , so that you tend to run over innocent pedestrians . ( That last symptom bespeaks a high level of imagination ; most drivers intoxicated by cannabis are likely to drive too slowly and to begin applying the brakes while the Stop sign is still a quarter of a mile away . They're burning up the road until they look down at the speedometer and realize they're traveling at 35 miles an hour . ) Well , in 1936 , hardly anyone had had any exposure to marijuana and this film was designed to be educational in the vulgar sense . It's easy to generate hysteria in a crowd by slipping them disinformation about the unknown . If it's not marijuana , it's internet predators , Satanists , UFOs , Illuminati , masturbation / insanity or something else . These kinds of fomenters of fear reach our more primitive subcortical structures . The fear is , for good reason , hard wired in our brains and sits there waiting for the trigger to be pulled . Since most of what we have to fear now , as opposed to when we lived in caves , consists of symbols that pose no immediate physical threat , we seem compelled to pull make-believe triggers from time to time . We wind up with a false fear , or what psychologists call " an arousal jag . " This movie is a good example .
Why don't they button their lips ?	It may be that enjoying this movie requires a couple of conditions be met . One is that you really ought to be young . So young that " hip hop " means a lot to you . Enough so that you're willing to sit through excerpts of it . You must be young enough too so that torture and death are things that only happen in the movies . It probably helps a lot if , despite your age , you're jaded , having passed straight from innocence into decadence without spending much time in maturity . I don't mean that as a particular insult . Probably a lot of sharp young viewers will get a kick out of seeing this - - this - - THING . But I do mean " jaded , " in the sense that they've already sat through so many slasher movies filled with axes through skulls and severed limbs and whatnot that satiation has driven them into what the movie refers to as " body art " . Plus the bloodying and suffering of teenage girls with too much trust . Actually , a study has been done on older people making advances towards kids under the age of 17 on the internet and found it practically nonexistent . ( Most of the advances were made by women , probably professionals , towards teenage boys . There's a shocker for you . ) Statistically , there isn't much to worry about , Moms and Dads . After seeing one or two other movies about " internet predators " and reading reviews claiming there were " thousands of them out there , " I began to get curious . The typical scenario has some middle-aged creep posing as just another youth in a teen chat room . I had some doubts that any middle-aged man could sit through more than ten minutes of what I expected to be going on in teen chats . So I logged into a couple of teen chat rooms to see what it was like . It really wasn't that bad . I was prepared to have to deal with stichomythic exchanges along the lines of , " chris farrel ROCKS but JLO sux . " " no she don't shes got great azz . " " drink koolaid N stfu . " But it was all fairly straightforward , I thought . I was mainly impressed by the imaginative use of fonts of varying colors , sizes , and designs . Lots of emoticons too . Other than that , and the fact that nothing of substance was brought up , it didn't look that different from an adult chat room on , say , biology . I wanted to try posing as just another high schooler , just to see if anybody could get away with it for very long . ( I have to mention I've taught sociology and these sorts of things interest me . ) I couldn't bring myself to do it , though . So I revealed my true persona and purpose and asked if anyone had had any unwelcome advances from older men or had exposed imposters using a false cyber identity . Most of the chatters ignored me but there were a couple of polite " No " s , before the chatters turned back to the task at hand , which was beyond my ability to discern . Let's call it " phatic communication , " not much more than assurance that the channels of communication are still open . Where was I ? Yes , that's right . Thank you . The movie sux .
Ugly Movie .	The title tells it all - - Ed Gein , the butcher of Plainfield . It's not a zappy action-filled slasher movie made for teens high on energy drinks . That would fit it into a well-established genre , the kind that some people find entertaining , something along the lines of " Halloween " or " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " . This is dark , slow , filled with chopped-up corpses , and quietly evil . There are few shock cuts , no monster's point-of-view shots , no loud electronic score . I don't know who it's aimed at - - ghouls , maybe . Beneath the credits we already see still photos of skulls , carcasses hung up , skins draped across the backs of chairs , that sort of thing . And they're sufficiently revolting that I couldn't help thinking this movie had better be pretty good to make up for this Grand Guignol opening . Alas , it's not . The acting is uniformly terrible , as in a high school play . The script does its best to sink below vulgarity . Ed Gein , who killed only two middle-aged women and maybe his brother , chases a screaming , bloody young woman through the Woodland of Weir , and she's wearing only a modern bra and bikini , rather than period underwear . Gein also decapitates a night watchman , which he never did in any historical sense . The direction ? You could do a better job . In the first few minutes , law officers discover an abandoned car with blood spattered all over the windshield . There is no body . The handsome young deputy sheriff turns to his boss and suggests they search for the victim , who may still be in the vicinity and living . The sheriff , lacking any motivation , shouts at him , " Now you just FORGET that ! I don't want you going off HALF COCKED on anything ! " It should be no more than a business-like exchange of views . Why does the director have the sheriff so angry ? Characters of diverse sorts listen to radio programs or records that play old jazzy pop songs - - Louis Armstrong's " Ain't Misbehaving , " for instance . This is - - what - - rural WISCONSIN in the 1950s ? And the characters insist on music that would appeal to customers of the Cotton Club in Harlem in the 30s , or New York intellectuals like Woody Allen . Nope . The radio would be playing Kitty Kallen's " Wheel of Fortune " or Theresa Brewer or , equally likely , Lefty Frizell . Not that the dysfunction between the music and the events adds anything to our understanding of what's going on beneath the images . Someone involved in the production just liked old jazzy pop songs , that's all . Of course there's only so much you can do with a low budget , but it can be light years ahead of this butchery . See " Ed Gein , " with Steven Railsback for an example of a much more sophisticated way of dealing with this lunatic and his penchant for dead bodies , and on a budget that couldn't have exceeded this one by much . These comments are all based on the first twenty minutes of the movie . That's about as far as I could get . If anyone finds this tale to be well-executed and fascinating in any way , he should try to find some insight into his tastes . It's beneath mine - - and I consider myself pretty warped .
Who Is The Intended Audience ?	I couldn't get past the first twenty minutes of this blurry , black-and-white , overdone spoof of wartime matinée thrillers . The Nazis , having captured an American flier , put him through experiments involving bee venom . It backfires and he escapes to become " Yellowjacket , " scourge of Nazi spies , saboteurs , slobs , and pederasts back in the good old U . S . of A . Everything about the movie is shoddy and cheap . I know it's supposed to be like that because this is a " spoof " , right ? But it wasn't funny . It was impossible to get caught up in the comic-book story . I cared for none of the characters played by deliberately incompetent actors . A painful thing to watch , though not , I suppose , as bad as being an experimental subject in a study of bee venom . It looks as if it might have been a lot of fun to make , but the fun ended for me when the production wrapped . If you find this sort of thing amusing , then rent it or buy it . But whatever virtues the film might have , got past me entirely . Think twice .
Ego trip .	Sometimes TV movies seem to do a first-rate job of dealing with social problems . " And the Band Played On " comes to mind , along with others . But this isn't a very good example . AIDS is undeniably there , as is child abuse , while internet predators are problematic . The movie is not badly done . Potts has a winsome hapless face , with over-sized semi-frightened eyes , like a deer caught in the headlights . She's by no means Hollywood gorgeous . I enjoyed her performance . It's the only one that stands out . I'm not sure I believed the script in its entirety . Some of the incidents read too much like submissions to Screenplays 101 . Ms . Posey is wandering through a fairground and putting herself in danger for the sake of justice , wired for sound , with cops listening all over the place as she is drawn into the shadows by an internet predator . A pedestrian bumps into her and jars the microphone loose so it falls to the ground . She then walks out of the fairground not realizing she's trailing a loose wire and is talking to herself . Maybe it happened . Maybe it ALL happened or maybe just some of it happened . It's not a badly done TV movie but it's irritating because the movie seems so determined to whip us into a rage and justify it by such cheap means . One of the problems with using internet predators as villains in the movies - - and there have been several like this - - is that there is so little scientific evidence that they exist . No amount of evidence , or the lack of it , is likely to change the minds of people who are convinced that they are a major social problem . Too bad . The paucity of internet predators ought to ease our anxiety , but somehow we can't seem to do without them .
Beyond Description	There is a fine movie about the serial murderer Charlie Starkweather and his hostage / girl friend Karil Ann Fugate out there . Its title is " Badlands . " There is also a very good TV movie on the subject , starring Tim Roth . This thing is so bad that no words can describe it . Everything about it is less than poor . It's not just the low budget . With imagination and talent that kind of obstacle can be overcome - - " Mean Streets " , " The Honeymoon Killers , " " The Littlest Fugitive , " " The Savage Eye , " " Detour . " But this abortion lacks not just money but everything . The acting , or rather its absence . Not only isn't there a decent performance from anyone in the cast . Some are so bad that I've seen better in high school productions of " Our Town . " The sheriff is probably the worst , but they're all bad . The editing . Continuing with the sheriff's disarticulation , please note what happens on the screen when he has a line . ( " A line " because he reads them as if they didn't come in packages . ) The camera shows us the sheriff's grim and uninteresting face . Seconds pass . Finally he speaks . " If they want to go out in a blaze o ' glory , this is their chance . " The camera lingers for a few seconds more on his face although he has nothing more to say and the muscles of his face remain marmoreal . After a few scenes like this the effect on the viewer is that of a hypnotic drug - - and not even a good HIGH first , but a precipitate drop in consciousness of the sort you get from chloral hydrate . The direction . Abominable . Nobody can hold a gun still . It must be jerked around or waved from side to side , or jabbed as if shoveling dirt . Even when a lawman takes a bead on a window he waves his rifle as if it were a magician's wand . Location : Not Nebraska farmland but clearly the Mojave Desert in California . I can't go on with this , really . I hate to dump on people and this is no fun . It's more embarrassing than anything else . Reminds me of a professor who once told us that when we wrote our term papers we should do our very best . Then he paused for a moment and mused out loud , " What if you did your very best and it turned out pedestrian ? " Okay . Fair and balanced , right ? There are two valuable things in this movie . There are some nice shots of vintage 1940s and 1950s cars , though sometimes mislabeled . And this film would serve as a very good bad example in any film school .
Poor Me	Shelley Long is a delight to watch , with that oddly appealing Midwestern freshness , and Helen Shaver is reliable , as always . Neither of them can salvage this movie . It's just plain awful . It's based on a true story , also available in a fat true-crime paperback , " Once Upon a Memory , " mainly dealing with the " recovered memory " of Eileen Franklin after 20 years of amnesia , of witnessing her father , a thorough-going no good drunken bum , rape and murder Eileen's 8-year-old friend on a road near Foster City , California . He'd been abusing his two daughters for years . The case raises a host of interesting questions . Eileen's " memory " comes to her as a shock in her late 20s , two decades after the murder . At the urging of her husband , who could probably foresee the TV movie , she contacts the police . They track down her father , now living in humble circumstances in Sacramento , and arrest him , convict him , and send him to the slams with a life sentence . The movie never touches on the questions it raises in the viewer's mind . It presents the story through the eyes of poor Eileen who , throughout , is shown as victimized and filled with anguish and conflict . How can she bring herself to testify to this horrible incident in open court ? Can she send her father away for life , and alienate her siblings ? It never asks questions like " when is a memory not a memory " ? It doesn't bring up the fact that Eileen's story changed to accommodate itself to the facts as she became aware of them from talking to others and generally researching her case . The errors in her original memory were gradually corrected . ( Initially she " remembered " the sun behind her father's head as he lifted the rock to smash little Suzie's head . When it was pointed out to her that at that time of day , the sun couldn't have been positioned as she claimed , the sun simply changed position . Initially she described her father's silhouette as having rainbow-like bars radiating from it . When a classic psychedelic poster of Bob Dylan with bars around his head was discovered tacked to her bedroom wall , the rainbow disappeared from her " memory . " ) I don't doubt the real Eileen Franklin's sincerity . In interviews she has seemed as puzzled as anyone else and responds to doubtful queries with a by-now well-practiced stock answer : " If these things didn't happen , then where do these memories come from " ? Of course , no one knows , any more than they did in Salem in 1693 . The movie doesn't mention that part of her " memory " was recovered while she was in a hypnotic trance , which always helps . As a psychologist I once hypnotized a client who described in the minutest detail how he heard about the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor . He was only a few years old and coming downstairs to breakfast in his Pennsylvania home that morning . Only the " memory " revealed itself as a fabrication to please the therapist , beginning with the fact that it was early afternoon Pennsylvania-time . This is a genuinely bad film . Eileen ruins her father , who is described as a " pervert " because a search of his room turns up some pornography , and embarrasses everyone , while her friends pet her and cosset her . Poor me . Her early career in prostitution is brushed over as a cliched attempt to exercise some control over her hapless life . This movie was shot in 1991 . It was probably the last gasp of the recovered memory hysteria . I wonder how many other innocent lives were ruined , how many perverts like Mr . Franklin wound up with 30-year-sentences , how many preschools raided and closed , how many Satanists finally put away , and all because we don't want to be " a culture that doesn't trust our children . " Well , I for one wouldn't stake my life on their telling the truth all the time . Or adults either , for that matter . The main problem with the film is that it isn't Eileen Franklin who should be pitied . It's just about anyone who came in contact with her .
Meretritious Garbage .	Unbearable schlock . Kim Basinger adopts her sister's child , a little girl who turns out to be the Second Coming or something . Jimmy Smits is the FBI investigator called in on the case when the girl is kidnapped by Rufus Sewell and his gang of thugs . They run an outfit called The New Dawn . It poses as a self-help program but is really a Satanist church . It's all mechanically slapped together with multiple borrowings from " The Exorcist " and " Omen " and their devolved descendants . Everything is predictable except that which is completely arbitrary . Hordes of skinless rats come and go without explanation . Angels appear as fuzzy balls of white light . Gargoyles sometimes fill the sky . Sometimes not . The performances by some of the talent are okay . Basinger doesn't do badly , for instance . But nothing could save this piece of unspeakable crap . Rufus Sewell , as the Satanist-in-Chief , has these goggle eyes . He's so exopthalmic that the whites completely surround the irises . And if he blinks even once during the entire film , I must have missed it because I was blinking at the same time . It's not worth going on about . How do the kids put it ? Oh , yes . " It sux . "
Breathtaking compendium of clichés	" The plane is damaged , one of his engines is out , and he's leaking fuel . How can he make it ? " Something like that anyway . The clichés came so thick and fast I couldn't remember them all . I couldn't even GRASP them all quickly enough , piled as they were , one atop the other , like a pile of Leggos . I don't really think it's necessary to bother with the script except to say a rogue group of Russians hijacks Air Force One , is overcome by the President of the United States , and most of the good guys are saved and all of the bad guys perish , usually in some colorful fashion . Wolfgang Petersen made a gripping movie with " Das Boot . " It was a long flick of mostly quiet moments , a leisurely examination of life aboard a U-Boat , punctuated with shocking moments of action . In " Air Force One " Petersen's talents have been - - dare I say " hijacked " by Hollywood ? There is no leisurely examination of anything . There is neither leisure nor examination . All the parts that might bore a twelve-year-old weaned on Call of Duty have been cut out of the script and nothing is left but one recycled action scene after another , some of them already parodied in " Airplane " , backed up by a booming score . Here's an indication of how the movie was assembled , the kind of thought that went into it . When it was released there appeared an article in the NY Times written by an actor ( whose name I now forget ) playing one of the characters ( whose name I don't know ) in innocent conversation with Harrison Ford as the President , when shots are heard from elsewhere in Air Force One as the takeover starts . As the actor described the first run-through , at the sound of the gunshots , he rose to his feet and sauntered over to the window to find out what was up . He was told he'd have to jump to his feet and run to the door . " Why ? " he asked . " The Secret Service is aboard , there are security agents all over . Nobody could possibly be expecting an armed attack . A normal reaction would be to try to find out what the noise was . " He was told by the director that everyone in the scene would immediately recognize the gunshots for exactly what they were . Ford , a seasoned veteran of such attacks , told the actor tiredly , " They're gunshots , period . " Why waste three or four flaccid seconds having the actor stroll to the door ? That kind of dedication and efficiency is in evidence throughout " Air Force One . " Bang , bang , whoosh , zap . The President , by the way , is practically superhuman . He speaks Russian albeit with a gloopi American accent . He cuts his bound wrists free and immediately disarms and kills two or three of his captors . I lost count . Well , okay , he was a CMH winner . But then how did he learn to fly a jumbo jet ? Never mind . A more interesting question is how did they pick the villains ? Kazakhistan rebels ? A rogue group of Russians ? This is rather retro stuff because absolutely nobody watching the movie knows or cares about Kazakhistan or its internal affairs . The simple fact is that viewers will see and hear the heavies speaking Russian and that will be enough for them . ( I forget when " Crimson Tide " was released , using the same ploy . It's the Russkies again alright , only a splinter group . ) The faces of American fighter pilots are illuminated by a comforting pale off-white light , while their opposite numbers are as green as algae . To top it off , the Russian Premier looks like Jonathan Winters coming down from battery acid while our President looks exactly like Harrison Ford . And if you STILL don't get the point , the Kazakhhomaniac rebels sing a rousing version of " Die Internazionale . " Nowadays , of course , nine years later , they'd all be speaking Arabic . The movie offers some fascinating tidbits in addition to its knuckle-whitening suspense . The set representing the interior of Air Force One , for instance . It's full of nooks and crannies and it seems about the size of the Dixie Hotel . Functional furniture , but comfortable and expensive . Soundproof , bulletproof , insulated against an atomic blast . A staff of well-trained servants who know when to leave the master alone to ponder weighty questions about the world's future . ( In all these respects it rather resembles my place . ) It also has a steam pipe , which the list of clichés calls for , just as in those factories or warehouses in which the final shootout takes place in other action movies . The steam pipe is shot up and people in pursuit of each other wisp their way through the mist . What is that steam pipe doing there ? Have we been mistaken all these years about how jet engines work ? Are modern airplanes really powered by the same plants that made the Stanley Steamer roll on its merry way ? What makes it finally so preposterous is the notion that this or any other country could organize itself with such alacrity and efficiency in the face of an unexpected emergency of these proportions . When the president finally contacts the situation room and asks who has taken over Air Force One , the reply is , " A group of Russian ultra-nationalists . " This is nothing more than cashing in on ancient hatreds for a buck . And we pay for that self satisfaction on the world stage , by damaging the image of America abroad . How about a Russian movie in which a group of murdering thugs tries to kidnap Vladimir Putin and they are called " American ultra-nationalists " ? How would we respond ?
Slightly Revolting	A helicopter with three Navy officers , led by Jock Mahoney , and the requisite woman reporter aboard , Shawn Smith , gets caught in bad weather over Antarctica and must land through a heavy cloud layer to find they are at the bottom of a volcanic valley . But wait a minute . This is not just ANY hot , steamy tropical jungle in Antarctica . This one is really old , inhabited by plants beasts that disappeared millions of years ago . It is also inhabited by the sole survivor of an earlier expedition , Henry Brandon . The half loco Brandon has the part necessary to repair the Navy's damaged helo - - a " push-pull rod " - - but he's hoarding his equipment because he wants to trade what they want for what he wants , namely the shapely Shawn Smith . And who can blame him ? I mean , ten years ? ( The fact that Henry Brandon is reputed to have been gay adds a shiver of irony to the plot . ) Well , everyone is attacked at one time or another by prehistoric dinosaurs but they allsurvive and escape , including Brandon who has come to his senses at the last moment and discovered his humanity . Brandon isn't much of an actor . He's probably best known for his role as Scar in John Ford's " The Searchers . " ( " You speak good Comanche . Someone teach you ? " ) But his modest talent doesn't make him conspicuous in the context of this film . The other performers are no better . The most interesting cast member is Jock ( nee Jacques ) Mahoney , a stunt man raised in Iowa , and one of the best in the business . Among other memorable acts caught on film , he did the spectacular leap down the staircase onto Robert Douglas's villain in Errol Flynn's " The Adventures of Don Juan . " His name ranks up there with Canutt , Eason , Perry , and Dar Robinson . Not that Mahoney is muscle bound . You don't need to be a body builder to be a stunt man . You need to be lithe , professional , competitive , intelligent , and you to be completely lacking a sympathetic nervous system . The men and women who do stunts don't have to be good actors , as Mahoney proves here . They're a proudgroup - - can I generalize like this ? - - but not snooty . They don't feel they're humbling themselves if they hang around with the extras , as I know from experience . Mahoney was a parent to Sally Field . I don't like going on like this about stunt people but there's so little to say about the movie . The monsters are gaggingly cheap . The first shot we get of them is two ordinary monitor lizards , blown up to dinosaur size by photographic legerdemain , and they're tearing each other to pieces , literally . These are big animals and here they are throwing themselves around and chewing on limbs and heads . We can see the ripped skin . Nobody can claim that no animals were harmed in making this movie . I found it a little disgusting . The other minatory dinosaur is a T . rex - - and it's a hoot : a man dressed in a flabby plastic suit dragging a tail behind him . Another monster never lived - - a kind of gigantic pumpkin with tentacles . It eats a cute little mammal . I don't think it's a tarsier , though Mahoney the expert calls it such . Still , they got the time and the animal reference right . At least , I think the Eocene tarsoids lived about 60 million years ago . I was certainly happy to see the five humans get out of there at the climax . It meant the end of the movie .
Conquering Worms .	In this one , poor Michael Rooker , the perennial heavy , wears a pair of square eyeglasses , has his head shaved , and is apparently sprayed with WD40 to make him look greasy . One might hope at first that this revolting figure is compensated for , at least a little , by the fact that all the principal women in the film resemble the best-looking gals in the 1975 high school yearbook from Yazoo City - - but nope . There's not enough gratuitous nudity to turn this into anything watchable . There is enough sex in disguise , though , to keep one's interest . What I mean is that , see , Michael Rooker , just before his face begins its slow disintegration into something like a giant Swedish meatball , has these ugly worms inside his upper abdomen . They crave meat . He buys them same from the supermarket but worms , like children , never being satisfied , Rooker finally yields to the craving for human meat . The whole movie - - at least the part I saw before shutting it off - - turns into a sexual metaphor . Rooker's manages to control his desire to let the worms eat his wife while she's taking a shower but he allows them to feed on a good-looking young woman of easy virtue . They're always the first to go in slasher movies . ( Girls , nota bene . ) Here's how he feeds his worms , these three or four phallic organisms that slip out of his stomach . He strips off his shirt . The girl strips off her hampering outer garments . He pushes her down on the bed and lies on top of her while down below the worms are drilling their way into her ivory belly with a squishy sound of the sort you might hear while stirring a giant pot of almost-ready Bechamel sauce . Her torso pumps up and down beneath him while her eyes bulge and roll and she tries to scream . If you're going to pull that at all , can't we just stick to Dracula and blood sucking ? In a later scene , a girl having stuffed herself with raw meat and the worms having irrupted inside her , has swollen to the size of a small blimp , literally , with her tiny head on top , and she's still cursing her would-be rescuers for not feeding her , until she explodes and spews a new population of hungry worms all over the room and the people in it . It struck me as pretty disgusting . It isn't that horror and humor can't be fitted together . " Q " did a pretty good job . But who wants to see ordinary people slaughtered in the most explicit way for no particular reason . Whatever is funny about it seems just a mask provided for the use of the audience , behind which there's nothing much more complicated than a desire to see someone else suffer and be torn apart . A rubber crutch is funny too . And I don't care how many in-jokes there are . If this is your cup of tea , if you find this captivating or amusing , okay . Did you ever see the candid photos of traffic accidents hanging on the walls outside the traffic court ?
Horrifying and Horrible .	Jaws came out in 1975 and was a blockbuster . This rip-off came out three years later and is , in part , a deliberate and self-conscious copy . Viewers are supposed to recognize it for what it is and enjoy it on that level . Okay . I get it . Even the cover is a rip-off . What I don't get is why someone would want to watch this . If you want something horrifying , go back and watch Jaws again . A parody is one thing ; it has comedy . But this isn't funny . The acting is nothing , the budget is low , the story dull except for when people are being ( implausibly ) eaten alive , and the special effects are infra dig . When a horde ( or a gaggle or a pod or a school , whatever ) of piranhas are hurrying towards a victim , they dart past the camera in a blur , not even waving their fins , like cardboard cutouts . A parody takes a certain amount of talent to write . The allusions must be there , but they must be twisted , or exaggerated just enough to become ridiculous . But " Piranha " has none of that kind of wit . It looks like exactly what it is - - an attempt to cash in on the success of Jaws . Otherwise , it's a straight monster movie . Except - - I may have missed something . Maybe it IS more funny than I'd thought . Maybe there is a certain amusement quotient to be found in scenes in which an over-the-hill actor like Keenan Wynn or Kevin McCarthy are nibbled to death from the feet up . That still leaves me with an unanswered question though . What kind of people would find such a scene funny ?
Spoiled rotten .	I don't know why they had to tap Henry James ' novel , " The Turn of the Screw " , to get this plot together . The writers could have knocked off a one - or two-sentence treatment : " Mad woman hires out as nanny and harasses her two young charges to death . " James ' story , and Jack Clayton's adaptation of it in 1963 , are full of ambiguity . This version isn't . Leelee Sobieski is okay , as are the other performers . Sobieksi has the advantage of not being a star in the Hollywood sense , but an actress instead . Her figure is a little shapeless and her eyes , with all that black liner , too close together , and in this wintry English setting , her pallor against the snow gives her face the appearance of a charcoal sketch . She's the kind of woman a discerning man might find himself staring idly at , while standing next to her in the supermarket checkout line , and slowly realizing - - " Gee , she ain't too homely . " Her beauty is insinuating , and she's quite good in the role . The problem isn't with her , it's with the script . Tara Fitzgerald as Mrs . Grose has a tough job - - projecting sensuality undercut by a touch of the sinister . The two kids are alright , but they are , after all , kids . But never mind all that . The screenplay and direction bungle the task . Where to begin . The direction has a lot of arty touches , none of them original . Three figures in black silhouette skip along the top of a snowbank against a washed-out winter sky . Lots of cross-cutting during critical scenes . Intrusive flashbacks to Sobieski's youth , incomprehensible much of the time . ( Okay , she's suddenly a little girl oscillating on a park swing and she looks back over her shoulder and smiles at the camera and - - wham - - we're back in the present . ) These arty effects - - done with accomplished camera work , though - - deteriorate quickly into every cliché from the horror movie script guide . Guttural , animal sounds in the middle of the night , coming from nowhere . An intense electrical storm in the midst of winter , straight out of a B horror movie . Shock cuts accompanied by stings on the sound track . Before the movie is half over , Sobieski is already creeping around holding a butcher knife . Child abuse is hinted at . Lesbianism is shown . Graphic but brief nudity . ( Too brief . A little gratuitous sex might have helped . ) The monster's POV shots , where there be no monster . My attitude may be warped because Clayton's " The Innocents " was superb . It stuck pretty close to Henry James . James ' Mrs . Grose was not the dominatrix she is here ; she was an unimaginative old housekeeper . There is absolutely nothing in this version to compare with the scene in the garden in Clayton's movie , in which Deborah Kerr and the child watch a repugnant black beetle crawl out of the mouth of a marble cherub . Out of the mouths of babes ! But not here . If Deborah Kerr as the governess may have been slightly delusional , perhaps prompted by her attraction to her dismissive employer , Leelee Sobieski is frankly loco . In the earlier movie Kerr first merely senses the two ghosts - - Quint and Miss Jessel - - and then glimpses them from afar . The closest Kerr comes is when she enters an elongated empty classroom and thinks she sees Miss Jessel weeping over the desk at the other end . Miss Jessel disappears as Kerr approaches , but Kerr finds a fresh teardrop on the desk . The " evil " that the ghosts represent is never made clear . Here , it's the sexual abuse of children . Ho hum . I don't know why they bother to remake films that were so good in their original form . I really don't . How about a remake of " Citizen Kane " with Tom Cruise ? No ? " Gone With the Wind " with Keanu Reeves and Brittany Spears ? I've got it - - " On the Waterfront " with Rob Lowe and Paris Hilton .
Big Joke	The received wisdom is that if you lie , you must stick as closely to the truth as practical , in order to make the lie believable . That , basically , is what Clifford Irving did with his fabricated " autobiography " of Howard Hughes , the secretive and eccentric billionaire . The problem is that everyone is already familiar with that dictum . If a man spends an evening with another woman , he's not likely to tell his wife that he was busy giving a speech at the Junior Chamber of Commerce . The alternative to the received wisdom is The Big Lie , the lie so huge , so outrageous , that others believe it because no one but a madman would make it up . That's what Hitler accused the Jews of doing , and Goebbels the English . Or , in the anonymous words of the Wikipedia essayist : " The Big Lie is a propaganda technique . It was defined by Adolf Hitler in his 1925 autobiography Mein Kampf as a lie so " colossal " that no one would believe that someone " could have the impudence to distort the truth so infamously " . If Irving and his co-conspirators built a near-replicant of Hughes ' real life , they surrounded it with fantasies so rich that nobody could possibly doubt them . Would a fraud claim that Hughes was about to land his helicopter atop a New York building for a meeting with McGraw-Hill - - on the condition that the top two floors of the building be cleared , the floors scrubbed and waxed , and black non-dust-collecting material be draped across all the windows ? It must be common knowledge by now that Irving did a great deal of research on Howard Hughes - - right down to imitating his voice on tape in order to get Hughes ' grammatical errors and idiosyncratic expressions just right - - and tried to sell the result to McGraw-Hill for five million dollars or more . The hoax was exposed when a reluctant Hughes finally agreed to a public conference call in which he denied the whole business . Irving spent some time in the slams but nobody was very badly hurt . The movie is based on Clifford Irving's book , " The Hoax . " In other words , a quarter of a century later , Irving is still making money off his little adventure . Following Irving , the movie tells us that it all started off as a prank , a big joke that gradually got bigger . Poor Irving . He became a neural shambles trying to keep the enterprise together , what with betrayals by friends , threats from outside sources , traps set for him by Hughes and the President of the United States himself , the increased stress on his marriage . According to this fable , the wretched Irving is almost driven mad by his responsibility - - to others , that is . He never thinks of himself . He worries about his family . He worries about his friend's marriage . He receives a mysterious package full of secret data about Hughes , including a damning connection between Hughes and Nixon that could bring down Nixon's administration . Thereafter , Irving devotes himself to what he now sees as the pursuit of truth and justice . That is , he owes it to the American public that his fraudulent book be published because it may contain nuggets of truth . Does anyone believe this unspeakable crap anymore ? Irving was a smooth-talking , ambitious con man and self promoter who had a toothsome blond girl friend , who soaked up the publicity during appearances on TV talk shows , and who eagerly anticipated the millions of dollars that were to be bilked from a respectable publisher , a rich but private citizen , and the millions of ordinary readers who would have bought his fake book . He was undeterred by his exposure as a fraud . In later interviews he would immediately switch the topic of conversation to the tribulations that he and his family had been put through , especially his poor little kiddies with tears in their eyes while daddy was in jail . And he's STILL at it with his book now having been made into a movie starring Richard Gere . The screenplay treats the story with the shabbiness it deserves . Hand-held cameras wobble during scenes of activity . Impossible fantasies of Irving being kidnapped at night , beaten senseless , and thrown out of hotel windows by agents of Howard Hughes prompt our sympathy . ( It never happened , and the movie tries to explain it as a drunken fantasy so convincing that Irving believed it had happened . I ask you , the honest reader , the experienced drunk - - when is the last time you were so bombed that you woke up the next morning thinking you'd really been spirited away to Nassau , beaten by Howard Hughes , thrown into a pool , then flown back home ? ) Actually , one of Hughes ' agents shows up from time to time as a hallucinated figure with which Irving has extensive and informative exchanges . The hallucination isn't entirely without sympathy for Irving , but generally practical and suitably distant . I got a little tired of these realistic hallucinations during " A Brilliant Mind . " I didn't mind them too much when Willie Loman talked with them because , back in the late 1940s , they had a touch of originality . Here , they're just cheap expository tricks . The whole movie is like that - - cheap and self serving . The Big Joke conflated with The Big Lie . It stinks .
I think we've decompressed .	Maybe someone else can find something other than clichés in this movie but I couldn't . I generally enjoy airplanes-in-trouble movies . By their very nature they're pregnant with suspense and raise all sorts of questions , like , " What the hell are we doing up here at 37 , 000 feet ? ? ? " This is the kind of movie that " Airplane " parodied 25 years ago , except that I'm not sure " Airplane " did a better job of sending up the genre than " Rough Air " does . There's a scene in " Airplane , " for instance , in which a trembling flight attendant confesses to another her fear that the airplane and everyone on it is doomed . Then she adds , " And also I'm twenty-six years old and not married yet , " and breaks into sobs . In this movie a cargo door blows out , decompressing the fuselage and taking part of the tail assembly off . The airplane is a wreck . It shudders and lurches and will never make Keraktovic , Iceland , or whatever it is . ( It's not Reykyavik , and Shannon and Prestwick are portmanteaued into Shanwick . ) The airplane is falling apart piece by piece . And two flight attendance are whispering together aft . One of them has had an affair with the pilot and smiles as she describes the experience . " I had hoped for a family . All the usual things . Then one day he just left . And that was all . It's over now . Of course he was - - great ! " The other leans forward conspiratorially and asks , " Great ? " They are about to die and they're discussing how good Eric Roberts is in bed . Roberts is the co-pilot who has had to take over when the captain goes nuts , although Roberts himself is under a cloud for a previous pilot error . ( He was really innocent . ) Two of the braver passengers are in the luggage compartment trying to block the hole in the fuselage with heavy baggage . ( Why ? I don't know . ) It's a dangerous job . They could be sucked out at any time as they struggled with the crates and trunks . One of them is a murderer being taken to prison . ( All airplanes have handcuffed murderers aboard , accompanied by a cop who fails in his duty . ) In the midst of their exertions , the other passenger asks why the criminal did it . The two of them must shout over the howling slipstream and screaming jet engines . Still , the murder stops hustling the baggage and explains his motives . " He stole everything from me . My wife . My money . My life . I felt all empty inside . " He completes the dangerous task , which will help save the airplane , and is sucked out to answer to a higher authority . There's also one of those passengers who carries a lot of authority , some kind of high muckamuck in Global Circumcisional Airlines or something , and he makes a pain out of himself , bullying other , demanding to know what's going on , and generally getting in the way of things . I missed the kid , though . I mean the child that's always on these stricken aircraft . Sometimes they need a kidney transplant . Sometimes a rare type of blood transfusion . Sometimes they suffer from peanut allergies . But they're always sick . I missed the kid . Maybe that's why this movie is so unsatisfying . I burst into a torrent of tears when I heard the flight attendant say that it was all over between her and the pilot . ( This was just before she told the joke about the difference between a stewardess and a jet engine . ) I wept abjectly when the murderer poured out his tale of woe . But I could have flooded with tears this abandoned railway car that I live in - - if only that sick kid could have been aboard and have her life saved . I'm - - I'm sorry . I can't go on . I'm choked with an unidentifiable but overwhelming emotion the chief symptom of which is nausea .
Man finds himself with help of a good woman .	Don't watch this . Honest , you'll be bored . I saw it because the description of the plot on my guide grabbed me by the lapels and shook me awake . Something like , " A thief is shot by his partner who runs off with the loot . Saved by a Mexican girl , he sets out for revenge . " " Gun Battle in Monterey " ? It sounded like " One-Eyed Jacks . " But it's not . " One-Eyed Jacks " may have had its longeurs but they were nothing compared to this one , a standard-typical Western into which no one involved seems to have put the least effort . Yes , Sterling Hayden is betrayed and left for dead by his cowardly partner , Ted DeCorsia , and plots revenge but is saved by the moralistic preaching of his Mexican girlfriend . That's about where the similarity ends . Hayden must have done this for the money . He was an actor of limited range but no one ever asked him to deliver very much except Stanley Kubrick . Hayden brought a touch of real pathos to the role of the delusional General Jack D . Ripper in " Doctor Strangelove . " Here he doesn't give an inch . He was a much better writer and sailor than a Western hero . Ted DeCorsia is simply Ted DeCorsia , more of a coward than a sadist . The women are perfunctory . Possibly the best performance is given by Lee Van Cleef , a really shifty looking heavy with a strong baritone . The script also gives him one or two lines suggesting he's human a little as well as feral a lot . The supporting players , aside from Byron Fulger who should know better , are sadly unendowed with talent . Not a believable line from any of them . And the director adds absolutely nothing to the Grade-B shenanigans we see on the screen . This could have been a John Wayne western from Poverty Row in 1935 . One of those masterpieces where Wayne rides full tilt after the stagecoach along a dusty road lined with telephone poles , past parked trucks . The budget for this movie must have been nearly non-existent and the shooting schedule , I would guess , ran somewhere around 2 hours and 13 minutes . Pathetic .
Let it go .	Approached this in the mood for a good action movie but it was overall pretty disappointing . Good Lord . How much suspension of disbelief can you demand of one human being ? The story involves a handful of thieves and murderers taking four innocent Mountain Rescue Team hostages and forcing them to lead the way to three suitcases containing collectively some forty million dollars . Maybe it wasn't exactly forty million but , as you'll see , it makes no difference . You can mostly figure out what's going to happen from moment to moment and you don't have to work especially hard to do it . Sylvester Stallone escapes from captivity and acts alone against the hoodlums . Will he natter them in all sorts of unimaginable ways ? Will there be one or two times when he is forced to doff his shirt and show off his muscles ? If you really need to ponder issues like these you may find the flick more absorbing than I did . Think for a moment of a stereotypical action movie . The first red digital readout on a bomb that I remember seeing on film was in a James Bond movie , the one with Odd Job , from perhaps 1963 . The movie was made 43 years ago , as of this writing . I'm not at all sure that there has been a single action movie involving a time bomb since then that has not features a red digital readout clock , ticking down the second . This movie gives us THREE red digital readout clocks attached to bombs . Okay ? Getting the picture ? Let me note , though , to be fair , that the final stunt was very well choreographed , a failed helicopter on the side of a huge mountain , slipping away , held only be a wrought-iron ladder from which Stallone is swinging . Don't ask . It's not as finely tuned as Harold Loyd in " Safety Last . " But it's the equal of the stunt in " Die Hard " in which Bruce Willis leaps from the top of a skyscraper with a fire hose tied around his waist . Beyond that scene - - well . This takes place atop some giant snow-veined colossals , so we have multiple bodies falling through space , sometimes with parachutes , sometimes not . We have two avalanches , one of snow and one of rock , so you can thrill at the avalanche of your choice . The thieves are led by John Lithgow with a fake British accent . Often these otherwise mindless movies are redeemed by a good , smart heavy who has been given good wisecracks . Example : John Travolta in " Broken Arrow . " Earlier ( and classic example ) : Orson Welles as Harry Lime in " The Third Man . " Not here , though . The wisecracks mostly fall flat , as if they'd been toppled from some stony peak . " You'd like to kill me , wouldn't you . Well take a coupon and get in line . " There is one pretty good bit of dialog given to Lithgow though . See , this jet is damaged and wobbling around in the sky , and one of the gang has been wounded . " What are we going to do with him ? " asks another thief . Lithgow : " Get him to a hospital - - fast . " ( Throws him out the door . ) Otherwise the dialog is not only not innovative but redundant . A helicopter is chasing Stallone across a snowy field . Stallone is running like hell in slow motion , while Janine Turner watches . " RUN ! " , she screams . The hull of the helicopter with Lithgow trapped inside falls to the valley and explodes in a slow motion fireball . Stallone , his bare torso flexed , is trapped under a sheet of ice while a heavy stands over him and aims a machine gun at him . " So long , Pal , " says the heavy , or something like that . That's what he thinks . Stallone simply pulls out a pistol and shoots him several times - - THROUGH THE WATER . I wonder if I ought to revise my opinion when I reconsider incidents like that . Was the whole film supposed to be a comedy ?
Do You Know What Your Children Are Doing ?	A Chicago couple , Dillon and Dougherty , are falsely accused of killing their daughter . People begin to wonder if they did it . The police investigate and find suspicious evidence . The couple are maligned by the public and accused in the press . The cops speculate that they are Satanists and have ritually murdered their own daughter . They are charged and brought to trial . They are represented by publicity-seeking lawyers who give them bad advice and bill them for $100 , 000 . The evidence presented against them is twisted or hidden by the police . Fabricated intimations of sexual abuse are presented . Their other child is taken away from them and put in a foster home . Dougherty is pregnant and gives birth to find her baby removed . Verdict , she didn't do it but he did . He goes to the slams with a sentence of 45 years . In the last third of the movie , with Dillon in jail and Dougherty wondering what to do next , we see people who have been antagonistic now slowly coming to the couple's defense . Witnesses admit to having lied . Other facts are brought to light that , finally , result in Dillon's release . The killer is never found , though the movie gives us a thorough whacko as a plausible perp . This is a weeper from beginning to end . Nothing seems to go right for the couple . Oh , there are a few happy moment , maybe a party where everyone is glad to be together and tearing up with joy , or some point of evidence in their favor is discovered and people hug one another . But it's never long before someone rushes through the door with more bad news and all the faces are frozen in tragic disbelief . ( Usually a fade to block follows . ) There isn't necessarily anything wrong with moving tragedies , although I can't imagine what pleasure we get out of seeing people suffer . There's plenty of tragedy in Shakespeare too . I suppose whatever we find interesting about tragic stories lies in the way they're told . " Oh , but I am Fortune's fool ! " Romeo cries after killing Juliet's brother . Here we have Dougherty running in her robe through a hospital corridor , screaming , " Where's my baby ? ? ? " There isn't any ambiguity or irony in the story - - as I'm sure there must have been in the real life events on which it's based . People are either good or bad here . Or else they're bad , then they turn good . The film isn't aimed at exploring human quirkiness , or the way things work out . It's aimed at wrenching tears from the audience . The actors provide first-rate role models . I can't remember the last movie in which I saw so many tears . There are rivulets of tears . Showers of them . Cascades of them . A veritable Niagara of them . A Lake Lacrymose of them . Well , I'll give one example of the efficiency with which the movie is crafted . Dillon and Dougherty hire a Chicago cop who works on the side as a private investigator ( Ed Asner ) . Asner is sympathetic to them but he doesn't really accomplish much . He seems to be in the movie not because of his importance to the case but because he can provide the victimized couple with a kind of philosophy - - " Learn to live with it , " which is okay - - and because he suffers from colorectal cancer , so we can watch him take his medicine , double over with pain , and finally pass away . What's frustrating about the movie is that in focusing so intensely on the suffering of the couple , it sidesteps one of the more important issues that it raises - - the function of gossip in regulating private lives . Gossip is a strange thing really . If we call it " gossip " it's bad , but if we call it " public opinion " it sounds acceptable , at the very least . Of course we all have convictions about issues that may or may not be justified . ( As I write , Michael Jackson is once again being brought to court accused of molesting a young boy , and I wonder how many of us thrilled at the news and immediately assumed he was a pedophile . ) But gossip isn't all bad either . It's like water . When it's properly controlled it's a community asset . We need gossip to keep each other in line . It helps us to maintain public order . But , like water in a flood or a tsunami , it is ruinous to a village when it rages out of control . This is a movie that's okay if you're not looking for too much in the way of insight into human nature . It's done so cleverly that , given its goal , it's hard to argue with it .
Narcissists	A depressing tale of a middle-aged man and teen-aged girl who have an affair , presumably , after which the girl shoots the guy's wife in the head , so that the girl and the guy can get married , or at least live together , happily ever after . It's based on the real events surrounding Aimee Fisher and Joey Buttafuco . She's played my Alyssa Milano , in probably her most demanding role , and the car mechanic is Jack Scalia . What a tawdry tale . A narcissistic pedophile and a spoiled pretty nymphomaniac . Lots of sex , intrigue , conflict , some violence , all rather disgusting , which is probably why three independent TV made-for movies about the case hit the TV screens at the same time . This one is definitely from Butaffuco's point of view . The poor guy loves his wife and children ( sob ) and never touches this succulent nymphet . Fisher is plumply overdeveloped , more than simply enticing , bursting her seams , and she's the aggressor and the liar in the tale . Buttafuco is the innocent victim . Right . No ex coke addicted , pumped up , self-admiring Italian philanderer would dream of laying a paw on this fawning young creature . Man , is he put upon . Our eyes water at the narrative . Aimee lies to her family and tells them that Joey gave her herpes . Then tries to murder his wife . And all this time he's nothing more than a cheerful , loving , family man and upright citizen , aghast at all the terrible things he's accused of . Did he fund this movie ? The other two made-fors took quite different points of view , depending on who was backing the production and which particular participant in this disgusting tale was doing the endoresements . Utterly revolting garbage , which the public ate up . Alyssa Milano is a beautiful young woman . Anyone who wants to see her en deshabille should rent " Kiss of the Vampire " or whatever it was , far sexier , and less repugnant simply because it is more mindless . This movie actually has a point of view . It could have skipped the sleazy plot and just shown us Joey pumping iron in a gym and Aimee coupling in some stranger's back seat . An insult to the public viewer , who gobbled it down with relish .
Down Into the Sea in Ships .	In the original " Poseidon Aventure , " ( 1972 ) we saw something original - - a handful of survivors exploring an upside-down ship , searching for an exit through the exposed bottom . There was something eerie and unsettling about seeing familiar surroundings vertically reversed . The men's urinals and the toilets hung from the ceiling , the galley ranges still with their gas flames lighted and burning overhead . I didn't see the next remake or sequel or whatever it was ( 1979 ) but I did make it halfway through this one and it isn't even fun to look at . A view doesn't get a sense of being in a capsized ship but instead in a giant junkyard with mammoth objects strewn about . Disorder , yes , but not insanity . Whatever small poetry there was in the original is lost in this dumb remake which is no more , really , than a special effects extravaganza . We've come a long way in the 35 years since the original was made and nobody is more aware of that than the people who put this monstrosity together . If there were any gruesome reasons for death left out in 1972 , that's taken care of here . A huge generator plummets through the deck overhead and takes out Kevin Dillon , the wisecracking , drunken villain ( a figure absent from the first version ) . Dangling cables electrocute passengers spectacularly . Fried bodies float about in the water . The editing is lightning fast . The cuts that may ordinarily be measured in units per minute must here be measure per second . The target audience was weaned on computer games , MTV , and CocoaPuff commercials . No acting can be discerned among the cast of slightly past-their-prime professionals like Kurt Russel and Richard Dreyfuss , nor among the inexpensive younger cast members , but then none is called for . Any auditions must have called for not much more than an agonized scream . I kept waiting for something to happen , something human I mean , something besides gushing water and underwater people banging on stuck hatches . Why didn't the babes at least remove their hampering outer garments if they're going to swim through all that sharp , entangled garbage ? They had the good sense to do that in the original . And if Stella Stevens in the original had something on besides her underwear , at least there were Pamela Sue Martin and that blond in short shorts . Here ? Not a chance . If you're into untrammeled sea water , noise , quick cuts , screams , and heroic children you might want to watch this . Or - - and this might be more constructive - - take a shower . Actually , when they make the next remake , I hope the rogue wave catches the ship and tears it apart at once , drowning or disarticulating everyone aboard . The movie will then be five minutes long .
Okay if you're into S & M .	Bridget Fonda is the sexually satisfied wife of handsome Hart Bochner . One afternoon she comes home , calls him " honey " , and quietly fixes him a drink , only to find that he's sulking . Minutes go by while she compliantly puts up with his frowning silence . Suddenly , he bursts into a rage , accusing her of infidelity in the complete absence of any reason to do so , calls her the C word , slams her head against a cabinet , slaps her around , and winds up flinging her off the second-floor balcony , breaking her hand and a couple of ribs . She wakes up in the hospital where , it is revealed , she is deaf , although we notice that she reads lips perfectly . That avoids all the awkwardness associated with an ASL interpreter or having her squawk words in a simulacrum of language . All right . Let me just lay out the basic plot elements . This beautiful and devoted handicapped woman is beaten by her husband , misunderstood by her elderly mother , betrayed by her sister , has her bank account emptied by unknown hands , almost raped by a fat man who accosts her in a bar , is thought to have murdered her now missing husband , and is pursued by two cops ( Kiefer Sutherland and Steven Weber ) , one of whom is interested only in justice while the other seems to dislike all women and is embarrassed by their presence . The end finds her standing alone at a deserted bus stop with a hand full of cash - - alone , tearful , but brave . Now , a pop quiz . There is only one multiple-choice question . " This story was written by : ( a ) a man or ( b ) a woman . " Not to sound sexist . One could as easily pose a scenario about a decorated military hero and trained warrior who is captured by his enemies , betrayed by his organization , beaten and tortured , escapes to exact revenge , and winds up with the woman he loves , whom he thought he'd lost long ago . The direction is functional and conventional . When Fonda regains consciousness in a hospital bed , we see from her point of view the faces of the anxious doctors and nurses looking down at her - - that is , at the camera - - an echo of every scene in myriad second-rate movies in which the gurney is being hurriedly wheeled down the corridor and people in white coats hover over the camera . Hart Bochner has played a number of evil people in an interesting way - - some of the characters are stupid ( " Die Hard " ) and some are rather more than plain rude ( " And The Sea Will Tell " ) . His virile handsomeness has a kind of evil tint to it . It would be too easy to cast him as a hero . Nice , intentionally bland performance by Steven Weber as the dumb cop - - maybe the best in the film . Bridget Fonda is interesting too . Her acting range is limited but it's on full display here . What makes her an object of interest is her almost stereotypical beauty . She's like a high school prom queen . Very feminine . Of course she can't help it if she slithers around or moves her hands so gracefully . Neither can she do anything about her nose . For most of its length it's perfectly normal and attractive but at its very tip there is a bump outward that follows the natural flare of her nostrils . The tip of that nose is full of intrigue . As for the movie - - Pfui .
Corrupt at Every Level .	No need to go on at any length about this frenetic remake of what was originally an only mildly diverting situation comedy in the first place . Guilding the lily ? Maybe - - but guilding the Queen Anne's Lace ? The action here is ratcheted up to almost unbearable levels as is everything else about the movie . The original had some physical comedy but this is virtually nothing but action . It's exhausting to look at and listen to . The number of times someone falls on the floor is uncountable . People punch each other in the face and tackle one another on the run and smash into each other's cars , none of which was present in the 1977 original . The editing is rushed . Each shot lasts just long enough to register on a tachistoscope at its higher setting . Jim Carrey , unlike George Segal , never stops moving . He's manic . When he's not imitating a puppet while standing on a table ( for no reason ) his eyeballs roll around like the ball on a roulette wheel . Robin Williams is hyper too , but Robin Williams provides parodic laugh after laugh while Carrey is just silly . The score is all junk rock and thrown at us with the tempo of an Uzi . Even under the credits , somebody is shouting a fast version of " The Best Things In Life Are Free " - - and he's imitating Louis Prima . There's not an original idea in the movie . Certainly , " squeezing another buck out of a remake " is not an original idea . Not anymore . About half of what appears on screens these days is a remake or a sequel . There seems to be a hole in the noosphere - - right over Hollywood . Oh , well , I guess there is one good joke . Alec Baldwin plays the corrupt head of the corporation that has just gone bust , fired its employees , and bankrupted its shareholders . He's being interviewed by a TV reporter while striding through a field in hunting gear , along with his associate . Asked how he feels about the pickle his former employees find themselves in , he stops and produces some boilerplate . " I'm heartbroken for these good folks , " he says . " I'm all het up over it . " Then he whirls around , lifts his shotgun , and shouts , " Now WATCH THIS SHOT . " ( I take this to be a parody of George W . Bush being interviewed on the golf course in a Michael Moore movie . ) There . I've gone and given away the good part .
Virgins , Look Out .	This piece of meretricious trash is hardly worth reviewing but having sat through half of it , the voices that have just taken over my mind compel me to say a few words so here goes . A mysterious slasher in a small town is killing all the virgin high school students - - boys and girls alike , but mostly girls - - by dismembering them with a knife that manages to make metal-on-metal sounds even when it's being waved around threateningly in empty air . I'd like to know more about that knife . Word gets around the school and the girl decide to remove themselves from the endangered species list by throwing a group orgy in which they all get deflowered by guys with spiked hair and a taste for hash . I never realized that any modern high school had so many virgins . They come in droves . The , umm , heroine , the not-beautiful but still cherubic Brittany Murphy is chased through the darkened hallways and classrooms of an unnecessarily unlighted school in which a big meeting of the PTA is being held in the gymnasium . The mad slasher captures her , flings her to the floor , and flips up her skirt ( not too high ) to begin carving the word " virgin " on her thigh , but he or she is interrupted by the timely arrival of the police . Why is this girl named Brittany ? I mean , that's evidently the real name of the actress , or at least her nom de theatre . Nobody became a Brittany until about five years ago . The other names aren't much of an improvement : Amanda Anka , Bre Blair , Beatrice Bush , Terry Ballance , Mark Joy , Margaret Moister . What the hell is this , Andy Warhol's Factory ? Brittany Murphy , eschewing the group grope , decides to seduce her fave squeeze in his bedroom . She strips off her top and sits on top of him , kissing him and whispering " harder . " He comes up with something like , " I wanted it to be different . " She spurns him , dresses , and leaves the room with an insult hanging in the air . Make no mistake . ( I love that phrase . ) Make no mistake . This is played out in all seriousness . Oh - - a few wisecracks and sex scenes but the chief theme here , the leaking substance that links the episodes , is blood . There are gallons of it . Scenes of torture too , for aficionados . It isn't that I object to movies about high school students . Some of them are cute ( " Clueless " ) and others are occasionally perceptive ( " Pretty Persuasion " ) . But this is nothing more than prime schlock . There is a scene in which Murphy and her high school English teacher quote T . S . Eliot together . Sure .
Ruins is right .	I don't know . What happens when a film like this is produced ? Do they start OUT to make another meretricious horror flick , making sure they hit all the necessary marks - - innocent kids partying , high hinks in isolated location , mysterious threat , resentful autochthones , exploding head , half-naked woman , something crawling under the skin ? Only this time , somebody suggested they might as well do it while on an Australian vacation since nobody was going to put any effort into it anyway ? If you find this appealing , then you've probably seen it in other , better configurations . The beginning is okay . A group of college kids have a drunken party on the beach of a Mexican resort . The next day they team up with a young German tourist to visit some ruins that his brother is digging up . A pick up truck drives them to the bushy and desolate wasteland . Native Mayans show up shouting unintelligible orders and warnings and finally start shooting arrows at the terrified youngsters and wind up blowing off half the head of one of them . The kids retreat to the top of a Mayan ziggurat where things only get worse . The German kid falls down a hole and breaks his spine . The vines turn out to be sentient and malignant . And then - - well - - so it goes . Nothing wrong with the direction , which is at least functional if not in any way innovative . And nothing wrong with the performances either . All the kids do a reasonably professional job . Laura Ramsey as Stacey ( are they still hanging that albatross of a name around the necks of helpless baby girls ? ) is beautiful and sexy . Joe Anderson as Mathias , the German visitor , has a slyly crabwise control of his German accent . Queensland does an equally good impression of Mexico . And Jena Malone as Amy is really quite good , much better than this material . What are they doing in this by-the-numbers goose-pimple-raising junk that overflows with blood and horror . Who enjoys watching a handful of nice white rich kids get slaughtered ? I wouldn't go so far as to press for a moral , but can't the film at least have a REASON for being ?
For specialized tastes . Very specialized .	Nastassja Kinsky is easy to look at , and the performances aren't bad , and that's about it . Now , if you're going to make a science fiction movie about some weird stuff going on in town , some conspiracy or secret , there are a couple of ways of approaching it . You always begin with a normal person , as this movie does with Kinsky . And there should be someone else around who behaves normally , so that the hero or heroine can have someone to talk things over with . Katherine Ross , in " The Stepford Wives " , has the bosomy , candid Paula Prentice to talk to , until Prentice became part of the problem instead of the solution . Alternatively you can have the entire town act normal until its residents one by one become creepy , or a group become , let's say , unusual . See " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " for an example of the first kind , and " Village of the Damned " for the second . In this remake , the entire town resents Kinsky from the moment she first drives into it , even before they can possibly know who she is . Actually , she's the school's resident psychological counselor , which puts her in the position of being nosy and turning the town's resentments into full-blown hatred . We know she's resented from the first few minutes of the movie when the director has carelessly positioned the extras so that they all stand with their hands on their hips , glaring at her . Does she get help from the school's nurse ? How about the school's principal ? Are you kidding ? This raises an interesting question right off the bat . If no one in the town wants a snoopy school psychologist , then why did they hire one ? I have it on now in the other room . Somehow it was mistakenly included in a box of DVDs someone sent me . I won't watch it until the end because I don't care what the town's secret is . I imagine , though , that , since this is a remake of a cheap science fiction film from the 50s , and because the cover tells me so , that a monster appears courtesy of special effects . The appearance of a modern CGI monster is , I take it , the chief reason for the appearance of the movie . I can't think of any other reason . Who would enjoy it ? I think lots of kids around 10 or 12 would get a kick out of this undemanding and commercial pap . And , meaning no disrespect , I imagine some adults with a taste for cheaply done science fiction movies with slobbering creatures killing off characters would also enjoy it . Not my cup of tea though . Not a soupcon of originality . Can't speak for everyone .
All at Sea .	The milieu here is the family and friends of the Commodore ( John Dehner ) , very rich folks . The Commodore is murdered and just as we think Columbo has the killer ( Robert Vaughan ) cornered , he's murdered too . Columbo assembles all the possible suspects in a room at the end and goes through a Charlie Chan or Hercule Poirot routine to expose the real killer , whose motive turns out to be greed . This is thin stuff although the director ( Patrick McGoohan , a talented actor ) tries to lay it on with a trowel . I would guess the script started off as an hour-long show for " Mannix " or " Dan August " or something . There are many attempts to pad it out with humor and none of them are funny . ( See Lieutenant Columbo try to wrestle himself into a FULL LOTUS POSITION ! That'll be ten cents . ) Characters get rather elaborate introductions and then play no more than the usual minor roles . Worse , this is a somewhat different Columbo than the character his fans have come to know . He's bumbling , of course , and has to cope with the difference between a mainmast and a mizzenmast , but on top of that he's CUTE . He winks . He smiles . His comments are coy . And what does it all boil down to ? A two-minute experiment at the end in which the killer reveals his guilt . The rest were all red herrings . There would be worse episodes after the series was revived and wrung out , but this is certainly one of the weakest of the original series , despite the talent in front of , and behind , the camera .
Nice idea . Movie : One long execution .	Great location shooting - - a windswept old model town , right out of a Twilight Zone episode , that was used as an atomic testing site . I love it when naive characters wander around in a deserted little settlement , discovering the mannequins and other left-overs from the era of atomic testing . There's a certain thrill in it all , which might be called " the last people on earth " arousal jag . The New Mexico desert is tinted a delicate yellow and is thoroughly windswept , inviting exploration . As a kid I spent a summer along with a handful of Coast Guardsmen at the closed Fort Hancock on Sandy Hook , New Jersey . The entire fort had been closed down and left exactly as it was except no locks on anything , like an empty movie set - - the mile long lines of barracks , the administration buildings , the hospital ( with stained slides still lined up neatly on the shelves ) . It made your hair stand on end to wander at will through a community that was completely silent and empty . ( Of course , now , anybody can do it by walking through downtown Los Angeles on a weekend . ) I stumbled across a heap of discarded , live 20 millimeter cannon shells and , not realizing that live ammo of such age might be unstable , began juggling the things like a circus performer . That's kind of the story of this movie except the ammo assumes explosive human form . Five or six people in their trailer-towing van have a flat tire and wind up looking through the phony community they've discovered . It's an involving experience until the mutated zombies show up and then it turns into an unusually gory and revolting slash fest . What a wasted opportunity . What could have been a great Twilight Zone story becomes just another movie with angry , made-up , el freakos , trapping and killing half the visitors in the most repugnant fashion and the survivors retaliating in kind . The camera lingers with relish on one of the deformed creeps ( they all look different except for their bad teeth ) who has just had a wooden stake thrust into his belly . To the accompaniment of a sound like a glue pot , the creature looks down at the protruding handle , says , " Huh ? " , and then pulls it out with what I think was intended to be an evil smile . You see , in order to really KILL the things , you have to do some REAL damage - - whack them through the head with an ax , jump off a cliff with them , blow them to smithereens in an explosion . The killings are not only an insult to the human body but to the human intelligence as well . ( The escapees are literally drenched in blood by the end . ) And yet that's what the movie is ABOUT . There's no attempt to reach the audience above the abdominal level . It has nothing to say about atomic bombs or the wonder of the exotic . It might as well be taking place with half a dozen kids trapped in a mausoleum full of ghouls , a variation on a theme that was old a long time ago , only this time around the special effects are excruciating . Of course it's always nice to see Kathleen Quinlan , but the acting here consists almost entirely of screams . And the young men , who ought to be able to take care of themselves , are incredibly stupid . One of them is being chased through the desert by a mutant who is equally light of foot . The kid is armed with an automatic . As he sprints and stumbles along he points the pistol behind him and fires wildly without looking until he empties his weapon . The viewer's heart races alarmingly . Maybe you'll enjoy seeing zombies / ghouls / rotting corpses / mutants slaughtering innocent people in the bloodiest way imaginable . It wasn't my kind of film . I thought it sucked . But - - if I can end on a constructive note - - for anyone who wants to see an ax murderer at work , almost equally bloody but amounting to far more than an upper-torso exercise , they might try " The Weight of Water . " If you don't like challenges , of course , then skip it .
There is Nothing New Under the Gun .	I guess someone reckoned it was time to resuscitate the " Death Wish " movies that began in 1974 , but the similarly title " Death Sentence " had to be updated , and for good reason . This is not the late 60s or early 70s when urban crime rates were triple what they'd been just a few years earlier . The dangers of urban life were very real . Statistics don't begin to tell the story . In the neighborhood I lived in , adjacent to the University of Pennsylvania , every Mom and Pop store , every shop , had been held up at least once , with the owners " looking down the barrel of a shotgun , " as one tough old lady put it . The deli owner kept a loaded gun under the counter . The liquor store would periodically acquire one or two bullet holes through its plate glass window . I knew girls who had been raped twice on campus . I was burglarized three times . Every building was decorated with graffiti . Now THAT is a crime wave that Charles Bronson could fight . The muggers and vandals and robbers were anonymous . The threat lay over the city air like an acrid odor . But the young men responsible for that disorganization were baby boomers in their prime . They're now in their 50s and 60s , so things have quieted down . Donc , the writers must now make the story personal . The son of an executive , Kevin Bacon , is killed in a gas station robbery by one of those integrated gangs one so seldom finds in real life . Pursuing a lead he sniffs out , Bacon confronts one of the gang , who is accidentally killed . Seeking revenge , the half dozen other goons ( all Goth skinheads dressed in black and sporting tattoos of barbed wire on their faces ) make several attempts on Bacon's life and finally wound him , kill his wife and shoot their other son . Bacon stumbles out of the hospital and buys four guns from an illegal dealer . There is a final shoot out between Bacon and the gang in an abandoned hospital or something . Guess who is the lone survivor . Kevin Bacon is a far more versatile actor than Charles Bronson was but it doesn't make any difference here . I couldn't identify all the ripoffs that made up this thing of shreds and patches . In addition to " Death Wish " , there's " Dirty Harry , " of course . Bacon buys a huge , stone-heavy magnum . " Guaranteed head remover , " comments the dealer . The climax is almost , but not quite , a shot-for-shot remake of " Taxi Driver " . Bacon is even wounded in the neck from behind . The gun-buying episode is ripped off from the same source - - Bacon fondles the guns and practices with them like Robert DeNiro - - but without the style or the wit . Implausibilities abound . The white-collar executive deliberately attacks and takes out an armed and brawny skinhead , beating the crap out of him and finally killing him . One of the gang marches into Bacon's office and thrusts a package into his hands , snarling , " This is to let you know that you won't die alone . " Bacon stares at the rudely wrapped box for a moment , then sets it on his desk and proceeds to open it . Would you do that ? It's a brutal movie and its ugliness is enhanced by the photography , which uses techniques I don't have the vocabulary to describe . All the images are tinted , mostly a ghoulish green , like a garter snake's belly . Some are blood red . The images are sharply defined so that we can easily make out every whisker stippling a man's chin , every bead of sweat during tense moments . A wide angle lends is used for some close ups , turning the face into that of a malign dolphin . Gun freaks should love it , and so should kids of about , oh , say fourteen , plagued by high testosterone levels . Maybe there are a lot of them around because the user rating is pretty high . If there is a market demand , we should prepare ourselves for " Death Sentence II " and all the rest of the crap that degrades our screens these days .
Warning : Movie May Cause Boredom	Whether the defendant is a squealer or a whistle blower depends on which side of the social border the judge sits on . If the informant betrays secrets about an organization we support , then he's a squealer or a spy . If we hate the organization , then he's a civic-minded whistle blower . It's kind of like being a " terrorist " or a " freedom fighter . " In this case , there's no doubt that Jeffrey Wigand was a flawed but full-blown whistler . He tattled on " Big Tobacco , " as it's consistently called , a conspiratorial corporate entity everyone hates . What did he have to gain ? Not much . He admits to having a bad temper and feels he was fired " for no good reason , " but for most of us that would be a weak motive for risking your bountiful severance package and your family . ( Of course , who knows what's in a man's heart ? ) There are death threats that show up on his PC and a bullet appears in his mailbox , or so we are told . People may be " surveilling " him at places like a golf driving range . If so , the surveillers are pretty obvious about it . Writers , and viewers as well , need to be careful with this kind of material . After he was sent to jail , G . Gordon Liddy , a paranoid if there ever was one , describes in his book , " Will , " how he made killer enemies in prison and concluded that on a given night they were going to make an attempt on his life . He chose bravely to sleep out in the open with a blunt object for defense nearby . Nobody showed up that night . He believes his audacity frightened the killers off , whereas most reasonable readers would suspect that his enemies , like Son of Sam's social life , was all in his head . As it turns out , Wigand loses just about everything dear to him . Another brave whistle blower is Lowell Bergman the CBS producer who brings the whole tawdry story to light by blowing the whistle on CBS to the New York Times . He quits his job . ( The movie makes it appear that he quits immediately after his victory , whereas in fact he didn't quit until two years later . ) The question is : aside from making us feel good because , by means of all this sacrifice , Big Tobacco gets it in the chin , what other purpose is served ? What startling exposition is there in Wigand's suppressed interview ? Certainly not that cigarettes are bad for you . The Surgeon General's report demonstrated that in 1964 . And even that report was a redundancy since just about everyone , from scientists to morons , knew that cigarettes make you ill . The first use of the term " coffin nail " or " nail in your coffin " used in reference to cigarettes appears in 1888 , when cigarettes were just beginning to be used in addition to cigars and pipes . Here's a headline from the Chicago Daily Tribune , 15 July 1897 , " Unconscious From Cigaret Smoke : George Decker of Jersey City Succumbs to an Excessive Use of ' Coffin Tacks . ' " ( That's from Dictionary of American Regional English . ) In Chinese , the character representing " tobacco " is the same as that for " opium , " a stylized picture of a man imprisoned by four walls . There is an interesting datum on how ammonia compounds are added to tobacco to facilitate the impact of nicotine - - but that's the whole point of smoking . No one ever claimed that cigarettes TASTED good . Enhancing the impact of nicotine is an example of good old American know-how . At least from what we can see , the two main contributions of the controversial interview are ( 1 ) a demonstration that the CEOs lied when they testified that they did not believe tobacco was an addictive drug , and ( 2 ) sound bites - - " Cigarettes are nothing more than a delivery system for a drug . " ( We hear that last bite quoted 3 times . ) Well , Big Tobacco ( and little tobacco for that matter , if that term can be applied to users ) had already been demonized . The whole affair , in all its complexity , seems to have cemented even more firmly in place those prejudices most viewers will already hold . The film was careful not to indict smokers because , after all , these addicts go to the movies . And who wound up paying for all this ? Big Tobacco came under a great deal of expensive litigation , and remains there today . Penalties were levied on the corporations . The corporations passed these additional costs on to the users by tripling and quadrupling the cost of cigarettes . Most of the people who are addicted to cigarettes ( we're not talking about the conspicuous consumption of expensive cigars ) are middle and lower class . The result is a regressive tax , in which the chief burden falls on those least able to pay . Forty years ago , a carton of Camels could be had for 90 cents . Today , in New York , you pay between five and six dollars a pack . That's an increase of roughly 6 , 111 percent . ( I think . If that figure's wrong , it's my calculator's fault . ) One might think that , having finally brought the addictive properties of nicotine out into the open , the public and its representatives would feel some sympathy , or even pity , for its victims , but no such sentiment has surfaced . The hatred we feel towards smokers seems boundless and almost gleeful . Here's a poster on the door of a professor of social science in an Eastern university : " Cancer Cures Smoking , " in huge blood-red letters . The last time there was such widespread and righteous wrath must have been during the anti-communist fervor of the early 1950s . In return we have the satisfaction of feeling that we nailed Big and little Tobacco , and that we rooted for the right side in this really rather simple and exploitative movie .
Gloomy Soap Opera .	The movie begins with the success of " The Fountainhead " by Ayn Rand ( Helen Mirrin ) and covers the next fifteen or so years of her rise to the top of a collective movement known as " objectivism , " which became a kind of cult with Rand as the golden-gowned Inca empress . What a dull movie . Let's see . Mirrin is married to Frank ( Peter Fonda ) , an alcholic wimp who paints and cultivates flowers . The couple take under their wing an admiring young married couple , Eric Stoltz and Julie Delpy . ( I'm going to skip the characters ' names because they're unimportant historically and dramatically . ) Mirrin develops a maternal affection for Stoltz that soon enough blossoms into something more physical . Julie Delpy twigs to this . We know so because she confronts Stoltz : " She loves you ! And you love HER ! " Mirren and Stoltz meet together with their spouses and tell the truth . They want an open marriage , meaning Mirren and Stoltz get to hump each others ' brains out without the same privilege being extended to Fonda and Delpy . The spouses grant Mirren and Stoltz one afternoon a week alone , but the pair have so much fun they begin bootlegging more hours into the arrangement . Delpy , meanwhile , is having anxiety attacks , which are nerve wracking , as I can testify . In despair she calls Mirren from a café , begging to come to her for advice and succor , and Mirren comes back with a blistering accusation of selfishness . I'm not sure the screenplay recognizes the irony here , because Ayn Rand's " objectivist philosophy " is nothing if it is not a glorification of selfishness . Anyway , a kindly passer-by notices Delpy collapsing in the phone booth and he's a sensitive , caring type , a musician , and escorts her home . The relationship grows warmer but Delpy refuses to break her marriage vows and - - yawn - - excuse me - - she asks Stoltz for the same open-marriage arrangement that he's got . He balks . He's got nothing to balk about . He's a practicing clinical psychologist and one of his patients , a beautiful young woman , Sybil Temtchine , develops a severe case of what we practicing clinical psychologists call " transference , " not uncommon in neurotics . Rather less common is the way Stoltz exhibits what we practicing psychologists call " counter-transference . " He humps her brains out too . To such an extent that Mirren begins musing aloud , " When was the last time we made love ? " Are you confused yet ? I only ask because I'm a little gemischt myself . At any rate , Stoltz develops a case of conscious or something - - I may have had a period of microsleep at this point - - and resigns from the Institute . Mirren slaps him around , accuses him of treachery , and does her level best to destroy him . But the stalwart Delpy sticks with her husband and resigns in sympathy . In the end , objectivism has become a terrific success after the publication of Rand's last book , " Atlas Shrugged , " although the critics bombed it , and she makes lots of dough on the lecture circuit - - bold , unashamed before challenging questions from the crowd , full of wisecracks , reveling in her celebrity and money . It must be wonderful to have no doubts about one's self . No viewer will learn very much about objectivism . It's not the central topic of the movie . The title tells it all - - " The Passion of Ayn Rand . " That passion extended far beyond any desire to educate or convert the public . It encompassed power , possessions , and wealth . What more is there to say about this dreary story . There's so much strenuous and lubricious sex in it that it could have shown up late at night on Cinemax except that the girls would all need bigger bosoms , something along the lines of watermelons . The musical score is mostly slow , sad , muted trumpet , straight out of " Miles Davis Plays Music for Lovers . " The dialog sucks . " Did you talk to her about our problems ? " " OUR problems ? You mean that you don't like sex anymore ? " There's an interesting story that was waiting to be built around the rise ( and subsequent decline ) of objectivism . How - - exactly - - does a cult begin ? You need a charismatic figure , of course , and Ayn Rand provided it . Then you typically get proprietary sexual relationships and the concomitant jealousies or self abnegation . The difference between objectivism and most cults is that Rand's had a political , even a metaphysical flavor , whereas most are built around some variant of religious salvation . But cults , like Christianity was when it began , need an organizer and solidifier to follow the charismatic founder when he shuffles off this mortal coil . Christianity at least had St . Paul , but who was there to follow Ayn Rand , to organize the objectivists ? Her husband Frank ? The elderly and reclusive Frank , who lived off Rand's leavings ? Frank , the mediocre painter ? The wimp who loved Los Angeles because you could grow a greater variety of flowers there ? I once spoke to an architect about " The Fountainhead . " It's hero's architectural genius creates a gas station that one fictional critic calls , " An insolent ' No ' flung in the face of history . " " It's all very well , " my architect friend admitted , " if you're a genius . But what about the rest of us , who are no more than good at what we do ? " Yes . An interesting story is hidden in the shadows of this abject production , but it remains to be told .
Magnificently lousy .	Four people ( Denning , Crowley , Grey , and Reeves ) meet by accident on the streets of a city that has been emptied overnight of people , except for a few dead bodies . They learn from a newspaper that the city has been invaded and evacuated by everyone else . The cars have been disabled , so the four refugees hole up in the suite of a hotel , making do with candles , beer , and canned food . There WAS a fifth member of the group , a witless little character , but he ran out into the street and was rayed to death by a wandering robot . The invading army , as it turns out , consists entirely of these robots with their death rays . They're impervious to bullets and can destroy airplanes , presumably with the same rays . A gun-toting evil murderer invades the hotel sanctuary of the survivors and puts moves on Crowley ( who has fallen in love with Denning after knowing him for only a few hours ) . The resulting fight sees Grey killed and Denning wounded before the burly Reeves manages to strangle the killer . The scenes of the survivors are inter cut with scenes of the requisite military and scientists trying just as hard as they can to devise a means of disabling these robots . They finally succeed - - surprise ! When the robot army is exposed to sound waves of a certain frequency , it " cracks their cathode ray tubes . " ( Your television set is a cathode ray tube . ) The army comes to the rescue at the last moment , too late , alas , to save Reeves but soon enough to whisk off Denning and Crowley . A cheap and boring movie , I found it almost impossible to watch . Well , sometimes the cheapness can't be helped . A budget will stretch only so far , as we all must know . But this thing could have been written and acted by members of the robot army , who look like they're made of Lego's or like unusually angular Gorts , although we only see one of them at a time . The dialog sucks . The plot is unoriginal . The special effects might better have been suggested than put on display . The logic of the plot is terribly flawed and the direction careless . ( Carefully pruned , it might have been a decent episode of The Outer Limits . ) I'll give just one example of a jarring lapse of common sense . The vicious murderer is holding the others at gunpoint and Grey suddenly remembers where she saw him before . He's the guy that murdered that hooker on Skid Row ! That's right , admits the evildoer . His picture was all over the papers . They'll be looking for him on every street corner , Denning observes . Not if I slip out through the sewers and get out behind the enemy lines , the murderer sneers . The entire city has been evacuated and is now occupied by indestructible robots who kill people and repulse the military with unknown rays - - yet they'll be watching every street corner for some nobody who killed a hooker ! Santa Clause could waltz past the army without interference under these conditions ! Well , another example . At the very beginning , Crowley wakes up to find the city empty and she wanders the streets . She stumbles across a dead body and Richard Denning at roughly the same time . They introduce themselves and explain where they spent the previous night . Minutes of frippery go by while neither asks the question : WHAT HAPPENED ? It could have been good , even with the inexpensive sets and the second-tier ( but seasoned ) actors . As it is , it's rather a painful experience except for those who really enjoy cheesy SF movies , and there seem to be legions of those . The producer , the late Herbert Cohen , provides an audio commentary on the DVD and he seems like a good-natured guy . He's generous with his credits and he didn't mind if people laughed at the crummy effects when the picture was released and he still doesn't mind .
Interesting Idea Rendered Into Horror Fest .	Somebody - - some techie wizard out there - - is able to shuffle his electronic impulses around the world , making it impossible to trace his personal address . He takes to executing kidnap victims in ingenious ways . And he has things rigged so that the deaths appear live on his web site . What exterminations they are ! Death by hot lamp . Death by a slow infusion of nitric acid into a bath tub . AND the demonic death machines work faster , depending on how many hits the site gets . If nobody watches , nobody dies . But the problem is that so many people like to watch . And the number of hits increases with every execution . Diane Lane is an FBI agent who's trying to track the maniac down . She asks the NSA for assistance , since they're the experts , but they refuse to help because they aren't permitted to monitor or trace the communications of American citizens . ( The audience is permitted an arid chuckle here . ) So she and her partner must do it on their own , and it turns personal . Intriguing topic , no ? Freedom of speech and all that ? But those kinds of issues are brought up only near the start of the film , and they're treated perfunctorily . Not that there isn't a lot of expository dialog , especially near the beginning , and constant tension . ( Much of the tech talk was over my head . ) But it's as if the people behind the story decided to throw out the baby and keep the bath water . There's another problem with the movie and although it , too , is technical , it impinges on the aesthetic experience . My God , the photography is drained of all the low-frequency colors of the spectrum . Everything seems bluish or ghoulish green . And the high contrast makes every single blemish on every single face stand out like spats at an Iowa convention . Diane Lane is a beautiful woman . ( " Woman " ! I remember when she was a delightful teen ! ) But the emulsion doesn't let her purse her lips without turning her face into the Martian surface . And , as for the GUYS . Forget it . Every stipple of their recently shaven cheeks leaps out of the screen . The bags under their eyes have bags under them . A neonate would look like an octogenarian . An octogenarian would look like a freeze-dried Peruvian mummy . I'm just playing with words here but you get the general idea . Sometimes this kind of chemical legerdemain works - - as it did during , say , " Band of Brothers . " But not here . It makes objects look sleazy when they're no more than functional . If it's blue , it must be a bright neon blue . Ugh . I'll be happy when this particular fad becomes history . Well , I guess that - - bad photography or not - - the film is execrable . It's the usual paradox , the kind we find in so many " anti-war " movies . The producers pretend to be lecturing the audience about the horrors and dangers inherent in some human activity - - then show that activity in detail so that we can relish every moment of it . The people who bring you this garbage are extremely good at tricking us into believing we know why we're watching it .
Made for Thrill Junkies .	This inexpensive and unimaginative imitation of " The Exorcist " is going to enthrall anyone who doesn't care about where their thrills come from . It begins as the story of Donald Sutherland as a 1820s Tennessee patriarch who has charged too much interest on the lease of some of his land . He's chastised in court but is found justified . The unsavory victim of his greed " puts a curse " on him . Enter what is called " the entity . " It takes out its rage on Sutherland's daughter , the lovely Rachel Hurd-Wood , pulling her around by the hair , taking off the covers while she's asleep , slapping her around , slamming doors shut , blowing out candles , and - - well , if you've seen " The Exorcist " or any of its other incarnations you know what goes on . Her handsome young teacher takes an interest in the case , but his is the part played by the doctors and shrinks in " The Exorcist . " He insists at first that it's the slaves of Sutherland's courtroom victim , sent over to cause mischief . If four people have seen Rachel being held up by the hair , suspended two feet off the floor , it was because the room was a little dark and they couldn't tell who was holding her . If , at the same time , her face is being slapped back and forth as if by an invisible being , well - - those were probably people playing tricks with pea shooters . ( I swear I'm not making this up . ) A preacher is brought in . And while they watch the young girl being thrown around from wall to wall like a ping pong ball , he leads the family in a scene straight out of " The Exorcist . " " In the name of Jesus , leave this room ! " Now , this is the kind of prayer that is known in science as " theory dependent . " I kept thinking , suppose they've got it wrong and the real God who might straighten out all this michigas is some other Divinity . Maybe they should be asking Mazda or Zeus or Sedna or somebody , because Jesus was just another guy . I don't mean to be sacrilegious but the movie is stupid enough to prompt blasphemous thoughts . The acting is okay . That's not the problem . The problem lies in the ridiculous script which absolutely refuses to tell us what the problem is . ( There is a frisson of incest at the end , left hanging somewhere between memory and fantasy , which does nothing to explain why the entity beats hell out of poor Hurd-Wood instead of the old man . ) The entity is so poorly conceived that its powers can't be visualized . It can hear , and it can apparently read , but it can't communicate except in unholy growls . It can't read minds ( or can it ? ) but when it discovers Hurd-Wood isn't in her bed it zips overland because it knows exactly where she is . Another problem , the major one , lies in the direction . It's all over the place in a disjointed fashion . The images may be in color or in black and white . It doesn't seem to matter when or why . The camera sometimes takes the point of view of the entity , but we don't know if it is or not at any given moment . At one point , the entity seems to walk over to the girl's mother ( Sissy Spacek ) , sit down on the porch swing next to her , and zoom through her pupil into her aqueous humor , and there follows four or five minutes of incomprehensible , lightning-fast editing , showing us either real acts or fantasied ones or hallucinated ones or maybe only whatever images a director bereft of imagination and originality can come up with . The movie aims for the lowest common denominator and doesn't clear the bar . The score should be taught as a bad example in film schools - - every cliché in the book , from screeching violins , through pounding tympani , to LOUD electronic whomps and clangs . Under the final credit the score finally goes completely berserk , no longer caring , thumbing its nose in contempt at however many viewers may be left . It's too bad , too , because there are one or two features in the film that are quite good , given a low budget . I could be convinced that , in a small way , this was a pretty good evocation of life in pre-Civil-War Tennessee . The set designer , wardrobe , and make up did rather well in suggesting the period - - except for Rachel Hurd-Wood's hair , which falls in a luxurious umber cascade around her shoulders . Well , it must , if it's to rouse the pedophiles in the audience . She may be only a teen ager but she's radiantly beautiful . Let's remember , though , that in the Upland South in the 1820s , girls of fourteen were marriageable . How old was Loretta Lynne ? I'll give a brief example of what I mean by attention to period detail . The playthings , toys , and amusements of the kids look just right . They kick a kind of soggy soccer ball . The seesaw sits atop an empty keg . At a Christmas party , mistletoe isn't hung from the ceiling as it is now . It's held at the end of a pole by children who slowly swing it over the heads of couples while everyone laughs . Someone seems to have done some research . It would have been nice if a similar effort had been put into the script and the director had had more taste .
Male narcissism .	Why bother ? Vincent Gallo , a motorcycle racer , is so magnetic that waitresses throw off their jobs and leave farewell notes at a hint . ( He produced the movie . ) He's not particularly good looking but he's sympathetic because he acts depressed all the time and women want to cuddle him . Montgomery Clift could pull this off very well . He could make us believe it . Gallo can't . The movie amounts to a porno film with only a few seconds of celebrity paparazzi shots of Chloe Sevigny . ( What is she doing in this piece of garbage ? ) If you want to see a male narcissist suffer for no particular reason while women fall all over him this is your kind of movie . As for me , I think the motives may be no more than those behind Sylvester Stallone's skin flick , an opportunity to seal on film how sturdy your erections are .
A Crime of Profit , Not Passion .	This is , per se , an above average film but why in the name of Bog was it made ? It's impossible to treat it as a thing unto itself because it is an almost shot-for-shot remake of an Alfred Hitchcock classic of 1960 . You can't watch it without the 1960 film nudging into your consciousness . What does the word " credit " mean ? How can we credit Van Sandt and his associates with anything except deciding to use different actors , slightly different sets , and color ? Anne Heche is attractive but lacks Janet Leigh's stolid determination to become a respectable middle-class woman . And Heche is younger than Leigh , who brought to her fruitless attempt to marry and settle down , the desperation of a woman facing forty . And Heche doesn't project anxiety the way Leigh did . The scene with the CHP officer looking in her car window illustrates the weakness in the role . In the original , the officer asks , " Is there something wrong ? " Leigh : " Of course not . Am I acting as if something were wrong ? " The officer hesitates before replying : " Well , frankly , yes . " That exchange is omitted from the remake for the simple reason that Heche isn't nervous enough . The worst change , without a doubt , is the substitution of Vince Vaughn for Anthony Perkins . It may not be Vaughn's fault . Who could match Perkins in the role ? Perkins is twitchy , bird-like , long-necked , cloaked in an externally charming exterior that masks an inner vacuum . His every move ( eating candy corn , with his adam's apple bobbing ) and every utterance , the faint laugh , the arid chuckle , is spot on . He just can't be improved upon . Vaughn brings to the role the presence of a short-haired beefy guy who was just discharged as a Lance Corporal from the U . S . Army . To suggest his psychosis all he can do is superimpose a maniacal giggle on top of what appears otherwise a perfectly normal Norman in speech and manner . ( Unlike the original Norman , Vaughn doesn't even stumble over the word " fallacy " because it resembles " phallus " . ) He could be just hanging around the motel waiting to hear about his application for a football scholarship to UCLA . The direction deserves a few comments . I don't see what it adds to the story when we see Norman masturbating while peeping in on Anne Heche . I don't OBJECT to it . I wonder why it's there , just as I wonder why the rest of the movie is there . And , I suppose in order to impress us with how much color adds to the visual experience , Van Sant seems to have missed a bit of Hitchcock's more subtle stuff . Heche is given underwear of all different colors - - green , pink , orange , and - - mango ? Is that a color ? If so , what the hell color is it ? Never mind . The point is that in the original , when the traveling camera first peeks through the window of the Phoenix hotel it captures Janet Leigh in bed wearing a pure white half slip and a white bra . Later , after she has stolen the money , we see her in her underwear again - - this time both her slip and bra are black . Tis a small thing , but Hitch's own . At that , the idea of shooting in color might not have been bad except that the black-and-white shooting of the original was superb . The color and odd lighting effects in this version turn the ordinary , dull , and subliminally ominous motel into something that looks like it belongs in the seedier part of Las Vegas . Most of all , the 1960 film was shocking in more ways than one . I can remember seeing it in a drive-in in San Diego and staring aghast at the screen when it became clear that the central character was actually DEAD - - half-way through the movie ! Nothing like it had ever been done before . That murder in the shower , in both movies , was a big improvement over Robert Bloch's original novel , by the way , in which the author writes something like , " The murderer then entered the bathroom and cut off her head with a knife . " I'm not making that up . Well , not entirely . Even here , Van Sant's movie gives us excess . There is more blood and more bare flesh . And where Hitchcock closed in first on the blood circling the bathtub drain and dissolved to Marian's blankly open eye , then pulled the camera back slowly to reveal her face , he rotated his camera from a slight tilt to the proper vertical , giving the viewer a sense of not just disbelief at the murder , but a dizzying disbelief . Van Sant doesn't tilt his camera a delicate 10 or 20 degrees as Hitchcock did . He practically twirls it on its axis . It won't do to call this a bow to Hitchcock because it's not . It's a pecuniary plundering of Hitchcock's material ( already ripped off in " Psycho " I , II , III , IV , and " Psycho : The Beginning Years " , and " Come Into My Parlor : Mrs . Bates ' Revenge , " and " Hand Me That Knife , Would You ? : The TRUE story of Norman Bates . " ) A rehashing of and grinding away at truly original stuff , a crumenal act if not a criminal one . And that's not to mention the many homages in other films , especially the French , such as the notorious " ocean of boredom " scenes between Marcel Brulee and Jeanne Gateau in the much-admired " La Mere de la Nuit . " ( Maybe I'd better add that that last sentence is a terrible attempt at a parody of academic critics . And when a chicken's guts grind corn , it's a " crumenal " act . I won't go on except to say these gags , shabby as they are , are more fun than the movie . ) So who was it made for ? I'd have to guess . Kids who are too young to know about the original and who don't like movies in black and white ? Kids who are hoping to see another ordinary slasher movie ? Chimpanzees ?
First fifteen minutes , yeah ! Then a nosedive into torture .	Patrick Wilson plays a 32-year-old professional photographer who we first see flirting with a 14-year-old girl , Ellen Page , on the internet . They meet at a cafe and , after he takes her on a little shopping trip , she more or less eagerly agrees to go to his apartment . So far , so good . The movie could easily have been procrustianized into another movie-of-the-week about a depraved Humbert Humbert salivating over an innocent , weeping , victimized young virgin . But it doesn't seem that way at all . It heads in a more adult direction . Wilson doesn't have long , greasy hair and jailhouse tattoos . He doesn't brag or try to con her in any way . He seems like a nice guy , with his professorial specs and his bland handsomeness and his apparently genuine reticence about taking a pubescent girl to his flat . And Ellen Page is like , wow , a bit dazzled by the attentions of this grown-up boy but , wow , she's like pretty forthcoming in every respect . " Don't peek now , " she says upon entering the dressing room to try on his gift . " You're not mature enough , " he says , grinning , not trying to peek . And then she opens the door and appears topless except for her bustier , her rock-hard abs rippling , and asks , " Is this mature enough for you ? " In his apartment this same banter goes on . She makes jokes about the photos of young girls that adorn his walls and his explanation is both serious and understandable . If his photos are good it's because the models are good . The photographer is just the vehicle . At least one of them has gone on to the Ford agency . He's slept with none of them but has been in love with one , when he himself was younger . He has a closet full of pictures of nature for the World Wildlife Federation or something too . By this time it's clear that this isn't likely to turn into a depraved monster flick . The guy may be suffering from Lewis Carroll syndrome but he's fundamentally okay . The girl is quick-witted and perceptive , attracted and perhaps flattered but not discomfited by Wilson . So - - is something good in the offing ? Will we learn something about why normal young men are attracted to teen-aged girls ? Will we get some feeling for why adolescent girls develop crushes on mature men ? No . We will not . Page mixes some screwdrivers and knocks Wilson out with one of those " drugs " that only exist in the movies , the effects of which are almost immediate and which last only long enough for the victim to be tied up helplessly . The young girl taunts him , pierces his ploys with ease , accuses him of being , oh , just about everything in the book , including a murderer , though he's guilty of nothing more than bad judgment . Not hideous judgment . Just bad judgment . Then she does to him what I once helped a group of Samoan villagers do to some male pigs . The movie shows this surgical procedure as simple , and it must be if it can be performed with a razor blade by a heavy handed farmer clad in a loincloth , although I must say the pigs objected like nobody's business , much more than Wilson does . The plot , such as it is , isn't worth describing in any more detail . Torture is torture . I was as disgusted by what happens to Wilson as I am by what happens to innocent young women in slasher movies . Who gets a kick out of such ineffable trash ? Towards the end there is some mumbled business about Wilson having been involved in the murder of a young girl . Are we then supposed to be rooting for Ellen Page as an avenger ? It's a bit hard to do that because until the end she had no more than a crazy suspicion that Wilson might have committed such a heinous act . I don't think we're supposed to feel sorry for Wilson either because the first time we meet him he's trading innuendos with some girl-child . What's more , he's got a stash of some unspecified photos of naked girls that Page discovers while rifling his apartment . Even without the evidence , we suspect him of harboring indecent thoughts about teen-aged girls . Is THAT enough reason to emasculate and kill him ? If so , a lot of men are in trouble . And so are women . Being punished for thinking bad thoughts is the business of the Thought Police . I suspect the audience this is intended for is the same audience that claps and cheers as slaughters , each grislier than the last , follow one another in climactic order in a typical slasher movie . What a strange and pitiless people , who can applaud when an innocent is dismembered and yet wants to kill a man who has had offensive sexual impulses that he manages to control .
The Dregs .	Great cast - - Matt Damon , Scott Glenn , Joan Allen , David Strathairn - - wasted in this commercial piece of egregious offal . The original in this franchise , " The Bourne Identity " , was a fascinating and brutal action movie with a genuine engine behind the plot . Just who IS Jason Bourne ? Well , as it turns out , Bourne ( Damon ) is a failed CIA assassin who , having failed in an illegal enterprise and having become an amnesic , is a loose cannon that the CIA must destroy . ( It's not the CIA , of course . It's some internal cabal . It's the INS or the IRS or the ABC or CNN or STD . ) Lots of high-tech stuff and a good deal of splendidly realized action . Damon not only escapes from the agents of his former employer , he solves the question that has driven him . The sequel , " The Bourne Supremacy " , was a partial-birth abortion not only written to cash in on the commercial success of the original but directed in an unspeakably ill-conceived manner . This one is , if possible , worse than the previous installment . The MGM is still trying to kill Matt Damon but for no good reason . " As far as I'm concerned , he's still a risk , " intones Scott Glenn , bad guy . There have been a hundred movies in the past two decades in which an entire regiment of evildoers pursues one action superhero who outwits and out-muscles them at every turn . Everybody has seen one or another version of " Rambo " . This is an insult to the presumed intelligence of the American people . Near the beginning , there is a wide-angled aerial shot of the Arch of Triumph in the center of Paris , one of the city's three or four immediately recognizable landmarks . Then a caption inform us of the location - - " Paris . " Not only that , but " Paris , France . " Just so you don't get confused and think it's a postcard of Paris , New Jersey , or Las Vegas ( NEVADA ) . There is a superabundance of action . People beat the crap out of one another . If that's what you're looking for , you'll find it here , pointless though it is . The score , however , is a copy of the effective original . I can't for the life of me understand why the director decided to follow the model set by the sequel , instead of that of the original , which was better in all respects . Every shot in " The Bourne Ultimatum " seems to use a hand-held camera . And the camera wobbles all over the place as if held by a man suffering from a volcanic hangover . When Bourne first meets a possible friend in a café , near the opening , the shots are done in reverse angle , meaning when Damon speaks we watch him over the other guy's shoulder , and when the other guy speaks we look over Damon's shoulder . But here the camera roves and meanders . I've seen more professional camera work in home videos by high school kids . At one point the image of the other speakers blocks out all of Damon's face but his nose and mouth . In a later shot , the camera sinks so low and moves so excessively laterally that , instead of an over-the-shoulder shot , the image we see is a behind-the-neck shot because Damon's face is entirely obscured . Let me repeat that . A conversation is taking place between two men and the screen is filled with the shivering image of the back of one of their heads . I mean that literally . I couldn't finish watching this . I was in fear for the well-being of my visual cortex , not to mention my frontal lobes . But the user ratings are high enough to suggest that this is satisfying somebody's appetite for something . I won't try to guess what appetite that is , but can I ask one question ? Guys , did you see the original ? You know , " The Bourne Identity " ?
The Weaker Sex	This is really written by the numbers . A single mother ( Michelle Greene ) takes a job as a deputy sheriff in a Northwestern town . Her boss is Harry Hamlin . He seems like a nice enough guy , but then , married though he is , he makes some rather brusque moves on her . She finds this offensive . She also finds it offensive that he's been carrying on a long affair with his secretary ( Linda Doucette , a beautiful , sweet name ) , and that he clobbers prisoners and mere suspects who may or may not be guilty . Then there's some dope that disappeared from a bag that was supposed to be put in evidence . Hamlin is really a guileful miscreant in a dapper uniform . With his bristling star and Mussolini jaw , he exudes power and confidence . " Get me some coffee , " he tells his trembling secretary , and , when she hesitates , asks , " Did I say LATER ? " He beats her up too , adding injury to insult . Greene confides to a polite , slender , balding male friend ( that is to say , a wimp ) that she has doubts about her boss . The friend is sympathetic . But one night the two are car-jacked and made to crawl on their hands and knees along a dirt road at night . End of well-meaning wimp's attraction to her . Just about everybody seems to lie to Greene or betray her . When Linda Doucette shows up one morning with a black eye , Greene talks her into seeing a lawyer who calls herself the champion of " lost causes . " Hamlin gets wind of this - - he gets wind of everything , like a hyena - - and Doucette soon chickens out too . Enter some faceless FBI agents who tell her that Sheriff Hamlin is guilty of running all the dope in the greater metropolitan area , as well as child pornography rings , sex slavery , mopery in the first degree , malfeasance of whatever , exhibiting lewd photographs of Oprah Winfrey , and that he practices Satanism and smokes cigarettes in his basement when no one is looking . A quick fix and Harry Hamlin visits Greene to shut her up once and for all , as he's done to other squealers . The FBI robots rush in at the last moment to save her but they're not needed . She's already outwitted Hamlin , recorded his confessions and threats on tape , and plugged him in the shoulder . If there is an original shot , scene , or utterance in this movie , I missed it . You know precisely what's coming next . All men are brutes and a good woman can trust no one but herself . If the heroine and heavies had been gender-reversed - - if it had been a hero surrounded by brutal , cruel , hopeless , selfish women - - this would be condemned as the sexist trash that it is . As it is , the thing makes you want to put a stop to the goings-on and say , " Now , boys and girls , I'd like you to apologize to each other , shake hands , and make friends . " It's straight out of a third-grade schoolroom , I admit , but that's the level at which this would-be morality tale operates . Besides , what else can we boys and girls do ? We can't very well INVADE each other or blow up the other's buildings .
Washout	I watched this because I had a hunch it might be pretty good . Sometimes TV movies have a certain zinginess to them , a sort of " what the hell " quality that's generated , I've always suspected , by the unusually low budgets , That is , if your investment is small enough , you don't have to worry so much about producing a blockbuster . Add to it that this cast was interesting . Tom Skerrit may or may not have much acting range , but he's reliable in the way that Cary Grant and Michael Caine have been reliable . They don't always give first-rate performances but they never torpedo a production they appear in , and Skerrit has that same quality . Then there is Sharon Stone , youthful and full of fresh open-faced beauty , and not so evidently full of herself as she later became . And Robert Morse ! I was curious to see his gap-toothed person in a dramatic role . The story , involving the sequential knocking off of " Playmates of the Month " or whatever they call them here . The film unfortunately did not live up to its promise . I suppose I'd forgotten that there must be a script . It's awful . There's no suspense to speak of . The dialogue is dull . Conflict , either intra - or interpersonal , is minimal . We don't know about the murdered models , so we don't care about them . ( Except the momentary thought - - " What a waste . " ) At least the movie is not laden with cliches - - one or two car chases , a vehicular fireball - - but not much of that , perhaps because the writers didn't bother to put much effort into cranking up the action . Watch it if you want . I doubt that you'll get much out of it .
Biotech in spades .	I know what the story is supposed to be because I've read about it . But although I knew the frame , I couldn't identify any part of the contents . I gather that this was intended as a serious attempt at art . For those of you who associate Japanese art with articulated paper cranes , polished lacquer bowls , finely made swords , and paintings of fractal ocean waves - - forget it . Nature got lost somewhere along the way . If this film were a state of human consciousness , it would be thoroughly deranged due to the blossoming of some genetic time bomb or the imprudent use of a substance made entirely of indole rings . I couldn't follow it and neither could you . But you have to admire its inventiveness . For decades now , film has struggled with some way of presenting sexual contact between human beings that is suggestive rather than explicit . You know , a cut to a fireplace or pounding surf . When that became a too-recognizable cliché , the movies gave us unidentifiable body parts in motion , the anonymous fingertips caressing the anonymous spine . A horizontal kiss more feverish than most . Here , every technique of indicating sexual contact that you ever saw is thrown together , along with a couple that must be brand new - - even during the same encounter . New techniques ( new to me anyway ) include the upside-down camera , the rotating camera , the fiber optic photograph of a condomized fist entering a body cavity ( seen from the inside ) . And instead of the usual moans and gasps signifying an unspeakable pleasure , we have electronic beeps and boops on the sound track , accompanying what sounds like a doll's voice saying , " Center , prease " , and " me . " The movie's linguistic messages are half in English and half in Japanese . The visual message is in tongues . I can't remember a second in which the images on the screen were still . Usually , both the figures and the camera move at the same time . And the camera makes extensive use of fish-eye lenses , so when the figures bow to the lens they seem to fall in our laps . This is the most hyped-up soft-core porn imaginable , all lurid colors and zip lines and printed sentences clacking out across the screen and addressed to the viewer - - " You are special visitor . Come backstage . " ( Right . ) Most special visitors will zoom from dazzlement to boredom in roughly twenty minutes , depending on age , confusion threshold , and exactly how deeply they've delved into the mushroom omelet .
Silly Fictional Submarine Fare .	There really isn't much to be said about this hokey story of an event that never happened during World War II . The movie involves ratty German U-boat sailors , scared but brave and religious American sailors , the capture of a German coding device called Enigma that we already had , impossible triple somersaults in the incidents - - and every submarine cliché in the cinematic code book . The main plot has an American crew trying to maneuver a damaged U-boat into an Allied port while simultaneously keeping it afloat , causing it to move , avoiding the Germans who are searching frantically for it , and meanwhile being attacked by another German submarine and a German destroyer . I had a bit of trouble keeping that all-American crew straight . They're all blandly even featured , except for Harvey Keitel who definitely is in the wrong movie . The B story is about the Lieutenant in charge , about his character , about the crew's doubts , about whether or not he has the guts to command and order men to their deaths . ( Guess whether he does or not . ) The writers , producers , and director have absorbed lessons from other submarine movies , from " Destination Tokyo " to " Das Boot . " At one point , the captain has to dive beyond the depth the U-boat was designed for and we can watch the arrow on the familiar Tiefenmesser mope its way into the red part of the dial - - and then beyond - - while the hull creaks from the increasing pressure . The men hold onto fittings and gawk at the bulkheads and one of them mutters , " Man , them Krauts sure know how to build ' em . " ( Cf : KaEl Curt Jurgens ' line in " The Enemy Below " under identical circumstances , " They build them good in Germany , huh ? " ) So the hull is creaking and the men are scared to death and the minatory destroyer circles overhead and the only lights are from feeble portable lamps and flashlights and I'm thinking , " Wait a minute ! Where are the popping bolts ? Where's the squirting water and the shattered glass instruments ? " Didn't have long to wait . To trick the destroyer into believing that the U-boat has sunk , the captain has fuel released from the tanks and shoots some debris from one of the torpedo tubes . The debris includes a dead conveniently body , as in - - which one was it ? - - " Run Silent , Run Deep " ? You know , the one with Clark Gable ? Not that the sleight-of-hand works . If it did , we would be deprived of the thrill of watching the pursuing destroyer blown out of the water with the wounded submarine's lone remaining torpedo . The clichés never seem to end , and they're not drawn entirely from the submarine genre either . Two men - - one good guy and one bad guy - - are struggling face to face with a pistol between them . A shot is heard . The struggle stops . The good guy wears a shocked expression and backs slowly away . The bad guy smiles slightly - - and then slumps dead to the deck . I'm fairly sure the first time such a scene was presented to the public was in a comedy by Aristophanes . Where was I ? Think I had a period of microsleep there . Anyway , there are thrills galore during the action sequences that seem to comprise half the movie . The cuts are instantaneous . Depth charge patterns yield a dozen explosions in speedy sequence . The camera jiggles . The men dash about , shouting . Lights flash on and off . Sparks fly like the Fourth of July . The chuckling director darts for a second in front of the camera lens and gives the audience the finger . BANG ! BOOM ! " She's coming apart ! " Want to see a submarine movie you can believe ? Rent " Das Boot . " Of course " Das Boot " is long , precisely observed , contains some leisure moments that tell us things about individuals , and it has subtitles , so if " U 571 " is your kind of movie , " Das Boot " probably is not .
Read a book instead .	Laura Linney has the even features usually sought in Hollywood actresses , in her case adorned with sexily plump cheeks . She cool , tall , blonde , blue eyed . She is a competent and professional performer who does particularly well as a semi-elegant urban type . But what is she doing in a piece of junk like this ? I could only get through the first hour but didn't really care how it ended . Its bifurcated themes involve a courtroom drama and another Exorcist rip-off . Both are done poorly . No imagination has gone into the script , the direction , or any other aspect of the production . The score , for instance , is generic . It might have been written by a computer programmed to crank out " horror " music . Violins shriek , there are dissonant chords galore , lots of percussion , and occasionally a noise as of wood being irregularly sawed , a sound that belongs in the living room instead of on the sound track . Everything is dark . The inside of a church is dark . It's always nighttime . The courtroom is dark , even when the trial begins at nine in the morning . No matter . Linney wakes up in her apartment to find that the power is out , although her electric clock is able to tell her the time . She slides out of bed to ominous music ( which by this time has become ground instead of figure ) and wanders around without trying to turn the lights on . This sequence lasts for about four or five minutes , during which nothing happens except that she looks scared , drops a glass on the floor , and hears a voice telling her to keep a weather eye on demons . The scenes of the possessed victim are badly done . We see things through her eyes , people's faces turning into ghouls and screaming at her . It's no good running into the church either . The few worshipers sitting there turn into ghouls too . And the lights aren't on - - only candles provide the spooky light . What the hell kind of a church is this , anyway ? And then the demons or demon gets inside her again and bends her over backwards until she resembles Ginger Rogers ' exit posture in " Let's Face the Music and Dance . " Do something else . I beg you . Want to watch a spooky movie ? Rent something like " Carnival of Souls " instead .
Malevolent Spirits .	What is this , after all ? A remake in color of a schlock 45-year-old Vincent Price horror movie ( not very good to begin with ) featuring a cavalcade of special effects . A rich amusement park owner ( Geoffrey Rush ) and his cynical - - and very tall - - wife ( Famke Jannsen ) invite half a dozen friends to spend the night in a deserted mansion . The survivors will get a millions bucks apiece . It's particularly spooky because the building is an ex psychiatric hospital in which the owner years ago went mad and slaughtered staff and patients alike . " He out-Mansoned Manson , " Peter Graves gravely intones on television . At first it all seems like a kind of practical joke perpetrated by Rush , who is given to scary stunts . But then the house evidently locks itself up and nobody can get out or communicate with the outside , not even Rush . Most of the lights go out and the guests are stuck with the task of poking around with flashlights in the crumbling rooms filled with electronic torture devices . It all gets pretty routine . One of the guests is a black guy and I figured him for an early victim . It's that kind of movie . There is a vat of what looks like boiling blood and someone gets pulled into it . There is a fake death . Falling skylights . Two pistols are produced , one supposedly loaded with blanks . And all kinds of mysterious goings on , go on . And - - and - - zzzzzzz . I can see where someone might enjoy this . It's all formulaic , and it's a remake to begin with . But it's creepy , scary , and bloody enough to satisfy the kinds of desires generated in a mind whose cinematic faculty is as empty as a ping pong ball . Want some spooky movies that embody some originality ? If you haven't seen any of Val Lewton's tiny masterpieces - - " The Cat People " or " I Walked With a Zombie " - - or , say , " The Haunting " or " Carnival of Souls , " try them instead .
The Bottom of the Pits	This is one shoddy piece of work . Not hateful , because it doesn't actively promote antisocial behavior , and not bad enough to be unintentionally amusing either . It's a straightforward attempt to cobble together a cheap movie , while putting no time or effort into it , and drawing in enough patrons to make a profit . A handful of archaeologists , led by John Agar , are digging up and decoding plaques with " cuneiform " writing on them , though what we see bears no resemblance to any cuneiform that a Sumerian might have seen . The other scientists look over John Agar's shoulder while he reads a particularly puzzling plaque and rattles off allusions to The Gilgamesh Epic . This prompts them to climb a mountain that looks like K-2 in order to search for more clues . Near the peak , an avalanche almost buries them , but it also exposes a ruined Sumerian city . So far , so typical of Warner Brothers ' 1950s SF / fantasy flicks , and not without interest . But then the ice breaks under the feet of one of the scientists and he plunges into a hole so deep that Agar , peering in behind his flashlight , can't see the bottom . I ask you - - the experienced mountain climber - - what would you do under these circumstances ? A member of your team has fallen into what appears to be a bottomless pit . Here's what THEY do . With no more than a flashlight and a bit of climbing equipment , one by one , they lower themselves " hundreds of feet " into the black pit with no way of getting back up except by hoisting themselves hand over hand . How John Agar expects to do that is left unexplained - - never mind chunky Nestor Paiva . The handful of middle-aged men find their colleague's dead body . Nobody bothers to mourn or comment on the loss . They don't have much time anyway because , before you know it , they discover a lost civilization of pale Sumerians who live on mushrooms , except for one beautiful babe ( Cynthia Patrick , the best actor in the bunch ) who looks reasonably human and has something resembling a tan . The Sumerian king assigns her to be Agar's consort . When Agar retires , she goes with him and he must gently fend her off because , after all , he's a man of principle . It turns out that the Sumerians decide all their visitors must die - - BUT - - they are afraid of " the fire of Ishtar , " meaning the flashlight . But why go on ? It deteriorates into one of Edgar Rice Burroughs ' half-schizophrenic novels . " Tarzan Goes to Mars , " or something . Lots of scenes of beastly half-hominids laboring among the lava pits and being whipped by their Sumerian masters . Sumerian soldiers chasing the archaeologists waving swords but being held back by the fire of Ishtar . I don't know how it ends . I own the DVD and I can't bring myself to finish watching it . I really tried to find it ridiculous enough to raise a smile but I couldn't generate any feeling except a fierce boredom . It's hard to imagine that this was intended to be seen by anyone over the age of nine or ten .
Hyena	It's hard to believe this thing received so many positive comments from viewers . The performances struck me as adequate , but that was the only decent thing about it . The story sports more lacunae than a round of Emmenthaler cheese and has so many pointless asides that the narrative is almost impossible to follow and , when that's possible , it's impossible to believe it . I won't duplicate the comments that have already been made about this problem except to mention one that particularly grated on me . This secret assasin , the man of a thousand faces , the guy who's identity is so obscure that the FBI isn't even sure he exists , answers a ringing phone and says , " Jackal . " Zinneman's " The Day of the Jackal " was a finely tooled and highly logical piece of craftsmanship , as was Forsythe's novel before it . That earlier jackal carried only three identities and didn't change his hair style or color as often as he changed his socks , the way Willis does . " The Jackal " makes the earlier film look like a masterpiece of subtlety . Frederick Fox in the original lifts a man's passport at a ticket counter but you must watch closely to see it because it's done in an instant and with self-possessed skill . Here , Willis sits at an aiport for God knows how long until a man sitting nearby finally gets up and leaves his seat , leaving his open bag behind , as Willis must intuitively have known he would , which happens to have his passport sticking conveniently out so Willis can saunter over and pick it up . The tiny , easily broken-down , concealable , small caliber rifle with special bullets , in the original , here becomes gargantuized - - Gorgonized - - into a huge , complicated cannon firing ( what was it ? ) 1 , 000 rounds a minute ? ( Light machine guns fire about 500 rpm . ) Enough armament to stop a Banzai attack , and all for one little Hillary Clinton clone . ( Footnote : those especially lethal bullets in the original , which shattered the pumpkin's head , weren't infallible ; they were used in the attempted assasination of President Regan in 1982 . ) But even where the original was subtle , it was at least clear . When Fox sights his rifle in , we can watch him do it and easily understand how it's being done . Here , we see gears and knurled knobs clicking and whirring while Willis twirls a kind of wand and have no idea what's going on . We see a man blasted to bits by the cannon , but we do not see a demonstration after it has been properly sighted in . Instead of a long-distance duel between the bureaucracy and a clever murderer , we get two macho guys who wind up in a shoot out . I won't go on about this . The fact that it's a remake is symptomatic . Remakes have become endemic , like chicken pox in the middle ages . Why do they do it ? Why take something that is well done and simply redo it , either shot-by-shot or dumbed down ? Psycho , High Noon , The Thing - - all of them inferior copies of the originals . And the copies of TV series keep coming as well . The committees full of MBAs go on and on , driven ravenous by greed , snarling and grasping , hyenas fighting over carcasses . I keep waiting for " Gone With the Wind , Part II . " It seems only a matter of time - - and desperation . You want to see a nicely tooled machine ? Rent the original . If you want a better actioner than this , rerent " The Terminator " or any one of a hundred other flicks filled with big cannons and vehicular fireballs and shootouts in subways .
Schlagfest	Dario Argento has been described as the new Hitchcock . God help us . Never mind the plot for the moment . Let's just address the technique . The only shot that remotely resembled something Hitchcock might have done was a long and involved movement of the camera up one side of a roof and down the other , lingering over interim unidentifiable architectural features like struts , seeming to turn upside down as it maunders along , spending so much time on the roof that we wind up on a first-name basis with every shingle , and all the while we must listen to the harsh clanging of drums and electronic instruments . The point of this elaborate and infinitely extended movement ? None . It's as if you'd handed an 8 mm . camera to a couple of high school freshman and told them , " Go out and rent a Hitchcock movie - - he's a movie director , see - - and then do a shot that imitates him . " Argento makes Brian DePalma look like Michelangelo . The photography is garish and unpleasant . There is gore galore , with the brachial artery of somebody's amputated arm spraying a kind of abstract expressionist pattern over an otherwise blank wall . The plot ? How to begin . Contrived . A maniacal Doberman chases a very nice girl with admittedly toothsome legs down an empty street in Rome and , just by chance , she escapes the dog by running inside a house chosen at random , except that , also by chance , it is currently occupied by the murderer . Contrived - - and illogical too . The first killing apparently takes place while the real murderer is not yet in Rome . The only scene I thought had the least merit involved John Saxon sitting on a cement bench and viewing the events , the minor dramas , taking place on the sidewalks around him . The scene doesn't last long . Unfortunately , the movie does .
Sad Finale .	Same writer , producer , and director . Same two leads and a cameo by the third . Same whimsy and ipsative jokes . It no longer works . The first impression a viewer gets is that the photography is too GOOD . It's in nice , crisp black and white , whereas it ought to be in fuzzy 1940s gray . And the boys now ride around in boxy 1960s cars and fly on 707s and walk through modern airport lobbies . They should be sitting on onagers and polar bears . Everybody knows that . The story should put the fellows in some exotic locale . Hong Kong would do nicely . But the sets should be cheap and ludicrously shoddy , not at all realistic , as they are here . This story is all wrong . It puts them in space suits and sends them to a distant planet after escaping the clutches of a James-Bondian gang called The Third Echelon . It looks to the future instead of looking to the colonial past as their previous Road pictures did . Too much time is spent with the queerly costumed villains and too little with Hope and Crosby . And the gags are worn out ; they come more slowly and they're sillier . One of the gags , an automatic feeding machine gone berserk , is lifted from Charlie Chaplin's " Modern Times . " When the most amusing scene is handed over to Peter Sellers as an Indian neurologist , you know there's trouble somewhere . Sellers toots randomly on a wooden flute and a cobra rises out of a basket . Hope shrinks back . Sellers tells him not to worry . If he gives you a nip , you just cut an X on the bite , suck out the poison , and spit it out . " But what if he bites me someplace I can't reach ? " Sellers takes a step forward , pauses , and says earnestly , " That's when you find out who your true friends are . " This kind of nihilistic nonsense is a young person's game , or middle-aged anyway . Hope and Crosby are past their 1940s prime and it shows in their appearance and their pacing . Not to blame them . It is God's will that we change with age . But there are times that almost rival those in Laurel and Hardy's last team effort , " Utopia , " when pathos trumps amusement . Several cameos - - not just Sellers , but David Niven , Sinatra and Martin , and Jerry Colonna . They don't save the picture . Everyone seems to be working too hard and , overall , it shouldn't have happened .
Paranoia , the psychiatric kind	I cannot get past the message of this movie . It's laid out much too clearly to ignore , and it is obscene because it has lost its sense of what it's about . I haven't read the novel , but Pollack's film opens with a scene at a CIA-front organization in New York , which is broken into by two professional assassins , headed by Max von Sydow , who proceed to brutally slaughter the half dozen quirky staff members we've come to know and understand . The staff include an elderly female receptionist , a fussy elderly professorial guy who's toupee falls off when he is machine-gunned ( is that a joke ? ) , and , last , the beautiful Tina Chen who looks up from the copier , realizes she is about to be murdered , and says , pitifully brave , " I won't scream . " Von Sydow replies sympathetically , " I know . " These murders are completely unexpected , savage , unmotivated by anything that we are aware of , and graphic . It is a brutal scene . There is absolutely no way in which von Sydow and his henchman can be redeemed . And yet that is exactly what Pollack tries to do towards the end . After having killed these innocent good guys , von Sydow switches sides ( because the other side is willing to pay him ) and assassinates the evil mastermind behind a complicated intramural CIA plot . The script then turns him into a perfectly reasonable , sensitive human being . " It is better to live in Europe . Things are not so rushed . " Or whatever . I swear I'm not making this up . Pollack wants us to believe that it is better to be an honest mass murderer than a crooked bureaucrat . That's the message . You should write it down in case you forget . Just exactly what kind of psychiatric shambles do you have to be in order to turn ordinary values , not to mention common sense , upside-down like that ? I understand that there are thoughtful adults who dislike the government of the United States , even hate it , and who see conspiracies just about everywhere , providing a knee-jerk explanation for otherwise unexplainable events . I know that people who think this way exist because I number some of them among my closer friends . Nevertheless , at some point this dislike , this hatred , if it increases in intensity , must pass beyond politics or ethics and into the realm of the psychiatric . I don't for a moment believe that a man who murders people for money is better than a sinister government official . I don't care how suave and cultured the murderer is or whether he knows how to reach the Louvre on the Metro . Whoever is purveying that message needs either medication or meditation . I'd like to be able to argue that the production is as thoroughly rotten as its message , but I can't . It's quite well done . ( In some ways that's worse , because it makes the film less dismissable . ) Even New York City looks photogenic on the screen . And it's been a long time since I've thought of New York as photogenic . Robert Redford does an admirable job of projecting his character's initial shock and confusion , but then turns into a telecommunicational semi-genius . And , man , he looks just fine ! His wardrobe is just right . Even his rimless glasses are becoming . And his peacoat . It's not everyone who can make a navy pea jacket look glamorous . He seems extremely handsome too , the swine . I want to look like that . I want to wear a denim shirt and a tie with such panache . Faye Dunaway is alright in her role but it's not too believable a role . Would anybody eagerly sleep with a guy who has just kidnapped her and is holding her at gunpoint ? Even if he did look like Redford ? Would anyone be emotionally wounded if , when this ambivalent relationship is about to end , Redford asked her not to tell anybody about what happened ? Cliff Robertson is surprisingly good . He does one or two extremely good double-takes . The mailman is superb . The fight between him and Redford in a crowded apartment is exquisitely choreographed and , for once , we really don't know for sure how it will turn out , because Redford ( a book reader after all ) seems mismatched against the brute cunning of this hired assassin . This is one of John Housemann's final roles . A shame . He's a magnet on screen . And what an end to his life : a friend finds him lost , wandering the streets of New York , in a neighborhood he'd been familiar with for most of his life . Yes , the movie is very well executed , but I can't ignore that vicious , paranoid message . I have the same problem with Leni Riefenstahl's " Triumph of the Will . " Or her Olympic documentary in which the announcer is watching a foot race in which Jesse Owens is pulling into the lead and says ominously , " This Negro is dangerous . "
Take her down .	There's not much to be said about " Atomic Submarine . " It's an inexpensive SF thriller about a nuclear-powered submarine that's sent to the North Pole to find out why ships have been disappearing so often in northern latitudes . The Tiger Shark , with Dick Foran as the commanding officer and Arthur Franz as his exec , finds out . It's a giant undersea UFO . They ram it and are locked with it . A party is sent out in a kind of diving bell to free the sub . The men enter the beastly thing and find it contains a rather large and repellent monster who intends to kidnap them and the colonize Earth - - and so on . The monster is dispatched . I remember seeing this years ago on TV but I could only remember one scene . Arthur Franz is standing in the doorway of the UFO , staring goggle-eyed at the monster within , which resembles a hairy octopus with one huge Cyclops-like eyeball . " At last we meet , face to face , " says the monster . " That's a face ? " replies Franz . The plot's all over the place . It's festooned with icons of the genre . There's atomic power . An undersea mystery . A UFO . A repugnant monster . A plan to colonize earth . A sea-to-air missile . An argument between Lieutenant Commander Franz and the civilian Peacenik aboard . The Peacenik argues that peace is better than war or something like that . A couple of the men give their lives bravely . It's hard to imagine that this entire film cost more than would be spent on a TV episode of Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea . The special effects are perfunctory . I would have to see proof that there was more than one take of each shot before I believed it . The Tiger Shark seems to have a crew of about three men . One of the men is Bob Steele , who had a successful matinée series in the movies during the 1940s . He has one expression - - a scowl . When he cracks jokes with the other two crew members , he scowls . Dick Foran floats through his part weightlessly . It's hard to believe that he was a cowboy in an Abbott and Costello movie who introduced a pretty and tuneful pop song , " I'll Remember April . " Arthur Franz , another New Jersey kid , probably does the best acting job . He's at least identifiable as a seasoned professional . ( He wasn't bad in the original " The Sniper . " ) Many of the others , notably Brett Halsey as the Peacenik , give performances that you or I could beat . Halsey , blandly handsome , does nothing but pout . Throughout . Oh , there's Tom Conway as a British scientist on the sub , too . He looks pretty good , considering that booze had made a considerable inroad into his life space by this time . He was soon to become so abjectly alcoholic that his brother , George Sanders , cut off communications with him , the cad . And there's still another scientist , a Russian guy . The best thing about him is his accent . When he tries to pronounce " wonderful " , it comes out " VON-dair-fool . " I guess they didn't have enough of a budget to hire a technical adviser because their naval protocol is sometimes off base in the most elementary of ways . The captain , Foran , gives an order to his subordinate , the executive officer , Franz . And Franz says , " Very well . " He's not supposed to say that . A subordinate , when addressed by a superior officer , says , " Aye aye . " It's only when a subordinate reports information to a superior , that the superior replies , " Very well . " None of that is important in the context of this sublimely shoddy production . I kind of enjoyed it for its tattiness . But , even with a minuscule budget , a good director can do better . I doubt that " The Thing From Another World " had much of a budget either , but it's light years ahead of this .
Writer's Block .	I wish Depardieu had been able to finish his book and see it become a dazzling success . At least he'd have wound up with something . The film struck me as pointless , rambling , and very stylish , like some other recent French films . Not to knock it . Most recent American films are pointless and rambling and have no style whatever . We should be grateful , I suppose , for photography that evokes a European city in the midst of a wind-blown Continental winter , and for elliptical conversations that challenge our ability to understand what's up . But there can be too much of a good thing . Golubeva is found stumbling around near the sea in the middle of the freezing night , carrying on in a bad accent about dreams and such . ( There are a few sequences of dreams that include things like swimming in a river of blood . You'll love it if you're Vlad the Impaler . ) Lots of people die . Catherine Deneuve dies in a suicide by motorcycle . I don't know why . Golubeva's young girl dies too , and I don't know why she dies either . She gets slapped in the face , falls to the pavement , and dies . There is supposedly an explicit sex scene too . I'll have to take their word for it because , although it is stylishly photographed , it is stylishly photographed in almost complete darkness . Don't worry about the kiddies being shocked . They'll probably be asleep by this time anyway . Depardieu isn't a bad actor . As we see him deteriorate from a carefully groomed handsome young man - - well , handsome except that his nose can't seem to get out of his way - - to a limping , murderous , hairy physical wreck , we feel sorry for the guy . Golubeva has a wan pretty face , with enormous half-lidded eyes and wide cheeks , like a doll . Her next movie should be a remake of Lewton's " I Walked With a Zombie . " Then there is this mysterious guy who leads a band . I guess it's a band . As far as I could make out , the band is made up of about a dozen drummers and a dozen musicians playing electric guitars . Every viewer will find the resultant sound interesting but uncultivated listeners fond of " easy listening " might not enjoy it . If you don't like the music , there's a payoff involved because the sinister composer and leader gets whacked over the head with Depardieu's walking stick . I must say , I found it barely worth sitting through . ( And it's a longie , too . ) At times it was like waiting in your car at a railroad crossing while a long long freight train rumbles slowly by , sometimes stopping entirely . I wish it had had a few jokes .
Women Can Be As Sloppy As Men !	A text prologue warns us that we should not allow evil to enter our house , but I think the more apt word is " entropy . " Good grief , what slobs these two babes are ! George ( Seymour Cassell ) is alone in his San Francisco office and his monstrously expensive home in Tiburon while his wife and child are away in San Diego . Two girls ( Sondra Locke as Jackson and Colleen Camp as Donna ) knock on his door , asking directions . Well , it's raining , and they're shivering like two drenched pitiful kittens , and they're not sure of the address they're looking for , and , what with one thing and another , George invites them to come in and partake of his pizza by the fire . All three of them wind up in George's bath tub and there follows about five minutes of mostly undifferentiated nudity in double exposure , triple exposure , quadruple exposure , and dodekakuple exposure . They spend the night in a threesome and the next morning the girls fix him breakfast . But something has gotten slightly cockeyed because Georgie's guests gobble everything down with their fingers and pour ketchup and syrup all over the linen and - - " You eat like ANIMALS ! " , George exclaims and tells them to get out . In his dreams . Now , don't get me wrong . Sondra Locke is an extraordinary looking young blond with cobalt-blue eyes and Colleen Camp bounces around like a superball . You gotta say , they breed ' em mighty cute down there in Shelbyville , Tennessee , where Locke comes from , and they breed ' em with bodacious tushes too , as we can't help but note after the first five or ten minutes . But when the girls go berserk , so does the movie . The film is thereafter bathed in a garish green light . The pair put on ghoulish makeup and make gargoyle faces at themselves in the mirrors . They brain a delivery boy and then drown him to make sure . They cuss up a storm and smash windows and furniture . They have one of those scenes in which two people sit across the table from one another , licking food and then jumping each other's bones . And Georgie ? They first render Georgie unconscious with mace ( which contains nothing that you can't find in that little red bottle of McIlheny's Tabasco sauce in your kitchen cabinet ) , tie him up , pour flour and milk all over him , subject him to a psychotic trial , put him through one of those Tolstoy-type semi-executions , slap him around , dress up in outlandish costumes , then prance out on him and his virtually destroyed upper-middle-class home , and are dispatched by a delivery van ex machina . As for the acting , it's as if someone had told Georgie , " First act polite to these girls , then act panicked after you're tied up . " And to the girls : " First act shy , unwilling to impose on anyone , then act crazy . " And that's it . The photography and location work are straight out of a 1970s porn movie . I'm not sure that suggests a total lack of skill . It takes effort and talent to turn San Francisco ugly . The score gives us two Leitmotivs . Georgie's is some pop tune with lyrics about " being free " and " giving in . " Jackson and Donna's is a catchy rinky-tink thing called " My Good Old Dad . " I approve of the moral lesson behind the story , though . There are some things you should simply not give in to , even though they might look like a lot of fun at first . All very educational .
Confused and Confusing .	Hilary Swank is a professor at Louisiana State University and she and her former teaching assistant are called away to a remote town in the swamp to investigate what seems to be a recurrence of the ten Biblical plagues of Egypt . The minute I saw that her assistant was a good-natured black guy , I worried for his health . That's the kind of movie this is . Swank's performance is okay , that of a seasoned professional , but she's no longer young enough to be the misguided , vulnerable cross-dresser of " Boys Don't Cry . " She looks like a professor here , though a spectacularly nubile one . Her slightly husky voice and predatory canines could easily have been put to use in a better movie than this . It's not worth describing the plot in detail . I couldn't do it if I wanted to . It's a ripoff of a handful of other religious / horror movies , involving devil worship , murder , flashbacks with loud ZAPS and WHOOMS on the sound track , God in the form of a pillar of fire , an extravaganza of computer-generated special effects , and very little in the way of tension . It's not challenging in any way . You have to sit back and let it wash over you like a river of blood or a flight of locusts or a stampeding herd of cows suffering from glanders . Speaking of glanders , a little gratuitous nudity on the part of Swank wouldn't have hurt this movie a bit . Maybe a few shots of her biting somebody with those fabulous teeth . I'm not sorry I watched it because I only kept one eye on the screen . The other eye was busy reading Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus . The second eye was dealing with easier material than the first .
Weak Script Sinks Golden Fleece	This really should have been better . In 1953 British studios were pounding out comic hits one after another , but , alas , this wasn't one of them . I saw it years ago and remember being vaguely disappointed . Seeing it again hasn't changed my opinion . There's nothing wrong with the acting , except perhaps that Yvonne DeCarlo ( nee Peggy Middleton of Vancouver ) isn't very convincing as a hot blooded Latina , especially when she speaks Spanish . The direction isn't bad either . The problem lies with the script . It's just not funny enough . The captain , Alec Guiness , of a ferry that crosses the Straits of Gibralter regularly , from British Gibralter to fictional Kalika , has a wife on each end of the run , ignorant of one another's existence . The wife in Kalika , DeCarlo , loves to stay up all night , dance , and presumably do other wicked things . The British wife in Gibralter ( Cecilia Johnson ) is straight laced , domestic , content , and the couple retire at 10 o'clock every night . Some gags , not especially amusing , are worked in around getting presents for each of the wives mixed up . The big surprise is that DeCarlo really wants to settle down with a family on a less tempestuous schedule , while the rather boring Johnson reveals a wild side to her nature . Both run off with other men . The authorities at Kalika blame Guiness when DeCarlo is shot by her boyfriend . They go through the ritual of an execution by firing squad , except that the shooters plug the officer in charge of the execution , not Guiness . Guiness pays them off with lots of money , thanks them , and goes on his way . The end . What it reminded me of , more than anything else , were the cheap black-and-white domestic comedies that Hollywood was producing at the time , most of them now deservedly forgotten . The Dagwood and Bondie series . " The Life of Riley . " " Bed Time for Bonzo . " Hordes of other pre-television examples whose titles I don't want to bother looking up . If you don't expect too much , you won't be disappointed , but God forbid you should compare this to the Ealing comedies of the period , like " The Ladykillers . "
Inexpensive tale of energy wars .	Jeff Morrow is Leslie Gaskell , Barbara Laurence is Vera Hunter , and John Emory is Hubbel Eliot . Along with some ancillary Air Force personnel and a comic geek , they are in charge of a super-secret underground laboratory on the West Coast . Morrow is thrilled when he discovers a meteor passing through the atmosphere but nonplussed when the meteor decides to take a dip in the Pacific Ocean and emerge as a fantastic machine on the Mexican coast . Nobody knows what this colossal , blocky structure is . Obviously it's some kind of carpentered artifact because it's all made up of right angles with a kind of bald sphere half visible on top . It turns out that the machine , dubbed Kronos , is from some far-away planet and has been sent here to rob the earth of energy . You see , here on earth , we have learned how to convert matter into energy , but on Kronos ' planet they have figured out the other half of the equation - - how to convert energy into matter . And now they're running out of energy on the other planet . Are you taking notes on this ? Good . Maybe you'll be able to fill me in on some of the scientific questions raised by Kronos ' mission . For instance , if Kronos ' builders can convert energy into matter and vice versa , why don't they just convert a little of their own spare matter into energy instead of sending elaborate machines to earth to extinguish LA's lights ? But it's doubtful the writers could explain it either . Reversing the polarities of two antenna is described as an " anthropic conversion , " which means a " towards-human change " , which doesn't make sense . But it doesn't seem that any of the science makes sense for that matter . The diagram that Morrow draws on the board has the current going in the wrong direction , from positive to negative . There's a problem with Kronos ' locomotion too . It marches along the coast , threatening " populated areas " ( read Southern California ) , but it has no joints in its two or three legs . These stumps just thump slowly up and down , squashing some people . The film doesn't make much of these squashed people . They're shown as Mexican peasants , so maybe they don't count for too much . The USAF also drops a hydrogen bomb on Kronos - - while it's in Mexico , mind you . Nobody raises an eyebrow . Not much acting is called for and not much is given . Jeff Morrow has a distinct and resonant voice , great for radio or for TV voice overs . His face is less expressive . He has only one expression , no matter what the situation is - - a tight smile , as if he's having his picture taken at the Universal Studios Tour . Barbara Laurence had a fine , golden quality when she made " Street With No Name " a few years earlier . She was a slender seventeen-year-old as Richard Widmark's wife . Here , her grooming and demeanor reduce her to the level of B-movie actress , though she's still beautiful . It's always good to see Morris Ankrum in one of these movies . He's made so many , I get them mixed up . On the whole , the film comes across as flat , I'm afraid . ( There are some nice shots of a B-47 in flight , though . ) The sets reveal a low-budget enterprise . That's not necessarily bad in itself , but there's nothing to make up for the barren settings . Little tension in the script , no directorial display , and little effort put into the performances . You might get a kick out of it - - a relaxed high - - because this is distinctly unchallenging . It's just that there are so many better films of the genre out there .
A Slapdash Doomsday .	Good premise , the temporary suspension of civilized values after a nuclear attack , an idea around which a good and gripping film might have been built . Instead we have a poor script and below-par acting in a meandering and disjointed tale . The Baldwin family load their car and trailer at four in the morning ( broad daylight ) for a vacation in the mountains . A few hours later , on the road , they see a flash over Los Angeles , followed by a vast mushroom-shaped cloud . " We'd better turn around and go back , " opines the family patriarch , Ray Milland . That's mistake number one , five minutes into the movie . Headed back towards LA they face a constant stream of cars speeding away from the city , driving crazily , blowing their horns , passing illegally . " What's the MATTER with everybody ? " screams the pretty teen-aged girl that all such threatened families must have with them . There follow a series of encounters with people of various backgrounds and characters . A grocery store owner who hasn't heard the news yet . ( New York , LA , San Francisco , San Diego , Chicago , and , I think , maybe Baltimore and Keokuk , Iowa , have been nuked out of existence , as have Rome , Paris , and , by our retaliatory response , targets in " Europe and Asia " . ) The grocery store owner is happy to unload his entire store of goods in one hour . But a wised-up gas station owner charges them - - get this , now - - THREE DOLLARS A GALLON , which shocks everyone into silence and prompts Ray Milland to bop the guy in the chops and knock him out . No need to go on too long about this . Three hoodlums seem to track the Baldwins wherever they go , even unto the alien corn , until finally , one by one , they are knocked off by Ray Milland or his son , the multi-talented Frankie Avalon . The function of the two women - - Jean Hagen is Mrs . Baldwin and Mary Mitchell the daughter - - seems to be to nag the men as they go about the business of preserving the family . " You pointed a gun at that man ! I've never seen you like this before ! " says Hagen after her husband has confiscated some stores . " Let's go back . I want to see grandmother , " says the daughter . It ends abruptly , with the Baldwins and girl captive they've rescued from the three goons stopped by the Army , quizzed , and allowed to proceed because Frankie Avalon is dying from loss of blood in the back seat . The sergeant says , " That's five more that made it without radiation poisoning , " as the two soldiers gaze at the departing car . That's the end . That's really it . The end . It's as if the crew had suddenly run out of film and had time to shoot only the last few sentences . What a waste , except for Joan Freeman as the captive rape victim the Baldwin's have picked up . She can't act any more than the rest of the cast but she's cute as a calico kitten . AIP should have thrown ambition to the wind and made a movie called , " Panic in the Year Zero at Bikini Beach . "
Kaye Impersonates Celebrity Aviator .	I'm afraid I couldn't get with the program here . Danny Kaye is responsible for some of the funnier movies ever made , but this plot is a weak comedy of manners . It has Kaye as Jack Martin , a nightclub impersonator , being called on to pretend he's a celebrated , aristocratic French aviator . There is a mix up with the aviator's wife , Gene Tierney , and Kay's girl friend , Corinne Calvet , gets jealous . It's in glorious Technicolor but it's all been done elsewhere , often better , as in " The Prisoner of Zenda . " Sometimes worse , as in " The Front . " There's little in the way of physical comedy . Kaye doesn't take any pratfalls . He rarely seems as rattled as he does in his usual screen persona - - more embarrassed than neurotic and cowardly . He doesn't sing a gibberish song . The location needn't have been the French Riviera . Kaye's part could easily have been given to anyone else . It's as much a musical as it is a comedy . Kaye plays a showman and does his musical numbers straight . None are memorable ( " Ballin ' the Jack " ) and Kaye wears a tuxedo . Kaye is energetic enough , on stage and off stage , and his voice is pleasant , but that's about it . One of his songs ' best features is that it used ( unless I'm mistaken ) Gwen Verdon for one of the lead dancers . She should have had more screen time . If this was an attempt to broaden the style of Kaye's performances , it really doesn't work . As a comedian , with a good script , he's superb . As a singer and dancer , he's mediocre .
All Men Are Brutes	Susan Sarandon is a delight as always , with her exopthalmia and perky nose . Geena Davis , in her first big role since her appearance in " The Accidental Tourist " is also good , and yummy in a toothy sort of way . The movie is fun to watch but it's silly in a desperate kind of way , slapping each other's palms and going " Wheee ! " as they sail off together into the Grand Canyon . ( The photography is sunny and splendid . ) More important than the performances , more important than the photography , more important than anything else about the film is that it is a perfect illustration of a sociological point - - It is impossible to have bonding without an enemy . People not only bond WITH one another but AGAINST others . ( Anyone into social psychology should check out Muzafer Sherrif's classic " Robber's Cave " experiment before seeing this flick . ) That's why the president's hooper rating always soars after a national crisis such as a terrorist attack . Suddenly our bonds with each other as " Americans " become more important than internal differences in regional or political viewpoints . This principle goes unspoken in the film . How could it possibly be articulated ? We would find ourselves sleeping with the enemy . But the message is there , covert as it is . There isn't a truly sympathetic male in the movie . Harvey Keitel is a relatively benign authority figure , but he is distant and powerless to do do anything other than his duty , which is evidently to put them in a position where they feel they need to turn into part of the scenery . Michael Madsen tries to be understanding and helpful but - - MICHAEL MADSEN ? ( How about Timothy Carey ? ) His looks , his demeanor , lightly rasping voice , his smoking , belie his dialogue . We recognize the face of the beast when we see it . That's why Costa-Gavras was nailed by critics for casting the sympathetic looking Yves Montand as a CIA-sponsored torture instructor in " State of Siege " . The husband is a stereotypical idiotic patriarchal male . A hitch-hiker , smooth and apologetic and cute , turns out to be a thieving moral idiot when his glands are satisfied . A would-be rapist is a greasy gargoyle . A truck driver is something out of the barroom scene in " Star Wars . " The flaw lies not so much in the movie , which is filled with breezy chatter and is exhilarating , and not in the script either . The deeply disturbing aspect of this motion-picture event is the audience's and the critic's response to it . What - - ultimately - - is there to applaud about a movie that tells us that the two genders are by nature or by fate enemies of one another . That one is oppressed and exploited by the other ? And that the resolution of the conflict lies not in negotiation but suicide ? If that were true , there would be no audience around to clap when Thelma and Louise do their joint nosedive . Yes , it has brio and leaves you feeling amused and happy most of the time , but it leaves a sour taste afterward . In the end this is a tragedy , not the comedy it was meant to be .
The DNA is degraded .	The original " Die Hard " was a crudely entertaining action movie with comic villains and a couple of humorous exchanges in addition to the usual violent sequences that had Bruce Willis as Officer John McClane running barefoot through a sea of broken glass . The next episode in the franchise , " Die Harder , " switched the locale from the Nakatomi Building to Dulles and was essentially a repeat , duller than the first despite the enhanced special f / x . The third installment , " Die Hardest of All , " or was it , " Die , Whether You Like It Or not " ? , put Willis back in New York with Samuel Jackson as his unwilling sidekick and Jeremy Irons as the least believable German heavy imaginable . It wasn't up to the standard of the original - - so few copies are - - but it was more entertaining than the second installment . I know . I got the titles all mixed up but these sequels come thick and fast and seem to pile atop one another like cow flops . This one keeps nothing more than the character of John McLaine and the acing of Bruce Willin in the part . He has devolved into a routine action hero . He has no vices . He doesn't smoke . He doesn't say anything that is politically incorrect . He doesn't use cuss words . He doesn't suffer from a hangover . He has no humanity to speak off . It could be Arnold Schwarzenegger in the part , or Sylvester Stallone , back in the 80s , or Dolph Lundgren or Jacques van Damm a decade ago . Interchangeable . In the next installment , may we look forward to a silver-haired Willis , his hair grown back , who is a vegetarian and is serenely awaiting The Rapture , the satisfaction of his utter boredom tempered by the saddening realization that the Jews , Moslems , Zoroastrians , Coptic Christians , and Animists of all stripes will not ascend into heaven to sittith in Paradise ? Well , why not ? This fourth outing has drained the character and plot of any blood the original had . The thing's been almost completely eviscerated . Nothing is left but the gall . The story involves the takeover and the threatened demolishing of the entire computer system that now permits the United States to function . But if you think you're going to learn anything about how this might be done , or if there will be suspenseful scenes in which we follow some hacker through the system , you'd be wrong . It's action , period , . That's all it's really about . There's little time left for humor or character development . Instead of Officer McClane hanging on the edge of an endless elevator shaft in the Nakatomi Building , there's an entire SUV dangling at the end of a cable in an elevator shaft . Not enough ? Okay , there are two people having a vicious fight within the precariously suspended vehicle . Need still more ? There's a guy a few floors up with an automatic weapon , shooting the SUV full of holes . And there is , trust me , nothing funny about the villains . The only wisecracks come from Willis and a young computer geek he drags around by the hair , and they're not very funny . Would you like to see one car smash into another in the Holland Tunnel , leap up , and spin over and over eight or nine times in mid-air ? If so , this is the movie for you . If you're looking for anything in the way of comedy or human interest to balance the action , don't look here .
Boy , Did They Eat Cake .	The film has a fine cast and there are some original touches . The American actors speak unaccented English , without as much as a nod to any alien phones , for instance , despite the late 18th-century French setting . And there may be snatches of rococo music but most of the score is electronically amplified rock with , at one point , a singer belting out the old Frank Sinatra standard , " Fools Rush In . " There are multiple close ups of lavish plates of exquisitely prepared and presented food . And minute examination of clothing , wigs , fabrics , jewelry , and period shoes - - especially shoes . ( The hairdresser who dolls up Kirsten Dunst as Marie Antoinette is a fairy and is played for laughs . ) Miniature dogs . Lots of miniature dogs slurping up charlotte russes or other desserts . Okay - - decadence in abundance . It might have taken ten minutes . Instead , that's what the entire film seems to be about . You have to applaud the director's intent to do something different , something original . The problem is that it doesn't work . Rip Torn's speech doesn't sound too much out of place but most of the rest of the women sound like Valley Girls . And , boy , they gossip ! In extended scenes , they gossip ! They talk behind one another's back about hair styles and personalities - - " She's so political . " Stuff you could find on MySpace . It wouldn't take much in the way of rewriting to turn this story of self-indulgent aristos at Versailles into a handful of high school kids in El Cerrito . And it didn't need to be directed by Sophia Coppola . Martha Stewart could have phoned it in while under house arrest . I don't know which audience this was aimed at , but I can recommend it for selected groups anyway . Those youngsters who , in a recent poll , identified Toronto as a city in Italy , for example . Or the fourteen percent of us who believe Barack Obama is a Muslim . Or that majority of high school seniors unable to place the American Civil War in its correct half century . At least they'd gain some familiarity with the dress of the period French court .
Disappoints	People couldn't wait for Rizzo to be elected mayor of Philadelphia . He was a popular , inarticulate , authoritarian Chief of Police . ( He's the chief that Sidney Poitier talks to on the phone in " In The Heat of the Night . " ) The city had become positively dangerous by the early 1970s . I lived there at the time and was repeatedly burglarized , as some of my friends were repeatedly raped ( on campus at the University of Pennsylvania , and in their dorm rooms too ) . The liquor store I patronized had bullet holes in its windows . Most shop keepers in my neighborhood either carried pistols in their belts or kept them hidden under the counter . It was like Dodge City without Wyatt Earp . So Rizzo was elected . And , as promised , he reduced the crime rate , although the streets never really became safe again . He reduced the crime rate in two ways . One - - and I'm guessing at this - - is by bringing pressure on his police officers not to officially report crimes brought to their attention . I'm guessing that this is true because the process of recording or not recording index crimes according to political circumstances is universal . It can affect the number of crimes one way or another by forty percent or more . The second way , as shown in this film , is simply by permitting the already existing violence by the police force to increase unchecked . Clobber them . And yet the film disappoints . Rob Morrow is an interesting actor , and Paul Sorvino does fine as Frank Rizzo , one of whose first acts as mayor was to appoint his brother as head of the Fire Department . ( " It's a total surprise ! " said the delighted brother at the time . ) But that's about it as far as the film's virtues go . It's a rather low-budget " All the President's Men , " without any of that film's strong points . The script is done pretty much by the numbers . The direction is poor in many respects , including camera placement . A scene involving a conversation between Morrow and another character seems to have been shot from across the street , so there are constantly vehicles passing between us and them , which is unnecessary and annoying . The dialogue is mundane . There are hints of past evildoings that sound like made-up threats . If Lumet had got hold of this , things might have happened . As it is , well - - if there's nothing else on , and you don't expect too much . . . .
Pretty irritating , Miller or not .	I don't know about this one . The point , if there was one , seemed to get by me . Multiple references to the film's source , Henry Miller's eponymous novel , don't help much . Much of Miller's appeal comes not just from his go-to-hell attitude towards life and art but from the way he expresses his sentiments on the page . Maybe he just doesn't translate well to the screen , not that Miller himself would care one way or the other . The street words that Miller flung about so carelessly in his prose seem emphasized here , as if designed expressly to shock . Not just the F word either . Well the street words are old and established . Shakespeare worked a terrible pun on the C word into one of his comedies , I forget which . The F word goes back to the Angles and the Saxons or the Mooks and the Gripes or somebody . Wait a minute - - the C word was also worked into a pun in " Hamlet , " come to think of it . " I feel like going out and getting myself a fatal dose of clap . " Well , no kidding . Are we supposed to be shocked ? Maybe we were , back in 1970 , if we had blue hair and lived in Dogpatch , USA . If Henry Miller doesn't add much cachet , neither do Country Joe and the Fish , whose music whangs away on the sound track with lyrics that are as pointlessly vulgar as the horribly dubbed dialog . Ben Webster is okay , though . And the photography , though irritatingly grainy , is several steps removed from the billowing pastels of soft-core porn . It's honestly black and white , and the naked bodies , of which there are plenty , aren't painted , trimmed , or shaved . If the babe has a pimple anywhere , you see the pimple . And the guys are bald on top and hairy everywhere else . A for sincerity there . The story goes no place . There is no story . People run around half naked on the streets of Paris , flapping their arms and panting , supposedly having a great time . Half a dozen ordinary-looking people slosh around in a tub pouring wine over one another and laughing giddily because the director told them to act as if they were having the grandfather of all good times . ( The French do this joi de vivre stuff better . ) In the first scene of the film , the bespectacled hero , a pallid imitation of Miller , picks up a girl in a café and , after sex , gives her all his money , can't get any more credit at the restaurants , and is forced to raid his own garbage pail for leftover nuggets . Plenty of sex but not enough food . That's how a viewer feels after watching this . I wish this movie had been better . It was dumped on for obscenity , but the sexual and linguistic candor was at least an innovation in a mainstream movie . It deserves dismissal , true , but only because it lacks any substance . As it is , it stands as an historical curiosity .
Please , don't get up . Ah'm jess passin ' through .	Generally when somebody screws up , they go through three sets of filters in the course of attempts at correction . The first order of social control is usually the family . When Dad spots a roach clip on his son's dresser , well , they sit down and have a good talk about it . Mom may ground her daughter for not doing the chores . The second order of control is the social network the screw-up belongs to - - the friends , the peers , the community . Friends try to talk sense to the guy . The community gossips about him ( or her ) . Among the Old Order Amish , you get " shunned " if you don't straighten up and fly right . At West Point you get the treatment . In high school nobody wants to go to the prom with you . The third order of control involves secondary institutions - - the police , psychiatrists , or , quien sabe ? , the National Security Agency . In the case of Marie / Audrey / Robbie / etc . , all three systems failed for a long time , simply because it seemed so hard to believe that a woman would kill her husband and try to poison her own child for insurance that was no more than modest . And , after all , Mom HAD taken her ailing daughter to hospital after hospital . In light of all this , how could she have " done it " ? Well , she was able to do it precisely because she estimated just how extensive the parameters of normal behavior would be under these conditions . Of course the insurance policies weren't exactly grand . They couldn't be - - not if she were to escape suspicion . What would the control agents think if you took out a million dollar life insurance policy on your husband and he shortly blew up ? Likewise Audrey / Robbin / Holly / Mildred / Gladys / Candy HAD to take her ailing daughter to hospitals . You don't find arsenic poisoning if you're not looking for it , whereas everyone who watches Oprah knows that you can anorexize yourself to death . What makes this story more than ordinarily interesting is the fact that Mom was able to slip past all three levels of social control with such facility . She was finally identified as a no-goodnik by secondary institutions but seems to have done not much more than dye her hair and scoot away to Florida , where she was able , without a great deal of trouble , to seduce and marry an over-sized deadhead and finagle him into moving to Vermont . ( " I like snow . " ) THEN - - and this really bespeaks contempt for agents of social control - - she confides to friends and husband that she has an incurable blood disease and must go to Texas for treatment . She does . And " passes away " . It isn't long before hubby gets a phone call from Audrey's TWIN SISTER , and then a visit from her , and then a roll in the hay too . Can you believe the arrogance of this woman ? She actually believes that she can pass for her own sister ? And can you believe the community in Vermont ? They ACCEPT HER for what she claims to be . Even her widow / lover believes she's a twin sister , even after they begin living together ! " How stupid can you get ? " asks one doubting thomas who worked with Robbie , the original , one-and-only first wife . And that's what finally does Emily / Audrey / Mabel / Ginger / Xanthippe in - - the second level of social control , community gossip . Some residents of this town in Vermont ( Brattleboro , nice place in the Fall ) check into her story and find it full of holes . The police and FBI are notified , and that's that . Guilty as charged . The courtroom scene only last five or ten minutes . I wish it had been longer . I'd have liked to see the prosecution build its case , and the defense too . The justice system is a secondary institution too , and it would been nice to see a shift from lying and gossip and arguing between individuals to conflict mediated by officials representing us . The performances are okay and the direction is functional . No more than that . Judith Light , I'm afraid , isn't unattractive , or , as Randolph Scott once said about a knockout beauty in one of his Westerns , " She ain't ugly . " She is , though , endowed with facial features that are uniformly sinister : a firm , wide jaw ; a tall thin forehead ; and two glowering eyes that seem sunk deeply into their shadowy orbital sockets . ( Does she ever blink ? I don't know . ) She is a good enough actress to pull off some cool switcheroos , too . She's giving one of the doctors a couple of strokes , " Tulane ? Why that's a fine school ! " , all sweetness and pecan pies , and then suddenly a bear claw , " Are you telling me I can't take my own daughter home ? " A bit more law and a bit less gossip would have improved this " based on a true story " film , but it's so bizarre that it's interesting despite its weaknesses .
Tumbrils Amid the Soap .	One hundred and fifty-seven minutes of lavish romance , intrigue , and politics , dished up by MGM's superb spectacle factory . There's an " entre act " and everything . The problem , for me anyway , is that the thing is so exquisitely dull . The first half - - before the entre act , that is - - is a kind of late 18th-century soap opera . Norma Shearer is the young Austrian bride of the future king of France , Louis XVI , played by Robert Morley as impotent and inept but not unkind . When Shearer learns of this arranged marriage , she positively kvells . " Oh , just think of it ! I'll be the Queen of France ! " Things don't turn out all that well for her , though . ( Do they ever , in these genre movies ? ) She's resented as a foreigner and barbarian at the French court , especially by the waspish Madame DuBarry , the consort of Morley's grandfather , the current king . Such gossip you never heard . And then there's Morley's apparent indifference to her . ( " I like to be alone . " ) What's a girl to do ? She drowns her sorrows in wine and flings with lovers in seriatim . This is nice work , if you can get it . You get to indulge yourself in every sensory modality known to man or beast - - AND you get the sympathy of the audience too , because they know you're just being flighty out of a desperate loneliness . The second half turns a little darker , but then , as they say , it's always darkest just before it turns completely black . By this time Morley has come around enough to give Shearer two children , from whom she is of course eventually separated , giving the audience a reason for still more tears . Let's see . I checked the spoiler box so I guess I can give away the ending : Marie Antoinette gets her head lopped off . Kids , I hope I didn't ruin it for you but , see , this is the French Revolution and revolutionaries tend not to be very kind . All through history , it seems that some merciless dictator , like a king , mistreats his subjects until they depose him . Then they show that , unlike him , they are full of New-Testatment-mercy by slaughtering the deposed ruler , his family , and anybody who was ever associated with him . ( Fidel Castro worked his way down to mailmen . ) At that , the peasants are treated in this movie with the contempt the writers think they deserve . What an uncouth bunch ! Shearer explains the unrest to her children this way : We didn't do anything , but they're ignorant and unhappy and must take it out on somebody . In this movie , nobody ever says " Let ' em eat cake . " Most of the cast overact , but this is understandable because it's common to the period . I don't know what " charisma " is supposed to mean these days . It was originally used to describe the quality of someone who was blessed by God and exuded a magnetism that was religious in its properties . Now , the word is slung around loosely to describe rock stars . Whatever it is , and however it's measured , I don't think Norma Shearer has any . Joseph Schildkraut , effete and painted like a mannequin , gives the best performance . Robert Morley seems to have only one note on his instrument . In a relatively minor role as Shearer's one true love , Tyrone Power has a part that is familiar to devotees of these kinds of movies . The woman is haunted by demons , surrounded by knaves , impostors , ninnies , and exploiters - - and this is the only man who will return from time to time to rescue her from some folly or to reassure her with his understanding and candor . ( Cf . , Paul Newman in " I'll Cry Tomorrow " or Sam Shepherd in " Frances " . ) This must have been an eye opener in 1938 . Today it seems stale and bound by conventions common to genre films . Anyone who wants a more balanced and adult point of view should see Ronald Coleman in " A Tale of Two Cities . " It would be a far , far better thing to do . It will jerk almost as many tears but it will challenge you too .
Everything you could want in an airplane spoof .	We can't call this " the grandfather of all airplane movies " because that honor belongs to " The High and the Mighty , " released around 1954 . But this one is obviously the source of all the sequels , television series , and spoofs that followed its release . Maybe " The High and the Mighty " was the most original and interesting , but the movement took sixteen years to get off the ground . Maybe because the genre was so pregnant with possibilities . A good many established performers appear in small roles as their careers continued their gentle glide downhill . Loyd Nolan appears as a custom's officer , for instance . His sister's name is " Judy Barton . " That was the real name of Kim Novak's character in " Vertigo . " Can't imagine how that happened unless one of the writers thought some of the mojo might rub off . Let's see . The married pilot ( Dean Martin ) has been having an affair with his flight attendant ( Jacqueline Bissett ) , as any normal pilot would , but she is now pregnant and , boy , is he in a pickle . Burt Lancaster is the airport manager at odds with his social-climbing wife and he's having an affair with his secretary , Jean Seberg , who is thinking of taking a job elsewhere because she can't see where her relationship with Burt Lancaster is headed because , though he's married too , just like Dean Martin , his real love is aviation and he refuses " to commit " . ( That means he won't divorce his wife and marry Seberg . ) And then there's Van Heflin , the mad bomber of Global Circumlobotomy Airlines , who wants to blow himself and the airplane up because he and his wife are impoverished and need the insurance money . There are a couple of nuns on the plane too , and a priest who asks earnestly , " Anything I can do to help ? " Now , there's usually a sick kid aboard , too , who needs a kidney transplant or an emergency vasectomy , but if such a kid were a passenger here I missed her . There were a few periods of microsleep . And - - I - - I can't go on . The suspense , the tragedy , the soap bubbles are overwhelming . My eyes are filled with tears , mostly because I managed to get soap in them . I can't even see what I'm typing any longer . And I can't hear either - - that sudden decompression , I suppose . ( Sob . ) Is this - - is this coming out right ? Give it to me straight . I can take it .
Right Up There in the First Rank of the Second Rate .	Skilled professionals live it up in an exotic and dangerous location . They get drunk every night . They smuggle opium . They drop pigs in parachutes . They fly under impossibly hazardous conditions . They dress weird and act weirder . They're iconoclastic , outrageous . They violate every rule of command and have contempt for their employers at the CIA . They're irreplaceable . Nope . It's not " Only Angels Have Wings " and it's not " MASH . " It's an uneasy mixture of the two that unfortunately comes across as more silly than funny . It aims at shock , amusement , and education , but doesn't really achieve its goals . As far as its shock value is concerned , well , we're inured by now , aren't we ? Does it really shock anyone that a bunch of hard-living pilots flew secret missions in Laos in the 1970s ? No , it's not shocking . It's not even educational now , under our current circumstances , when it would be interesting to learn that some paramilitary excursion was NOT buried in a file labeled National Interest , Defense de Toucher . That's okay . So we've been wised up a little and are no longer neither so shockable nor so dumb . The problem in this case is that the film depends on those very qualities for its power to amuse . Without that , the film implodes . A group of shaggy drunken CIA pilots are sitting around in a cat house , goosing the girls , shooting out the lights with a silenced pistol , killing lizards with same . Asks newbie pilot Robert Downey , Jr . , " When you guys act like this does it mean there's something to celebrate ? " Replies another , guffawing , " No , it means it's night time . " That might be funny if we expected renegade pilots to be as upright as the rest of us . If we don't , the gag , like the movie , falls flat . There are action scenes naturally . Everything that can possibly happen in or to an airplane in flight happens in or to an airplane in flight . People fall out of them , baggage is thrown haphazardly out of their hatches , engines fail , they sustain damage from AAA , the are torn apart during crash landings , but we've seen most of this elsewhere , often done better . Some might find this funnier than I did , and the acting is pretty good . Robert Downey Jr . is especially effective as the straight man . Check out the other comments and if they describe a film that you might find appealing , then by all means watch it . There might be some laughs in it that escaped me .
Super Sized Ego	The startling conclusion of this documentary is that if you stuff yourself with nothing but junk food and take no exercise for 30 days you'll get fat , and your body chemistry will be so banged up that on paper you'll look more like a flashlight battery than a human being . . Spurlock must be an interesting guy . The first time he tries to eat a super sized meal at McDonald's he pukes out of the car window . I thought the air remained tangy throughout the rest of the movie . He drives himself and his crew around the country , seeming to enjoy being on camera , winking and smirking at it as he eats . But soon enough the diet begins to get to him . He's just not the same energetic guy he used to be . He complains of headaches , of a gassy feeling , of depression . His girl friend tells us he no longer has the sexual energy he used to have . ( She has to get on top . ) It isn't that Spurlock can't have erections anymore . Oh , they're there alright - - and solid too . But , somehow , he's just not the same guy he used to be . By this time I was laughing so hard to was a little difficult to follow the on screen spiel . The PR people at McDonald's get a few minutes of screen time trying to explain that people should be free to make choices . They make asses of themselves , of course . Kids are shown as limp airheads who gobble down junk foods at school lunches and afterwards can recognize Ronald McDonald but not Jesus . Everything looks pretty bad for McDonald's . But the movie is a fraud , to an extent that only its makers can determine . What is a " calorie " he asks a dozen or more people . Nobody knows . A dozen people who are asked what a calorie is - - from prepubescents to mature adults - - do not have any idea what a calorie is . He must have asked two thousand people to identify a calorie before finding twelve who were dumb enough to have no idea . There was one talking head that I listened to with real interest , a man whose identity I now forget but who was on screen for a minute or two . He observes that smoking was once epidemic and that now smokers are being " hectored " constantly . How long , he wonders , before we begin to hector the large people among us ? It's a question with some point . It's corollary is : Why do we hate people whom we define as weaker than ourselves ? Why do some of us enjoy humiliating and punishing others who are defenseless ? Why do we buy supermarket tabloids and gloat over pictures of celebrities now grown old or fat ? I have a feeling the answer lies deep in human nature and if anyone ever looks into it , it will taste worse than prune yogurt . I also found the statistics kind of enlightening . God , we collectively put away a lot of sugar and salt ! But one of the nutritionists had me puzzled , saying the most of the sugar Spurlock had put away was refined , implying that this is the worst kind . I'm no nutritionist but I'd thought that all starches - - as complex as pasta or as simple as raw sugar - - were broken down into monosaccharides in the gut before being absorbed . What I mean is that the body can't tell organic Tupelo honey from a Moon Pie as far as its sugar content is concerned . I may be wrong on this point but it really doesn't matter in context because Spurlock's movie is rather obviously so wrong on so many others . I hope nobody is going to call this an " experiment . " Let's call it a " stunt , " which is what it is . An engaging one , but a trick nonetheless . So Spurlock feels depressed after so many days of McDonald's . You want me to feel depressed ? Tell me that I will be applauded by an audience of alfalfa sprout mavens at Sundance , make a million dollars , and become famous , if only I can truthfully say that I feel depressed . I guarantee you that at the end of a few days I'll be on the brink of tears . As insurance , I can even manage to dig up a girl friend who will testify that although I have erections with the dimensions of Sequoia trees and the tensile strength of titanium , they are somehow , I don't know , just not the same as they used to be . Sometimes I wish Michael Moore had never made any successful movies . The imitations are beginning to roll in . What next ? The TRUTH behind the Miss America Pageant ? For what it's worth , I've spent thirty years doing research in the behavioral sciences , and in my opinion this guy not only cooked the books but did a much clumsier job of it than I've ever done . Gives me a warm glow to be able to say that . Feel as if I'd just eaten a raw free-range organic broccoli spear .
Very hot stuff in 1974 .	Saw it in a drive-in in San Mateo , CA . Here's how it goes . There's this delicious teacher , Angel Tompkins who must have one of the most cartoonishly beautiful faces on film and a figure to match , is separated from her husband and develops a case of oestrus , the object of her intentions being a former student of hers who has just graduated . She seduces him all over the place , or tries to . As I say , nice torso . The lovemaking is simulated in unbelievable ways . Meanwhile there is this voyeuristic lunatic , Anthony James , who follows her around and spies on her . If she goes out on her boat to sunbathe topless , he dons his frogman suit and snorkels out to peep through the porthole . Every time something stimulating is about to happen involving the body of Angel Tompkins , the succulent blond mentioned earlier , James pops up and interrupts things . He does it so often that it is clear he has to die . The music is by Shorty Rogers , an iconic jazz trumpeter and arranger of the 1950s , who must have taken this score out of a back drawer , or maybe he wrote it in his sleep . Suggestion : rent the tape or the DVD and burn all five minutes of nudity onto your own DVD . Add inserts of Anthony James ' bony face if you are mentally unsound . Then return the original tape or the DVD , and destroy your own excerpts before watching them . Want to see sexy Angel Tompkins in a cult classic ? See if you can find " Little Cigars . "
Japs Interrupt Love Affair .	Well , it had a monstrous budget and professionally competent actors , but it's not worth much mention . I suppose it accomplished its goal , which was to use computer-generated effects and make money . Its chief utility may be to introduce kids to some elementary facts about World War II . It wasn't designed to do it , but kids may need all the help they can get . A recent poll showed an alarming percentage of high school students didn't know who fought whom . A goodly number thought we and the Germans fought the Russians . Does that constitute a red flag or what ? Basically this is a movie about a nurse who loves two men , only one of which manages to survive the Doolittle raid on Japan . If you're interested in love affairs and that sort of thing , this is your kind of movie . The CGIs are nice and exciting . That ought to hold the interest if nothing else does . Ka-BOOM . For the record , Admiral Yamamoto never said , " I fear all we have done is awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve . " That was invented for the film " Tora , Tora , Tora " . For that matter , the bombing of Tokyo , tacked on at the end with reckless calculation , since it had nothing to do with the basic story , was not done in formation as the movie shows it . The B-25s took off early and headed straight for their targets one by one , not having enough fuel to form up . They launched early because they were sighted by some Japanese fishing vessels and it was justifiably assumed that the fishing vessels had radioed the contact to authorities . The fishing vessels were fired upon and sunk by our cruisers . They were filled with men , women , and children , according to Rod Steiger , who was among the crew of one of the destroyers in the flotilla . There IS no really good movie about the attack on Pearl Harbor . A far better film of the period is " From Here to Eternity " or , better yet , read Jones ' novel . A vastly better but very corny movie about the Doolittle raid is " Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo . " In other words , almost anything but this .
Hasty and Dated .	Richard Arlen is a happy-go-lucky pilot who , fired from his job , begins his own airline . It's a line between Los Angeles and Las Vegas , mainly for people who want to get married in America's playground . Trips may also be made between Los Angeles and Reno , for those for whom Las Vegas didn't work out . Arlen's stewardess ( for that is what they were called ) is the pretty Jean Parker . His chief and only mechanic is Eddie Quillan whose wife is due to give birth during this trip . Among the passengers are two newly marrieds , the goofy Scoutmaster Grady Sutton , and his empty-headed but good-natured bride , Marie Wilson . Also aboard are two spies of undetermined origin smuggling a secret , new carburetor out of Los Angeles and into Las Vegas where they plan to place the device on the roulette table , hoping it will be mistaken for a pile of million-dollar plastic chips . Not really . I don't know why they're taking it to Las Vegas . Las Vegas was never known as a hotbed of espionage . Maybe they figure on wining and dining it and , with any luck , wind up spending the night with it in a water bed suite in a fancy hotel . The airplane is also transporting a heavy steel engine block . Arlen is at the controls in mid-air when he learns about the spies . A fight ensues . The engine block breaks loose from its trappings and slides around until it bashes Eddie Quillan against the bulkhead . The airplane crashes on a mountain top . Everybody survives . The stupid scoutmaster tries to light a signal fire but sets off a forest fire instead . The fight continues on the ground . The good guys win . One of the spies is killed and left behind to barbecue . The evildoer-in-charge is packed aboard the airplane . The airplane manages to take off amidst the holocaust . Arlen marries the stewardess . The schedule Quillan had drawn up for the birth of his child is wrong because he'd torn off two pages from his calendar instead of one . ( Joke . ) Nothing defines " B " status more than this movie . I bought the DVD as part of a " Heroes of War " collection , which included the far more enjoyable " Gung Ho . " I had to force myself to sit through it because I'd paid for it . The audio stinks and the images were appropriately in blurry black and white . The score , surprisingly , was by Dmitri Tiomkin . Tiomkin was to go on to more ambitious and better things . He must have been pretty young when he wrote this score , no more than fourteen or fifteen , I'd guess . Tiomkin was a curious guy who had no aspirations beyond doing film scores . It was his perfect métier . He never wanted to sit down and write the great American symphony . Someone asked him what he would like to do if he had his choice of all the professions in the world and he replied , " Write movie scores . " The movie isn't dull actually . It doesn't give itself time enough to be dull . It rockets along at a fast clip and if given scenes are dumb or inept or not as funny as they're supposed to be , who's to notice ? I know people who would , I think , enjoy this but he lives in a Godforsaken , radioactive place near Trinity Site .
Diluted and boring film a clef .	It's a not-entirely fictional story about the Ango-American landings at Anzio on Italy's west coast . It's diluted because the story behind those landings is far more interesting than what we see on the screen . Names , personalities , and motives are changed around so that hardly any echo of the real characters remains , although we get a lot of information about characters created in the screenplay . Basically , Robert Ryan plays General Mark Clark who was in charge of the operation and was in overall command of the Fifth Army . He was an interesting guy for a general - - tall , vain , brave , half-Jewish , a large-featured face like the mask of Tragedy , carrying around a sidearm as a prop . Arthur Kennedy plays General John P . Lewis ( modeled after Gen . Lucas ) , in charge of the landings themselves . Mitchum accuses him of being " timid " ( three times ) and in a way he was , although it wasn't entirely his fault . Arthur Franz has a small role as General Lucian K . Truscott , the junior general in command of the Third Division ( Audie Murphy's division ) . All the names have been changed to protect the guilty . Here , basically , is how it worked . The Allies of half a dozen nationalities were being slaughtered throwing themselves against the German Gustav line , which ran across the Italian boot from sea to sea , commanded by the unconquerable Monte Cassino . The Anzio landings were designed to catch the enemy by surprise from behind and relieve pressure at the Gustav line . Mark Clark ( who saw to it that any reference to the Fifth Army in the press appeared as a reference to " Mark Clark's Fifth Army " ) had supervised similar earlier landings at Salerno . They were successful , but just barely . The landings at Anzio were handed over to Lucas , whose orders included a drive inland , if possible , to the Alban Hills which commanded a perfect view of the beachhead and the main highway to Rome . Lucas had just troops enough to dig in and consolidate or to race pell mell to the Alban Hills , but not enough troops to do both . Lucas was advised by Clark , " Don't stick your neck out like I did at Salerno . " ( The line is directly quoted in the movie , but is given to Robert Ryan's fictional general . ) So Lucas didn't stick his neck out . He went inland seven miles , stopped short of the Alban Hills , and dug in . Clark , who was on the beach , agreed with the decision . And Lucas wasn't the cocksure but mistaken strategist played by Arthur Kennedy . The real General Lucas kept a diary and it's full of gloomy forebodings . The Germans , under Kesselring and Mackensen , were caught unprepared . Nothing stood between the allies and the Alban Hills , or Rome for that matter . But Lucas did nothing , and for good reasons . He didn't have the resources to take Rome and hold it . Except for the probe by Rangers , as shown on screen , and others by British troops , everyone dug in and waited for the German reinforcements to deploy , which happened apace . Kesselring was a very efficient tactician and had plenty of time to ring in troops in the stalled Allied beach head . Instead of Anzio rescuing the troops at the Gustav line , the situation was turned around . In the end , some 24 , 000 American and 9 , 000 British casualties were evacuated from the beachhead . Clark fired Lucas and gave command to Truscott . When the German resistance finally collapsed , General Clark had an opportunity to drive eastward across the Italian boot and cut off the German troops to the south . He chose instead to forget about capturing the German army and to zip his own troops north along the highway to Rome so that he could " conquer " the open city . You know - - like Julius Caesar ? The German army promptly withdrew north to their next massive defense line , where the Allied advance stalled again . I leave it to the viewer to decide which story is more engaging , the historical one or the plot we see on the screen , which is mostly the story of seven survivors of the Ranger patrol who try to make their way back to Anzio , a story we've seen many times before . I wish I could at least say that the story presented on screen is well done but the fact is that it's not . This is one of Mitchum's lazier performances . Sometimes he sounds positively drunk . No one else stands out , including Peter Falk , who overplays , as does Arther Kennedy as the smarmy General Whatever-his-name-is . And some other posters are absolutely right about the score . Whew ! A simple-minded would-be catchy love song doesn't turn into a martial theme just because you throw some snare drums behind it and play it as a march . What a missed opportunity .
Perfunctory historical thriller .	This is an inexpensive , ill-written , carelessly directed spelling out of a highly improbable scenario resulting in the assassination of President John F . Kennedy in Dallas , Texas , in 1963 . Through the abundant exiguity we follow the machinations of some right-wing nuts who gather a team to shoot JFK and succeed , pinning the murder on the innocent patsy ( maybe a CIA agent ) Lee Harvey Oswald . Jack Ruby's subsequent assassination of Oswald is just icing on the cake for them . The acting is flat and the characters cardboard . None of the heavies ever smiles or makes a joke or shows any sign of humanity , just a grim determination to get the necessary job done . There is no motive behind the actions of the heavies except that they disagree with JFK's policies on both moral and economic grounds . One of them talks a little about the population explosion and the danger it poses to the world , but then goes on to conclude that the numbers are best reduced among the Negroes , Puerto Ricans , and Asians . There's hardly a phoneme in the screenplay that doesn't contribute directly and blatantly to the momentum of the story . Oh - - except that one of the heavies quotes from Shakespeare's Richard III : " For God's sake let us sit upon the ground and talk about the death of kings . " They have no trouble at all assembling the teams of hit men , counterfeit Secret Service agents , Oswald proxies , or anything else . At least we must assume they have no trouble , because if they had any trouble we don't learn about it . There's some considerable mystery behind this trashy movie . One of the mysteries is why actors of such power and talent as Burt Lancaster , Robert Ryan , and Will Geer - - and Dick Miller ! - - got involved in it . No one would deny them their progressive leanings , but why couldn't they have seen to it that some sort of poetry had been injected into this grade-school story ? Another of the mysteries is a little ( but not much ) outside the scope of the film itself . In one of the last newsreel clips , a spokesman for the Dallas Police Department states emphatically that Lee Harvey Oswald was guilty of the president's assassination . Now , how does he know that ? Oswald had protested his innocence , no ballistics tests were in , and hardly any evidence had been collected . Oswald had been picked up by the DPD - - armed - - in a movie theater , after an observer had seen him acting suspiciously in front of a store window and had called the police . How do you " act suspiciously " ? On the sidewalk in front of a shoe store window ? If YOU saw someone acting suspiciously in a public place , would YOU call the police ? Something was definitely fishy there , and the Warren Commission was no help at all when , promptly after their membership was constituted , Chief Justic Warren announced soothingly to an anxious public that he was certain they would discover only a lone gunmen had been involved . Maybe my background in science has warped my perspective , but how can you reach conclusions before you've examined the results of your study ? If that's a legitimate procedure , then why bother with the tedious collection of detailed evidence in the first place ? Speculation about what really happened on that morning in Dallas has been rife for 40 years , and it's no wonder . Maybe the truth lies somewhere in the narrative that the Warren Commission laid out , but that's only incrementally better than the wild-eyed nonsense we see in this movie . Pundits tell us that we dream up conjectural stories like this because " we cannot accept the fact that one disordered individual is responsible for such a disaster . " It's so satisfying that they have us all so well figured out .
Look , Ma - - I'm Inna Movies !	When I was a teenager , a high-school freshman or sophomore , I recall having contests during gym classes with the other guys . We'd stand in front of the mirror with our arms folded across our chests in such a way that each hand was lodged under the biceps opposite , and then we'd nudge the muscles forward to see what we might look like with seventeen-inch-circumference upper arms instead of the pitiful fourteen-inchers were were cursed with . Some twenty years ago I was amazed to see a photo of Sylvester Stallone , a fully grown man , solemnly pulling the same stunt in some publication like " People Magazine . " " The Specialist " is an expanded version of that photo of Stallone's already expanded biceps . I can't think of many other movies in which we see more of the hero's nude and preposterously overblown bronzed body than we do of the heroine's . ( Too bad , Sharon Stone hasn't much more than that to offer . ) Stallone just can't seem to keep his clothes on . He's always taking showers , walking around with towels around his waist , doing exercises , lying back on a bed with some kind of purple kimono coyly draped over his groin while Stone kneels worshipfully at his feet and runs her hands up his oh-so-muscular legs . I wonder if Stone was jealous of all Stallone's nude scenes . The plot ? Oh , the plot . Well - - you've got me there . You see , Stone wants to knock off these bad guys who killed her parents . And Stallone has a history with James Woods ( the only performance in the movie worth watching ) . The whole business is engineered by old Rod Steiger who is , we can tell , Hispanic because he pronounces " you " as " chew " . Woods has something to do with the police , and with the bad guys as well . And Stone seems to have more than one motive . And - - well , I don't want to spoil it for you . In fact , I couldn't , even if I wanted to . Nice photography of Miami . Fireballs like the Fourth of July at Olympic Park in Irvington , New Jersey . The score is lifted wholesale out of " Body Heat . " Enjoy ! If you can .
Utter Hokum	The story , as I understand , is " based on real events . " That can be either good or bad , depending on what sort of license is taken with those real events and how they are rendered . In this case , the results are enough to gag a maggot . I wasn't expecting much going in - - anticipating a story of rich high-school kids taking an ocean cruise under a stern skipper . That is , what I figured was a coming-of-age movie along the lines of something about boot camp or basic training , the kind in which the drill sergeant says , " My duty is to snap you out of your winsome civilian ways . " Well , it IS that , in a way . The kids start out as kids and end up as an organic group . But this is far hokier than any boot-camp movie I've ever seen , outside of a deliberate comedy . Who WROTE this thing ? The air is filled with slogans that belong , not in high school , but in the third grade . The dialog offends the ear . Jeff Bridges usually does a better-than-average job but in this case his performance is mediocre . He brings nothing extra to the part , although given his lines , it's hard to know how he could do much with them . The rest of the cast is undistinguished and a few of the kids are painfully inadequate . There's a lot of tearing up , and considerable crying . The best scene involves a dolphin . The immature clichés continue to the very end . The Coast Guard is cast in the role of the hard-hearted court at the hearing that follows the disaster . The interrogator does nothing but hit Bridges over the head with his misinterpretations and misconstruction of events . " You let the crew drink alcohol , didn't you ? " ( A couple of harmless drinks . ) " And you didn't punish them , though you punished them for killing a fish . " ( The dolphin business . ) The technical details surrounding the sinking are left murky . What is a " white squall " anyway ? And if it's as dangerous as Bridges claims , why weren't the whole crew alerted and wearing life vests ? But why go on ? If " The Albatross " were a Dreadnaught , it would still be torpedoed and sunk by the ludicrous comic-book script .
God's in the details , but deeply asleep .	In this movie , the national airline in Zingaro has a great airplane , a two-engined Convair from the 1950s . They don't make ' em anymore . I mean the airplane , not the movie . They make movies like this all the time . A mega corporation wants the mineral rights in an African country ruled by a ruthless dictator . So the corporation organizes a private army to invade the nation , kill the dictator , and install a business-friendly dictator in his place . ( Is that far fetched , or what ? ) Christopher Walken is hired to organize the mercenary army . They do their job , except that , at the end , in an ironic coda , they substitute a more independent president who will now rule his country with compassion . The film could have been written by a committee of MBAs who have figured out what the bottom line is . Whatever the bottom line turned out to be it was surely preceded by a dollar sign . The plot goes kind of in this order : intrigue , a little teaser of violence , more intrigue , a little completely irrelevant sex , more intrigue , the introduction to a couple of particularly lethal and ugly guns , and a violent shoot out full of explosions . The climactic violence assumes the familiar form of a handful of courageous and supremely skilled military types attacking a garrison of disorganized native troops . ( Cf . , " Predator , " inter alia . ) One of the mercenaries is killed through an excess of pity . The number of dead garrison troops is uncountable . Walken himself cold-bloodedly and deliberately shoots two unarmed men . It's a happy ending though because the guy who finally sits on the throne is a doctor and an idealist , and we are compelled to hope he remains that way instead of discovering that , hey , it's good to be the king . I haven't read Frederick Forsyth's novel on which this movie is based but I can't believe it's the sloppy lash up job that the movie is . Forsyth's details are usually exquisite . When you finish one of his novels you're likely to know how to rig up a bomb that will explode only when the car hits a bump . That was the beauty of Fred Zinneman's " The Day of the Jackal . " How to commit identity theft , for instance . Here , all of that tedious business is skipped over . Walken is able to board a freighter posing as a seaman . Where did he get his credentials ? Who knows . The producers don't care and we're not supposed to care either . We never heard of forged passports . Just before the invasion , the mercenaries are together going over the attack plan one last time and when they are done , Walkin raises his fist and shouts the name of the dictator they are about to murder and the other soldiers echo his gesture . And , mind you , these are supposed to be heroes , and we are expected to identify with them . Why don't they raise their fists and cry , " Money ! " Not that pelf is the primary motive . What kind of person is willing to kill strangers and risk his own life for money ? How do you murder someone whom you don't know and against whom you have nothing ? And how do you think of yourself as a better man for having done it ? Are there many of them around ? I mean in the private sector ? There must be some . There is Executive Outcomes , and there is at least enough of an audience of fantasists to support a magazine designed for mercenaries , " Soldier of Fortune . " Of course we all seek self satisfaction through doing something that we know we can do well . The Germans called it Funktionslust . It may be innate in higher organisms . But this goes way past self satisfaction . Dignity elevated beyond pride into grandiosity .
Positively funereal .	I've never read Richard Matthieson's novel , I Am Legend , but know some of his short stories and his work on The Twilight Zone has been consistently admirable . This thing eludes me . The pace is slow , the exposition clotted , the acting below par , and the story depressing . It wasn't until the climax that I realized I'd seen it when it was first released . Not that it made enough of an impression for the film as a whole to be registered in my long-term memory , but I recognized it at once when Vincent Price is trying to escape the mutants and is pelting them with grenades . And I remembered thinking in the theater , " Santa Maria , he's not throwing them like baseballs , he's throwing them like DARTS ! " It's not so much that Vincent Price was effete . I mean , the man had fine taste in art and wrote a splendid book of recipes , even though his editor got the ingredients for eggplant parmigiana all fouled up . ( Take a second look at the amount of breadcrumbs called for . ) It's that Price's range as an actor was limited . I know . Everybody's range is limited . ( Woody Allen as Julius Caesar ? ) But this weak story calls for a dramatic actor of some magnitude as its central figure if the film is to be lifted out of the dismal . It doesn't have much else going for it . Or maybe it's that the story itself , despite its authorship , just doesn't translate well to the screen . The end of the world is one thing . Nice possibilities there , though most of them have already been explored . But must the dead turn into flesh-eating zombies too ? That's George Romero territory . And they are afraid of garlic , can't look into mirrors , will die only with a wooden stake through the heart , and only come out at night ? Clichés - - every single trait - - after Bram Stoker . Why didn't somebody throw in the crucifix business or a Mogen David ? Set the movie in Teheran and have Price spend the whole time searching for some object to turn into a Crescent . Who are these walking dead anyway ? They don't rot . They feel sensations because when Price slams a door on one of their arms they howl with pain . And why the wooden stake when thousands of them have just been tossed safely into a fire and meet their personal end ? And the mutants machine gun a few who seem to die in proper cinematic fashion . And what do they all have against Vincent Price anyway ? Did they run up against the typos in his cookbook ? I don't know . Many other viewers seem to think this is a cult film . I've never understood exactly what a " cult film " was . " The Rocky Horror Picture Show " certainly qualified because attending a showing dressed in outrageous gear was a rite of intensification - - at least it was at the Chestnut Theater in San Francisco when I saw it . And I suppose others might be " cult films " if they were minor and unrecognized masterpieces of the genre . " The Last Man on Earth , " though , seems to me to be only minor and unrecognized - - period .
Small Town Floozie Fights Injustice .	I hate to sound unappreciative of any artistic endeavor , or unreceptive to stories of the weak being mistreated by the strong , but I can't help wondering how much longer they'll be grinding out scenarios that fit this template : Helpless young woman is raped ( or otherwise abused ) by a man ( or men ) of greater social worth - - here a doctor , there a famous high-school jock - - and she complains to the authorities . The authorities try to shake her off , not take her seriously . Nobody believes her . The community ostracizes her . She persists bravely and in the end manages to bring her abuser down . You can get a variation of the scenario by substituting some giant corporation for the rapist . ( Cf . , " Erin Brokovitch " . ) I understand that this is " based on a true story " and that poetic license must be granted - - but , wow . The characters could have had numbers attached to them and the narrative lifted , still throbbing , from some handbook for genre movies . In this case , the victim is a single mother in a small Canadian town . The abuser is the snooty doctor with the English accent who gives her a general anesthetic to treat some minor injuries she received in a fight with her boyfriend . While Estella Warren , as Kimberley , is all doped up , the English doc takes advantage of her to rape her . Kimberley brings a civil suit against the doctor ( John Hannah ) , but docs have a full hand of Aesculapian authority . ( Not to mention lots of money and charisma . ) Who , other than a doctor , can tell the President to go to bed for a day and drink plenty of fluids ? Man , that's POWER . The story then follows the usual trajectory , so ostracism is next . The whole community seems to STARE sullenly at her , wherever she goes . The close-ups we see are of faces that are old and wizened and , if they're women , they wear harlequin glasses like unto a Roz Chast cartoon . Kimberley must finally pack up and leave town , while the doctor luxuriates in his own sham aura of victimhood . In the end , the Great Physician seems to contract a case of terminal stupidity . At about the time Kimberley is read to give up , he pulls the same stunt with another young woman . The case now - - finally - - goes to court , and during his testimony the doctor explains that he tampered with evidence , obstructed justice , and committed perjury in SELF DEFENSE - - because he couldn't allow his reputation to be ruined by a young slut . I needn't reveal the verdict . Estella Warren is pretty good as the victim . She's no tiny prey , but a tall , full-bodied , and abrasive young lady . She doesn't know the meaning of the word " simper . " She turns into a positive pest , and that's what the role calls for . John Hannah , as the doctor , comes across as not much more than another seasoned actor . He's not bad , but he doesn't bring anything extra to the role . The direction is competent too . There's no confusion about where we are or who's doing what , and no unnecessary displays of directorial razzle dazzle . The story is told without unmerited garnish . If I've been critical of the movie it's not because I think incidents like this don't happen , because they certainly do . Some examples have been caught on tape . It's just that we leap to the conviction that it happens SO OFTEN . My guess is that it's a pretty rare event , given everything that an established physician has to lose . So we can't claim there are thousands of sneaky doctor / rapists out there . Maybe there are , but we have no way of knowing . We need , I think , to also keep in mind that accusations are easy to make , and that they're difficult to refute because you can't prove a negative . ( Prove to me that you did NOT rape this girl is a little like saying prove to me that there is no God or that there are no such things as UFOs . It can't be done . ) And in judging cases like these , we need to bear in mind that it's enjoyable for some people to be a victim . ( Not to be victimized , but to be thought of by others as a victim . ) A certain moral weight attaches to the role . People sympathize with you and treat you with greater kindness , as with mothers in Munchhausen-by-proxy syndrome . There are two ways to get people to carry you around . One is to be powerful enough to order them to do it , and the other is to collapse . The role of victim involves a collapse in the face of irresistible social or physical forces . Given the weaknesses and the over-familiarity of the plot , though , this is a reasonably well-done movie , with Estella Warren particularly good . I don't see much point in recommending or not recommending it because , if you're fond of these kinds of films , you've seen it already in one form or another . They're kind of like the many action movies that star Schwarzenegger , Willis , Van Damme , Stallone , and the rest . If you like one , you're liable to like all .
Unimaginative	I wish I could recommend this because it has potential and there is some talent involved - - Richard Fleischer , Anthony Mann , Jeff Corey . And - - William Lundigan ? When it comes to B movies this comes pretty close to a Platonic ideal . The script is weak and full of holes , the actors unexciting , and the direction no more than routine . RKO was about on its last legs , I guess , and this was made on the cheap and it shows . Look at the production design . The city isn't identified , so there is no local color to speak of . Not that it would help much if a narrator told us grimly , " This is Los Angeles . The City of Angels , but a part of the city you'll never see . " Almost all the scenes ( except the climactic shootout ) take place indoors or on the lot . When a man walks past the window of a restaurant , the sign says simply " Restaurant . " The hero is blandly handsome . His sidekick looks funny and is given to wisecracks . The ambitious heroine is pretty and pure . The uninteresting serial killer - - here called " The Judge " - - is seen murking around in silhouette and pretending to be a dummy in the police department . ( I swear I'm not making that up . ) It isn't until the end that we see his hapless mug , a sad baggy eyed clown who is given no explanation for his deeds . It would seem to have something to do with his trying to wipe out evil in the world , although we don't know anything that the rather ordinary victims did that was so bad , and although that whole judgment business is thrown away at the end anyhow , when it's suggested to us that what's really wrong with him isn't that there is evil abroad in the land but that dripping water drives him nuts . Don't ask me . Maybe that's all being a little tough on an unpretentious little black and white B from a studio on the brink of bankruptcy , but after all you can do quite a lot of sprucing up if you give things a little thought . The street that the killer lives on is not only barren of pedestrians . That wouldn't be too surprising anyway in LA . But there isn't a parked car in sight . And the garbage cans are all neatly and equidistantly lined up at the curb . The gutter doesn't even contain a crumpled newspaper . It looks like , well , like the back lot of a minor movie studio that has gotten only minimal attention . Val Lewton worked at the same studio on miniscule budgets and see what he accomplished . It's not worth going on about . You won't lose anything if you skip it .
Purgatorio	There is a scene in this movie in which a detective with supernatural powers uses a cat as a portal into Hell . I turned to my cat , Josefina , usually keen on the heuristics of these things , and asked if she found this in any way offensive . " Absolutely , " she replied , turning her eyes from the screen in disgust . I gave it a good mulling-over that night , and the next day asked Josefina if she would have found it more acceptable if the portal to hell had been provided by another animal - - say , a dog - - but by that time the effects of my herbal psychotropics had worn off and , if Josefina answered , I didn't hear it . Rachel Weisz plays a nice Catholic girl who's sister has apparently committed suicide . Weisz wants her buried in sacred ground , though , and she knows her sister would never kill herself . So she turns to Ke'anu Reeves , who has a reputation for knowing stuff about the supernatural . It turns out he knows quite a lot . There are angels in Heaven and devils in Hell . The problem is they can't pass into the realm of the quotidian , so they send " half breeds , " half-angels or half-devils , whose powers are limited to " whispering in our ears . " Or so he says . Some of them resemble Harpies of Greek mythology or horrible deformed creatures out of " The Garden of Earthly Delights . " Considering that they're limited to merely whispering , they do a good job of throwing bodies around and filling the streets with flapping bat-like wings . I won't go on about it . The movie stinks . The dialog has lines like , " You're trying to buy your way into Heaven . " And , " God is a kid with an ant farm . " ( Actually , come to think of it , that last one is pretty funny but I don't think it was meant to be . ) The wind-up is that Reeves gives Weisz a crash course in the writer's version of how things work in this all-too-Christian cosmology and , expectably , it's all an excuse to hang a lot of computer-generated effects on . There are no surprises . The only thing that could have saved this trite piece of trash would have been the introduction of an Eskimo cosmology , with Hell consisting of seven levels of cold , and Sedna lording it over all . Reeves , in poor fettle , rarely departs from his imitation of a mahogany idol . Rachel Weisz is more animated , a better actress , and beautiful in a not-quite Hollywood way . My recommendation : Something is whispering in my ear . It's saying , " Don't bother . "
Treacherous swarthy foreigners chase rich white kids through jungle .	At least it can be said that this movie isn't as bad as the disease that is its namesake . For one thing , it's shot in the outback of Brazil , although it is no essay on the wilderness . For another , the chief villain is given a reason , however silly , for having his horde pursue these fun-loving kids through the jungle . He hasn't just escaped from a loony bin . He wasn't dissed by these kids in high school . And he didn't just wake up one morning to find himself a maniac . No . He's chasing and killing these kids because they are gringos , whose people have stolen his country's valuables for centuries , and he wants THEM to give a little back , in the form of all their bodily organs which he intends to harvest and contribute to the People's Memorial Hospital in Rio . It's ludicrous , I told you , but at least it's a motive . There is also a brief , disturbing moment early in the film after the kids have reached the beach and a fiesta is in progress . One of the guys runs into this curvaceous young Brazilian chick and they have a lot of fun while she tries to teach him how to pronounce her name properly , both of them laughing playfully . The next time we see them , it's morning and she's taking money from his wallet and getting into her swimsuit bottom while he watches groggily from the mattress . " Hey ! You're taking money . I thought this was all fun . " And she replies matter of factly , all business now , " No , it was not like that . " Ah , what illusions we create for ourselves . It's a good scene . For another thing , there are a couple of genuinely suspenseful moments , many of them underwater , woven into the fabric of this otherwise rather typical slasher flick . The photography is pretty good . The direction doesn't get in the way of the story . That's about it for the bonus points . The skeleton of the plot is one we've all seen before . A couple of kids on vacation want to have fun and visit a remote seashore village in Brazil , where the natives steal all their goods , and they are forced to try to walk back through the bush with this madman waving his scalpel following them . One of the kids is disarticulated on screen , a gorgeous babe who is only half unconscious from the anesthesia , so we can all share her pleasure as she is sliced and diced to death . The lunatic begins with her kidneys . He goes into the retroperitoneal sac through the front because her belly is so plump and ripe looking , and so that throughout the procedure we can get occasional , tasteful glimpses of the dying girl's naked breasts . There's a whole bath tub full of blood . The remaining kids manage to escape . There are face-smashings , shootings , drownings , impalements of feet , a gratuitous scalp-stitching , and I think some amputated fingers and a bottle of acid in the eyes . But I'm not sure about that last one . I was busy with something and the dialog was in Portugese . The concept of " continuity " is pretty much thrown out the window whenever it becomes inconvenient . Here are these kids being chased by maniacs , having witnessed brutal acts , and they discover an underground pool that just misses the splendor of the Blue Grotto on Capri . What do they do ? They forget all about the threats , the danger , and splash each other playfully and exclaim over the beauty of the cavern . Their lives are in danger , but , gee , this place is AWESOME . There's nothing new about a pursuit through exotic territory . That's why it's so familiar on screen and in literature . ( " The Most Dangerous Game , " etc . ) But this movie is obviously designed to appeal to the same audience as slasher movies , and that gets past me completely . What sort of appeal lies behind seeing an innocent person screaming and being slaughtered ? It can't be the shock value , not any longer . There must be some pleasure in witnessing the scene itself . But for whom ? And does it have any consequences in real life ? Surely , the neural pathways are altered in SOME way . If nothing else , it desensitizes viewers to the idea , so slaughter becomes less repulsive . ( The scientific evidence is that violence in the media is one of many factors that influence the level of violent crimes in the community . In many border cities , Americans and Canadians watch the same media in theaters and on TV , yet the American cities invariably have much higher murder rates . ) It seems strange that we can tear our hair out over certain scenes of explicit or simulated sex , yet allow movies like this to be seen by crowds of cheering and laughing kids . Well , it seems strange to me , anyway . As slasher movies go , this one is a cut above the rest , but it's not , by any measure , a particularly good movie .
The very definition of Routine Thriller .	Denzel Washington is a prosperous , respected , happily married DA . John Lithgow is a prisoner whom Washington sent up the river years ago . Lithgow and a friend escape , murdering everyone in their path . Lithgow fakes his own death . Everyone now believes him to be a harmless corpse , but ha ha , he moves around lithely in his ghostly world ( where does he get his money ? ) and devotes himself to making Washington's life miserable . Not KILLING Washington , but ruining his life forever , a la Robert Mitchum and Gregory Peck in " Cape Fear , " only worse . His frame-up of Washington is really devilishly skillful . He conks the unsuspecting DA on the head , take him to an empty swimming pool at an empty club , drugs him into near insensibility , and videotapes him having sex with some bimbo who , as it later turns out , is also giving him the clap . Washington finally wakes up to find himself in rags amongst a community of homeless people . WELL ! Nobody believes his story of course . They keep telling him things like , " Denzel - - John Lithgow is dead . " Blood work reveals both cocaine and heroin in his system of course . The investigating authorities also find a collection of planted kiddie porn in his possession . And the video tape of his sitting on a bed while some white gal does a cowboy on him turns up in the hands of the authorities too , with dialog altered so that Washington , instead of being half dead from drugs , appears to be saying , " You're going to do exactly what I tell you , " and the babe answers , " Anything you say , dumpling , " or something like that . The tape turns his wife off . The dose of clap doesn't help either . You see , the problem is that no one believes him - - not his bosses , not his family , nobody except his closest friend at the office , a short and pasty white guy who incarnates the concept of " impotence . " Speaking of that , how did that hooker manage to give the sleeping drugged-out Washington a dose ? Well , never mind . When Washington takes the legal authorities to the club with the empty swimming pool , he finds himself in one of those scenes where things have been changed around so that they seem perfectly normal . His colleagues make snotty remarks . The scene might have been lifted from a dozen other movies , maybe most famously " North by Northwest . " Lithgow shoots the best friend and throws the pistol to Washington , who catches it in his bare hands so his fingerprints are all over it . All of this shows up in the most sensationalized fashion in the press . After the murder of his friend , Washington is suspended , though here , as elsewhere , the plot has a bit of a hole in it since nobody could possibly come up with a motive for Washington's killing the only friend he has . Washington , harassed and hated by the law , driven half nuts by Lithgow , turns to the homies in the neighborhood where he grew up . They take care of his family and help him lure Lithgow to the Watts Towers where the dramatic finale takes place with the expectable dramatic results . Here's another example of a stupid plot device . Just before the confrontation at the Towers , Washington has drawn all the media and the cops to a block where he is standing on the roof , doing nutty things like putting on makeup for the cameras , and threatening to blow himself up . All this appears on live TV and Lithgow , aghast at the prospect of losing the mouse he's been toying with , shows up at the scene . Someone taps him on the shoulder and tells him , " Mister Blake ? Phone call for you . " Lithgow seems puzzled at being recognized but goes to the phone anyway , where an anonymous caller tells him to go to the Watts Towers , without giving him any reason to do so . Lithgow , who has shown all sorts of brains until now , does exactly as he's asked . The holes ? Lithgow would never have shown up at the scene in the first place . How could he possibly stop Washington from jumping off a fourteen-story building ? Why would he risk revealing his existence in front of a horde of police and frenetic media ? Two - - instead of answering the phone , anyone with brains would deny being the dead Mr . Blake and walk away . Three - - follow directions and go to the Watts Towers ? Why ? There is plenty of action for action fans . Cars do stunts . People get electrocuted and shot . Buildings explode . People live in a Biblical world of pure good and pure evil . If that's what you're looking for you'll find it here . Washington should never have put himself into this movie though . He's a decent actor but absolutely NOBODY could bring off the several scenes in which he tries to explain the nature of the frame and instead sounds like a raving lunatic , stuttering out gibberish worthy of a schizophrenic's word salad . It's already been done to death . ( Watch Jack Lemon try to explain why he's holding the nuclear power plant at gunpoint , while SWAT is banging on the locked door in " The China Syndrome " . ) There's another element that some might find unsettling too . In the end , you can only trust your own people . There are four classes of white people . The purely evil Lithgow , the dutiful but dumb legal colleagues who don't like him from the beginning , the good friend who is only there to be killed , and a collection of Nazi wannabees and the Aryan Brotherhood in prison . The homies we meet are cynical but they believe Washington . They are street people but they protect his family , help him carry out his scam , prevent the police from ruining the revelatory climax , and they're clever as hell at what they do . Want to see somebody get an electric shock atop the Watts Towers ? Watch this .
Life is like an empty road - -	It must have been a small-budget film and it shows . Sort of a travelogue with sex and violence , it meanders along the byways of Jumbo Rocks and Twentynine Palms , California . Impressive , dignified scenery , and that's about it . Katia plays Katia , who speaks only French . David plays David , who speaks English and some French that falls just short of execrable , which is to say very much like my French . From some angles she looks a bit like Michelle Pfeiffer and from some angles he resembles Harry Dean Stanton . It's difficult to comment on their acting because , aside from some memorized exchanges , it seems that most of the time the director simply aimed the camera their way and said , " Okay , make something up . " There's a good deal of playful poking and laughter , like that in John Cassavetes ' films . People chuckle and giggle because they can't seem to think up anything else to do . The couple has squabbles and sex . The reasons for the squabbles ? Let's see . He looks at another woman in a cafe . He buys her ice cream and asks if she likes it . " C'est bon , " she replies , then , " Pas bon . " ( He sulks because she contradicts herself . ) He hits a dog while driving the Hummer because she's blocking his window . Another argument , a serious one , occurs when she locks herself in the bathroom for reasons unexplained . Is there sex ? Yes , there is sex , simulated , and a lot of nudity . I had a sneaking suspicion that Katia and David weren't even married , yet here they are , stripping off in the desert , revealing themselves in all their hairy , angular , bilaterally symmetrical splendor . They lie on abrasive rocks , spreadeagled shamelessly . A couple of airliners pass overhead and any passenger who wanted to could look down on them from 37 , 000 feet and watch them rut and squirm like two javelinas . They don't care . They fornicate on rocks , in swimming pools , and in motel rooms . Oh , and speaking of animals , when David has an orgasm he makes more noise than Katia , although , to be sure , both of them overact in these scenes like porno superstars . What repugnant physicality . The movie drags along for quite a while and when the climax comes we are totally unprepared for it . I don't know whether to get into it or not . I don't think I will , except to say that the scene seems to have been brought in from another movie entirely , some kind of slasher flick with a title like " Blood and Cactus " . The heavies seem to be either Marines or skinheads , maybe both . The final episode of violence takes place for reasons that escape me completely . Maybe I missed something . Could it be that life is like a road ? It has its asphalt pavement and its potholes ? Occasional stop signs ? Long waits while indifferent freight cars rumble slowly through the crossing , sometimes stopping completely ? And at the end you have a fatal traffic accident ? This is a French movie so maybe I used the wrong national heuristic . The point of a French film might be that there is no point . That's the whole point . In the end I found the film kind of sad . Not just because of what happens to Katia and David , but for reasons the producers probably never intended . At the beginning the couple stare in awe at acres and acres of energy-generating windmills arrayed across the desert . They find it splendid . I didn't . The ivory sand is dotted with Joshua trees and creosote bush , and littered with flowery paper wrappers , glittering aluminum cans and empty shotgun shells . The Hummer matter-of-factly passes a pile of half a dozen huge , black , discarded tires . If you fly into LAX there are days when you can see the smog as far inland as Twentynine Palms . The point I took away from the film is that if you treat a natural landscape as a garbage dump it becomes a garbage dump sooner or later . A desert ecosystem is a fragile one and , like a human life , can only take so much abuse before it is destroyed .
Disappointing Military Whodunnit .	All the ingredients seem to be there but the dish comes out flat . Nice cast , and they all do a journeyman job , but most of them are in minor roles and some of them contribute virtually nothing to the goings on . Madeleine Stowe for instance is radiant , as usual , with those crossed coal-black irises , but why is she here ? I don't object to her presence . How could anyone ? With that iliac garland and that modest bosom ? I just question her presence . And there is a mean-looking redneck Southern sheriff whose only reason for being there seems to be providing a target for Travolta's unnecessary remark that he should be out clubbing the colored folks somewhere . The photography is first-rate too . Savannah has never looked quite so - - Southern . And that's about it . The story is so intricate that it's hard to follow . The script makes everyone except Travolta and Stowe into a suspect . People lurk in shadows . They peer intensely at a pair of general's stars ( which have nothing to do with the movie ) while ominous music slowly builds . Some speak elliptically , hinting at horrors , and it leads nowhere . Red herrings all over the place . The moment one is identified as some sort of villain , he's revealed as innocent and someone else comes under the magnifying glass , until he too is discarded , and we wind up with the one guy who has never been shown to be involved in any way in the crimes and who has been nothing but a cooperative friend to the two investigators . And even this revelation ( involving a slow-motion explosion - - what else ? ) is anti-climactic because we have yet to get to the REAL villain ! What the hell is the movie supposed to be about anyway ? Is it an exercise in surrealism ? It begins with Travolta asleep in his bed . An assassin creeps into his houseboat and shoots the place into little pieces before Travolta jumps him and they fall in the water and somebody starts an outboard motor in the middle of an underwater fight and the spinning screw fortuitously Cuisinearts somebody's face up and the water turns red and no satisfactory explanation for the fight to the death follows . Or - - let me put it this way . If you were a woman who was gang raped and beaten and your father visited you in the hospital , kissed your forehead , assured you of his love , and advised you to never think of the incident again , would you be willing to destroy your life in order to destroy his ? Not to argue that the father - - in this case James Cromwell - - is morally right in taking his career into account . That's pretty selfish and his lack of righteous anger at his daughter's rapists is a big hole in his character . But his daughter , an Army captain of delicious aspect , tries to get her revenge by sleeping with every guy on the base in order to make him seem a fool . She succeeds and he finally tells her she must see a therapist or resign her commission . Now - - get this - - and this is seven years after the original brutal rape , which is implausibly presented to begin with - - she enlists the help of her friend and mentor ( James Woods ) who ties her spreadeagled and naked on the ground . And she arranges to have her father drive out to see her in this position , alone at night , and screams at him , something like , " Do you see what they did to me ? Do you feel guilty NOW ? " She tells him that she is going to remain in this position until everyone on the base knows about it and her father's career is torpedoed . Well - - the best advice she ever got came from him . ( 1 ) Try not to think about the original rape . And ( 2 ) get help . There is no help in the direction either . Lots of closeups of faces with tears or agonized expressions . ( Except for Clarence Williams , who can produce tears but no expressions at all . ) I suppose , in the end , we are supposed to find ourselves brimming over with the self-righteous anger that Cromwell's general lacks . A woman in the Army has been foully mistreated and we are enraged . The problem is a real one . There seem to be more sexual assaults on women in the military than is usually assumed , although it's doubtful that many of them are officers . As a social problem , it deserves a more thoughtful and skillful treatment than you can find in this movie .
Deja View	I think I just had what they call an " epiphany . " It never occurred to me before , just as I'm sure it never occurred to anyone else , that there is a certain family resemblance between Brian DePalma's films and those of Alfred Hitchcock . Yes , it's true . For me , the dawn broke during the first half of this movie , when Jake freezes with fright upon finding himself in an enclosed space , in this case a fake coffin . The thought came to me unbidden that this was something like Jimmy Stewart's acrophobia in Hitchcock's " Vertigo . " He finds himself falling in love with a neighbor of his . She's a brunette , okay , but she is one longlimbed lankylooking looselipped lovely . Wow . Her lower lip is adroop in a perpetual pout . He follows this young woman around , just like Stewart follows Kim Novak around . And the woman , Gloria , wears this totally outstanding signature white dress , just like Novak wears the gray suit . She has her purse stolen on a beach by an ugly-looking galoot , and Jake pursues him into a tunnel . Sure enough - - his claustrophobia prevents him from catching the thief , just the way Stewart's disability stopped him from preventing a mishap . And just as in " Vertigo , " this whole deal with the pursuit across the sand and into the tunnel , followed by Jake's tonic immobility , is a SET-UP , except that in this movie the snare is so exquisitely executed and timed that its rehearsals must have begun at a time now shrouded in the mists of antiquity . Hitchcock had a naughty fantasy about icy-looking blondes who would assault a man in the back of a taxi . DePalma has the notion that when Jake returns what's left of Gloria's purse to this woman , whom he first met one minute ago and with whom he's exchanged fourteen words plus one sigh , she wordlessly falls in love with him , smooches him mercilessly , and lets him half undress her in public . It happens to me all the time . While this breathless display of lust is taking place , the entwined couple and their background whirl slowly in opposite directions , just like what happened in Novak's bedroom in the Empire Hotel before they made love for the first time , and elegiac strings swell tumescently in the score , just like Bernard Hermann's in " Vertigo . " But there's even more . " Vertigo " aside , Jake finds himself house-sitting for a stranger and soon he is watching his sultry neighbor doing the dance of one veil through a monstrous telescope , which reminded me immediately of Miss Torso bouncing around in " Rear Window " while Steward peeks at her through a telescopic lens . There are other echoes , of Miss Lonelyhearts and The Salesman's wife . By this time , halfway through the movie , my heart was racing alarmingly at the nearly religious revelation I was experiencing . DePalma and Hitchcock . Hitchcock and DePalma ! Of course ! How simple it all seemed in retrospect . But DePalma isn't really Hitchcock . The story gets pretty looped and twisted and even less logical than the master's . There is a gruesome death , gorier than , but not as shocking as Janet Leigh's in " Psycho . " There is a long , completely silly musical interlude about shooting a skin flick . ( THIS scene reminded me of Gene Kelly's Broadway Ballet in " Singin ' in the Rain " because of Jake's goofy , loud , hick outfit , his horn rimmed glasses , and the den of iniquity his character finds himself in . ) The acting is okay , no more than that . Craig Wasson is easy to identify with . Where is he ? Melanie Griffith is pleasant to watch but her voice is unappealing , at least to me , because it can't seem to make up its mind whether to emerge as a rasp or a whisper . Deborah Shelton looks gloriously glamorous but on the evidence of her few lines here doesn't seem like a powerful actress . The photography is superlative , though . What an easy movie to look at . The musical score is vintage Hermann . But I don't mean to be too hard on the film . It has one unusual thing going for it that lifts it out of the ordinary . Annette Haven is listed in the credits . I sat through the whole thing looking for her but missed her . Realizing this , as the end credits began to roll , I felt my mystic experience had been blunted .
Full of action and suspense , and still dull .	I'm afraid watching this thing , the images on the screen constantly in motion , the blurry images , the supersonic warp-speed editing , must have fused my synapses . I couldn't get through it . Oh , I enjoyed the score . Always liked Beethoven . But it was much easier to listen to with eyes closed . The performances weren't bad . How can a performance be bad in a plot-driven special-effects loaded action SF flick ? Even Max von Sydow , who , I was happy to see , is still working , was perforce animated . Lots of opportunities for exploring issues like , If you can see something coming and you stop it before it comes , how come it still comes ? It's the grandfather paradox of future time travel . I really didn't care much about the characters because I didn't get to know anything much about them except that they can run fast and jump from one vertically moving vehicle to another - - the car chase , as it were , in dimension number two , up and down . It seems to me that this movie will be an embarrassment when 2053 rolls around and everything looks and acts pretty much like it does now , in 2007 . " On the Beach " ( set in 1964 ) and " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " had similar problems . Well , I suppose they weren't BIG problems , but still . Will it really ever be easier to manipulate images by waving your hands like some guy in a demonic Tai Chi frenzy than by tweaking a few dials with your fingertips ?
Aardvark .	I can't imagine why Bob Hope , a superb comedian in the 1940s , continued to grind out these rude lumps of deformity through the 1960s . It must have been the money . There were a couple of weaknesses consistent across this string of duds . One is that Bob Hope was simply not Bob Hope , and this one is a good demonstration of that proposal . He's an utterly bourgeois head of a relatively normal household - - sitcom standard , including the freakish cook and housekeeper Phyllis Diller in a fright wig . That's simply not the Bob Hope that everyone loved . Bob Hope is not your average family guy in a suit and tie . He's a sniveling coward , greedy and libidinous , and openly so . The second problem is that the gags stink . What happened to his writers ? Did they snore while grinding out this pap ? " Don't lose your head - - you might need it later on . " His wisecracks no longer fit his established persona . They're generic . Any comic could sling them around . ( They would still fall with a thud . ) Hope himself is older and has slowed down . Of course that's not his fault . " Fleeting time , thou hast left me old . " Still , it's painful to watch someone who was a fine physical actor reduced to showing that he could still walk with a bounce , but no more than that . He doesn't even move his head in a way that suggests suppleness . His facial expressions are limited ; his eyes don't bulge with fear . He's stiff all over . The plot is all fluff . Hope get mixed up with a fleeing international movie star , Elke Sommer , and tries to keep his wife , Marjorie Lord , from finding out . This involves hiding Didi in closets when the wife enters the room , dumping her into the cellar to hide her , and so forth . At least this running around might titillate the kids , but that's about it . Or - - no . Wait . Want a reason to watch this ? Elke Sommer runs around half naked through the entire movie and has a fine figure .
Routine and Inexpensive .	This is a Pine-Thomas Production , which should tell you a lot . I described a similar P-T story to my brother who advised me not to expect too much , that there were thousands of these cheap flag-wavers made during the war . This is a cheap flag-waver about two sailors ( Richard Arlen and Russel Hayden ) who are rivals for the affections of the same girl ( Jean Parker ) who happens to be the niece of their affable mutual friend ( Guinn " Big Boy " Williams ) . Those are the four principles and none of them can act , though I suppose Jean Parker could be considered a modest talent while the three men can't manage to project a believable line of dialog between them . Russell Hayden at least looks the part but the star , Richard Arlen , is too old for his character . The story , when it's not wrapped around that romantic triangle , has the three men together on a small harbor minesweeper that is removing Japanese mines from the channel at San Pedro , California . There never were any such mines but this is fiction all the way . Arlen's character rises from Seaman Recruit ( E-1 ) to Gunner's Mate Third Class ( E-4 ) in the blink of an eye . Arlen's character has an improbable secret past , and somebody gets blown up by a mine , but none of it is in the least gripping . What keeps one's interest in the movie is watching Dub Taylor as a young man and Robert Mitchum as a non-speaking but prominently featured extra .
Just Another Remake . . .	I don't know why Ferrara did it . I suppose just to add incremental touches to bring the story up to date . The original , directed by Don Siegel , was set in a small California town in which everyone knew everyone else and featured as its protagonist a doctor who was on familiar terms with his patients and made house calls . That world has disappeared , of course . The 1970s remake , more whimsical in its own way , was set in a city and featured a Public Health worker . It added special effects that weren't available in the 1950s and were creepy . It also added a pig-like squeal of betrayal when one of the pod-people discovered a human in their midst . This business of the pod people deserves more attention than it gets in these movies ; the human seem to turn into a kind of dirt after their absorption by the pods . They should be scientifically explicated but I'm afraid " podzology " would be claimed as a Russian invention . This one , from 1993 , brings the old story even more up to date . Not only do we have the special effects from the 1970s version , but they are accompanied by foleyed-in sounds that are a cross between sizzling bacon and a Yellowstone mud hole of moderate magnitude . This version also adds the obligatory apocalyptic fireballs at the end - - not that they accomplish anything , just that the times call for them nowadays . The novella by John Finney first appeared in , I think Collier's Magazine , now defunct , and was far more reasonable and comprehensible than any of the movies that have been made from it . In the book we learn where the seeds come from , what happens to the humans , and how the pods are defeated . ( They just give up and float away . ) The first movie is by far the best , just a black and white rendering of the tale , with a blandly handsome Dr . Binnell and his immaculate girl friend . People shake their heads and groan because of the " happy ending " that the studio insisted be tacked on , but I liked it . There's nothing wrong with tragedy when it grows out of something - - human weakness , as in " Othello , " or hubris , as in " Oedipus Rex . " But no one in any of these movies has done anything truly wrong ! They don't deserve to be robbed of their humanity , for however much that may be worth . The acting here is okay , not much more than that . Meg Tilly has interesting features . Like Merle Oberon's , her flaring cheeks seem to be tucked up just under her eyes , which slant upward and outward at an alarming dihedral . She has plump rounded lips and one or two moles scattered around her face , and it all adds up to a beautiful woman . But her voice is difficult to believe . Gabriel Anwar is likewise attractive , with wide-set eyes , a long gentle nose , and a generous mouth . Anwar has the innocence of one of those young virtuous maidens with long , floppy hair that sit around pools , staring wistfully into the ether , in Pre-Raphaelite paintings . She radiates adolescent nubility . Any normal man glimpsing her visage would immediately be prompted to pinch and bite her . And she acts as good as she looks . The guy who plays her Dad is a familiar face in TV movies , better as a heavy than a hero , and he's up to snuff . The dark-haired savior is just somebody's idea of a handsome movie star . If the first movie was supposed to be an analogy , with the pod people being Commies , or was it an anti-conformist tract , there seems to be some confusion - - this one looks like an anti-military analogy . It's set on an army base and all the pods are being trucked out for placement on yet other army bases - - Fort Bragg , Fort Bliss . Meg Tilly at one point , after her conversion to podness , asks her still straight husband , " Where will you go ? Where will you hide ? There is nobody left like you . " How about a Navy base ? How about the U . S . Coast Guard Light Station at Point Reyes ? And the direction . If Blake had been writing about " Body Snatchers " instead of " Tygers " he might have asked : " Did he who made " The Bad Lieutenant " make thee ? " Bad Lieutenant " is a truly shocking movie , far more powerful and scary than this one . Ferrara seems to have done nothing to perk this tired story up . It's craftmanship , and it's up to date , but nothing more than that . See the original . Read the novella , better yet .
Ka-Poof !	I guess I've about reached satiation on noisy and implausible action films . They have to have some sort of sheen in order to make any impression at all . " The Bourne Identity " was interesting because of the location shooting , the direction , and the performances by the leads and the support . It also had a cool narrative thread . Just who IS this guy Bourne anyway ? This one isn't interesting . Keenan Ivory Wayans is an honorable Marine gunnery sergeant on death row , recruited by a rogue military group to be framed for the assassination of the first lady - - a dangerous woman who is a card-carrying member of the ACLU and who favors veterans ' benefits . He manages to escape the roof-top set up and rushes to the safe spot from which he calls his handlers , an army group headed by the viperous General John Voight with a Southern accent . The dialog in the scene is lifted straight out of " Three Days of the Condor . " " Are you damaged ? " " What ? " " Are you injured ? " " No . " " Stay where you are , Poker One , I'm going to bring you home . " Something like that . It hardly matters . The rest of the film contains no big surprises . As is customary , a beautiful young woman is swept up in Wayans ' attempts to save himself and expose the plot . Jill Hennessy is certainly pretty enough but the only thing that would have saved her here would be a gratuitous nude scene - - maybe a couple of them . Wayans himself is an imposing physical presence but his thespian talents are modest at best . There are some good guys on Wayans ' side . The CIA team led by Paul Sorvino is trying to help him but they're blocked and frustrated by one or another circumstance . But why go on with this . If you like action movies you'll like this production with all its bangs and zipping bullets and exploding time bombs and screeching cars and sprinting bodies and venal villains and some guy cold-cocking another by bumping foreheads in violation of every one of Newton's laws of physics - - you'll like this one too . You know something ? I made fun of this flick by citing Newton's laws ? Well , actually , this movie exemplifies one of them . All dynamic systems eventually run out of steam and grind to a halt - - unless they are fed some inventive energy from an outside source . How about another action movie , just like this one , except it stars nothing but kangaroos ?
Sluggish supernatural mystery .	I realize this film had many good reviews . That's why I bought it . But it somehow managed to get by me without hooking me in . Its lack of impact had little to do with the acting , which is pretty good all around . Toni Collette is especially noteworthy . And Willis gives what is for him a subdued performance except , I have to say , that when he tries to grin with happiness or gets misty eyed with love , something within me begins to churn . The kid , Osment , is okay . Thank God he's not a cutie-pie . The direction is deliberate but effective , supported by a semi-somnolent score that throws in a sting from time to time , as when the first ghost appears briefly , to wake the audience up . The plot , alas , is a mish mash of overly familiar themes . Is it RIGHT to try to cure a kid who seems to know more than we do ? ( Cf . , " Equus . " ) Even if the kid is frightened by the " dead people " he sees , who sometimes scream at him and scratch him ? ( Cf . , " The Shining . " ) How come the kid speaks Latin ? ( Cf . , " The Exorcist . " ) Or is this the momentary hallucination of someone who is dying ? ( Cf . , " Incident at Owl Creek Bridge , " or " Point Blank . " ) Who are these ghosts anyway ? Why do they taunt the kid ? Why does he see only tortured ones , people who have been hanged , poisoned , killed in car accidents , shot in the belly , or who slashed their wrists ? Do they see each other ? Do they eat and excrete ? They seem to have the power to move objects in their environment . They can steal bumblebee pendants or scratch the kid . They can , to give a more specific example , shove a box containing an incriminating tape out from under a bed and ask Osment to show the tape to their bereaved father . Well then why can't they themselves give Dad the box ? Or leave it where he's bound to find it ? If someone has done them dirt why must they use Osment as the middleman ? Why not just kick ass ? Oh , and a final question . By the end of the film we know why Osment finally spills the beans to Willis , but why on earth hasn't he told his mother about it a long time ago ? " I'm ready to communicate with you , " he tells her solemnly when they're trapped in a traffic jam . Well , why now ? There is one way , though , in which the plot is cleverly constructed . In fact , the surprise ending seems to have been thought of first and the entire movie structured around this revelation . Yes , the story is as full of holes as a slice of Emmenthaler cheese but the whole point is the onion soup beneath . That climactic twist is a big relief in another way . Now we know why nobody wants to talk to Bruce Willis except Osment . And it's not his aftershave lotion . It's a pretty gloomy picture actually , awfully low key , though the photography of Philadelphia is engaging . Willis and his wife , Olivia Williams , are shown admiring an award he has just won , as the film opens . They're drinking wine and joking about Dr . Seuss , but even then there's no exhilaration on the screen . However , people seem to have given this film a cornucopia of plaudits so the weakness may be mine rather than the story's . There is no statistically significant difference between women and men in the user ratings - - he said confidently after merely eyeballing the results . I would have predicted a greater appeal for women . Maybe you'll get more out of it than I did .
Melodrama lacks focus .	Ava Gardner returns from Chicago to her little home town of Ashburn . We're never made sure of the reasons . But she takes up with her old boy friend , George Raft , a semi-sot who seems to do nothing more than play nickle-and-dime poker and is supported by his doting mother . Raft is still in love with her evidently because he throws over his new girl friend who promptly dies of natural causes . Gardner's affections aren't exactly steady . A sharp exchange with Raft over something or other and she turns to Podunk's Mister Big , Tom Conway , who runs a fancy club , the Flamingo , and has lots of money , a pencil mustache , and a suave British accent . For much of the rest of the film she wafts back and forth , prompted by the slightest of gestures or perhaps by pheromones yet undiscovered . That's the central weakness of the whole movie - - motivation . From the very beginning , we don't know why Gardner decided to return to Ahsburn . Nor what attracts her to the wooden and ordinary-looking Raft . We don't know why Raft's friend , Victor MacLaughlin , your basic friendly bartender , is plotting one minute to rob and kill Tom Conway with Raft's help . That plan fizzles out because Raft doesn't do his part , for some reason having to do with Gardner's figuring it out intuitively . We don't know why , the next minute , MacLaughlin wants to be Conway's best friend and help Conway patch up his differences with Raft . MacLaughlin was perfectly willing to murder the guy a little while ago . And so it goes . The plot meanders from scene to scene , leaving ox-bow lakes behind , each incident linked to the others only by their shared ambiguity . Ambiguity is okay in its place but it must be augmented by something else - - some directorial style or an admirable display of acting talent or epic sweep . ( Think of the ambiguity in " Lawrence of Arabia . " ) But " Whistle Stop " has no such compensations . MacLaughlin is bulky , sounds dumb , and is sometimes photographed in close-up with a wide-angle lens that turns his face into something resembling a sea turtle with baggy eyes . Raft is simply Raft , a proletarian whose face seems to develop cracks when he's forced by the script into an agonizing smile . Ava Gardner is difficult to criticize . Her performance may be the best of the bunch although it hardly matters since she's so stunningly beautiful in a conventional way . A little less glamorization from the make-up department wouldn't have hurt . Actually , Gardner was from a one-horse town herself , Smithfield , North Carolina . The town has built a tiny , slightly shabby museum in her honor . It's a poignant tribute . Gregory Peck has visited the place . But , as for the movie itself , it doesn't work very well . " Clash by Night " had a similar story but serves as an illustration of what might have been accomplished with a little more effort and more talent .
Routine B Crimebuster .	It zips along quickly , like most B productions , with little wasted motion and no time spent on incidental events or reality intrusions . It's a British crime thriller starring Esmond Knight and Lilli Palmer and was made in 1935 , about the time Hitchcock was hitting his stride in the same arena . You can't help wondering , as this thing rolls along in its complicated but uninspired way , like any cheap second feature starring Boston Blackie or Charlie Chan , what Hitchcock would have done with it . There's even a scene shot in an illegal casino in which one of the villains is eating a meal . And that's it . He just eats . All the scenes show about as much interest on the part of the participants as this one , as exciting as watching a barnacle clinging to a rock . Lilli Palmer plays a slightly tarnished moll who falls for the hero and turns good . She's recognizable to those familiar with her later films only because her voice is the same . It's really strange . She was 21 when this was released and quite pretty . Ten or fifteen years later she was beautiful . Did she get a nose job , or what ? Unless you have a taste for old-fashioned crime films with the undercover Scotland Yard agent finally trapping the cackling villain - - " Of course , you think I'm mad . I prefer to call it genius . " - - you might better think about spending your time doing something other than this absolutely formulaic B film .
Aimless Drama of British Stockade .	I saw this years ago and thought it was a little dull , then I saw it tonight and thought it was even duller . It's the story of a handful of disparate British soldiers in the African desert of World War II , sent to the stockade for one or another offense , and subject to demanding discipline , the chief example of which is a big sandy hill that the men are forced to clamber over repeatedly . The problem lies with the script that might effectively been much shorter . There's absolutely nothing wrong with the performances . Some are sterling . They're all good but among the best are Harry Andrews with his mess hall intonations and Ian Bannen as the most sensitive of the three non-coms in charge of the joint . Harry Andrews may run the place , and he's pitiless , the but the other sergeant enjoys seeing the inmates suffer . There's nothing lacking in Sidney Lumet's direction either , although this was definitely not Lumet territory . He does what he can to introduce texture into an otherwise flat story , including an elaborate crane shot under the credits . There are as many scenes of emotional display as can be shoehorned in . The obstacle of the hill is made a point of , naturally . Lumet even includes a POV shot from inside a gas mask so we can hear the victim's tortured breath . At one point , the prisoners are sitting in the dark , passing a cigarette back and forth , and laughing blood-burstingly over nothing at all . Made me wonder what kind of cigarette it was . It's just that not enough happens to keep the pace up . We get the general idea of the stockade immediately . The prisoners must double time it everywhere they go . All personnel stride around in cadence , carrying swagger sticks under their arms , stomping their feet like robots . The prisoners to whom we are introduced are stereotypes - - the tough sergeant major disgusted with combat , the fairy , the fat man , the black guy , the ordinary joe . They even get to sass the cadre from time to time . ( Let Cool Hand Luke try that . ) It all seems like a one-act play padded out to feature film length . I'll give an example of what I mean . Harry Andrews as the officer in charge and his staff sergeant , Walter Lynch I think , are staying up late and having a contest of wills over who can drink more booze . A dozen empty glasses are scattered across the table . Finally the sergeant collapses and Andrews staggers off to his bunk , only to roll off onto the floor . It takes about five minutes of screen time , and what's the point ? If anyone enjoys this , and they may , because I freely admit to my warped sensibilities , they should also check out " Cool Hand Luke " if they haven't already seen it . And , if they're given to reading , go through the stockade scene in " From Here to Eternity " - - the novel , not the movie . That part was edited out of the movie or the Army wouldn't have lent its cooperation to the production .
Welcome to the SS Overlook Hotel .	Movies about deserted houses or communities are somehow enjoyable partly because of the milieu . As a kid I strolled around the deserted Fort Hancock on Sandy Hook , New Jersey , established before the Revolutionary War , a thriving city in itself during two World Wars , and then closed to the public except for a handful of Coast Guardsmen . All the buildings were intact if not well kept . There were stacks of 20 mm . shells around . The base hospital still had drawers full of stained tissue on microscope slides . And not a soul to be seen . It was like the pilot episode of The Twilight Zone , enough to make one's hair stand on end . That creepy feeling of derealization is what gives this movie its impact . And that's about it . The half dozen members of a salvage tug run across a huge Italian passenger liner that disappeared 40 years ago , they board it and explore it . Weird , man . Cobwebs on things , all the brightwork with a green patina , cloth rotting away . And it's all dark and slick feeling . Nothing else about the movie is memorable except the exploration of that ship . The story is senseless . Ghosts come and go . An empty swimming pool decides to fill up with blood when nobody is around . Doors swing shut and lock . Beans turn into worms . Liquor bottles glide by themselves across the table . Every shock accompanied by a sting on the sound track . No point to any of it . Do you remember the scene in Kubrick's " The Shining " when Danny comes running to Jack Nicholson saying someone is in one of the hotel's rooms ? And Nicholson slowly enters the room ? And there is someone in the bathtub ? And it's a beautiful young woman ? And she gets out of the tub and slinks towards Nicholson who stares at her greedily ? And while they are smooching she turns into an aged corpse ? And Nicholson runs away in horror ? And when he gets back to his family and they ask him what happened and he says , " It was nothing " ? That was probably the dumbest scene in " The Shining . " " The Ghost Ship " is ALL like that scene . Except for the sets , there is nothing in this film that you haven't seen dozens of times before . I'll give one more example . A crew member from the tug enters a deserted and half-wrecked ballroom ( cf . , " The Shining " ) and finds a lighted cigarette in an ash tray . In the Twilight Zone episode it was a cigar . I won't go on about this movie because it's not worth it . Kids might enjoy the shocks . They're kind of naive about such things .
" Volcano . " About a volcano .	The modern wave of movies about collective disasters began , I think , in 1954 with " The High and the Mighty . " I've been trying to figure out how and why they managed to evolve ( or devolve ) into gargantuan productions involving masses of humanity and such monuments to civilization as the world's tallest skyscraper ( " The Towering Inferno " ) and the city of Los Angeles ( " Earthquake " ) . I think it has to do with the natural development of simple things into more complex things . Something that succeeds begets things that are bigger than the original . I think Herbert Spencer made this observation with regard not just to organic systems like plants and animals but to human artifacts like governments and tax codes . Mies van der Rohe , the architect , described the reaction to this trend simply as " less is more . " But you can't fight city hall . In the end , MORE IS MORE . Take the original " airplane in jeopardy movie " , " The High and the Mighty . " The problem with an airplane that has partially failed is that the passengers and crew become the sinews that hold the story together - - their little dramas , their foibles . And either nobody dies or everybody dies . Well , unless you want to follow it up with a mid-air collision ( " The Crowded Sky " ) . In that case it's easier to stick to the strict moral formula and kill off the bad people instead of having to guide them through some epiphany in which they realize how wrong they've been . You can do so much more with BIGGER disasters , as depicted in " Volcano . " Not only do you get the same little human dramas , but you get multiple sub-disasters . In the kind of earthquake that generates a volcano in downtown Los Angeles , or what there IS of a downtown in Los Angeles , not only do buildings fall or almost collapse , but cars swerve and crash on the undulating roadway , fire mains burst , fires break out , dams fail and flood the villages in the valley , and ( if you want to push it ) airplanes can be forced by lack of fuel to land on runways that are being cracked apart by tectonic forces . The whole earth - - that thing under our feet that we always take for granted - - shrugs and heaves and makes us think about God . Yes . If we think about it , I suspect we can all agree that an earthquake is the best of disasters , especially ones that generate a flood of lava in a huge city . Great opportunities for computer-generated special effects . Loved ones can go missing - - and they may have been killed or saved , unlike that tiny airplane way up there in the sky in which it's all or nothing at all . Most of these sub-disasters happen in " Volcano " - - PLUS those plaster animals in the La Brea Tar Pits get swallowed up in their entirety . Tommy Lee Jones is separated from his daughter . Anne Heche is pretty and blond as the requisite scientist . The movie is frantic and doesn't give the audience much chance to breathe . No acting is called for and none is on display . This is about money , not art . And when it comes to money , MORE IS MORE . Watch it if you want . I did once and managed to see it all the way through , but I never cared much for L . A . in the first place .
Your Treasury Department at Work .	This is a pretty routine crime drama involving narcotics in New York . The SS Florentine docks and unships a crate of medical dope but instead of dope there is nothing but sand in the crate . The purser has stolen it , with the complicity of one of the passengers , a Miss Toni Cardell . Two Treasury agents , Scott Brady and Richard Rober , latch on to the case and track the dope through a network of heavies and murderers led by Yul Brynner . They succeed with the help of the U . S . Coast Guard and at the cost of Brady's life . Right away , though , I had a slight problem in that nobody anywhere is named Miss Toni Cardell . It's the kind of echt-schiksa name that somebody might dream up because it sounded right , like " Ellie Arroway " in Carl Sagan's novel , " Contact . " But just try to find a name like Toni Cardell in a phone book , especially in Shanghai . I dare you . Secondly , the crate carrying the dope is opened by customs agents . It's a big crate , the size of a wardrobe , and it's filled entirely with sand . A reasonable inference is that a LOT of dope is missing , yet when the box of narcotics is finally discovered in a locker at Grand Central Station , it's only big enough to contain , say , three dictionaries . Those , of course , are minor things . Yet this is a minor movie . It's a routine track-'em-down mystery with T-men putting themselves in danger by posing as somebody else . Scott Brady is okay . He's an Irishman with Burt Lancaster's habit of sticking out his jaw in a defiant scowl when he's angry . It's rather likable . His partner , Richard Rober , on the other hand , has practically nothing to offer , a bland , acceptably handsome contract player . He's the one who should have been knocked off early on , allowing Scott Brady to continue the chase . Best performance , hands down - - Yul Brynner with hair as the Vladimir Putin look-alike who heads the whole operation . What a background the guy had . A Jew from Sakhalin Island off the Siberian coast , a stint at the Sorbonne in Paris , a trapeze artist . " The King and I " brought him fame but left him socked into a domineering and unsubtle persona . Here , he gives his most earnest performance . He's suave , handsome , delicate even . And - - this being 1949 , the year when the Cold War became an undeniable fact - - his Russian accent fits the temporal template . He's better here than he ever was later . But , taken as a whole , what we have here is an inexpensive Eagle Lion crime drama with self-sacrificing heroes and ruthless villains . Nice to see the Coast Guard in action . Even if , to pump up the action , the writers and Lazlo Benedict , the director , have Brynner shooting his snub-nosed revolver at an 83-footer armed with a 20 millimeter cannon on the bow . Diverting , yes , but not much new .
Notes From the Underground	The point of Wolfe's original novel - - indeed the point of the whole story - - is that things take place because of a carefully calculated sense of expediency . The goal is survival within a particular kind of life style . The novel is full of malice . The only relationship that rings emotionally true is that between Sherman and his daughter , Campbell , and that's only touched upon . That aside , everyone is out for what he can get in the way of publicity , power , money or self aggrandizement . Wolfe was criticized for hitting every character and every social segment of New York City over the head . His response was a denial . After all , he lived in New York himself and belonged to a neighborhood improvement committee and other admirable organizations , exactly the qualifications one would want on his resume in order to deny that he disliked New Yorkers . ( Wolfe has a PhD in American Studies from Yale and is no dummy . ) Those supposed weaknesses are what made the novel memorable . Nobody was any good . And Sherman McCoy wound up broke , a professional protester for social justice . The movie throws all of that away and imposes a moral frame on the story that simply doesn't fit . Wolfe did his homework . The novel was rooted in reality . Every event was not only possible but thoroughly believable . Wolfe might have made a great cultural anthropologist - - he knows how to get inside a system and record its details . Yes , any of us might have found ourselves , as Sherman and his mistress do , stuck in the South Bronx , threatened by a couple of black kids , and making a getaway after bumping into one of them . That scene is transferred neatly from print to celluloid . But after that scene the movie seems not to trust its audience and at times become frantic in its attempt to spell out its message , however nebulous the message is . Sherman might accidentally hit some kid and be arrested for it as he is in the novel , but he would not immediately upon his release from jail go back to his phenomenally expensive condo , take out a shotgun , and start shooting into the ceiling with it , as he does in the movee . In what's supposed to be a funny scene , ceiling plaster falls all over the party guests and they scurry away , shrieking . It simply would not have happened . The movie has left the novel's unspeakably detailed reality in the dust . Wolfe's sensibility , the work he put into capturing the real , has been lost . What we get instead is a noisy , fantastic , and silly scene that doesn't do anything except wake the audience up . Similar empty scenes follow , screaming out for Wolfe's verisimilitude . The movie also fails because it thrusts a lot of sin and redemption into an entertaining story of moral nihilism . Here we see " Don Juan in Hell " at the opera . We get lectures on redemption from a poet with AIDs . We see a lot of guilt in Sherman . A black judge who preaches from the bench and gives one of those final speeches about how we all have to start behaving nicely again . A reporter who feels sorry for Sherman after turning him into a sacrificial lamb . And a happy ending in which Sherman gets off by breaking the law with an idiotic grin . The scene sits on the movie like a jester's cap on a circus elephant's head . The movie not only makes points that are already trite and unoriginal , it overstates them , as if the audience were incapable of absorbing any subtleties . It's not the acting or the direction that's poor . The film's not bad in those respects . And the photography is pretty good too , including two rather spectacular shots - - the gargoyles of the Chrysler building and the landing of the Concorde . It's the script that is thoroughly botched . The first half of the movie , roughly , is okay in conception and execution . It keeps some of the little details from the novel . Sherman and Judy's dog is named Marshall . Who the hell would name a dog Marshall ? It loses its focus almost completely in the second half and on the whole is barely worth watching . Wolfe's cynical redneck right-wingism may be offensive to a lot of people , but he's got the cojones to lay his percepts out . Alas the writers and producers did not have the courage to pick them up and thus blew the chance to make a fascinating study of New Yorkers .
Derivative mystery .	This was directed and co-written by Joseph Mankiewicz . The cast includes John Hodiak and Richard Conte . Almost all the scenes are shot at night around Los Angeles and on the lot . It ought to be good but in fact it's no more than routine . Let's recall John Huston's superb " The Maltese Falcon , " in which the hero , Sam Spade , is hired to find a fabulously expensive statue of a bird whose trip through time has left a trail of dead bodies behind . Spade searches for the statue , discovering a little more about it each time he runs into the colorful and quirky figures that are associated with its pursuit . The Fat Man , the Gay Levantine , the dame with the past , the Gunsel - - they come crawling out of the woodwork , enough of them to make a minion . In the climactic scene they are all brought together in Spade's apartment , where all is explained . And they leave , only to have Spade ring up the police and clue them in , except for the Ambiguous Dame who is revealed as the chief villain . I suspect " The Maltese Falcon " must have provided the model for this dark mystery , though enough cosmetic surgery has been performed to disguise the features of the original mold . Instead of the mysterious " black bird " , John Hodiak , the man with no memory , pursues his own past and the two million dollars hidden somewhere within it . He runs into a gang of colorful and quirky characters . The Fat Man here is just a guy with a sinister face and a German accent and a classy phraseology . The Gunsel is a huge " tub of lard " who is barely able to string three sentences together . There's no Gay Levantine , but a few other characters make up for his absence . The Ambiguous Dame is split into her two constituents - - the louche broad who slings around French clichés and the honest , brave Nancy Guild who falls in love with Hodiak ( and vice versa ) two minutes after they meet . Hodiak is beaten up by the hoods , just as Spade was . At the end , he demands a " fall guy " for the police , just as Spade did . The hoodlum gang , instead of leaving , just shrug and their leader tells them philosophically that " the jig is up . " The friend turns out to be the real scheming murderer - - Spade's Ambiguous Dame there , a secondary but likable character here . The direction is okay . Mankiewicz was no slouch . And some of the writing is passable , as is Hodiak's performance as George Taylor and , especially , Lloyd Nolan's as the police lieutenant . The rest are pallid facsimiles . There are , in fact , too many quirky and colorful characters and none of them could act . Neither could Nancy Guild , although she was attractive enough . Hodiak's pursuit of his own identity , his pal Larry Cravat , and the two million bucks grows tiresome - - and confusing too . There are too many leads , too many red herrings . We watch Hodiak travel from place to place , mostly meeting with hostility from people who don't even know him , garnering little scraps of information which may lead somewhere , or maybe not . The musical score has no lilt to it . And the characters have only one note on their instruments , except for Nolan who delivers sarcasm and irony with effortless aplomb . Mankiewicz was to do much better , later on . These semi-noir mysteries were not his forte , though he made another one of them and that one , " No Way Out , " was pretty damned good .
modest sub movie	You have to feel sorry for anybody who tries to write the screenplay for a submarine movie . How is it possible to avoid all the established clichés ? The shattered chronometer , the bursting pipe , the ritual commands , the toy submarine nosing through the murk , the wounded skipper lying on the deck and ordering the boat down , the periscope slicing the sea , the tin can approaching at high speed , the pinging sonar gear , the tense sweaty faces , the walloped camera as the depth charge explodes , the conflict between the CO and the Exec , the playful bantering of the crew , a down-the-throat shot . Added to that are the problems that any Navy movie has . The men have no chance at individual heroism and practically none of being dramatically wounded . ( Unless one of them gets appendicitis or has a torpedo fall on him , which happens from time to time . ) Basically , the crew are there for comic purposes , so the burden of the drama must fall on the officers . The question can never be about who is going to rush out with his tommy gun and save the rest of the patrol , so it can only be about whose judgment is correct , the skipper or one of his officers . ( Sometimes a romantic conflict on the beach is thrown in , but that's rather arbitrary , kind of like the appendicitis patient . ) This one isn't too bad , as sub movies go , but it arrives late in the post-war genre . Nobody in it is weak . The enemy is dehumanized , the dialogue trite and exhausted , the action scenes shot on the cheap , and the story is twisted , hard to follow , and sometimes pointless . ( Example , midway through the movie a great deal is made of Captain Reagan's having brought back an accurate chart of the Japanese mine fields , but when the subs are sent out en masse it turns out the mines have been moved around so the chart is now irrelevant . ) The performers do as well as they can under the circumstances , although Nancy Reagan is definitely in the wrong part here . The right parts would have been those taken by the elderly Bette Davis . The cast has a lot of familiar faces , but none of them memorable because of their having given good performances elsewhere , only memorable because we've seen them so often before . The director should be spanked . A man is knocked about during a depth charge attack and is taken to sick bay . After he's been treated and bandaged up , there are still trickles of blood down his chin and the side of his face . Once winces at such sloppiness . And there is another painfully staged scene , when Reagan and Davis are saying good-bye . Davis's face is in the foreground . She stares unblinkingly just to the left of the camera's lens while Reagan stands behind and speaks to her over her shoulder . This particular part of cinematic grammar must antedate cinema itself . Should you see it ? Well - - why not . It's a historical curiosity if nothing else .
Highly infectious viral plot .	Don't show emotion , don't blink your eyes , walk like a zombie , and above all don't go to sleep - - or else you change into a simulacrum of your former self . Where have we heard this before ? Well , it was a story in Collier's Magazine in the early 1950s . It was made into a superior low-budget science fiction movie by Don Siegel in 1956 . Remade and up dated in the 1970s . Done again , with less panache , ten years later . Then Carpenter's remake is in here somewhere . And now , yet again , the permutations of the plot have been shuffled and here we go . This time , Dr . Binell is Nicole Kidman . It's from a woman's point of view , and she has a child that must be protected . See , women are more helpless than men , and children even more so , so that less effort needs to be put into the attempt to involve the audience in the protagonist's predicament . There is no mention of pods , though I kept thinking throughout of the victims as " pod people . " This time , what appears to be " the flu " is " going around . " One wonders where the flu " goes " when it's not going around . Some vast staging area in the sky probably . But , as the experienced viewer already knows after the first few minutes , this is a remake of " The Invasion of the Body Snatchers " and the problem has nothing to do with earthly pathogens . It's a large virus from outer space that goes to work in the human body when " hormones are released during REM sleep . " ( There are several inserts of gurgling blood streams and bursting spiked basketballs , just so we understand what's up . ) The extraterrestrial virus does something to the skin before it morphs the victim too , so that we see one guy , half-morphed , who looks like a thousand-year-old freeze dried Peruvian mummy . The plot is nonsense but it hardly matters . The plot of the original was full of holes too , but Siegel did such a good job of conveying the small-town atmosphere of Santa Mira and the performers were so good at their jobs that the impression left at the end was that of a good fairy tale . This one is a bad fairy tale , tasteless , tawdry , cheapened in every way except in terms of budget and cast . There's nothing wrong with the cast . Nicole Kidman is expert at handling some challenging roles - - " To Die For " and " Eyes Wide Shut " come to mind - - but she has nothing to work with here . Basically , she runs and runs and runs , usually tugging her child by the hand , while pursued by gangs of zombified goons . There is no atmosphere to speak of , and less character . The direction is perfunctory and the script pandering . There are shoot outs , grotesque spastic semi-corpses , falls from skyscraper rooftops , transmission by means of vomit colored like spinach dip , multiple car chases , multiple car crashes , and gore galore . It borrows clichés from every action thriller you've ever seen , including a gratuitous hypodermic jab into the heart , from " Pulp Fiction . " It raises , almost by accident , some interesting questions . In the background of all this hectic activity , we notice on TV that the world leaders have stopped bickering because , presumably , they've been infected with the virus . Kim Jong Il disbands his nuke project ; the president turns Iraq over to the Iraqis ; pharmacies give away vaccines for AIDS , and so on . Zombies have nothing to fight about or to covet , you understand . So , then , what's so bad about zombification ? The original posed an interesting conflict between humanity , with all its flaws and virtues , including love , and a placid but will-less existence . Absent here . And is Kim Jong Il a pod person ? Is George W . Bush ? And , if the victims don't really care about anything , how do they reproduce ? The film raises another interesting point . There's a virus going around , for sure , but it's a viral idea that spreads from production to production , first insidiously , then fulminatingly , leading to terminal Gargantuanosis . An idea , once proved to be commercially successful , invades the other Hollywood cells and forces them to replicate the DNA of the original until they finally pop and release still more viruses into the cinematic blood stream and before you know it , every new movie you see is a replica of an earlier one , whether this is acknowledged in the title or not . Yes - - " The Invasion " is the perfect title for this piece of brummagem garbage .
The Beast From One or Two Fathoms .	This is a brave and robust monster - - and it travels well too . It started off around 1950 as a Ray Bradbury story about a lonely sea monster who mistakes a lighthouse fog horn for the mating call of a possible mate . Then it became " The Beast From 20 , 000 Fathoms " , about an Apedosaurus who is released from his cryogenic state by a nuclear blast , attacks New York City , pillages rabidly , kills with its radioactive blood , and perishes amid a conflagration in Coney Island's roller coaster . ( I'm thinking - - twenty-thousand fathoms . That's 120 , 000 feet or 23 miles . The deepest location on the earth's crust is the Marianas trench , and that's only 6 . 8 miles . ) This animal may not be deep but he is tough to kill . Here it shows up on the English coast , under a different name , with a smaller budget , and starring Gene Evans and Andre Morell . Gene Evans is the scientific expert who cuts up the radioactive fish that wash ashore in adumbration of the monster's appearance . A morel is some kind of eel . The plot is very similar to that of " The Beast From 20 , 000 Fathoms , " really . Some of the shots are almost exact duplicates of the original . A fishing vessel is attacked at sea . An amusing , oddball professor is a paleontological enthusiast and is done away with . A brick wall crumbles beneath the animal's elephantine foot and crushes the pedestrians on the other side . A car is stomped , chewed up , thrown away . Citizens in a panic run this way and that in front of the camera . Someone falls and the others clump over him or trip and fall themselves . The streets of London are eerily empty of people and traffic because no one is willing to venture outside . Urgent international emergency broadcasts in six different languages . The monster's skull is too thick to penetrate , so a radioactive projectile must be blasted in through a soft point in its neck . The original was no masterpiece but it's better in every respect , from the acting to the special effects by Ray Harryhausen . Here , instead of Cecil Calloway , there is Gene Evans . Gene Evans . Not to put the guy down , but he is from Holbrook , Arizona , which I recall from a generation ago as consisting of a crossroads , some scattered housing , a few small shops , a gas station , and a Dairy Queen . I'll have to look up his background to find out how Gene Evans managed to get from that Dairy Queen to a starring role in a British monster movie . His looks - - balding , freckled , with a fringe of russet hair around his ear line - - is most unprepossessing . His acting talents were modest . ( You or I , dragged in fresh off the streets , could probably equal him in a contest . ) And when he announces , " I'm just going to cut up a fish , " he sounds as if he knows a lot more about cutting up fish than about science . I've kind of made fun of the film and , to be honest , I don't really know why it was made . But I watched it all the way through , partly out of curiosity , and partly out of respect for Andre Morell , a fine actor who looks and sounds the part he plays . If you like these kinds of movies , you'll enjoy this movie . It's not likely to present you with any kind of challenge , anymore than it challenged the plagiarists who wrote it .
Ex Wife REALLY nails hubby .	Strikes me as routine , as far as TV movies go . I can believe that it's based on a true story because the plot seems too clumsy to have been written by anyone with storytelling skills . For instance , good old John Ritter ( now a rather bulky and bearded villain ) poisons his wife enough to make her ill , then accuses her of being psychosomatic and leaves to marry another young woman immediately . Fourteen years pass before the story picks up again . Why fourteen years ? I would guess that though the narrative doesn't demand it , history does . Some of the particular scenes , however , are so cinematically apt that they were almost certainly dreamed up by a writer . Pawing through her attic , Helgenberger , Ritter's first wife , stumbles across an old electrical appliance and has one of those black-and-white flashbacks with stings on the score - - suddenly she recalls when , fourteen years ago , she discovered Ritter shaving selenium filings from a rectifier , carefully collecting them , and putting them in her shampoo and her eyelash liner ( or whatever it's called ) . Later it develops that he was putting it into her coffee as well . Frankly , I don't believe it . I don't believe either that she had that particular epiphany in the attic or that Ritter put selenium shavings into her shampoo or eyeliner . Selenium is referred to in the movie as a " toxic metal " and I suppose it is , in sufficient quantity , but it's also an anti-oxidant that's sold over the counter in drug stores and swallowed . Someone will have to demonstrate - - as no one does in this movie - - that it is a topical poison . Many people have tried the nicotine patch and failed . So how come some selenium in her shampoo gives Marg Helgenberger immediate and drastic headaches ? And her eyes become as painful as boils when she applies makeup ? I think the anthropologist E . B . Tylor called this simple-minded idea " sympathetic magic , " but I'm not sure . Mais je divage . Anyway Ritter evidently tries the same stunt with his second wife fourteen years later , although no evidence of trickery is ever produced when she becomes ill with the same symptoms . Wife Number Two is taken to Mexico and apparently cured but suddenly drops dead shortly after her return . Circumstantial evidence piles up against Ritter , who plays the villain with all the stops out - - when his first trial is dismissed he SMIRKS at Helgenberger , who has prompted the investigation . You see , Helgenberger was good friends with Ritter's second wife and was terribly disturbed at her demise and its manner . ( I'll bet . ) And she wants to prevent the same thing from happening to the wealthy young woman who seems lined up for third place in Ritter's marital schedule . ( Sure . ) The best performance is given by the guy who plays Detective Mauser - - Lawrence Dane ? Everyone else acts by the numbers . They project emotions and thoughts with the subtlety of a warning at a railroad crossing . But Dane does little things that are original . " I'm told you want to report a murder . ( Long pause while he sits down and waits ) , then abruptly thrusts his face towards Helgeberger and inquires in a reasonable and curious voice , " So who was murdered " ? I suppose except for the bare bones of the historical events , nothing prevented characters or their actions from being drawn differently than they were in real life . I mean , what the heck , Ritter is still in jail convicted of murder and Helgenberger's character is dead , so who is to object ? I wish the forensic stuff had been made clearer . Ritter seems to have used so many poisons and toxic metals - - let me see , selenium , cyanide , a massive dose of chlorine , and maybe something else - - that I was confused by it all . Not that I was rooting for Ritter . Here's a mathematician with a Ph . D . who insists people call him " doctor . " He even corrects people who address him merely as " professor . " Most Ph . D . s get that narcissistic problem behind them very quickly . " Jes ' call me Whitey , even though I know how to get a standard deviation and you don't . " Average TV fare .
And a left - - and a right !	I don't think the theme goes farther back than Lysistrata , about 400 BC . Women object to men's aficion for combat and try to stop it . This looks like a TV movie with higher production values and better actors . For forerunners of poor families drawn into boxing look for " Body and Soul " and " Rocky " . Yet , as a feel-good movie , as most of Ron Howard's are , it works - - in the sense that you feel good at the end . Want to draw two lessons from it ? Have a devoted wife ( a great performance by Zellwiger ) and every dumb Irishman should have a smart Jewish manager . So as not to burden the viewer with the necessity of thought , the script shows us characters that are exclusively one dimensional . Braddock's probity is never in doubt . And Max Baer is thoroughly evil , along the lines of Mr . T in " Rocky III . " No character ever changes or develops in any way . What you see at first is what you get all the way through . The film even preaches that during the Great Depression , communism ( or " unionism " ) was wrong-headed . Braddock's socially engaged working-class pal gets run over by a horse-drawn wagon in a Hooverville . Braddock , who refuses to fight anything that he can't see , like " the economy , " emerges victorious . That's the movie's political point of view , although the fact is , as every sensible person know , under capitalism man exploits man . Under communism it's just the opposite . There are two good things about it . One is the fight scenes , that resemble paintings by Bellows . The choreography hasn't much new to offer but at least it doesn't repeat shots that have now become clichés . Little in the way of slow motion . On the other hand , Howard is so anxious for the viewer not to overlook even the most obvious points that when Braddock has one or two ribs cracked during a bout , the director actually shows us a brief X-ray of the ribs ! Does it resemble any previous sports movies ? How could it not ? Put " The Rookie , " " Rocky " , and one or two others into a Waring blender and this is what you get . An entertaining , even gripping , thoroughly commercial fairy tale . Not that it's bad . It IS after all a feel-good movie . And the scenes of economic desolation are convincing . When my grandmother died my grandfather , an immigrant , was saddled with three kids , the oldest about 12 , while working 12 hours a day including Saturdays . He farmed them out and chipped in as well as he could , just as in this movie . Those who think of those days as a golden age , before taxes and such social programs as LIHEAP , ought to rethink things . A second interesting point , though , is the stovepipe into the wealthy class . It really worked for minorities . First Irish , then Italians and Jews , then blacks , then Latinos . Boxing , barbaric as it is , serves the same economic purpose as the military - - a way out of poverty .
Routine Mystery .	Halle Berry is a reporter whose best friend is murdered . She pursues the case over the objections of her editor , who finally fires her . ( If she were a cop , this would be the scene in which she hands over her gun and badge . ) With the help of a friend at the paper , Giovanni Ribisi , she goes undercover and is hired by the prime suspect , Bruce Willis , a nasty executive at the firm where Berry's friend last worked , a guy who exudes menace and embodies a kind of serpentine lechery . It's a pretty tough slog for the viewer . The writers have done what they could but not much of interest happens , despite some trumped-up suspense plug-ins . Red herrings abound . Everybody turns out to have secrets of one sort or another and they are uncovered , one by one , except for those of the murderer . Halle Berry looks delicious , though she is no longer the cherub of yesteryear . That's not necessarily a disadvantage . The part calls for a fully grown and determined woman , not a cutie pie . Her acting is seasoned and pedestrian . Giovanni Ribisi is a good nerd but occupies so much screen time that we KNOW he's more than just a helping hand . Bruce Willis is toggled into his minimalist mode , which renders him more ominous but less human than in his usual action movies . I prefer him dashing along steel girders with a pistol in hand . The ending calls for a suspension of disbelief uncommon outside of frank delusions . I don't know why this is so dull . Maybe - - at least in part - - because no one has yet found a way to make participation in internet chat exciting .
Harmless Flag-Waver About Boot Camp .	A routine program filler with some familiar faces in the cast - - Rosco Karns , Robert Armstrong of " King Kong , " Horace McMahon in a walk-on . It's sort of a training film - - " What to Expect When You Join the Navy and What You Should Avoid Doing . " The opening narration tells us about the men in civilian clothes who are being marched into the Great Lakes Naval Training Center , " Yesterday , you lived in Glencoe , Illinois , in Hammond , Indiana , in Podunk , Nebraska . And you were a machinist , a clerk , a farmer , a philatelist ( well , not that ) , but today you're joining the Navy and you are sailors . " That's fine for the half dozen men whose careers we follow , but a little upsetting to Johnny Zumano , a boxer whose career was just getting started and who wanted to become a champ to provide for his impoverished parents . Johnny , whose story this chiefly is , gets over his initial frustration but when , on top of everything else , he is dumped by his girl friend he gets drunk and is about to be court martialed and discharged . Through the seasonable interposition of a gracious providence , the four-striper who is about to pull the lanyard on the guillotine of justice overhears Johnny talking to the chaplain . " Gee , I wanted to stay in the Navy something awful and ship out with the other fellas but I couldn't tell the Captain that . " Johnny has his pride , see , and he don't go whining to nobody . However , the Captain having overheard Johnny's confession , so to speak , now realizes how committed Johnny is to the U . S . Navy . Does Johnny avoid a discharge ? Does he join his comrades ? Do they ship out together ? No power on earth could drag the answers from me . It's a low-budget effort , true , and we can't expect too much in the way of acting or story or art direction . Yet , every time I tell myself that , I think of Val Lewton over at RKO who in the same time period was churning out one little gem after another on a similar budget , and horror pictures at that , with such unpromising titles as " The Leopard Man . " Or , ten years later , the inexpensive but vernacular art of the Scott-Boettiger Westerns . It's the difference between merely doing a job and showing some degree of craftsmanlike care in your product .
Yet Another Serial Killer With a Theme	This one , David Keith , is an antiques vendor and schlepper who for some reason is killing 30-ish successful women by plastic-bagging them , then dressing them , grooming them , and posing them in the position of antique dolls . Kelly McGillis is an ex-medical student , a graduate in fact , who was Keith's first victim but managed to escape his clutches before being turned into a dead doll . She has an MD from Texas but , after spending some time recovering from her trauma , she is now an ordinary homicide cop in Houston . ( Sure . ) The plot . Well , you already pretty much know it by now , I presume . A number of women turn up dead in peculiar ways . The police have to figure out if there is a link between the killings . There is . Then they have to figure out the particular theme this serial killer is using . Usually phrased as , " What do these women have in common ? " In other movies of this genre - - and it IS a genre unto itself - - the killings are based on puzzles from Alice in Wonderland , or replications of previous high-profile serial murderers , or a drawing of a pentagram on a map , or - - I think there's one based on a game of tic tac toe . Or was it hopscotch ? One forgets after viewing a dozen or so examples . McGillis does alright by her role , although she hasn't much in the way of range . ( It's hard to imagine her getting stoned and enjoying herself . ) And she has one of those cases of asthma or whatever it is that disable her at critical moments , a momento of her earlier abuse . She is intense enough , though , and that's about all that's required of her . Moffet , or whoever plays her partner Detective Cirillo , seems to have only one key on his instrument . It would have been a more interesting movie if he'd been the heavy . David Keith has the juiciest part , an outwardly charming , inwardly explosive , sadistic madman . What a scuzzball he is , trying to spoon feed pecan pie to one of his victims before offing her . He gets a bit of exercise because he's required to change personae from time to time . Bruce Dern , gone gray and losing his hair under his cowboy hat , has played numerous psychotic heavies and if he'd been a few years younger would have done fine as the heavy in this movie as well . He's hardly on screen , though . There's nothing original in this flick . I'm beginning to yawn when the finale begins with the lone female investigator breaking into the murderer's darkened house and creeping around with a flashlight whose beam reveals spooky objects and ominously closed doors . It worked okay for a while but has now become redundant , after " Silence of the Lambs " and any number of other examples . Other boilerplate scenes include the fight between the investigator and the maniac . The investigator is armed but has the gun knocked out of his or her hand . A shot of the pistol skidding along the floor . A shot of somebody's hand grasping for the weapon just out of reach . To my knowledge , this sequence was first used in a motion picture in the year 1798 . You know something , though ? It's bad enough that these plots always involve the murders of young women , but this film has a drawn-out and especially execrable scene in which the murderer , Keith , teases one of his tied-up , terrified victims . The victim knows she's going to die and so do we , but we must sit there and watch David Keith try to pamper her and then throw a fit of pique when she refuses to eat his goddamn home-made pie and then plastic bag her while she screams and wiggles . At whom is this scene aimed ? What I mean is , who will enjoy seeing something so brutal and disgusting ? It's not necessary to our understanding of either the plot or the character . Casting decisions must have been given about 5 seconds of thought . The first killer we see , being sentenced in a Texas court , is a big , hulking , ugly , sneering brute who spits at Inspector Kelly McGillis . How much more interesting if he'd been a little mouse . David Keith , the killer-in-chief , has always been cast as a weak , perennial loser . The uncooperative sexist detective on the Houston PD is a fat guy with a mustache and no neck who could have won the blue ribbon as prize hog at the Texas State Fair . Well , looking at the donut instead of the hole , the formula wouldn't have been reused so often if there weren't something workable about it . And there IS one well-written , if overacted , scene at an outdoor flea market in which Keith almost , but not quite , lures a beautiful blond customer into his web . If it's late at night and you find you can't sleep , you might give this a try . Either it will act as a distraction from your distress or as a soporific . Both ways , you win something .
Unprepossessing Cops vs . Gangsters	There's nothing particularly original about this story of corrupt unions on one side and the " chief attorney " on the other . The stark but unimaginative lighting and photography stems from the fagged out noir cycle . The story could easily have been out of a Warner Brothers drawer with George Raft in the lead . The performances are routine , the direction flat , and even the set dressing perfunctory . ( An alley is shown by a single plaster wall of simulated brick . It has one poster on it . The poster says , " Post No Bills . " ) We are introduced to the story and some of the characters by a portentous narrator who informs us that , while most unions work hard and honestly to advance the causes of their members , a few are corrupt . But we don't really get to know much about the unions or how they operate , although I suppose they were fair game after the success of " On the Waterfront " a few years earlier . Here they're just a peg to hang the tale on . The real ring leader is a disbarred lawyer who runs things through three or four thugs . The District Attorney ( or whatever he is ) finds out , like Dana Andrews did in " Boomerang , " that the wrong man ( Dick Foran ) is charged with a murder and he spends the rest of the film almost alone , digging up evidence of Foran's innocence . He gets into fist fights and shoot outs like any inexpensive movie private eye . Brian Keith is the D . A . He's shown some insinuating displays of talent elsewhere , but here he spends most of the time speaking quietly and staring at the floor . Elisha Cook , Jr . , is a likable rummy but can't do a good drunk . Beverley Garland is okay but is undermined by the direction , which has her gawking in a night club when she should be furtive . The remainder of the cast would be suitable for a TV series . And nobody is helped by the writing . When a " B girl " is about to be shipped by the union mob to the Filippines , someone advises her that she only has to learn a few words of Spanish . " I only know one word , " she says , " Si . Yes . " The writers have not trusted the audience to know that " si " in Spanish means " yes . " The plot is clumsy and has holes in it . Keith visits a witness in her flat over a night club . He enters the door and has a gun shoved in his back by a yegg , but he outwits the heavy and knocks him out . Then the orders someone to call the police . The rest of the scene , played out at some length in the night club downstairs , forgets all about the police and they never show up , nor are they expected by anyone . It's nothing to be ashamed of , and some people might enjoy it , but there is similar stuff , better done , elsewhere .
Pedestrian .	Pretty decent cast - - John Garfield , Wallace Ford , Selena Royle - - but the film is no more than routine . Garfield is a gangster who has just committed a payroll robbery . On the run , he takes refuge in the working-class apartment of a girl he just met , Shelley Winters , and her family - - Mom , Pop , and kid brother . His identity is discovered by the family and he quietly takes them hostage , holding a snub-nosed . 38 on them . But what's he going to do with them ? How is he supposed to get away with the dragnet out for him ? Mom and Pop are quietly repulsed by him , but Winters is attracted and evidently spends the night with him , intending to accompany him on his getaway . He sends her out to buy a car with part of the payroll money but comes to believe she didn't buy the car . Instead , she's betrayed him to the police . In the end , she's forced to shoot him at the doorway to the apartment house . He looks surprised , says , " You never had no love for me , " stumbles out the door , only to discover before he collapses that she'd been true to her word . There sits the car . And Garfield plops into the rain-filled gutter . Mostly - - throughout the movie - - they talk . Then they talk more . Then they go on talking more . Garfield's character emerges as embittered and cynical , self pitying , angry at those who have betrayed him all through his life , beginning with his mother . But he's not very smart . He allows the family to go out in order to show up at work or run errands , as long as he has one member at home for a hostage . While the rest are absent , in a burst of generosity and hope , he has an elaborate turkey dinner prepared . When they return , he beams with pride and tells them to dig in . But they remain silent , and Mom produces some left-over stew , which they proceed to spoon out without enthusiasm . " I don't get it , " says Garfield . " What's the mattah with the toikey ? Ga head - - cahve it up . " Pop tells him solemnly , " This is our dinner . The turkey is YOUR dinner . " Garfield is dumbfounded . " Huh ? Oh - - I GET IT . " ( Finally . ) It could easily have been a radio play , still popular at the time ( 1951 ) or a live TV show from Playhouse 90 . The budget is low and the story skeletal . Usually they find room for remarks about how this is going to be the hottest day of the year or something . Here the patter is limited to remarks about the future , about good character , about responsibility , and they lead nowhere . I usually find John Garfield's performances likable - - another lower-middle-class guy from New York - - but never magnetic . Shelley Winters usually gets panned but I don't know why . She's never bad , and often better than the script calls for .
Always remember you're a guest at the party .	Six GIs , about to be send home and discharged , get drunk and sneak into a cult meeting in Asia . Surrounded by hooded figures , two male dancers pretend to have a fight . Behind them , on an altar , a woven basket opens and a figure painted emerges and begins imitating a snake , finally biting one of the dancers on the neck . The imitation snake is dressed in some scaley looking body tights . ( This is definitely a female imitation snake . ) The cult member who has sneaked them into the secret meeting has warned the six men repeatedly that the ceremonies must not be interrupted and , most definitely , no photos must be taken or else they will be hunted down and killed . Naturally , the GIs take a flash photo , send the cult members into an angry hysteria , steal the basket containing the " snake " and run off with it into the Asian night . One of the guys , the most offensive and snarky , dies from a cobra bite on the neck , though no one can explain how the snake got into his hospital room . Back in New York , it all seems rather old news as the discharged men settle down into their civilian lives , still maintaining their bond with one another . Their jobs range from manager of a bowling alley ( David Janssen ) to graduate research student ( Richard Long ) . James Dobson , Jack Kelly , and Marshall Thompson are also part of the neighborhood . Richard Long has a nice blond girl friend . Kelly is a somewhat reckless womanizer . But they all get along well enough and all of them seem happy . Then a dark , shifty-looking , mysterious woman ( Faith Domergue ) shows up and Marshall Thompson takes a liking to her and insinuates her into the group . Guess what happens . First Janssen is terrified by a shadow in the back seat and dies in a car crash . Then Kelly gets a visit from Domergue . Something scares him so badly he tumbles through the window and dies in the fall to the sidewalk . Long and Dobson begin to suspect what the viewer already knows - - that Domergue has had something to do with the deaths . They also reckon that maybe she's turning into a cobra , which is the case . Dobson confronts her with his suspicions and she proves his point . By this time Long and Thompson are thoroughly frazzled , particularly Thompson , who is in love with Domergue and has discovered that she is attracted to him , too , although he must explain to her what " love " is . No matter . A final reckless attack by the cobra woman against Long's girl friend - - not one of the six original offenders - - and Thompson must throw the snake out the window . On the pavement below , the body changes to that of Domergue . The end . I think I'll skip over most of the questions that the plot raises . I'll just mention one of the more prosaic ones in passing . Who paid for Domergue's fare from somewhere in Asia to New York ? Who's paying her utility bills in the hotel ? Who paid for her spectacular wardrobe ? How come she speaks American English so well ? What the hell's going on ? The writers and director have clearly seen some of Val Lewton's modest horror films and , though not much effort has gone into this production , they've unashamedly stolen some gimmicks from Lewton . In Lewton's " The Cat People " , for instance , the woman is transformed into a black leopard but , with one tiny exception , the threat is always kept in the shadows and is all the more spooky for it . Most of the transformations here use shadows too , but unlike Lewton's , the shadows are clumsy and unambiguous . Lewton also made occasional use of what he called " buses " . Lewton's first " bus " was a literal one . A potential victim is hurrying alone through the dark tunnels of Central Park with only the sound of footsteps . Something or someone is following her . She freezes with fright under a street lamp . Something rustles the branches of the shrubs above her . She looks upward . There is a loud , wheezing shriek that makes your hair stand on end . It's a bus using its air brakes to stop for her . The producers used at least two " buses " in this film and they amount to nothing . A guy is walking distractedly across an intersection , for instance , and there is the sudden rumble of a truck that almost hits him . There is no set up to the shot . It's jammed in with a shoe horn . I don't much care for movies that perpetuate the stereotype of serpents as slimy , ugly , venomous , and phallic . As a matter of fact , no snakes are slimy , most are harmless , and many are extraordinarily beautiful . Furthermore , they're more feminine than masculine in their sinuous movements and serpentine approach to goals . You want a reptilian symbol for masculinity ? Try a six-lined racerunner . It's a really fast lizard . When it sees something to eat , it rushes up and gobbles it down . Anyway , if you want to see some fine , low-budget scary films , don't bother with this one . Find " The Cat People " or one of Lewton's other minor masterpieces , of which this is an obvious copy .
Torpid Modernization of Othello .	I kind of looked forward to this - - Patrick McGoohan , Charlie Mingus , Dave Brubeck , Billy Shakespeare . How could it go wrong ? But it's pretty slow and ultimately unbelievable . When I see a band manager being taunted by a drummer , McGoohan , and becoming enraged while stoned , instead of flinging himself on the couch with three bags of Doritos , there's something wrong . With dialog like , " Do you agree with Margolis that jazz is nothing more than regressive narcissism ? " , I shiver all over . I couldn't even get hep to the music . It's noisy and represents the most banal form of West Coast jazz . And while the saxophonist could keep up , the trumpeter had no idea of what the hell Dave Brubeck was up to at the piano with his fancy time . Brubeck can't act either , though he's not pressed too hard in that regard - - one or two lines . McGoohan CAN act but he's playing a fast-talking hustler and con man here and that's not his strong suit - - not his FORTE , so to speak . He's best at slow , sly , deliberate lines delivered in a clipped voice with odd hesitations as if there are all kinds of wheels turning behind that utterance . Richard Attenborough can act too , but he doesn't put much effort into his role here . There is , after all , nothing to put much effort into . One notable property of this film . If it had been made in the USA , it would have been all about the happy marriage of a black man and a white woman . Racial epithets would have been hurled around . Charlie Mingus , author of " Beneath the Underdog , " would have torn off his clothes on the bandstand and run around naked , shouting , " Oogoo Boogoo MAU MAU . " But in this British movie , nothing is made of the mixed marriage . Nothing is made of race at all . Refreshing in a 1962 movie . It's not bad , in the sense that it's not insulting . It doesn't treat the audience as a horde of unkempt morons . It's just that it's so much less than engrossing .
Another Bloated Remake .	I don't know why anyone would take a reasonably decent movie like " The Andromeda Strain " from the 1970s and mess with it . Until the last few minutes , the original was like a clearly written technical manual in which a team of scientists tries to solve the puzzle of a lethal organism captured in space and brought to earth . What is it ? How do we deal with it ? The central problems in 1978 have become the MacGuffin here . Nobody really has much trouble finding out what the organism is . THAT conundrum , which was Michael Crighton's chief interest , is booted out of the way quickly in favor of human interest , violence , and political intrigue . Oh - - and special effects that dwarf the modest versions of 1978 , naturally . For the most part , the technical stuff is reduced to 1950s sci-fi gibberish . " Looks like a pure conversion system . " " Try all known bacteriophages . " Scientists use " theory " in the lay sense . " Do you have a better theory ? " They mean " explanation . " If , in the original there was a complicated but systematic detective process through which the organism's sensitivity to extremes of Ph levels was discovered - - here the boring procedure is skipped and nobody has to " figure it out . " The answer comes to the beautiful young scientist in the form of a Kekule-like dream . There is no longer any tension associated with the investigation of the organism . It's as if the writers threw up their hands and figured the audience was far too impatient and stupid to sit through such high-school science antics . Bratt and the babe scientist have had an affair and they talk about why they broke it off . " I'm sure it's not the first time a researcher has had an affair with his assistant . " This is terribly tedious stuff . It's like all the stricken-airplane movies in which the stewardess has had an affair with the pilot . At a tense moment , when the world may be destroyed . Aide : " Is there anything you want me to do , sir ? " President ( thoughtfully ) : " Are you a religious man ? I don't mean every four years but - - do you have FAITH ? " ( Pause ) Aide : " Yes , sir . " President : " Well , then , you can pray . " Now - - if they had only held on the president's solemn expression after he asked about faith , and then cut . But , no . The ritual of this stereotypical exchange must be followed through to its suppurating end . The skeleton of the plot isn't entirely without interest . A message from afar , or maybe from our own future , telling us about a dangerous pathogen . I admit I got lost here and there in the complexities of the story . And the last scene , involving a 2001-style space ship with some kind of serum being stored in a freezing compartment left me behind entirely . I think it was intended to wrap up some loose ends , some unsolved mysteries . I only wish that as much effort had been put into clarifying those mysteries as had gone into the scenes in which victims go nuts on the screen and saw their own heads off with hedge trimmers . It might have been an interesting story . Some of the acting is okay - - Benjamin Bratt and Andre Braugher - - but they don't get to do much . This is a great , big , ambitious , poorly directed imitation of a tidy old movie that should have been handled with more delicacy or just left alone . The MBAs who greenlight projects like this must have just about run out of ideas by now . How else to account for the current cascade of remakes ?
Big Bug Formula Soldiers On	Something strange is happening in remote areas of the Arctic . An Air Force weather station is found wrecked , its occupants missing . An Eskimo village is destroyed . A fishing vessel disappears . Curious spoors are found in the snow . A four-foot piece of a living organism is found near a destroyed airplane . The piece looks like half of the claw of a giant Alaskan crab . The military ( Craig Stevens as an Air Force officer ) and its experts are baffled . A distinguished scientist ( William Hopper ) and his pretty assistant ( Alix Taltan ) are called in from New York . Hopper deduces from this flimsy evidence that they are dealing with a monstrous praying mantis . He's right . The pretty assistant happens to look out the window of the office and sees the hideous face with its bulging eyeballs staring in at her . She drops what she's carrying , claps her hands to her cheeks , and screams in horror . The mantis begins flying South along the Gulf Stream , pausing now and again to attack major population centers like Washington and New York to overturn buses and eat people . Military weapons don't affect it much but finally Stevens crashes into it in his jet fighter and mortally damages the beast , which comes to earth and occupies the " Manhattan Tunnel " linking New York and New Jersey . Stevens , having survived the collision , leads his team into the tunnel and kills the big bug with " 3RG mines " despite its fierce appearance , threatening behavior , and earth-shattering roars . Stevens and Taltan kiss in front of the body while Hopper chuckles and takes their picture . Ho hum . Like the deadly mantis itself , the formula by this time was panting and gasping for air , flopping around , seeking as its prey not human beings but anything at all in the way of a fresh or original idea . As it is , they overlooked one cliché . Hopper should have hurriedly had to invent a Super Duper DDT that , alone , could defeat the insect . That's what the 3RG mines should have been filled with , rather than ordinary explosive . The model work is pretty good , considering what the budget must have been . Not much money could have been spent on anything else because everything else is pretty routine . Craig Stevens is bland , a face and style made for a TV series . William Hopper looks right - - tall and silver haired - - but his instrument has only one note . The pretty assistant is rather plain , considering her role . The part calls for Joan Weldon or Laurie Nelson . They couldn't act either but carried with them slight but distinct intimations of molestibility . Anything would have helped this fagged-out movie . I wish the deadly mantis hadn't roared so loudly and so often because you can't roar - - you can't even whisper - - if you don't have lungs . I didn't mind , though , when the monster met its demise in the tunnel . A praying mantis is a graceful insect in its own spindly way and it's great to have them in the garden because they eat caterpillars and whatnot . But when you get right down to it , they aren't really very appealing . The male mantis is smaller and weaker than the female , as in humans , and when the couple are just about through copulating , the female bites the head off the male , also as in humans . But at least human males know when to stop . The male mantis keeps on copulating for several minutes even though he is now without a head . We humans don't have mindless males copulating with goal-driven females . Do we ?
Rain City	There's a certain novelty value in the sight of three jet skis chasing one another up and down the flooded hallways of an abandoned high school during a flood at night . And that's about it . We have thieves led by Morgan Freeman trying to find the money in a small inundated Indiana town that was removed from a stranded armored truck . The surviving armored truck driver is trying to escape from the thieves who want to force the location of the hidden fortune from him . He picks up a sympathetic young girl along the way . There's also a sheriff and one or two pals who don't help much . Now the concept is that this town is being flooded , you see , and we have these three groups trying to find each other . That's the concept . The problem in realizing this concept to to squeeze as many clichés into the story as possible , and to wedge some queer sights into it . They had plenty of previous movies to borrow from . It is , after all , " Titanic " except that instead of a ship sinking we have a town being covered by rising water . Same thing . People locked into a jail cell will be drowned , the same as people jammed into a ship's compartment . The usual conventions of action movies are followed . If somebody dies his death is forgotten in a moment . Under stress , people trade wisecracks . There is an old-fashioned shotgun-wielding couple who won't give up their property and are supposed to provide some chuckles but they don't . In the end though - - after all the chases , after the guns are drawn from underwater and immediately fired , after the boat crashes , the electrocutions , the Olympic-length underwater swims - - in the end , the film is really thought provoking . Here's the thought it provokes . " Morgan Freeman , would you mind telling us what the hell you're doing in a picture like this ? "
Read a book or something . . .	What could be an interesting story about a madman and the police in pursuit of him is turned into a soap-opera tragedy of the week punctuated by a few anonymous shots fired from a pistol in close up . We learn an awful lot about Detective Ed Zigo's tribulations , mainly centering about his wife's terminal illness , and very little about the key figure in the story . David Berkowitz was a paranoid schizophrenic who worked for the post office and obeyed orders given to him by a neighborhood dog , which he called " Sam . " He led the police and the press a merry chase . The newspapers and TV reporters of the time were going berserk with speculation . He was an ex-policeman because he used the two-handed combat crouch that cops used . ( All he had to do to learn that stance was go to a movie . ) He was on the lookout for girls with long brown hair parted in the middle because of some buried trauma . ( Every young woman in the United States of America had long brown hair parted in the middle . ) He was an artist or an architect because of the fussily neat printing he used in his letters to journalists . ( He was nothing of the sort , just a guy with neat printing . ) He had some kind of cowboy complex because he used a . 44 caliber weapon . ( It was just convenient , he had other weapons too . ) He turned out to be , not David Berkowitz , but rather " David Berkowitz , " an adopted child with an Italian background . ( All my Jewish friends breathed a sigh of relief . ) Whatever his background he was nutty as a fruitcake . A hole in his apartment wall had a cartoon balloon over it , saying , " Hi . My name is Mr . Williams and I live in this hole . " The fact that a guy so flagrantly nuts could work in an ordinary post office without detection is almost as scary as the fact that he could stalk the streets at night . The story was filled with ironies . The ol ' . 44 he toted was built by Charter Arms . It's a large-caliber gun . Yet , despite firing at very close range , he only managed to kill six of his 13 victims with it . Was it possible that Charter Arms ' . 44 pistol wasn't really as lethal as everyone had thought ? A spokesman for the firm was more or less forced , in effect , to defend the product and apologize for the fact that most of the victims survived . None of this is in the film . Not that the acting is poor . Martin Sheen is quite good , as usual , especially hustling across the street to inform his partners that he has just discovered the shooter's identity after searching his car , practically dancing with excitement . But the people making this film didn't seem to know what they were aiming for . The first several shootings take place without elaboration or explanation before we meet any of the characters . The procedures involved in tracking Son of Sam down are skipped over , as if they were interruptions of the tragic drama of Zigo's life , the main subject of the movie . James Edward Olmos , a first-rate actor , is given a surfeit of screen time at the expense of the detective story . There are extended family scenes that deserve no more than footnotes . All of this detracts from the impact and suspense of a sensational story , even from our interest in it . Where did the director and the writers think they were going with this ? Into Plan A , The disease of the week protocol ? If you want to learn about the case , read one of the several books available about it , including a novelized version by Jimmy Breslin . Don't waste time on this misguided effort .
Tepid WWII Drama .	The years between " The Guns of Navaronne " and " Patton " saw the release of a number of World War II epics and would-be epics , some good and some , like " Anzio " , pathetic . " The Battle of the Bulge " is about in the middle , with nothing much to recommend it and no outrageous flaws . I hated to click on the " Contains spoiler " box above because this is , after all , a pseudo-history of one of the major battles that took place towards the end of the war in Europe and he or she who does not know the outcome has been living on the distant planet of Ymir . But so be it . A poll taken some years ago indicated that a substantial number of America's youth didn't know which side of the war Japan had fought on . So here it is , kids . Spoiler alert . The Allies were at war with Japan and Germany , and by the end of 1944 ( A . D . ) the Germans were running out of everything , especially fuel . Hitler organized and implemented a last-ditch counterattack against the British and American lines in the mountainous Ardennes forest near the German border . Those thick and snowy woods were considered unsuitable for tanks and deemed a quiet sector where infantry already exhausted by combat elsewhere could be sent for rest , and an area where newly formed and unseasoned units could be safely stationed and get used to conditions in the field . Nobody expected the Germans to roll through these mountains with massive tanks and hordes of infantry but that's what happened . Everyone was caught unprepared ( except Patton ) . But the Germans were so short of fuel that the success of the attack depended on the capture of American stores . That didn't happen . The " bulge " created by the attack was squeezed by Montgomery from the north and Patton from the south and eventually disintegrated . This movie doesn't give a viewer a clear sense of what happened . The Germans ' fuel shortage isn't even mentioned until the climax , when it is discovered by Henry Fonda , who plays an intelligence officer . Fonda's figure is a familiar one in war movies . He's the only guy who can figure out what's going on - - and nobody upstairs listens to him or believes him . Most of the other characters are familiar too . The dumb young lieutenant ( James McArthur ) who learns to develop character and leadership from his tough top sergeant ( George Montgomery ) . There's one of those tough , avaricious Brooklyn characters ( Telly Savalas ) who manages to have a romantic encounter with Pierangeli in the middle of this hailstorm of battle . Robert Ryan is wasted as a general . Dana Andrews is Ryan's chief of staff who delights in ridiculing Henry Fonda's warnings with cutting sarcasm . None of the characters are real historic figures . General McCauliffe , who was surrounded in Bastogne , isn't named either , though he's identified as the figure who responded to the German demand for surrender with " nuts . " ( Some have argued that his real response was a single word that , in Samoan would be rendered " turu , " in Selozi " masipa " , and in French , " merde . " ) The most complex character and the most challenging role is that of the German colonel who led the Panzers in the attack , played by Robert Shaw . He's so ambiguous he's almost real , but unfortunately Shaw plays him as some kind of a frozen tree stump who eschews the company of easy women and whose only passion is victory . The most endearing performance is that of Hans Christian Blech who plays the German corporal who is both Shaw's servant and sidekick . His lines , like all the other lines , may be stilted but he makes the sentiments believable . A good actor , here and elsewhere . I've watched this twice now and my opinion of it hasn't changed much . The overall dynamics of the battle are lost amid the tumult of charging tanks , dueling infantrymen , arguments among officers , and faceless figures diving into muddy ditches . There are three or four different plot threads , mostly unrelated to one another . And only one simplified map to tell us where we're headed . There are better cinematic descriptions of the Battle of the Bulge available ( " Battleground , " " Band of Brothers " ) but the incidents are seen from the grunt's point of view and none gives us the more general textbook picture . This one has a grandiose title and aims high , but it loses the battle .
Man Was Never Meant to Fly .	David Suchet and his Arabic-speaking goons hijack a 747 with the intention of exploding a bomb filled with nerve gas over Washington and wiping out the eastern seaboard . The hijackers demand the release of an Arab prisoner of indeterminate national origin . Washington is worried . They need not be . Not with Steven Seagal organizing his own squad of electronic wizards and commandos who board the airliner over the ocean . Seagal swiftly disappears from the plot , having business elsewhere , and the team of professionals is an ensemble led by Kurt Russel . This isn't a stupid movie like " Air Force One . " It's just another dumb action movie , and if it seems subdued in comparison with some , it's because you can't have multiple shoot outs with high body counts at a high altitude . So the movie perforce must rely on suspense in addition to every cliché in the Action Movie Handbook . As it is , there are several shootings that take place without , luckily , the slug passing through the recipient's body and then the hull of the airplane . The writers and producers don't trust you to be absorbed enough in the electronic innards of the 747 enough to sit through an hour with no bullets or blood . There is gore aplenty , though , once the airplane's altitude drops below 15 , 000 feet , enough to wake up the sleepiest , most bored audience of children . Below 15 , 000 feet decompression can occur , as the Handbook stipulates . Actually , it takes place at altitude , and we see the usual screaming passengers groping for their oxygen masks through the loudly swooshing escaping air stream filled with whirling papers and other debris . ( Cf . , page 251 of the handbook . ) No stereotypical incident or character is avoided . David Suchet is a fine actor but he's given lines like , " Today I free the sword of Allah and plunge it into the heart of the Infidel . " There is the inevitable pair of wire cutters poised , trembling , over the green wire or the black wire connected to the bomb . There is the lip-biting sequence in which the perspiring amateur pilot who has never soloed must land the 747 without help . The sequence was better parodied in the original " Airplane . " Suchet's stated motive must be revealed as fraudulent . He's not doing it for Allah . He's doing it for reasons of personal revenge . One must not offend any Moslems in the audience . ( Footnote , page 241 . ) I didn't mind so much the fact that this is recycled garbage . What really irked me was the presence of Steven Seagal . Every time I see him I try to remember how to spell his name and always wind up getting him mixed up with the horde of other Seagals in Hollywood - - or Siegels or Segals - - they all spell their names differently . There's even a Barbara SEAGULL . The voices tell me that this is part of a cosmic conspiracy on the part of the Seagal Meshpuchah , designed deliberately to drive me mad . And I'm inclined to believe them . The voices never lie - - although they usually trick me when it comes to the stock market . They must have their occasional pranks and I don't object to pranks if they're funny , but this movie is a prank that isn't amusing at all . If you want to see a better version of an airplane-in-jeopardy movie , watch " Airplane " instead . And if anyone insists on doing a remake of this movie - - " Executive Decision II " - - the very thought makes one blanch - - I'd like to suggest that instead of hijacking a 747 with Halle Berry as a stewardess , they just hijack Halle Berry and forget the airplane entirely . More fun for everyone involved .
Dx : Anemia .	Mel Brooks has brought out a couple of outrageously funny movies , and Leslie Nielson has starred in his own series , but this one measures up to neither standard , alas . One of the problems is that the original " Dracula " with Bela Lugosi was so perfect in its thingness that , after only a few viewings , it's practically a self parody . In the 1930s version , Lugosi serves some drugged wine to Renfield . Renfield : " Aren't you having any ? " Dracula : " I never drink - - wine . " I doubt that the people involved in the production intended the line to be a joke , but that's what it's become . In Mel Brooks ' version , the line is repeated and the camera holds on Leslie Nielson's face , waiting for the laughs to die down . A second problem is that the gags vary from funny to silly , as is usual with Brooks , but there aren't enough of either kind . We seem to follow the 1930s version fairly closely , almost as if it were to be taken seriously . And the jokes that pad out the scenes simply aren't that amusing . In one conversation ( in " ancient Moldavian " ) both Nielson and Brooks try to get the last word in . It drags on . And in the last scene of the movie , Brooks is alone with the coffin containing the now thoroughly cremated Nielson . He glances around , slyly opens the coffin an inch , and shouts in the last word of the ancient Moldavian conversation they'd had half an hour earlier , then slams the coffin shut and strides out with a look of satisfaction . If that's the best that could be done for a climactic gag , well , there's a problem . There are other problems . Brooks is okay in the part of Van Helsin , but Leslie Nielson is a bit old for the part of Dracula , and he doesn't have the accent . ( It ought to be overblown in a movie like this . ) See George Hamilton do a better job with better lines in HIS Dracula parody , " Love At First Bite " . It's not a total waste and there are some funny moments . It's just that there aren't enough of them .
Pitfalls of Celebrity	An allegation of aggravated sexual assault along with some other unpleasant peccadilloes , including improper use of a broom , are made against half a dozen or so of the most popular high-school jocks in Glen Ridge , New Jersey , by a " mildly retarded " student ( Heather Matarazzo ) . The investigation and building of the case are handed over to the DA's office , where Ally Sheedy and Eric Stoltz are put in charge . Rumors about the case spread through Glen Ridge , an upper-middle-class suburb where the jocks are adored by everyone in the community . ( One of their fathers is a police lieutenant . ) Nobody believes Matarazzo . " Our boys would never take a slut like that down to the basement , rape her , and subject her to such sexual humiliation . " The question is whether Sheedy and Stoltz will ever be able to shape a sufficiently cogent case that they can bring the jocks to trial . Matarazzo is not an ideal plaintiff . She's desperate for love and friendship , and that makes it easy for faux friends to mislead her into making false statements . A slimy reporter says , " You can trust me , " but it turns out the reporter can't be trusted at all . Another student , a very popular girl in school , pulls a Linda Tripp on Matarazzo , pretending to be her bosom buddy but all the while asking her leading questions about the incident - - and taping the results ! As a consequence , watching this story unfold is like being on a roller coaster . At first it looks like a good case for Sheedy and Stoltz . But then , oops , the community organizes against the law . Then it looks good again . But then the reporter interferes . Then that obstacle is no sooner overcome , than Linda Tripp pokes her big nose into the investigation and makes public the tapes that seem to indicate Matarazzo was lying . ( Well , actually , she WAS lying - - but she was lying to her interrogator in order to please her . ) Then that's overcome , but Matarazzo objects to taking the stand because she doesn't want to be characterized as " retarded . " Eric Stoltz is fine in the part of the prosecutor . I say that for the simple reason that he and I lived in Pago Pago around the same time . ( I hope he wasn't the kid I had that altercation with at the bar of the Seaside Club . If he was , I take back my compliment . ) Ally Sheedy is a strange actress and hard to characterize . She did a marvelous self-restrained job in " Fine Art " but I didn't sense any particular effort being put into this role , which was rather formulaic anyway . I mean , neither she nor Stoltz nor anyone else could give a bravura performance in what's essentially a comic book story . The producers and director had the good sense to choose Heather Matarazzo for the role of victim . The very worst thing they could have done is cast an ethereally lovely , neotenous blond . Instead , Matarazzo , without being at all ugly , looks rather plain and this ordinary quality is complemented by her grooming and make up . Nor have the writers turned her wistful and gentle . She has a temper and is sometimes irritating to listen to , which is all for the good . Matarazzo's character is the best drawn in the film . The jocks are stereotypes . Pure evil . They think themselves above the law , barge in on some nice girl's party in East Orange , trash the place during a party far worse than " La Dolce Vita's " climactic orgy , and leave without explanation or apology . They deserve to get it in the neck - - and they do . I referred to this as a comic book story and that's pretty much what it is . It challenges none of our prejudices . It reaffirms out belief that the world can be divided into Good and Evil . And we don't have a moment's doubt about who's who . What I'm waiting for - - not really , that's just rhetorical - - is a movie almost exactly like this one and a dozen others , but in which the victim is LYING in order to get her name and photo in the papers and garner all those sympathy chips from right-thinking folk like the rest of us . The film is based on a true story , as are so many others we've all seen , and even more fictional features . ( Eg . , " The Accused " . ) Some are good , some are strictly routine . Okay . Fair enough . Now when do we get to see a film about the Tawana Brawley case , in which the teen-aged girl disappeared on a whim for a few days , then had her friends strip her , tie her up , and smear her with dirt , so she could claim she'd been abducted and raped by the police ? Now THAT would be a challenge in a way this one simply is not .
Isn't it time to give up ?	I hate to do this but how can one NOT compare the several Gatsby films to the novel on which they're based ? The book has three outstanding features : ( 1 ) A somewhat disjointed narrative in which Gatsby is a man of mystery until half-way through , and then POW . It's like Hitchcock killing off Marian Crane in the middle of " Psycho " . ( 2 ) A first-person narration by the naive but thoughtful Nick Carraway , whose prose sometimes edges sideways into poetry . And ( 3 ) a subtext about the death of illusions , romantic and otherwise , as they bark their shins against reality . How does this TV version , from 2000 , handle the story ? Well , the mystery is over with in the first 15 minutes , when a flashback shows us the first meeting between the lovers Daisy Fay and Jay Gatsby . Daisy even gives him his fake name . ( His real name is Gatz . ) Any mystery behind the way Gatsby makes his living is likewise done away with , unlike the novel , which only hints at a slightly crooked source for his immense wealth . According to the film , Gatsby and his partners in crime forged bonds and sold them . Nick burns the documents at the end to save Gatsby from being labeled a swindler post mortem . The prose , out of necessity , is clipped and trimmed for Nick's voice overs . Too bad . Some of the most famous lines are retained intact ( " And so we beat on . . . . " ) . Others are pruned . " In his blue gardens , men and girls came and went like moths among the champagne and the whispering and the stars . " In the film , " and the stars " is dropped , probably because the scene in which it's heard is shot during daytime , but it still leaves us wondering what moths are doing in the garden when the sun is shining . Much of this kind of surgery can't be helped in transposing a written work for the screen , but this movie doesn't give us much visual compensation for the loss of Fitzgerald's writing . Daisy's observation that " poor boys don't marry rich girls " is dropped . Daisy is wrong , of course . It's not just a matter of money , because Gatsby is now filthy rich . It's a matter of class and character . In Tom Buchanan , Daisy has found a companionate moral moron . The disillusionment - - well , Nick Carraway's disillusionment anyway - - is kept pretty much intact . It pervades the narrative , and the writers have wisely preserved the most relevant parts . Nick begins by telling us that when he was a young boy his father warned him against making hasty judgments about others , and Nick in fact avoids such judgments until the day of the somber " party " at the Plaza ( or the Biltmore , in the film ) . He realizes on that occasion that today is his birthday . He's 30 . A milestone age , when one becomes experienced enough , mature enough , to begin making judgments about others . And it's on this day that he realizes how worthless Tom and Daisy are , how stunningly and stubbornly romantic Gatsby is , and it's on the next morning that Nick tells Gatsby that " they're a filthy bunch . " You can't repeat the past , Nick tells him earlier . " Why of course you can , old sport , " replies Gatsby easily , wrapped in his fantasies . The production , while not as splendiferous as the 1975 version , is good enough . The performances vary . Nick Carraway is okay , and so is Toby Stephens as the deluded Gatsby who mistakes high-end whoreishness for love . Myrtle is vulgar without being sensual . Wilson is adequate , no more than that . Mira Sorvino is miscast . She has a decent range as an actress - - eg . , " Mighty Aphrodite " - - but she is not the frivolous , nervous , high-pitched , silly , careless Daisy of Fitzgerald's novel . She plays Daisy's love affair with Gatsby straight . She makes us believe that Daisy's whimpering submission to Gatsby's advances are a sign of something genuine , instead of an airhead getting it on with an old beau . And Tom Buchanan is miscast too . Tom Buchanan is an ex-athlete , a polo player now . The book emphasizes his musculature and his dominating demeanor . The actor , Martin Donovan , has done decent work elsewhere but here he comes across as whining and snide , not the kind of guy who commands his environment . I wish I could recommend this but I think I'll recommend the novel instead .
The perfect stereotype ?	I wish I knew what to make of a movie like this . It seems to be divided into two parts - - action sequences and personal dramas ashore . It follows Ashton Kutsher through survival swimmer school , guided by Master Chief Kevin Costner , then to Alaska where a couple of spectacular rescues take place , the last resulting in death . I must say that the scenes on the beach struck me as so stereotypical in so many ways that they should be barnacle encrusted . A typical bar room fight between Navy guys and Coast Guardsmen ( " puddle pirates " ) . The experienced old timer Costner who is , as an elderly bar tender tells him , " married to the Coast Guard . " The older chief who " keeps trying to prove to himself that he's still nineteen . " The neglected ex wife ashore to whom Kostner pays a farewell visit . The seemingly sadistic demands placed on the swimmers by the instructors , all in pursuit of a loftier goal . The gifted young man hobbled by a troubled past . The problem is that we've seen it all before . If it's Kevin Costner here , it's Clint Eastwood or John Wayne or Lou Gosset Jr . or Vigo Mortenson or Robert DeNiro elsewhere . And the climactic scene has elements drawn shamelessly from " The Perfect Storm " and " Dead Calm . " None of it is fresh and none of the old stereotyped characters and situations are handled with any originality . It works best as a kind of documentary of what goes on in the swimmer's school and what could happen afterward and even that's a little weak because we don't get much in the way of instruction . It's mostly personal conflict , romance , and tension about washing out . It's a shame because the U . S . Coast Guard is rather a noble outfit , its official mission being " the safety of lives and property at sea . " In war time it is transferred to the Navy Department and serves in combat roles . In World War II , the Coast Guard even managed to have a Medal of Honor winner in its ranks . But , again , we don't learn much about that . We don't really learn much about anything . The film devolves into a succession of visual displays and not too much else . A disappointment .
Second-Hand Stuff .	Raoul Walsh does his usual yeoman-like job of directing this mediocre Western with Joel McRae as an outlaw trying to make one last big haul by robbing a train , Dorothy Malone as the young woman he thinks he loves , and Virginia Mayo as the girl who is , as he finally realizes , made for him . Walsh also directed the original story , " High Sierra " , with Humphrey Bogart , Joan Leslie , and Ida Lupino in the same roles . " Colorado Territory " absconds with the story but leaves John Huston's felicitous script behind as scraps . Walsh has never directed a dull film , and this isn't dull . What it is , is simple minded . All of the subtlety and ambiguity that made the original so fine , so artful , is discarded and instead the characters and their motives are simplified to the extent that any particularly aware third-grader can grasp them . What I mean is - - how should I put this ? Maybe I can make the point by giving an example . In " High Sierra " , Bogart meets a simple , kind old man with a crippled grand-daughter who needs an operation . That's the teen-aged Joan Leslie we're talking about , and , man , she looks good , though rendered sullen by her disability . Bogart comes into some loot and gives much of it to Joan Leslie's family so that she can have her operation . Meanwhile , he falls in with Ida Lupino , a whore who has been kicked around , loves Bogart , and will do anything for him . Before adopting Lupino , Bogart tells her that there's no place in his life for her . ( He's thinking of settling down with Joan Leslie once she's fixed up . ) Leslie's operation is a success and from her recovery bed she showers Bogart with gratitude - - but not love , as she explains to Grampa . On his next visit , Bogart finds her drinking and jitterbugging frenetically with a boyfriend . Leslie is still grateful to Bogart but she rejects his possessiveness , and he leaves her forever with Ida Lupino . Huston and Walsh fill these scenes with love , ambiguity , a frantic hope and a hopeless remorse . In the remake , the Joan Leslie figure , Dorothy Malone , has nothing wrong with her except that she is greedy and treacherous . Although McRae gives the family enough money to start their farm , Malone tries to alert the sheriff to MacRae's presence in order to collect the twenty-thousand-dollar reward . The Ida Lupino character , Virginia Mayo , actually has to have a physical fight with Malone to keep her from rushing out the door . There is no ambiguity , no sense of real life . Malone is not a nice , if slightly empty-headed girl , who wants to just enjoy her new freedom . She's a bad girl . " Colorado Territory " is miscast , as well . Joel McRae is a good light comedian or light action star - - a nice guy . He's not the tough ex-con that Bogart was . And Virginia Mayo is supposed to be part Pueblo Indian , though she looks about as Indian as Jean Harlow , the heavy makeup notwithstanding . One of the most touching ( because grounded ) elements of the original is that Bogart had to give up the vivacious young Joan Leslie for the older , husky , used , and rather plain Ida Lupino . In the remake , the succulent Virginia Mayo of 1949 could give Dorothy Malone a run for her money any day . It's like a high-schooler having to give up his romance with the head of the girl's cheer-leading squad for the love of the Prom Queen . There's not much of a sense of loss . I've picked out just one set of relationships to compare , but any viewer could easily spot a dozen more in which the original is superior to the remake . ( Humphrey Bogart , describing what a Tommy gun sounds like , taps his finger three times on the desk and says , " Tap tap tap . That's all . " Nothing like that here . ) Nice location shooting , but if you want to see a movie made for adult sensibilities , rent the original . This remake is pretty watered down .
Aping a success .	" Traffic " was a well done film , clear in its ambiguity , and ending with a small and ironic victory after a string of defeats . There were few heavies - - most people were in the grip of self interest . Less effort went into this production . I missed most of the first part but the texture of the flick is apparent from what I caught . The most surprising and effective part is the location shooting . For a Lifetime Movie , this is unexpectedly grimy . It ends with a shootout in Newark in the rain . Well , considering that it's Newark , I guess we can't say that the location is especially dirty . The rest of it is probably above average for a Lifetime Movie and below average for what it attempts to be - - the expose of a shocking trade in illegal goods , namely human beings . Southerland is fine . He's aging nicely . Mira Sorvino doesn't belong in this part . The structure is confusing in a way that " Traffic " is not . And the plot is more like a James Bond movie . It gives us a ring of human traffickers with a lot of organization and a single heavy sitting on top - - a kind of Doctor No or Blofeld - - who is killed off at the end . ( He takes 94 bullets - - I counted . ) Perhaps worst of all , it takes a problem which undoubtedly exists ( name a vice that doesn't ) and PREACHES at us for neglecting it ! The problem needs to be carefully studied and , as far as I'm aware , it never has been . Surely pretty young people wind up in some sort of sexual slave trade , but I would guess that they are mostly kidnapped from ( or sold by ) families on starvation diets in third-world countries . Few of them are likely to be beautiful Russian models or preadolescent girls from vacationing middle-class American families . And it's impossible to imagine why it would be necessary to trick and brutalize women from all around the world just to have them wind up in a whorehouse in Newark , where hookers are already a glut on the market . ( Offhand , I would expect to find a lot of Africans , Afghanis , Indians , and possibly Chinese girls among the kidnapped . ) But , to be sure , I don't know the dimensions of the problem . No one possibly can at this point . So the outcry of mass rage that the movie inspires is not yet justified and , even if it were , has no target yet . There's another feature film floating around on TV that follows the kidnapping selling of the president's daughter , no less , and winds up with her rescue at Dubai , UAE . That movie uses our new enemies as heavies - - the Arabs . This one uses a tried-and-true heavy - - the Russians , cashing in on sentiments left over from the Cold War . German heavies seem to be fading away , along with people who remember World War II . It's remarkable , the way political winds sway our fictional narratives . " Red Riding Hood and the Big Bad Iranian " , anyone ?
Good Cast , Hobbled by Poor Script .	Nice cast , all of whom have done interesting work elsewhere . It's good to see Kris Kristofferson still working after all these years . He's stretched his skills to encompass heavies and here , darkly bearded and wrinkled , he fits the role of the Medical Director , half sadistic , half bedside manner . Jennifer Jason Leigh is good as well in a low-key part as a humanistic psychiatrist . Adrian Brody has played characters so obnoxious ( " Oxygen " ) that my appreciation of him as an actor was tainted , but he's since redeemed himself in my unimpeachable opinion . He keeps his performance under restraint here , so to speak , and manages to do a convincing if highly improbably love scene with Keira Knightley . And this despite his having a nose that , like Cyrano's , marches on before him by a quarter of a mile . But who put this mish mash together ? Brody , a Gulf War vet , is framed for a cop killing and sent to a hospital for the criminally insane . Like Randall P . McMurphy before him , he upsets the routine and is tortured for it . He's strapped down on something resembling a morgue slab , shot full of dope , and slid into a closed drawer where he hallucinates to beat the band . Something about time travel enters the picture . It's all confusing and not very believable . I'll give one instance of the improbable . Brody is shabbily dressed , an escapee from a funny farm , bearded , disheveled , standing by a roadside telephone on Christmas eve . The sultry Keira Knighley happens to be a waitress at the nearby diner and , seeing this dangerous-looking stranger , offers him a ride . " Where are you going ? " she asks . " I don't know , " he replies distractedly . Let me ask you , the experienced driver who knows the lay of the land and has seen slasher movies involving deranged hitch-hikers - - what would YOU do at that point ? What SHE does is take him to her home , invite him to fix something to eat while she bathes , and puts him up on her couch for the night . All that's missing is the sign over her front door : " Welcome Serial Murderers . " The direction is no help in understanding this olla podrida of unrelated episodes . While on the morgue slab the camera descends into Brody's iris and this is an excuse for multiple flashbacks in high contrast and black and white , only seconds long , and empty of meaning . I didn't bother watching the end . Maybe the creature lifts itself out of the muck and wobbles on to a satisfying conclusion . Isn't it pretty to think so .
Movie Culture	It's always interesting to look at movies through history as if they were all part of the same overall culture , drawing on similar behavioral conventions and technologies . Like living cultures , movies have a historical context , undergo innovations , evolve over time to reflect changing folkways , and so forth . Speed gives us an ultimate example of innovation and originality , leading through convention , to utter decadence . There have been speed movies ever since there were movies and they were new and exciting at the beginning . The Keystone Kops were pretty good . Then they became conventional , with Model As careering around urban corners , tommy guns blazing out the windows ; Bogart wheeling his speeding coupe up the slopes towards Mount Whitney in accelerated time . The big ones were saved until the movie's end usually . Then the car chase underwent what anthropologists call a revitalization movement . I'm talking about Bullitt . Nothing like this chase had ( or has ) been put on film . Then we enter a period of decadence , which we may define as increasingly perfunctory repetition and variation of a once-original idea . ( The ancient Egyptians drew very careful open hands in their hieroglyphic script . Over the millenia , with less attention being paid and with a good deal of sloppy borrowing going on , the open palm managed to turn into a simple delta shape , from which we get our letter D . That's decadence . It's a real thing . ) Well , if it's good once , let's do it again and make another nickel . Other outrageous chases followed in The French Connection , the Seven Ups , and so on ; nicely choreographed but no longer original . Now the public has seen enough car chases . Let's introduce other vehicles into the chase . We can use a runaway cruise ship . Let's put the chase at the beginning - - why make the audience wait until the end ? Beverly Hills Cop STARTS with a chase involving a car and some kind of garbage truck . Finally we reach a sort of climax with Speed . With the exception of some shenanigans on and in an elevator , the entire movie is one big chase involving diverse vehicles , most prominently a bus . Sandra Bullock is cute as the wisecracking girl drawn into the plot . Keanu Reeves is clean-cut and handsome , no more than that . But none of that matters . The only important thing is that lumbering behemoth banging cars off the freeway , leaping through 50 feet of open space , and smashing everything in sight . It's thrilling . Of course it's thrilling . We could dispense with the characters entirely and it would still be thrilling - - a thrilling hour and a half of a bus zipping along the streets of Los Angeles like a juggernaut and demolishing everything it can . I'm wondering . Surely they have a video game for children out by now , called " Speed . " One point for each traffic sign or highway cone . You get five points for squashing a pedestrian . Ten points for a wrecking a car . Fifteen points for a truck . Glancing blows earn you half credits . If you turn too quickly and flop over , or if you hit a locomotive , you lose .
See Brooklyn and Die .	A cop's partner is killed for no apparent reason , giving the cop a revenge motive . He searches for the killer around his Brooklyn neighborhood , beating the crap out of anyone who gets in his way , and running into a couple of cute babes and elderly capos along the way . There is an outrageous shootout at the end , with the cop more or less eliminating everyone in an apartment house all by himself . Bodies abound . Right . You've seen it a thousand times before . This one has some twists . Well - - they almost HAVE to have twists unless they are shot-for-shot remakes of one another . First , and try to remember this because it's important , Steven Seagal tries to act like somebody other than Steven Seagal . Well , that's not entirely true . He tries to SPEAK like someone other than Steven Seagal . It's the kind of New York Italianese English that we've become familiar with through mafia movies , the kind of speech in which " business " becomes " bidness . " These phones are embodied in the expectable locutions . " Now , I need to tell you this , meaning no disrespect . " That's twist one . Twist two is the attention paid in this film to emasculation . I missed the first half hour or so , and I was not deliberately counting , but in the last fifteen minutes alone , Segal manages to kick two no-goodniks in the cojones and thus disable them . A third , he handles with a shotgun blast . That's six abused testicles in 15 minutes - - or one testicle every two and a half minutes . Third - - and this isn't a twist at all - - third , Seagal wallops everyone without ever seeming to breathe hard . More than that , although they may gang up on his six to one ( and these are tough guys ) they never land a blow on screen . Everyone else is rendered unconscious , sprawled across the furniture and pool tables , their noses broken , while Seagal looks around serenely , fondling a pool ball . I can't let this go without mentioning that the bad guys are gluttons for punishment . Poor Bill Forsythe , my co-star in " Weeds " . He emerges from hiding towards the end and says go ahead and shoot me , an unarmed man . When Seagal invites him to fight mano a mano , Forsythe grins and literally leaps at the chance , which only gives the film makers an excuse to see the really bad guy get it over and over and over again . He's a bleeding shambles on the floor , a short , pudgy guy , out of breath and barely conscious , but he still reaches a quivering hand out for a corkscrew or eggbeater or something , so that Seagal can REALLY let him have one . If you like mindless action or the sight of Seagal trying to be someone else , you should love this .
Routine Mystery	What an uninteresting hodge-podge . It could have been something more but no imagination seems to have gone into the script or the direction . A man is framed for murder by his wife and her lover . The conspirators do a pretty thorough job of making him look guilty . But the man ( Richard Thomas ) , whose psychiatric records reveal him as " stable " and " unimaginative " , manages to escape from jail , beat it to the conspirator's beach house , and secretly record a conversation between them in which they reveal their guilt . Then he accidentally drops the tape recorder with all the evidence on it into the sea water but manages to retrieve it . He shows a heck of a lot of creativity and improvisational skill for an unimaginative guy , if you ask me . The tape is now damaged goods but it's enough to break down the wife's lover and he sobs out his confession . Bad people are punished . Good people are saved . The location shooting is impressive . The beach house is nothing more than a wooden exterior thrown up on the grounds of Fort Fisher Battlefield on the Cape Fear peninsula . The house was torn down immediately after the production wrapped . It's a pretty place . Unfortunately it's a little hard to see because someone seems to have shot every scene through a pair of pantyhose stretched over the camera lens . It's all very fuzzy . And for all the natural splendor of the location the viewer never gets a real sense of place , of what the sand feels like , of the texture of the gray bark on the stunted evergreens . The acting is okay but the performers have nothing much to work with . The best performance , as is often the case , is given by Dick Olsen as a sleazy but not unsympathetic defense lawyer . Virginia Madsen radiates infidelity with every beat of her eyelashes . Ted McGinley is within his range as an immoral weakling . The musical score neatly blends the ominous with the mysterious and is effective . If you want to hear the original , from which this was ripped off , rent Hitchcock's " Vertigo " and listen to Bernard Hermann's suspenseful theme . I can't think of any particular reason to catch this one except utter boredom .
Lycanthropy is a real disease !	It's hard to imagine that this was a product of 20th-Century Fox because it looks so much like a B feature from Universal Studios - - the isolated mansion , the absence of daylight , the ground-covering fog , the spooky music , the family haunted by a curse , the dark figures slinking through the shadows , and most of all the werewolf . I haven't read the novel but the writers have used every cliché in the monster book . I could hardly sit through it - - wouldn't have sat through it except that I'd bought the DVD . There's nothing wrong with John Brahm's direction except that it's flat and unimaginative . He's done much better work elsewhere , as in " The Lodger . " Really - - in a dark corner of the room , a hairy hand sneaks out from behind a heavy curtain while the musical score tells us to notice it and be frightened . There is not only no poetry here ; there's very little effort at all . The script sucks . The dialog not only lacks sparkle but is predictable from moment to moment . There is even one of those ancient proverbs that serves as a warning , " Even the man who is wholesome and sane must cover his rear as he walks by wolfbane . " Something like that . ( Repeated twice , and also displayed on a plaque . ) And the score , by the way , so stereotypical , is by David Raksin , who was to go on two years later to produce the pretty little suspenseful and romantic theme for " Laura . " Heather Angel is okay . She has the proper delicate features . But what is James Ellison doing as a Scotland Yard scientist assigned to investigate a death and mauling at the estate of an upper-class British family ? He brings to the part the broad vowels of an American cowboy from Iowa . And the director doesn't help him in the least . Ellison rushes through his scenes as if the film were a one-hour quickie from Monogram Studios . As it turns out , one of the family members suffers from " lycanthropy " - - the belief that under certain conditions he turns into a wolf . The problem is that in this instance he really DOES turn into a werewolf . We see him looking like hairy Lawrence Talbot until he's shot , and then as he dies he assumes his normal human form . A sample of his wolf hair disappears in the lab while under analysis . And yet , at the end , the whole business is treated as a quirk of the victim's mind , a kind of insanity , even by the family's doctor . It makes no sense . Either lycanthropy is a delusion or it's real . The movie gives us both , contradicting itself and papering over the plot holes . The most interesting scenes involve the spectrograph and the centrifuge . Both the instruments had been around for a while so they're not anachronisms .
Inferior Remake - - Another One .	What's the point ? Why do they do it ? The original " The Mark of Zorro " was not exactly a cinematic classic but it was rousing fun with everyone hamming it up . Well , this is not a shot-for-shot remake , but it uses the same score and lifts some of the dialog from the original . Why ? I guess another nickel might be squeezed out of the adventure tale . I can't think of any other reason to remake a film that was about as good as it could be expected to be . Nothing quite measures up to the original . Nothing wrong with Frank Langella as Zorro . He's convincing enough in his prissy disguise . Further , I admire Langella as a man and as an actor . His craft was important enough for him to write a piece for the New York Times , when , in Italian-American households , according to Gay Talese , being " literary " is a bit of a stigma . If you write a novel like , say , " The Blackboard Jungle , " you change your name . Beyond that consideration ( whatever that consideration was - - I've already forgotten ) , the acting is simply not up to snuff . Frank Langella , okay . Maybe . Although he's given a fashionable 1974 hair style in contrast to Tyrone Power's curly Spanish locks . And Gilbert Roland brings so much history to his role that it's hard to criticize him . The rest of the performances are no better than TV standards . Anne Archer is a beautiful woman , but she is not a virginal teenage Lolita . Makeup has been unkind to her . Ray Middleton as the alcalde lazes his way through the part as if on opiates . Ricardo Montalban is actually pretty good , but not up to the required standards of evil established by Basil Rathbone in the original . In short , well , watch the original if only for one reason . It's better .
Mediocrity .	If the title , " The Chamber " , is meant to be a pun , it's a pretty good one . There's the judge's " chamber " where decisions are made , and , at the other end , the gas " chamber " where those plans are executed along with the inmate to whom those judgments were passed down . In some ways , the title is the niftiest part of the movie . For John Gresham , whose intentions are always benign , it's a pretty weak story . ( It shouldn't be , with William Goldman doing the adaptation . ) It's Gresham's most pedantic . Condemned are both racist violence and the death penalty , the former more so than the latter . That's the bothersome part of the plot . Okay , Gene Hackman does his best with the role of the lifetime KKK bomber who takes the rap for the real killer of the two Jewish children . But he's miscast . Hackman is not an unreflective , defiant , redneck racist and murderer . JAMES WOODS is that character . Hackman is absolutely first-rate ( without being a bravura actor ) when he gets the right role , whether it's villainous or heroic , but he's never been good with accents and , man , does this role call for one . At that , he gives the strongest performance in the film , with support from a couple of seasoned players like Harve Presnell . Gresham's relatively innocent young idealist , Chris O'Donnell , does not convince . He looks the part alright but his voice and gestures suggest a weakness that the character shouldn't have . And he's the main man . Some of the supporting players , like Bo Jackson as Sergeant Packer , can't seem to act at all . The climax involves one of those detailed execution scenes I've come to loathe . I don't understand why they're there . In a short cinematic exercise in the early 1940s , Orson Welles used the first-person camera to guide the viewer into a gas chamber . Then , in the mid-50s , there was a detailed execution of Susan Hayward in " I Want to Live . " Then there was a hiatus for another twenty years or so before these tasteless scenes came back with a vengeance . Here we get to see Gene Hackman gassed to death , the foamy spittle dripping from his mouth as he expires . But what does this tell us ? That execution is horrifying and painful ? What else is new ? So what do these scenes tell us that we don't already know ? I understand some TV channels are negotiating with Texas to film executions for broadcast . ( How long before the opportunity to pull the switch is auctioned on eBay ? ) What kind of audience do the writers and directors think they're addressing ? The musical score is by Carter Burwell and it's fairly conventional , full of deep and ominous chords . He's a talented composer who has done quirkier work in better films like " Fargo " and " The Spanish Prisoner . " Judging from the movies that are based on his novels , John Gresham is in the not-uncommon position of being at odds with the values of the society he grew up in . A lot of other marginalized writers have also been prompted to explain the sins of their culture's past to the rest of us , beginning maybe with Nathaniel Hawthorne and running through the Southern giants of American literature and playwriting - - Tennessee Williams , Faulkner , and the rest . Gresham fits the mold and his work is interesting , but this is a failed effort . The legal aspects are confusing , the characters a bit muddled , and the story itself either too simple or too complex , depending on how you look at it .
The very definition of routine .	The frozen landscapes are impressive . Ice-covered lakes , stark bare tree trunks that look black against the snow . It gets so cold that at night you hear trees crack when their sap freezes . In upstate New York , I used to stare out the windows during dull lectures and wonder how the Iroquois could have survived winters in such a climate . Here , unfortunately , we have to look at interiors in Chicago and Washington , DC , and even in the exterior scenes the actors have a habit of getting in the way of the scenery . What happens , very briefly , is that a handful of naive young scientists , including Keanu Reeves and Rachel Weisz , are involved in an experiment which they hope will supply the world with energy that costs almost nothing . They don't know it but they're working on a secret CIA project . The company intends to suppress the results of the experiment because they don't want a world-wide panic when oil becomes nothing more than a paleontological curiosity . It's cheap energy that is the MacGuffin here , but it could be anything else - - a Fountain of Youth serum , the top-secret formula for Coca Cola , a single pill that keeps you high the rest of your life , a draught that turns you into a Priapistic monster in the blink of an eye , the missing National Guard records of an important personage , the tax returns of another - - anything you like . The whole thing is exciting and full of propulsion and is written and directed strictly by the numbers . It could have come out of Screen writing for Dummies . There is intrigue and suspense in the story , but only enough of a plot to link the violent episodes together , or the chase scenes , just as there's enough plot in a pornographic movie to bring the performers physically together . The casting and direction are able to clear the same , very low bar . The evildoers look ugly . The well-meaning but confused FBI guys look well-meaning but confused . The two innocent leads are beautiful . Not a single opportunity is wasted in pumping up the adrenalin of the viewers . If a hero is being chased across the Michigan Avenue drawbridge and it begins to open , he must reach the very end of the tilted structure and dangle from it . If he and the heroine run through a tunnel while being pursued , he must hold her hand and pull her along behind him . They can out-race exploding fireballs . Why go on ? It's an effective chase thriller if that's what you're looking for . And Morgan Freeman gives an outstanding performance , saddled as he is with lines like , " The world isn't all that simple , Eddie . " What's most bothersome is that the problem that should be at the heart of this heartless movie is almost entirely dispensed with . Homo sapiens ' place in the ecosystem in which he plays such an important part is hardly dealt with - - not even in passing . Our place in nature seems to be too important to be used as a Hollywood gimmick , a device to hang an uninspired plot from . I don't mean the movie has to be full of gravitas . But even comedies have done a better job of dealing with the kinds of questions this film raises . See " The Man in the White Suit " for an example .
You have already seen it .	Madeleine Stowe , as Cody Zamora , is a hooker who shoots a man in self defense . Being what she is , that is to say , not being Mother Teresa , she doesn't generate much sympathy in this rough-riding town and the good citizens decide to hang her . " Get on with it , " she tells them with defiant contempt . They're about to do just that when three other young women of dubious repute rescue her at the last minute and ride off . In pursuit are a variety of justice seekers , including Pinkertons and other law types , one or two of them , such as Dermot Mulroney and James LeGros aren't too bad . On the trail they run into the Jarrett Gang . Some of the bad girls , and some of the pursuers as well , carry baggage with them related to the Jarrett Gang . There is a violent shoot out . Now , we must note here that the writers weren't reaching too far for original character names . The leader of the girls is Cody Zamora , whereas the leader of the Gang is Kid Jarrett . I'd be surprised if the writers hadn't seen James Cagney in " White Heat " as a gang leader named Cody Jarrett . At least there were no Wades or Coles or Lukes or Matts , although there was a bad guy named Yuma , which is pretty bad . In fact , though , all four of the bad girls could as easily have been men , or more easily . They WOULD have been men back in the 1950s or 1960s . But then I suppose the Jarrett Gang wouldn't have had an opportunity to treat Drew Barrymore to a lesson in Tough Love . At that , though , this is a BIG improvement over " Westward the Women , " with Robert Taylor as a sadistic wagonmaster hired to cart a caravan of would-be wives out to a female-starved Western outpost . Taylor consistently treats his wards like dirt and actually whips some of them when they don't work hard enough . There's nothing original here except the gender of the four leads . There is some suggested nudity but no simulated sex or anything else to pique one's interest . They just seem to have rounded up four popular actresses and thrown them into a well-worn dusty rut . The climactic gunplay is lifted straight out of " The Wild Bunch " , as are a couple of slow-motion gunshots . No reason for it , except that it had been done before . I thank the whole tenor of the pitcher is captured when there is a scene of them four hoorah gals a-settin ' around the camp fire and a-havin ' a peaceful chat . All four of them is exquisitely dressed and unimpeachably groomed with modern hair styles and make up in full panoply . Not a hair out of place , y'know ? But the make up department has very carefully brushed a comely taupe area on one cheek or a smear of raw sienna across some otherwise impeccable forehead . That's dust and dirt from the road . They been on the trail fer quite a spell . And they talk like they just graduated from Wellesley . ( That's this here classy college back East , kids . ) Not a single " g " is dropped at the end of a word like " nothing , " or - - as we rawboned cowboys like to call it - - " NUTHIN . " How can writers and directors be so careless , so contemptuous of viewers ? Or maybe I'm mistaken . Maybe they have a different audience in mind . But if so , what is it ?
" Now You're a Good Jap . . . . "	I saw this movie on TV as a kid and enjoyed it thoroughly - - Flying Tigers ! I saw it again on TV tonight for the second time , and found it to be a howler from beginning to end . It's easy enough to find effective , cheaply made flag-waving propaganda movies made during the war years that have redeeming qualities , properties that make them worth watching . They may be no more than suspenseful actioners , like " Destination Tokyo , " or may have more thoughtful narratives embedded in the framework , like Hawks ' " Air Force . " " God is My Co-Pilot " hasn't got much of anything except a few minutes of good aerial photography . In the air , as usual , a kind of war-time trainer called the " Texan " substitutes for the Japanese Zero-sen , as it did in " Tora ! Tora ! Tora ! " The P-40s are attractive airplanes , with clean lines , although they appear to be Model Es rather than the Cs the AVG used . A small matter . In any case , you can only admire the airplanes for so long before the story line and dialog begin to intrude into your consciousness . Scott's book was a simple , straightforward autobiography . The movie is piled high with extraneous material based on two themes : ( 1 ) a vicious and unrelenting racism that must have been offensive to some Americans over the age of ten even in 1945 , and ( 2 ) something to do with whether Scott believes in God or not - - or was it the other way around ? The dialog stretches desperately to reach upward to the level of banality but doesn't quite make it . I think I should give a few examples and leave it at that . Japanese pilot { played by Hawaiian-born Chinese-American Richard Loo } called " Tokyo Joe " radioing to a P-40 he has lined up in his sights : " Just hold it right there , Yank . " P-40 pilot radioing back : " Don't call me Yank ; I'm from Georgia . " American pilot radioing to a Japanese pilot he's shooting down : " Don't look now , but your Zero's showing . " American pilot to another Japanese going down in flames : " Now you're a good Jap . " General Chennault watching from the ground with a big smile as his pilots slaughter the Japanese : " The boys must be in a good mood today . " The real life epilogue ? Chennault was a pretty clever guy , forsooth , trained his AVG mercenaries very effectively , and warned everyone back in the Western Hemisphere that the Japanese Zero was a remarkably maneuverable fighter , better than anything we had . ( His warning was ignored ; the Zero came as a big surprise after Pearl Harbor . ) There was no room in the U . S . Army Air Force for a hero like Chennault , who had carved out a reputation in some other air force , namely the Chinese , and he was promptly " disappeared . " The original AVG pilots were given the choice of becoming just another couple of guys in the Army Air Force or being kicked out and sent back to the states . AVG disbanded . End of Flying Tigers , except in our national mythology .
Occurrence at East River Bridge	In Ambrose Bierce's story , " The Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge , " a man with a noose around his neck is pushed off the bridge for execution . The rope breaks and the man escapes . He laboriously makes his way home before feeling a great pain in his neck and dying . The whole thing was a dream between his stepping off the bridge and his reaching the end of his rope . That , basically , is the story here except that instead of an execution we have a multi-car accident on the Brooklyn Bridge . " Basically , " that is , the story lines are similar - - but man are the " executions " different ! Bierce's story was a straightforward fantasy . But what razzle-dazzle in this film . Note the splendidly arty effects . Whew . Enough to knock your socks off ! No wonder the list of f / x contributors and consultants and CGI Meisters is twice as long as the cast . I'd like to be able to say I really got a kick out of it because , obviously , a great deal of work went into its construction , but I frankly found it nerve wracking . Dreams , the sex ones aside , tend to be irritating , puzzling , and scary . And this film is all of those things . On top of that , although all dreams that I'm aware of assume a first-person point of view , this one is a dream seen from someone ELSE'S point of view . In other words the dying man sees himself in his dream through someone else's eyes . A patient ( Gosling ) reveals to his psychiatrist ( McGregor ) that he's going to kill himself in 24 hours . The rest of the film has McGregor dashing around all day and all night , trying to help him , in a way my psychiatrist never did ! ( What is his bill going to look like ? ) To ensure our confusion shots are repeated numerous time , sometimes in sequences lasting a second or two . Explosions and sparks . The threat of gun play . A blind man miraculously cured who doesn't seem the least bit curious about how it was done . Somebody's parents who may or may not have been murdered and may or may not be alive . Cameras turn upside down . Actions speed up . The cables of the magnificent Brooklyn Bridge turn into spider webs . Strange characters come and go , uttering non sequiturs . It rains a lot . McGregor's girl friend ( Watts ) is solicitous but can she be trusted ? ( Trusted to do what , you ask ? I don't know . ) After all , she took two razor blades into the bathtub with her in case , after she cut her wrists , she became weak and dropped one of them . We don't get to see her in the bathtub , though , alas . That double razor blade thing was pretty bizarre , but then almost everyone in this movie is hostile or frankly daft as the doctor goes about trying to do good . And the doc seems nuttier than a fruitcake himself . At the end , as Gosling lies dying or dead on the pavement , surrounded by wrecked cars and concerned onlookers , we see among the faces most of the important characters that the doctor has run into during his search . Here's the face of the manager of the book store . And there's his aid . And a Chinese cop . And a black guy who was reading Hamlet . All strangers to one another . ( There are multiple allusions to Hamlet , though their relevance escaped me . ) The movie cheats , actually . Dreams don't flash and spin . They're often ominous but often sluggish and boring too . And you can't READ anything in a dream because , who knows , your cortical bombardment is selective . Another thing about dreams is that they're supposed to STOP when you wake up ( or die ) , whereas the team here simply can't give up its tricks even after poor Gosling has passed . The camera seems to twirl about whimsically and the hell with anybody's point of view . I didn't even truly care about Goslin's being killed , although I wish he hadn't . I didn't get to KNOW him well enough to be thoroughly bonded with his character . I was happy , though , that he went out the way he did . As the red blood cells in his brain yield the last of their oxygen , his head is being held by passerby Naomi Watts who is leaning over him , holding his temples , almost in tears , begging him , " Look at me ! Look at me ! " Okay , I'm looking .
Concussed , Confused Mitchum Stumbles Through Dullish Crime Drama	I understand that the director , John Farrow , has done some admirable work and that Mitchum is a noir icon when he has a trench coat on , but both the director and the actor are undone by a poor script here . Briefly , Mitchum is a doctor in San Francisco who falls in love with a suicidal patient , Faith Domergue . She would have been undone by the script too , had there been anything worth undoing . Howard Hughes had her " on the hook " at the time . The falling-in-love part lasts about thirty seconds of screen time . Domergue takes Mitchum home to meet her rich father , Claude Raines , who turns out to be her husband . Raines and Mitchum fight and Raines is knocked to the floor of the mansion . While Mitchum is clearing his concussed head in the bathroom sink , Domergue smothers the unconscious Raines and convinces the woozy Mitchum that he , Mitchum , is responsible . Mitchum wants to go to the police but Domergue insists they skip across the Mexican border . We spend about an hour on the road with the desperate duo . Domergue is a nag , a liar , and an ex-psychiatric patient , which in those days was a lot different . Mitchum's concussion is affecting his judgment and his coordination until , by the time they reach Nogales , he is half paralyzed . Mitchum is stumbling about , caroming off the walls and crashing into the furniture of their shabby hotel room , and Domergue tries to smother HIM too after the penny drops . A final confrontation takes place at the border crossing , after which Domergue dies and Mitchum is cleared and returns to his faithful nurse and devoted girl friend from San Francisco . That would be Maureen O'Sullivan , far too canny to let a doctor escape potential husbandhood just because he appears to have committed murder and run off with another girl . As I said , I know Mitchum was a noir icon , but I never had the impression he could act until later in his career when , in fact , he became quite good in some genre movies like " Farewell , My Lovely " and " Cape Fear . " And he was sometimes even better in original films like " Night of the Hunter . " Here , he simply seems to be sleepwalking and , for a doctor , pretty slow to catch on . And I hate to say it , but there's something almost comic about the climax , watching Mitchum drag himself along the street , clutching buildings to remain upright , while Domergue pulls a pistol and shouts , " Don't come any closer ! " There's nothing much else to be said for this patched together B story . The location shooting is not at all evocative and the events implausible . Not implausible in the way that life is , but implausible in the way a lousy script is . Lots of competent character actors give the story what little propulsion it has . You can probably find better ways to spend an hour and a half of your life .
Routine Crime Melodrama	John Ireland plays Duke , a thief who dumps his wounded partner , sets up a frame for an innocent young man , then goes around knocking off people who are wise to what's going on or who have money he wants or who otherwise crimp his cool , manipulative style . At the end he is caught and killed in a shootout with the good-guy cop . C'est tout . The acting isn't as poorly done as the script . Ireland is one dimensional , but the head honcho is kind of neat , an older guy fond of quoting Oscar Wilde . I'd never heard of the good girl , Shiela Ryan , and now I know why . I keep getting her name mixed up with the far more appealing and vulnerable girl from " Odd Man Out . " Jane Randolph plays a hardened whorish blond who is Ireland's property . It's impossible to fathom what appeal he has for her . He slaps her around , scowls constantly , insults her , and tells her things like , " Why are you getting tough with me ? Crackin ' up like that . Drinkin ' like a fish . I don't like people who get tough with me . " She's his devoted accomplice in the frame too , at least until her conscience gets the better of her and she wants to spill the beans to the cops , at which point what happens to her is what happens to all of the people who try to cross or get tough with John Ireland . When she whines she sounds like Claire Trevor in " Key Largo . " But I don't care is she's garish and nasty . To me she'll always be the pointy chinned adoring friend of Kent Smith in " The Cat People . " Try to shake it as she might , she still has the screen presence of a light cream-filled pastry . The problem with the movie is that - - directed by Anthony Mann or not - - it has no flair . None of the characters has much complexity to begin with and the director adds nothing to what is essentially a routine B crime movie . Nothing INTERESTING happens on screen . When someone is shot , he or she falls down and dies - - period . The camera placement and staging are functional , no more than that . Nobody is quirky . Well , maybe the Oscar Wilde quotes and the perfumed bullets are a nod in that direction but they don't clear the bar . Neither has anything to do with the story . And the guy who is in the hot spot ? The innocent young man who was framed ? He disappears half way through and we don't see him or hear about him again . I guess there IS one particularly noticeable feature of the movie . It's dark . The photography in fact isn't bad . At least we can feel the photographer trying to do something . There are lots of table lamps casting like upward and making sinister faces into images of evil . Sometimes the lighting overreaches . When Ireland is plugged ( oh , so implausibly ) at the end and sinks down out of the frame , the only lighted object we can make out is his right ear sliding deliberately from our sight .
Average TV Fare	The murder of a lawyer's wife takes second place in importance to the impact of gossip on members of the small town . By gossip , I mean the exchange of supposedly confidential information about persons and their relationships . It's a better research problem than murder because we can all understand why someone might kill someone for personal reasons . They hurt us or they stand in our way . But when malicious gossip endangers the peace of mind and the social status of a heretofore upstanding citizen , we must wonder about it . What is it that makes some of us hate well-known and respected people ? Why do we seem so eager to believe everything bad about them ? The victim doesn't even get a trial , just summary judgment . Briefly , the plot is this . Peter Coyote is a kind of smug defense lawyer who gets Lesley Ann Warren off after she murders her husband . Coyote beams . He's won yet another case , which makes him look good but makes the police chief look like an idiot . Warren becomes enamored of Coyote , power and celebrity being the aphrodisiacs that they are , but Coyote is happily married and has a few kids . He spurns her advances . Hell hath no fury like a woman spurned . Warren hires some dumb stud to kill Coyote's wife , telling the murderer that the whole thing is being instigated by Coyote himself . After the killing , Warren blames Coyote publicly and at the grand jury she testifies that she was nothing more than an intermediary between Coyote and the killer . The cops having been humiliated by Coyote once too often , are happy to dig up whatever circumstantial evidence they can to make him look bad . Then the plot falls apart . Warren takes the stand to make sure that Coyote gets skinned alive , but she begins to stutter . The media describe this as a " nervous breakdown on the stand . " ( It would be nice to see a courtroom drama in which nobody has a nervous breakdown on the stand . ) Coyote is set free . He walks out of the courtroom vowing never to leave Travis . I don't know why he doesn't leave Travis . With some exceptions , the towns folk seem to have leaped on him like a rabid pack of his namesakes on a rotting pronghorn carcass . And what kind of climax is that , anyway ? All this intrigue , murder , family love , gossip , and what happens ? Nothing really , except that Coyote is let go . Peter Coyote is a pretty good actor . He's confident and professional . Lesley Ann Warren is very sexy but cannot act . She should have made more soft-core skin flicks . Those goggling dark eyes , her breathless quivering voice , he nervous little laughs , her tics . Nobody else really stands out . No more than average . It should have gotten more into the dynamics of small-town gossip but the movie isn't ambitious or dark enough to tackle a subject so reluctant to yield simple answer .
Etiolated	This is the fifth in the recent series of Agatha Christie mysteries to have shown up on film , and it is the least of them . It has the usual all-star cast , though perhaps not as starry as the earlier ones , but it is , ultimately , kind of boring . The best of the series are the two earliest - - " Murder on the Orient Express " and " Death on the Nile . " They were positively marinated in local color . None of the later versions has anything resembling the shot in the introduction to " Murder " in which a uniformed authority figure slurps down a newly opened oyster to test its freshness before allowing the crate to be put aboard the train ; or the shot of the two lovers in " Death " racing across the desert on handsome Arabian horses to a swelling , romantic score . The first two also had plots that were made crystal clear . Those sorts of things are lacking in " Appointment With Death , " despite the quality of the cast and the colorful location shooting . The director seems to have simply not bothered with those touches that add such flavor and exhilaration to what's on screen . And the writers seem to have been unable to come up with a script that holds one's interest . Part of the problem too is with the cast . Lauren Bacall and Piper Laurie stand out as memorable characters , and that's about it . John Gielgud as Poirot's sidekick is fine , naturally , but his role is small and his friendship with Poirot lacks the historical depth of earlier sidekicks . As Poirot , Peter Ustinov seems tired and older , although his performance is less restrained than usual . And the poor guy isn't given much of a mystery to work with . Too many of the remaining cast members seem almost interchangeable . It's hard to tell one from another . Except for Jenny Seagrove . She is not a powerful actress , perhaps not even an especially talented one , but she exudes elegance - - slender , uniquely attractive , and she runs like the wind . But nothing can keep this film from being the dullest of the series . It carries a perfunctory quality , as if everyone involved had been blanched and desiccated by the need to grind out yet another version of a Christie mystery and by the overpowering desert sun .
You've already seen it .	The niece of a Washington , D . C . , police psychologist disappears from her campus in North Carolina . The psychologist ( Freeman ) goes down to help out the local cops . Shortly , another young woman ( Judd ) , an intern at the local Regional Center is likewise kidnapped . We follow her story as she is taken to an underground dungeon , drugged and bound and raped . She escapes . Judd and Freeman join forces . They match the local kidnappings , which sometimes end in murder , with others that seem to follow the same pattern in California . They fly to California and discover that a cosmetic surgeon who lives in Marina Del Ray ( all L . A . doctors live in Marina Del Ray ) has ordered a huge supply of the rarely used drug that was used on Judd during her captivity . If you find this a little confusing , wait until you see the movie . The plot is not simply complicated , but riddled with lacunae . Unless I blinked at the wrong moment , the movie doesn't explain the relationship between the East Coast killer and the West Coast killer who is duplicating him . I also have no idea how the Eastern killer got hold of the same drug that the West Coast killer is using . And I don't understand why , just before they fly to L . A . , Freeman rejects Judd's suggestion that they notify the F . B . I . It's impossible for anyone to know why , after Judd escapes from the killer's hideaway , she stumbles through perhaps 100 yard of forest then jumps into the river , and yet the police and the FBI still can't find the obvious superterranian entrance to the killer's lair . I mean , why couldn't they figure out that it must be located along a two or three miles stretch of the river , less than 100 yeard from the left bank ? Why do they refer to benzodiazepines as " benzos " when docs call them " diazepines " ? I don't know why the killers off some of the girls and preserve others . The first girl who is offed is Heidi Schanz . The killer deserves to be strung up by his Buster Browns for that . I don't care how many rules she's broken . No additional clarity is provided by the director , who seems to have found out that a camera can be hand held . And the editing introduces further murk . Quick cuts of Ashley Judd practicing her kick boxing in the dungeon , with an occasional brief shot of her doing nothing in particular . Irrelevant tanker trucks that zoom suddenly out of nowhere and almost run Freeman down at a tense moment . Why go on ? Some people will undoubtedly like it because watching it will be comforting . Like all rituals watching a variation on the serial killer theme may provide a fixed point in a changing and disappointing universe . Well , a chaque a son gout . I don't know how many times I've heard Stan Getz's solos with Woody Herman's band , but I could listen to them a hundred more times . Speaking of music , somebody plays a sprightly jig from a suite by Bach and later another piece . The first is really difficult . The violinist deserves a medal for introducing some unexpectedly fresh airs into an otherwise stale production . A shame , too , because the leads are both imposing performers in their different ways .
Exceptionally Typical Western .	Fred MacMurray is the judge in a small Western town . A man named Rudy Hayes ( Christopher Dark ) has killed a farmer and been found guilty by a jury of his peers , although it's hard to imagine a peer of this unkempt miscreant . The whole town wants to see this guy hanged and MacMurray has already decided that that is what his sentence will be tomorrow . Flies in the ointment . First of all , Rudy Hayes has rather a large extended family , clearly descended from the Kallikaks or the Jukes . Two of these goons are already hanging around town , smilingly telling the judge and his assistant ( Edgar Buchanan ) and the sheriff ( John Ericson ) that if good ol ' Rudy dies , they die too . Well , says everybody , there's only the two of them . But then two or three other Hayes relatives ride into town , each meaner lookin ' than the last . Or - - let me take that back . Nobody looks meaner than Lee Van Cleef . They gang up on the sheriff and beat him . Then they rearrange MacMurray's face . They terrorize the whole town , even the victim's widow , so that everyone begins wondering if , rather than hanging the prisoner , it wouldn't be better to follow the hoodlums ' suggestion and , well , just kinda BANISH good ol ' Rudy and make him get out of the territory . Unbearable pressure is brought upon the judge to follow this path , just as pressure was brought to bear on sheriff Gary Cooper in " High Noon . " Does Fred MacMurray give in and simply banish Rudy ? Or does he sentence him to hang ? I leave it to you , the discerning and experienced watcher of Westerns , to guess . There's a second fly in the ointment . Judge MacMurray has been engaged to Joan Weldon and he plans to marry her as soon as he buys that little house . But he's a circuit judge and this takes him out of town a good deal . During one of his trips , Weldon and Ericson have fallen in love , but both are reluctant to tell MacMurray . Enough of the plot . Not so much because I'm reluctant to give any of its developments away , as that it's not genuinely worth going into in any further detail . Of the acting it can be said that this is a good , seasoned cast of Hollywood regulars - - MacMurray , Ericson , Van Cleef , Buchanan , Robert Middleton , Edward Franz , Marie Windsor - - you'll recognize a lot of faces . And in this inexpensive and somewhat tired Western , they illustrate their range . They ground out these B features like Sonicburgers in the 50s but their day was coming to an end . " Gunsmoke " was around the corner .
Sentimental and Routine .	I must have missed something here because the movie seems to have found so many receptive viewers , but it's necessary to call them as I see them . And this one is a ball , wide and outside . The tale puts Marie Dressler in the role of Mammy in " Gone With the Wind , " except that Mammy , or Emma , in this case being Caucasian , she gets to marry the rich doctor after his wife dies in childbirth . Of the four children , only one , Ronnie , is gay and loving towards her . The girls are snobs . When the dead doc leaves everything to Emma , Emma of course wants to give it to the children , but the girls gang up on her and Emma is accused of murdering the doc , while Ronnie , flying to her rescue , dies in a crash . Emma is found not guilty but , realizing that she has no place in the home any longer , after 32 years , she bids the girls adieu and heads for the unemployment office or rather - - what is it called now ? The Employment Assistance Ministry ? Anyway , in 1931 , it was the unemployment office , and it still is , though they transpose the name into Esperanto . Not to fear . Emma finds another loving family exactly like the dead doc's and everything ends happily . Marie Dressler is unimposing in every way except for her physical bulk . Her performance is of the period , as is the sob story . The comic element is limited to Emma's fake solo in a flight trainer . I can't find the slightest thing original about it , nothing that would separate it from dozens of other movies made during the early thirties . It isn't a BAD flick . And Marie Dressler may have been a fine and loving person . It's the movie and just about everything in it that never rises above the precisely routine .
Paper or Plastic ?	I have to admit that this one got beyond me from time to time so these are just some impressionistic shards . It's about a software engineer ( Craig Bierko ) whose boss ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) is murdered , sliced to pieces in fact , one night in Los Angeles . The police come to suspect him . Bierko feels that the clues to the recent murder lie in the past , in Muehler-Stahl's youth , in the Los Angeles of 1937 . Mueller-Stahl has been working on a device that sends the user back in time and it's possible that he has been leading a double life , one in modern LA and the other in 1937 LA . When the subject's consciousness is transferred , it loses awareness of itself and assumes a different , time-specific identity that does not remember the future . Bierko has his friend and co-worker ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) send him back for two hours . ( Anything more than one hour is dangerous . ) The machine has a glitch or something and before you know it , there are several people switching back and forth from past to present . One of them is Gretchen Mol , which is nice . It's all pretty jumble and confusing to me and seems mainly an excuse for magnificent displays of computer-generated images , bars of laser-light like , and all the expectable rest . Splendid production design , though , in both parallel worlds . Mueller-Stahl is always reliable and Gretchen Mol is a beautiful young woman . Craig Bierko has a talent that seems made for TV . His performance is adequate but illustrates the limits of his range . George Clooney with a voice that squeaks when it expresses excitement . Very good performance by D'Onofrio with a face and demeanor that could go either way . Have you seen the Los Angeles of 1937 in " Chinatown " ? ( If you haven't , then do so at once , I implore you . ) It's all sunny and bright . Fewer cars , less smog . Fewer people , more orange groves and flowers . This 1937 Los Angeles is dark and wet , just like the Los Angeles of the present . Everything is dark . Even the offices of the software company are dark . I'll bet the surgical teams are performing laparotomies in total blackness . Well , maybe a candle or two . It's just a silly fad , this dark lighting . In fact , considering that another movie about time travel and solving a murder was released about the same time , " Deja Vu " with Denzel Washington , I'm beginning to wonder if time travel to solve a murder isn't liable to become a craze in and of itself . It would be nice if it were a genuine possibility . I'd like to go back to 1937 Los Angeles myself , but only with my present consciousness intact , so I could buy up all the real estate and discover Lana Turner in Schwab's Drug Store . Things being what they are , however , and being stuck in the present , I gave up on this about half-way through . It simply didn't seem interesting enough to hold my attention . They blew too many opportunities . For example , there ought to be multiple instances in which people are transported into the past and bump into different fashions of quotidian life . Isn't anyone surprised at the price of gas at the pump in 1937 Los Angeles ? Where are the bottles of milk with the cream separated at the top ? I'm listening to the climax now , from the other room , and it's full of the kind of gun shots that suggest the time-travel mystery has turned into a more familiar shoot ' em up , but in any case I doubt that the sun is shining , wherever and whenever the characters are .
Macho Man	Have you ever wondered why these guys - - Seagal , Stallone , Willis , et al - - manage to survive all those gunfights in which they're outnumbered ? I think I've got it figured out . The enemies always miss , and the hero doesn't . Here , Seagal has a pistol and outshoots a half dozen heavies firing at him from a few feet away . One of the heavies has a shotgun . Or maybe two of them have . It doesn't really matter . There could be a thousand shotguns blasting away at him and Seagal would still emerge with his ponytail intact . And when it comes to mano a mano combat - - forget it . The evildoers may or may not be armed with swords or knives or blunt object but Seagal , with his skill in aikido or tempura or sushido or play-do or whatever it is , brushes them aside with a few dismissive blows . Not only is he a master of these outré skills but his physical strength is Herculean . More than once he snaps somebody's long bones as easily as we would break a toothpick . One he breaks a guy's SPINE over his knee . I'll tell you something . ( I'm getting into the spirit of the film here because Seagal uses that line , " I'll tell you something , " several times , along with , " What's that supposed to mean ? " ) These guys are fully deserving of extinction in any good Xenophobe's handbook . They are all black , speak with unintelligible Jah-MAY-can accents , wear dreadlocks that look in dire need of a shampoo , they torture and murder with aplomb , and - - here's the worst part . They're unchristian . That's right . They practice voodoo . Actually the voodoo element comes close to being the most interesting element of the film . They got the constituents of the ritual pretty well - - cigar smoke , rum spitting , the sacrificial chicken . They only left out the possession dance in which the spirit rides the dancer . They should have read Metraux on voodoo . Otherwise the plot adheres to the usual conventions . What was done to Jaqueline Bissett by the voodoo-practitioners in " The Deep " is done here to a friend of Seagal's . What was done to John Wayne when he was stuck between trucks in " McQ " is done here to Seagal himself . At the movie's very opening , when Seagal makes a brief speech about having seen too much pointless violence in his DEA career so he's now happily retired , and when we are introduced to his friends and family , I tried to keep track of his affiliates to see if I could pick out which ones would be horribly murdered or maimed to generate his quest for revenge . The acting doesn't really require much comment . But Charles , the Jamaican cop , played by Tom Wright , is really pretty good . Wright has considerable range . Here , he's an associate of dubious allegiance , rather sinister . But in " The Pentagon Wars " he has a comic part that he underplays perfectly . The Jamaicans never flew as movie villains . I don't know why exactly . It's a small movie market . And if you go to Jamaica stick to Montego Bay . However , if you want to see Jamaican voodoo drug dealers as heavies , and if you're in the mood for another typical-standard action flick , this should be a satisfying view .
Awful	There's no need to go on about this prototypical piece of chauvinistic rubbish except to say that it's an insult to the brave people involved in the battle . Every subtlety is deleted . Every American error glossed over . Obtrusive subplots detract from the essential story . The editing is a mish mash of model work , actual overused combat footage , and excepts from a previous movie , and is confusing to the point of , well , confusion . The role of sheer luck is downplayed . The Japanese fully expected the American carriers to sally forth for a big Mahanian confrontation , which they did , and sent scouting submarines towards Pearl Harbor . But by the time the subs reached their assigned positions , it was too late . Our carriers had already passed to the west . The sole reason we were able to pull this off was our decryption of Japanese plans , which enabled our forces to move far more quickly than could reasonably be expected . At Coral Sea our forces were so little experienced that Douglas SBDs ( with one foreward-firing fixed gun ) were sent one on one against agile Japanese zeros . After the Battle of Midway the Japanese carriers , their airplanes , and most of their pilots were gone , of course , but there was still an enormous striking force afloat . This force slowly turned away after the battle , tempting the remaining American forces to follow and initiate another clash . Had we struck at the lure , the best guess is we would have been clobbered , if only because American forces were so outmatched . And there is an excellent likelihood we would have lost the island of Midway . Spruance wisely chose to withdraw his forces rather than leap aggressively at the bait . Had Halsey been in charge , had he not been hospitalized with a skin disorder , it is difficult to imagine his turning down such a tempting offer , but luck was with our side again , and Spruance , having achieved victory , departed the field , while Halsey itched . The movie is a piece of junk .
Light-hearted sequel .	I can't compare it to the original , which I didn't see , but this good-natured but slightly desperate film has " sequel " written all over it . It is a mixed bag . There is the mismatched cop buddy theme , involving Sandra Bullock's antisocial and physically aggressive black partner who punches people and knocks them around . ( Ha ha . ) She and Bullock become friends by the end . There is the theme of the cop given an assignment which divides her loyalties . There is the gay sidekick who provides most of the best laughs . ( " I just LOVE Vegas , " he says , " Where else can you find a 24-hour wiggery " ? ) Lots of pratfalls . Lots of people chasing each other full tilt through hotel lobbies . Dolly Parton playing a fake playing Dolly Parton . Vegas acts with female impersonators belting out show tunes . Come to think of it , I just love Vegas too . Where else in the world ( outside of your own deranged mind ) can you find large-scale models of the Empire State Building , the Sphynx , and the Tour d'Eiffel parked next to one another , and all festooned with fluorescence and raw primary neons ? If you seek perfection you don't need Katmandu . Well - - it depends on the kind of perfection you're seeking . Sandra Bullock is okay in the role , snapping out wisecracks in the middle of muscular hi-jinks . I didn't care much for it because it seemed to me to be trying too hard to borrow from the good will generated by the successful original and because , when you get right down to it , it's not all that funny . On the other hand , if there's nothing else on and you want to be distracted for a while , this may do the job . You can just let your mind drift , your passivity interrupted by an occasional chuckle . There's a big chase scene at the end involving water .
Don't Do It , Lola !	The cover of the DVD has a photo of Lola ( Anna Ammarati ) on her bicycle , laughing over her shoulder at the camera , her skirt hiked up to her waist and revealing her panty-covered behind . The movie opens with this scene . Lola bicycles around town with her filmy skirt up around her neck , turning all the men on , including two priests who sniff her bicycle seat after she dismounts . Oh , she's a gay creature and a whimsical one . She's about to be married to a young baker but doesn't want to remain a virgin until then so she tries to seduce him in every way , but the young man is a demon of chastity . So Lola starts looking elsewhere for her defloration , but everyone seems frightened away by her forwardness . It's hard to figure out why . She's easy enough on the eyes . But when she puts the moves on her own father , maybe she's going a little too far . There's a credit given for clothing design and I suppose it's deserved , at least for everyone except frivolous Lola who spends half the movie running around buck nekkid . She's seen in a wedding dress at the end but she's not wearing underwear . In the rest of the movie she wears only one outfit - - a red top , easily slipped down , a diaphanous transparent skirt and a pair of white panties ( sometimes ) . There is an abundance of what I think the trade calls up skirt shots . I will tell you something . If this were a real Italian gal in a small village , she'd be put away subito . There isn't much to the story except for Lola's whimsical yet desperate attempts at seduction . The whole thing is a fantasy . A monk admits she turns him on and he appears to masturbate an ear of corn after she kisses his ancient forehead , proving that he may be old but he's not dead . Later he gets a chance to spit out some happy obscenities . The musical score is lively and demotic . The photography bleeds much of the color from the scenes and appears to have been shot through a goldfish bowl . The acting is okay as far as I could tell . I had no objection to Lola's lying in bed and plucking out pubic hairs - - " He loves me , " " He loves me not " , or whatever it was . I had no real objection to any of it . The problem is that it really isn't very sexy , although there is an abundance of Lola's nudity , and it isn't in the least amusing . I wouldn't sit through it again .
Courtroom drama lacks focus .	I don't know what the novel was like but it was probably tighter than the script for this movie . I'll have to lay out the plot , which is essentially this : four American GIs stationed in Germany rape a teen aged German girl ( Christine Kaufmann ) . They are charged and court martialed , defended by Kirk Douglas and prosecuted by E . G . Marshall . ( How many times has E . G . Marshall played a lawyer ? Sometimes I lull myself to sleep trying to remember them all . ) The townspeople are bursting with animadversions aimed in one direction or another . The local whores hate Kaufmann for her superiority . Her father is a demanding local official who is all agitated because the family is involved in a scandal and he wants to see the four GIs get hanged . A gossip is happy to testify against Kaufmann . Her boyfriend , a student , loves her and wants to run away with her . A dirty old man who lives across the street from Kaufmann kind of likes her because she sometimes does morning exercises nude in front of her open window . Kirk Douglas interrogates her and he comes to like her too . She's so innocent , so young , so einbeisslich . Of course it is Douglas's job as defense counsel to attack her story if she gets on the stand . Douglas practically begs Kaufmann's father to talk her out of testifying but the old fellow is dead set on seeing GI blood . Once on the stand , she's torn apart by Douglas's questions . It's revealed that she took off her " bikini " - - a word that somehow emerges as some kind of infernal device - - and was nude when the soldiers raped her . Douglas shows the bathing suit to the jury , yanks on it , and it comes apart almost as easily as Kaufmann's poise . She winds up sobbing with her hands over her face and later offs herself . Despite Douglas's vicious defense , the boys don't get the death penalty Kaufmann's father wants , but they get beaucoup years in Leavenworth at hard labor . It's tragic . She loses her life . Her father loses his beloved daughter . The GI's lose their freedom . Douglas has lost the case and is ridden with guilt . But somehow it doesn't quite come together , at least for me . No individual scene flops , and there are no major errors , but neither does any character develop in any way . Nobody seems to learn any moral lesson . There's very little suspense in the trial because we don't have much doubt about how the participants will act . So what do you come away with ? Well , small German towns can be as full of intrigue and empty-headed hatreds as small American towns . And those damned Yanks ought to go back home or pick on more available targets . As an old German proverb goes , " Bad boys rape our young girls but Violet gives willingly . " ( I'm afraid only electronic technicians will get that piece of word play . ) And , wow , is Christine Kaufmann a superior kind of seventeen-year-old girl . Whew . Of course no decent guy would want to rape her but in real life it might be fun to squeeze and pinch her if she let him . Or the other way around . Overall , it's pretty depressing . The black-and-white photography is stark and edgy . The sound seems to crackle with hostility . Makeup is uninspired . All of the men have short hair , thoroughly moussed , causing them to look as if they'd been groomed to appear in a film . And while Douglas isn't bad , Christine Kaufmann gives a weak performance . And then there is that tin-pan-alley theme song , " Town Without Pity , " played repetitively with and without the sodden lyrics . But these are all personal judgments and , although I found the movie not very rewarding , others may find it more interesting .
Peck's Not a Bad Boy	Gregory Peck does a reasonably good job as a Nobelist who is sent to China to steal an enzyme that will increase the world's food supply . The Chinese , you see , want to keep it a secret and use it themselves . ( They've since given up hoping for miracles and have turned to a much more sensible one-child per family policy . ) I guess - - legally speaking , the enzyme IS in fact a Chinese invention and belongs to them , doesn't it ? What I mean is , is it entirely ethical for Peck to sneak into China under false pretenses , swipe something of theirs , and smuggle it out of the country ? After all , when the Americans and Brits get the enzyme at the end , they too stash it away to use as a " weapon " instead of handing it over to all humankind , as Peck wants to do . It's like Clint Eastwood sneaking into the USSR and stealing the most advanced fighter airplane in the world from them ( " Firefox " ) . Problems like this don't bother the film makers . Absconding with the MacGuffin is a good idea - - period . To show how good it is , even the Russians are on our side and only the Chinese are " enemies . " And how does our side show its appreciation for Peck's life-endangering efforts ? They have planted a complex transmitter in his mastoid sinus . He has willingly allowed them to do it . What they haven't told him is that there is a coil of explosive wrapped around the chip that will blow his head off if detonated by the authorities . At the last minute , the general in charge ( Arthur Hill ) relents and doesn't explode Peck's head . That's gratitude for you . The director has tried to turn this into a light-hearted thriller , along the lines of " North by Northwest . " Accordingly , we are introduced to Chairman Mao while he's playing ping pong . And Peck is given plenty of wisecracks under stress , on top of which his performance is sort of sing-song , more animated than usual . Somehow it doesn't jell . It would have been no trouble at all in 1943 to change a few things around and have this turn out to be an anti-Nazi war film , all cloak and dagger , shadows and fog , and racing black sedans . Not one of Peck's better career choices .
Splendidly dull .	I've usually admired Sidney Pollack's work as a direct ( and actor ) and he's pretty good here in both roles . The direction is just about flawless - - not too much stylization , but just enough . The photography is crisp and colorful when it needs to be and the darkness is properly ominous . The location shooting captures New York in several of its moods . And the acting can't be criticized . Sean Penn does a fine , subdued job . And , I mean , who could criticize the performance of Nicole Kidman , even if she couldn't act her way out of a wet paper bag ? How come the Commonwealth keeps fielding these toothsome blonds , anyway ? We cannot NOT mention Catherine Keener , who has both talent and a facial bone structure that seems made for film , a structure that could go either way - - sympathetic or sinister , here the former . So why is the film dull ? Well , the story has multiple twists and confusing characters and no genuine plot engine . It's as if whoever was responsible for the story had become so thoroughly familiar with the characters and their backgrounds while developing them that he or she thought a few words of description or a photograph would be enough for an ordinary viewer to keep the characters straight . It isn't . Not for me , anyway . It helped a bit that one of the villains , the chief of security at the UN , looks like a heavy , with eyes slightly askew . I had him pegged right away . ( But then I had Catherine Keener , Penn's associate and friend , pegged for dead meat and I was wrong about that . ) There is a quick outline , two or three minutes ' worth , telling us about the African guy who was once a democratic rebel leader and has since become a genocidal dictator . And there are two guys who are trying to get rid of him so they can replace him . One of the would-be replacements looks confusingly like the janitor at the UN - - or maybe he IS the janitor , or the janitor's roomie . A bus blows up . Penn's wife has recently been killed in a car crash with her boyfriend . Some French guy commits suicide by bleeding himself out in a bath tub for reasons none of us would kill ourselves over . The plot is impenetrable . The viewer's mind drifts . Here's the wind-up before the pitch . Kidman is a translator at the UN . She accidentally overhears part of a plot to kill the dictator of an African country and she reports it to the authorities . She has a hell of a time convincing them she's not lying . And here's the pitch . At the climax we find that she and her family have been destroyed - - emotionally or physically - - by this dictator and she holds him at gunpoint , about to blow his brains all over the place , before Sean Penn talks her out of it . If she planned to kill the guy anyway , why did she squeal when she overheard somebody ELSE's plot to kill him ? Oops - - a beanball . A nicely mounted , boring film . Too bad .
All These Girls Need is a Little Discipline .	An idealistic doctor , Paul Henreid , is a counselor or something at a new prison for naughty young girls . No walls , but humane treatment - - that sort of thing . The fly in the ointment is the headmistress or foreman or whatever she is , the top sergeant , who runs the place on a day-to-day basis . And what an old-fashioned meanie she is , groomed like Mrs . Danvers or maybe the wife in " American Gothic " . This movie was one of a spate that came out in the post-war years dealing with one or another social problem , often , as here , penology . Among the others were " The Snake Pit , " " Sniper , " " Gentleman's Agreement , " " Crossfire , " others whose titles don't come to mind at the moment . This is a lesser example of the genre , but not entirely without interest . What makes it interesting is that , though Paul Henreid , Ingrid Bergman's husband in " Casablanca " seven years earlier , was by now over the hill and reduced to B pictures , the movie is full of those naughty young girls , including the 18-year-old Rita Moreno and the 19-year-old Ann Francis . They run around in their skivvies , get into fights , talk nasty , are cynical about everything , trying to run away - - in other words , these luscious young beauties are just begging to be spanked . That's all they really need . They don't need an understanding headmaster , just a couple of whacks . Oh , not savage whacks . Not at all . Rather , deeply caring whacks , whacks of love , so to speak , not enough to hurt but just enough to warm . Why didn't Paul Henreid try that instead of this antiquated humanism ? Huh ? I'll bet he WANTED to turn Ann Francis over his knee , that lanky and insinuating blond vixen , and teach her a lesson . You can see it in his face . The gentle smile can't mask the lascivious grin of the maniac underneath . Come to think of it , if that didn't work , why he could just have THEM spank HIM . They'd be learning a trade too - - professional dominatrix . Anyway , if he didn't , he must be as crazy as the rest of this unimaginative movie . Some of the shots are striking ; in others the lighting alone could have been handled by an alert ten-year-old kid . But why go on ? This movie is " reformist " in the same way that Cecil B . DeMille's early movies showed a lot of nudity , just to make sure we knew how sinful nudity was ; or in the same way as one of those anti-war pictures that show us the brutality of combat before we inevitably win the battle . What hypocrisy .
A commercial bullseye .	" The Exorcist " made an awful lot of money , so it was inevitable that there follow a spate of supernatural thrillers . This is one of the first , itself to be followed by I forget how many sequels and imitations . Suspenseful , gory , and thoroughly commercial , this slice of machine-processed turkey baloney was notable for a couple of reasons . Pretty stylish goings on , what with the Ambassador to the Court of St . James and all that . Well-known stars too , Peck and Lee Remick . And , finally , " The Exorcist " didn't have any violence to speak of but " The Omen " made up for it . Reviewers couldn't help commenting on the shocking violence . Poor David Warner . His head is not only lopped off by a sheet of glass but it rolls over and over like a bocce ball . It's hard to believe now that this was once considered a shockingly violent supernatural thriller . It's been overtaken by its own vulgarity . Subsequent film makers promptly deep sixed the supernatural element or minimized its importance . Since the point was to establish a cascade of gore - - period - - why shoot it in fancy , expensive locations ? And let's get rid of the tiresome plot logic , which might cause someone to think ? Let's just have evil incarnate . Give him fingers with scissors on the end and have him slice up nubile young girls on the screen . Or have a group of semi-naturals stumble into a farm run by a family of ghouls and maniacs . Nobody will notice the holes in the Swiss cheese plot because the entire plot will be one big hole . Nobody will care anyway . And nobody did . That said - - " that " being that commercial greed begets commercial greed - - this isn't bad as far as these things go . There are only four truly violent episodes and they're set up more carefully than we would now take for granted . The plot is still an attempt at a story . And the locations are neat and the acting not bad . David Warner is not too well cast . His angular , leptosomic form and horse face seem better suited to comedy or bitchery . The script doesn't help anyone . " Have no fear , Little One . I am here to protect thee . " ( " Thee " ? ) And the priest is afflicted with what might be called the gibberish syndrome . A person has some extremely important information to tell someone else and finally finds himself in a position to do it , within some tight time constraints . But instead of laying out the message linearly , he begins spouting gibberish . The priest doesn't say , " You've adopted the anti-Christ . " His visage becomes that of a lunatic with red-rimmed eyes and he keeps chanting , " Eat the body and drink the blood of Christ , " over and over . The score is by Jerry Goldsmith , who did the splendid " Chinatown . " In this case he resorts to the generic - - pounding drums , shrieking strings , a male chorus chanting " Satanic " verses - - like Karl Orff on mushrooms . Nothing , though , can lift it out of its own sump . The producers clearly designed the climax in a way that could lead to a sequel or sequels if there still seemed another nickel might be made out of it . That happened , pari passu . The originality and craftsmanship behind " The Exorcist " was long forgotten . How about this ? We get rid of the human writers entirely and just program a computer to grind out variations on themes ?
Routine period mystery / thriller .	" The Haunted Strangler " has been compared to " Dr . Jeykll and Mr . Hyde " and to the Val Lewton horror productions at RKO , and it's easy to see why . Boris Karloff is Rankin , a novelist with a devoted wife and loving step-daughter . Twenty years after the hanging of the notorious Strangler , Rankin develops a theory that the hanged man wasn't guilty at all , but that it was the pathologist in the case , Tennant , who half-strangled and butchered those five women . With the help of a psychiatric intern , and against the advice of his friend Burke ( Anthony Dawson ) , the police detective , Rankin investigates the case and finds evidence incriminating Tennant . Shortly after the Strangler's execution , Tennant was found to be suffering from fits of paralysis and violent outbursts , followed by amnesia for the events . Tennant was ensconced in a mental hospital but escaped with the help of a nurse who had fallen in love with him . About half-way through the film we learn that Rankin himself was Tennant , and his now loving wife was the nurse who helped him . But by this time Rankin has begun to suffer again the murderous paralytic rages and the amnesia that follows . It gets kind of confused somewhere around here . Rankin's recent spells seem to be triggered by the scalpel that was missing from Tennant's collection of surgical instruments . When he grasps the scalpel , Rankin turns into a twisted wreck and he murders without reason . Poor Karloff's face wears a prosthetic or two that twists it all out of symmetry and gives him a look that is at once demonic and full of pain , as if he were suffering the grandfather of all abscessed teeth . On top of that his hair gets messed up . If he first set out to find Tennant guilty , he now must run around trying to convince others that he himself is Tennant . Well , Jeykll and Hyde , yes . Tennant / Rankin is an upright man , no question about it , and his paralytic self is a raving , murderous animal who leaps about to a dissonant , tinkling score . The ego and the id . But Val Lewton , no . Everything in this film is overdone . The acting is in-your-face and not always convincing . The performance of the Newgate turnkey is positively painful . Rankin's butchery isn't as explicit as it would become in the slasher films but it is on-screen butchery . And there is an unnecessary scene of a prisoner being whipped at Newgate Prison . The whipper is a cliché - - a big , fat , bald , sweating sadist . The dialog is entirely functional , without the spark of any inspiration , and the period detail perfunctory . The direction is of the same quality , everything spelled out as if for an audience of children . The scenes in the madhouse are filled with the hoots and howls of the insane so that the hospital sounds more like a zoo . ( Alas , this was likely to be too often true before the chemical straight jackets of phenothiazines were discovered in the 1950s . That was the second revolution in mental health . The first was the unchaining of the maniacs at La Bicetre by the humanitarian Philippe Pinel . Before that , they weren't zoos but infernos . ) But then - - everybody seems to shout . They run , they shout , they wave their arms and disfigure their faces with emotions unless , like the intern , they are utter blanks . In the end , I felt sorry for Karloff . The actor , not the character . He was seventy or thereabouts when this was shot and , as good natured as William Henry Pratt was , he probably joked about the role . Still , thirty years beyond Frankenstein and he's playing another monster .
A tough row to hoe .	To tell the truth , Shakespeare isn't really easy to follow , what with his tangled syntax , his poetry , his puns , his arcane lexicon . But Anthony Hopkins , I think , did a splendid job . I managed to buy this one by mistake , through clumsiness , and it just isn't the same . The actors don't seem to speak slowly enough , I guess , and Iago seemed miscast , no Derek Jacobi . But , heck , the sound on this DVD was so lousy that no one could overcome that obstacle . And this is an inexpensive production , looking very much like a stage . I'm not convinced that Shakespeare is so hot that even a misplaced production like this is worth much attention . It's not like the Lord's Prayer or anything , suitable for all occasions . As much as I hate to say it , I'm afraid that Olivier and his elaborate extravaganzas have got practically a lock on the material . It's not just the production values either - - the blaring trumpets , the real live horses , the period costumes . It's Olivier's performances . He speaks slowly enough in , say , " Hamlet " to understand his every word , though we may not know its exact referent in the real world . And when he speaks quickly , as in much of " Richard III " , he still manages to articulate each juncture . His pauses are precisely timed . And , by God , anybody who can turn the half-mythical but ever-filthy Richard into a clown has got my vote . Hopkins ' version of Othello was splendid . As someone said , " he has the kindest EYES . " Now THAT was the tragedy of the Moor . This version is just a tragedy .
Confusing story of murder , insanity , and assorted mishigas .	Kind of disappointing considering the cast - - Richard Gere as the morally upright but slightly imprudent psychiatrist , Uma Thurman as his " caterpillar " patient , and Kim Basinger as Thurman's seductive older sister . To help him understand Thurman's problems , Gere seeks out Basinger and winds up making furious love to her on their first date . She , lamentably , is married to one of those madly jealous Circum-Mediterranean gangsters who has muscles all over his body as well as inside his head . This is Eric Roberts in his perfect evil greaseball mode . He dominates Basinger and makes her do humiliating sexual things , which is perhaps his one good idea before she bashes his head in with one of his own dumb bells . It seems she suffers from " pathological intoxication . " One sip of alcohol and she becomes violently psychotic , and she had innocently sipped some alcohol-based cough medicine just before the homicide . Gere helps her shape her defense , brings in his friend , Paul Guilfoyle , to serve as her lawyer , and she gets off with a " not guilty by reason of temporary insanity . " Thereafter , it gets twisted . A little too twisted if you ask me . By the end I could hardly tell who was who or what was what . It's pretty thrilling all the way through . It's just that it doesn't make a hell of a lot of sense . Thurman's character begins in cahoots with her sister , then betrays her , then helps her escape from the funny farm , then takes over her identity and murderous quirks . Why ? It would take more than a shrink to determine that . It would require a mind reader , or maybe a seasoned screenwriter . It's nicely acted and the location photography is picturesque - - San Francisco at its most glorious , the Golden Gate Bridge is in every other shot . But it's cheap too . The director uses every cliché in the book regardless of whether they fit together . The climax at the top of a light house has the railing collapsing and Gere dangling over the crashing breakers - - in a howling electrical storm the likes of which Point Reyes has never seen . The fulsome orchestral score belongs to the genus Slasher . And , as I say , the plot is dizzying and at times makes no sense . Okay . Basinger is accused of murder , which she has in fact committed . The only question in whether a condition called " pathological intoxication " exists or not . The prosecution calls an expert witness , a haughty woman psychiatrist with a bony face and a foreign accent . She declares that the condition does not exist except in the minds of defense counsels . Why doesn't she believe there is any such thing ? Because there is no physical evidence . It doesn't show up in brain scans or blood tests . An experienced defense attorney would have jumped all over her and asked if there were any " physical evidence " that schizophrenia exists . There isn't , but nobody can deny that the condition is real . Anyway , in a sense , it's an exciting movie and soothing too , watching cliché follow cliché while common sense flies out the window . Kind of a ritualistic experience , like listening to a familiar but meaningless pop tune .
Fun and Games With Madonna and Willem .	Madonna is married to a very rich older man with a heart condition . He dies , leaving her eight million dollars . The circumstances are suspicious . He's had a heart problem for years , there is cocaine in his nasal spray , and he's been handcuffed to the bed while Madonna has been doing him . Did she marry him and deliberately induce his heart attack ? Just for his money ? To kill her husband for MONEY ? MADONNA ? Are you kidding ? She hires Willem Dafoe to defend her in court against the slurs and attacks of DA Joseph Montegna . Dafoe doesn't know whether she's guilty or not , nor does he care . At first he just wants to win the case . Soon enough , though , he wants a bit more of a retainer from Madonna . And who wouldn't ? She describes herself as " irresistable . " That's when I started to dislike the character . I didn't mind the handcuffs so much . After all , SOMEBODY has to wear them . And when she and Dafoe are getting it on , and she pours hot wax all over his chest and more sensitive parts ? I didn't mind that either . Let him suffer . Dafoe had no business being on Madonna's opulent Oregon houseboat in the first place . ( I think all men would have to admit , the scene makes one wince . Still , " A chaque a son gout , " as they say in Guyana . ) And when word gets around that Madonna and Willem are making the beast with two backs , and Dafoe's wife ( Julianne Moore ) leaves him - - well , that was a shame , but what do you expect ? No , it was when she called herself " irresistable " that she lost any sympathy I had for her . That , and the fact that she insists on always being the one on top . Reminded me of my marriage . Enough is enough . Nice supporting cast . Joe Montegna is always good , even if the film is sometimes mediocre . Julianne Moore is fine too , although she is no staggering beauty by Hollywood standards , just an exceptionally good actress . Jurgen Prochnow , who made his international mark as the sensible and sympathetic skipper of the U-boat in " Das Boot " , has a role as another of Madonna's dupes . Ditto Frank Langella , who deserves a medal simply for getting out of Bayonne . Anne Archer has equal screen time as one of Madonna's victims . Dafoe is eminently reliable . But that's about as far as the film's virtues go . The script limns in an unbelievable plot . First of all , Madonna is an actress of only modest talent , although she is an expert at self promotion . And I can't understand how Dafoe's defense counsel could become so stupid and glandular after what appears to have been a fairly successful career . There's been no intimation that his marriage or his life is worth turning over so thoroughly . There were three or four sex scenes that were long and drawn out and , I suppose , intended to be shocking . ( One has Madonna being unwillingly sodomized , with a man on top for a change . ) But they did little more than satisfy a viewer's curiosity about the topography of Madonna's anatomy , which is okay , by the way . They were no more arousing than any late-night weekend movie on cable TV , the kind with titles like , " Forbidden Passions " and " Sex Games in Cancun , " all billowing lace curtains and burning candles and ersatz eroticism . So did Madonna kill her husband for his money ? You bet !
Not the Best Example .	I'll keep this short . Martin Ritt's " Norma Rae " was a more original , less stereotyped study of exploited Appalachian workers and their tribulations , and so was Barbara Koppel's documentary of this confrontation between union organizers and the evil company they labor for . The acting isn't bad . Holly Hunter is good , as she usually is , and Stellan Skarsgard is fine as always . He's a remarkably relaxed performer , whether the role calls for villainy ( " Ronin " ) or sympathetic understanding , as in " Good Will Hunting " . Hunter's Southern accent may sound overdrawn to some , but thirty-five years ago I imagine it fit the template well enough . It's the story that sags . There are good people and evil people and none of them are particularly complex . That's more or less how Koppel's documentary rolled along too , but it's nevertheless not how life on the ground is structured . The conventions followed here are those of a soap opera , except that instead of a deceitful and vicious husband , we have a nefarious corporation . It doesn't matter that the film was shot in Canada . That has little to do with its quality . I only wish the script had given the audience a bit more to chew on , just a little food for thought , a ham hock or two , rather than Pablum .
Would you buy a used car from these men ?	Preston Foster as the cop who wants his reputation and his job back is human enough , but as for the rest - - what a line-up of heavies . Neville Brand going chubby and coarse . Jack Elam of the chameleon eyes . And Lee Van Cleef , New Jersey's contribution to heavydom , along with Bruno Richard Hauptmann . And there's not an ounce of ambiguity or humanity among them . They're pure e-vil . The film itself , while in no way evil , is unfortunately not so hot . Phil Karlson has left some unexpected gems among the dross - - " Phoenix City Story , " " Walking Tall . " But this isn't one of the gems . Aside from the limitations imposed on it by a small budget , this B movie lacks finesse . Every other shot is a gigantic looming closeup of somebody's sweaty , greedy face . It's pretty violent for a 1952 film though . During one of the many scuffles it appears that two of the guys get punched in the jewels . John Payne isn't bad . He's just unremarkable , along the lines of , say , MacDonald Carey . You can't object to him because there's nothing really there to object to . Colleen Gray has sparkling eyes and tiny red lips that can suddenly explode into a dazzling smile . Her chirpy voice moves in leaps and bounds . Often , when she says " going to " and " you " , they come out as " gonna " and " ya " . She's utterly charming . I don't care if she IS a lawyer , she's still winning . The story is complicated , improbable , and full of holes . The script is no help whatever . A robbery takes place and Payne , who knows nothing about it , is interrogated by the police . They beat hell out of him for two days . Then , finding out that he was set up for a frame , they tell him they know he's innocent and let him go . Nevertheless , he's fired from his job . The first thing he does is run to an old buddy asking for help because " I've got to clear myself . " Clear himself of what ? He can't have much money because his job was driving a flower delivery truck , yet he spends a good deal of money tracking down the robbers , following them to a raffish Mexican town . The transfer to the DVD I saw was lousy and maybe this has influenced my judgment of the film itself . It looked like it was a kine scope copy , filmed directly from a TV show . Someone else might like it more than I did . I didn't find it hateful , though , just unengaging .
Hope as Insurance Salesman Out West .	I think the kids might enjoy this more than adults . The situations are amusing - - imagine Bob Hope as Jesse James ' bodyguard in Missouri - - but they're kind of slow , a little drawn out , funny in a sitcom way . The punch lines are followed by rather long silences while the audience is supposed to be laughing . The kids might be laughing but the grown-ups , I suspect , are no more than smiling . I'm not a curmudgeon either . I laughed along with my twelve-year-old at some of Hope's earlier Western comedies , like " Fancy Pants . " The usual wisecracks are muted . Slightly off kilter . And I didn't notice any playing with the fourth wall , usually a refreshing surprise . Hope is funny enough as his usual quivering coward , but I miss the fast pacing of his 1940s comedies and the easy exchange of barbs between him and Bing Crosby in the Road movies . Maybe I AM an old curmudgeon .
Slight Ealing Comedy .	Donald Houston and Meredith Edwards are two Welsh miners who win a trip to London and two-hundred pounds . They are to be met at Paddington Station by a reporter ( Alec Guiness ) who will be their guide . They miss Guiness , then they lose each other in the streets . Houston picks up a young woman with designs on the prize money . Edwards runs into an old friend , Hugh Griffith , now a drunken rapscallion reduced to singing Welsh ballads and begging on corners , yearning for the harp he had to pawn two years earlier . Everyone runs around trying to catch the others , getting swept up in events along the way . That's about it . The film tries to be more charming that humorous but its charm , like its comedy , is spare . It has a lot of good-natured energy but not too much else . When Griffith accidentally smashes his harp through a shop window , he shouts angrily , " If your rotten window has hurt my harp , you'll pay for it ! " It doesn't get much funnier than that . There's nothing wrong with the performances , the direction , or any other aspect of the production - - and there are one or two nice Welsh songs - - but whimsy is a poor substitute for plot . The Ealing comedies were best when they pitted canny rustics against bureaucratic ritualists . You could cheer for the peasants . Here , you cheer for everyone and there's no tension , no spring , behind the plot . Will they make the train home on time ? It's such a small matter .
So Long at the Boat Deck	I guess by 1953 Jeanne Crain's career was sputtering out . She wasn't much of an actress although evidently a sweet lady , and she gave an unimpeachable performance earlier in " Leave Her to Heaven " as the virginal " gal with the hoe . " Her performance here is adequate and no more than that . She's beautiful and has a fine figure , but she's given no help by a hoary and unimaginative script , by the dated wardrobe , by the pedestrian direction , or by makeup and the hair stylist who have turned her into a Rhonda Fleming clone . It's a little painful to watch her break down in the ship's dining room . Sought by some of the officers she must push her way frantically through the crowd of couples dancing then , cornered , she has to scream , " No ! No ! " , and collapse into the arms of kindly ( not to say saintly ) Michael Rennie , the ship's doctor who half believes her crazy story about her missing husband . Rennie . Is the guy really handsome ? I can't tell . He's tall and a little cadaverous . He'd probably have played out his career in horror movies . His hair is gelled to a fault , his long nose a fleshy beak , and his cheekbones belong in the Smithsonian Institute . Yet he was evidently a notorious lady's man . The plot is so old . I couldn't begin to outline its genealogical tree . I'm thinking " So Long at the Fair , " " The Lady Vanishes , " and " Bunny Lake is Missing . " All of them are better than this one . The award for worst acting should go to Anna Quinn as a stewardess who looks vulnerable and frightened whether the scene calls for it or not . She was pretty good as the nurse in " Lifeboat . " Here , with her wide , scared , nystigmatic eyes it's as if she were being directed by Cecil B . DeMille in a silent movie . Actually I rather liked her . Anyone who looks more terrified than I usually feel gets my vote any day . At the same time it's hard to understand why Crain's " missing husband , " who actually exists , would do away with her for money . After all , the guy is already married to her and she's just inherited a fortune . That particular kink in the movie's logic was never worked out , but then there are quite a few kinks lolling around . Michael Rennie gets whacked over the head with a 25-pound snatch block and falls to the deck . Then he shakes his head to clear it and leaps back to his feet . No matter . The movie has a narrative voice-over by Crain , which disappears halfway through the film . It's a small movie without a lot of ambition . It's not a disaster , just a routine shipboard mystery . It could have been so much improved by a bit more imagination in the direction .
Average True-Crime Story of Serial Murderer .	The so-called Green River killer was responsible for more than three dozen deaths of women , mostly prostitutes , in the Seattle / Tacoma area of Washington state . This lengthy , slow , dark film isn't really his story . It follows the career of Dave Reichert ( Thomas Cavanaugh ) , the head of the Green River task force at the King's County Sheriff's Office , with some additional time given over to the trials and tribulations of one of the killer's victims , Helen Remus ( Amy Davidson ) . It's not much more than a routine rendering of what has by now become a familiar narrative - - the mounting toll of bodies , the frustrated police , the dead ends , the pressure from the press , and finally the cathartic payoff . " The Deliberate Stranger " , the TV movie about Ted Bundy , for all its flaws , was a more tightly wound and better scripted tale , focusing as it did on the ensemble of cops , on the one hand , and Bundy's peregrinations on the other . The insertion of Bundy's affair with one or another woman was an informative diversion . Here , Helen Remus provides the narration , speaking from beyond the grave , in a warehouse filled with the GRK's other victims standing in a silent tableau . Her maunderings cover a lot of philosophy , with God dragged in by the heels , mostly centering around free will versus fate . ( She quotes from William Henley's " Invictus " - - " I am the captain of my fate . / I am the master of my soul . " ) It all sounds like so much padding , although everyone is entitled to his or her philosophy about life , whether elegant or folksy . Heck , it's REQUIRED that we have one , even if we have to bootleg it in by the back door . It does get tiresome , though , and predictable . She was basically a good-hearted girl who came from a dysfunctional family and all the rest of it . If she weren't a hooker , she might have been a nun . That kind of portrayal of the victim as abused but still brave and generous , cheapens the narrative . She was murdered and her body dumped . Would it have been less a crime if she'd been shown as the cynical , self-indulgent hooker she might well have been ? But that's just part of the problem with this film . There is no wit in the meandering script , no sparkle . And what passion it tries to evoke is undercut by the weak acting . Thomas Cavanaugh looks the part of the chief detective , but he has only a tentative hold on his instrument . His explosion of anger at the end of his interrogation of the captive killer looks like that of an actor trying to act out an explosion of anger , and his tender scenes aren't much better . I don't mean this as a slur on Thomas Cavanaugh the man . He probably has a loving family and a nice dog . It's just that , as a performer , he has a way to go . There are a couple of nice shots of rivers flowing through dismal gray rocks , stirring and foaming , suggestive of peace and nature and submerged corpses . Now THAT makes one wax philosophical . It would have been nice , finally , if it had had a faster pace and if it had had a few more scenes that were brightly lighted . Even the sheriff's offices are filmed with only a few scattered lights . The lighting isn't stylish or dramatic . It's just too low . Where did this noirish nonsense come from - - " The X Files " ?
Half Past High Noon .	Fred MacMurray is a peaceful shopkeeper who kills one of the Dennis gang with a lucky shot . The rest escape . MacMurray becomes a hero throughout the state of Texas . The remaining five members of the gang determine to kill him . The other town residents know it and begin to avoid MacMurray . They offer to stake him to a new store in far away Amarillo . Should MacMurray hide his tail between his legs , pack up his loving wife and adorable kid , and skip town ? Are you kidding ? This is a routine 1950s Western . There must have been hundreds of them ground out , intrigues and drama in a studio-built town with one dusty main street , flanked by a dozen building fronts made of wooden planks . Here , the core issues of Heartland America were on display - - bravery , cowardice , love , treachery , and the question of what you do with a neighbor in your tidy suburb who refuses to mow his lawn as often as everyone else . The 1960s were a transitional period , turbulent and full of excess and challenge . By the 1970s , the issues had changed to corruption and street crime and the milieu in which these dramas were played out was changed to the city streets . But this is from the 1950s . And was released five years after the wildly successful " High Noon " with Gary Cooper as the upholder of reticent righteousness . In " High Noon , " a couple of gunmen are returning to town to kill Cooper because he " sent up " the viperous Frank Miller . In " At Gunpoint , " the same number of gunmen are coming back to town to kill Cooper , I mean MacMurray , because he accidentally shot a gang member who was the brother of another . The rest of the story is familiar . The gang sneaks in at night and murders the town marshall . Everyone knows they will come back and take care of MacMurray too . As in " High Noon " the town gradually marginalizes the well-meaning shopkeeper and his family , but he refuses to leave town because a man's gotta do what a man's gotta do . His wife , Dorothy Malone , plays Grace Kelly and disparages his attempts to maintain his self esteem but , unlike Kelly , she's quickly won over . We see the gang riding into town for the final show down . We see the scared MacMurray behind a couple of barrels on the street corner , taking a few shots at them that miss their marks by seven hundred yards . The gang trot on towards MacMurray , grim and determined . Now , this is not the kind of movie that has any tricks up its sleeve . That's the whole point - - it should be comforting in its predictability . For instance , one of the character we meet at the beginning is the harmless , smiling , younger brother of Malone . There's no particular reason for his being there . He's always in the background being pleasant , but this story concerns MacMurray and Malone - - not MacMurray and Malone and Malone's BROTHER . Discerning viewers , those with the aficion for old movies , will recognize immediately that this character is DEAD MEAT . And so he is . Well , for the gang to continue its trot up the powdery street , right on up to the helpless Fred MacMurray , whom they then shoot full of holes , is unacceptable . Not because it wouldn't happen in real life but because it would surprise and challenge the audience . The only alternatives are ( 1 ) MacMurray to have four MORE lucky shots left in his Colt , or ( 2 ) the townsmen relent and capture or kill the gang . There are no other possibilities that don't involve supernatural intervention . No power on earth could force me to reveal which alternative the movie chooses . Oh - - those viewers with the aficion for old movies will recognize a lot of faces in the supporting case : Walter Brennan , Whit Bissell , the miscreant Jack Lambert , Harry Shannon ( cf . , " Citizen Kane " ) , John Qualen , and Frank Ferguson . Social psychologists will note the illustration of one of the more surprising findings of cognitive balance theory . Take a person who holds attitude A and opposes attitude B . Tell him that you'll pay him to act AS IF he holds attitude B . After he argues for attitude B long enough , he'll lose his belief in A and genuinely switch to B . In " At Gunpoint , " the townspeople are friendly to storekeeper MacMurray . After the first shooting , they begin to avoid him out of fear for themselves and their families . Pretty soon , after they've acted as if he had the plague , they come not to like MacMurray very much and want to get rid of him . They begin with attitude A , act AS IF they held attitude B , and finally FEEL attitude B . They don't even congratulate him when his reward check comes , and they don't say thanks when he buys them a ceremonial drink at the saloon . Have you non-psychologists grasped the point ? Good . That will be ten cents .
Farce is full of effort .	Its a story of two older cousins - - John Mills and Ralph Richardson - - the surviving one of which pair will inherit a fortune , and the fortune will of course be passed on to his younger relatives . The two cousins haven't spoken in forty years . One of them , Mills , is an angry , sickly fellow . Richardson is an old bore . All of them , and all of their greedy young relatives , are proper Victorian types . There is a mix-up in which both men are mistakenly thought to be dead . Wrong boxes are shipped around from site to site . Two of the younger relatives ( Peter Cook and Dudley Moore ) connive to have Mills declared dead so that their living uncle can inherit the ten thousand pounds . It gets kind of complicated and winds up in a rattling chase of horse-drawn hearses and other vehicles , some containing dead bodies in pianos , others containing boxes full of money . I don't know why this doesn't quite clear the bar but it's simply not as funny as it ought to be . It was released in 1966 . " Tom Jones " , a wildly successful period picture , was released two years earlier , and I suppose this was an attempt to follow up . But " Tom Jones " was a raucous story set in Georgian England of 1745 . People fell into mud . They ate like animals before they copulated . And that is definitely NOT Victorian England , and you can't develop a successful parody in the same way . How can you exaggerate a proper and prim Victorian man or woman ? Make him or her still MORE prim ? You wind up with an ice sculpture . The humor is so understated that it isn't very amusing . ( A woman glimpses a man's bare arm and fairly swoons . Twice . ) Maybe , given the script , they should have gone the way not of " Tom Jones " but of some of the earlier Ealing comedies . Instead of zeroing in on mugging and flat jokes , had the story been played straight and ironic , it might have worked . As it is , the fulsome musical score , lush color photography , and row upon row of fine actors , are more of a distraction than a virtue . The jokes are milked for what they are worth , and they're not all bad . Two examples . Michael Caine is invited to the house of his inamorata and finds the house full of eggs of all sizes and colors . Splashy title card : " AT LAST ! ALONE IN A HOUSE FULL OF EGGS ! " ) Nanette Newman : " My uncle collects eggs . " Caine ( goggling ) : " Very commendable . " Newman : " I find them obscene . " When Caine leaves , Newman says politely and a little breathlessly that it was nice meeting him . Caine : " Not at all . I hope to see much more of you . " Newman gasps at his boldness . Two cast members , however , make memorable every scene they're in . Wilfred Lawson as the aging butler , trembling and shuffling , whose every utterance is a strangled attempt at speech . ( He was good in " Tom Jones , " too . ) And , especially , Peter Sellers as a drunken and discombobulated , disreputable doctor who performs abortions and helps poison people who have become nuisances . ( He MUST have improvised some of his business . ) He tries to sign a phony death certificate under the coaching of Peter Cook and finally manages to print out his name in ugly , scraggling letters . W . Pratt MD . Then he peruses it with half-stunned satisfaction and reads it aloud - - " W . Prattmd . " I mean , he incorporates the " MD " into his last name . No other single gag matches that one . I don't intend saying that this is a boring film . A viewer doesn't get a sense of failure at every turn , only that so many of the jokes aren't as funny as the script tries to make them , and some are plain silly . It's very genteel , and not at all irritating . Goes down like a draught of the black balm . You might enjoy it , so many other people have .
Murkey waters , rather .	Well , it's a Schreckfest alright , and sometimes an effective one . Lots of eerie scenes . A dead body or two but no bloodshed . The atmosphere is terrific . The photography and production design deserve credit . And the players are uniformly professional . Pete Postlethwaite's face seems made up of lumps of play-do . John Reilly , as the apartment house manager , is sincerely phony . The little kid does as well as any little kid could do . Tim Roth as the lawyer doesn't have much of a part as Platzer the lawyer but comes across as reassuringly reasonable , the only halfway trustworthy person we meet . Jennifer Connolly as Dahlia has matured and from some angles is unrecognizable as the virginal ice princess of , say , " Hot Spot . " She's no longer a succulent girl but a beautiful and statuesque woman , even aside from the flawless geometry of her nose . With maturity has come a little more energy , or so it seems to me , judging from her performances here and in " A Beautiful Mind . " The plot itself , regrettably , is so dark as to be almost impenetrable to logic . Frankly , I got lost . I was able to identify the influence of - - let me think - - " The Shining , " " Psycho , " " Repulsion , " and " The Exorcist . " Not just in the plot but in individual shots . The movie is a scary enough experience , and I guess if that's all it was intended to be , it succeeds . But it doesn't make much sense . Nothing " stands for " anything else . The water , for instance . In Connolly's dilapidated apartment it drips through the ceiling from the apartment above , it rushes from the faucets the color of Brown 25 , it explodes from toilets . Sometimes it floods the floors , black and turgid . In the end , Connolly seems to drown in it . Is it real ? Or is it some paranoid hallucination on Connolly's part ? Sometimes it's real . The manager , the lawyer , and the custodian all see it and react with disgust . Other times the fluid , looking like something just flushed from an ancient rusty car radiator , gushes out of faucets and toilets in the little girl's school when Connolly is nowhere near , and the school teacher simply describes the floors as " flooded . " Flooded with WHAT ? The kid has an imaginary playmate who insists on sticking around , yanking the kid's hand while she's trying to finger paint . This mysterious spirit , which I'm tempted to call " Mistress Howdy " , seems to be connected to another little girl who drowned in the water tower on the roof but I'm not sure . Both Connolly and the daughter get to see this dead little girl . ( Whose hallucination IS this , anyway ? ) Finally , Connolly manages to save her own little girl from being drowned by the spirit of the other , at which point Connolly seems to be crushed by a veritable Niagara Falls of water from the apartment upstairs . The medical verdict on cause of death ? " Not apparent . " Well that's really frustrating because nobody dies from hallucinated water . Yet if the water is of this world , it would have been present in sufficient quantity to flush all the roaches and all the furniture and all the people out of the entire ten-story hovel . Still , it at least has the virtue of giving the viewer an arousal jag without the easy shots of throats being slit and virgins being disemboweled . Some work went into the execution of the plan . It's the plan itself that's weak .
Strangers on a Pier .	I don't know . The first time I saw this , years ago , I thought it was pretty exciting but it hasn't held up well on a second viewing . It's essentially the story of Yuppie James Spader who meets the charming , but vicious and clever Rob Lowe , and is led astray by him . An office rival of Spader's plays a computer trick on him that derails his coming promotion . Spader swallows his resentment and goes to a bar in Manhattan Beach - - Los Angeles , that is . Nursing his sullenness , he is insulted and ordered to get out by some ill-mannered greaseball . He's about to comply when a stranger , Lowe , bashes the bruiser and throws HIM out . Welcome , friend . From Lowe , Spader learns not only to stand on his own two feet but to play dirty . He hijacks his office rival's computer and forces the miscreant to straighten out the kink in Spader's account . ( In " Wolf , " Spader would play the office rotter to Jack Nicholson's turning worm . ) The things get a little out of hand . Not only does Spader learn to get even with his enemies . Lowe gets him stoned and drunk and takes him out on a wildly criminal spree involving the hold up of a couple of convenience stores and the savage beating of Spader's rival . This is a turning point for Spader , as it was for Farley Granger in Hitchcock's " Strangers on a Train . " Lowe has been crashing at Spader's apartment and Spader throws him out . It doesn't work too well . Lowe is forward-looking and has amassed evidence of Spader's debauchery , including a video of Spader boffing a young lady to whom Lowe introduced him . Lowe shows up at a party at the house of Spader's fiancée and manages to have the tape played for the enjoyment of the entire family and assembled well-dressed guests . Then , as if that weren't enough , Lowe bashes in the head of Spader's young lady and spread evidence around that incriminates Spader . In fact , Lowe is constantly outwitting Spader and his brother Pismo ( a fine performance by Christian Clemenson ) . Until the end , when during a final confrontation Spader is able to capture Lowe's unwitting confession on tape . But , as Lowe would insist , it's not enough to get even , you have to demolish your enemies and Lowe winds up in the Pacific Ocean with a bullet in him . The taped confession is convenient . It absolves Spader of any guilt connected to the beating of his office rival and the murder of the young woman . But Spader had better get a phenomenally good lawyer because the residual charges are enough to send him on a long vacation to San Quentin - - participating in at least two armed robberies ; accessory before , during , and after the fact ; obstruction of justice ; illegal possession of a weapon ; and exhibiting an obscene videotape to awed and morally upright white people at a party where champagne is being served . Curtis Hanson directed . Nothing wrong with the direction , though he was to be more daring in " L . A . Confidential . " Spader is good as the Yuppie , too . He's ALWAYS been good as the Yuppie . Rob Lowe , on the other hand - - I was watching this film the first time with a mixed group and I thought Spader seemed kind of handsome in a bland , middle-American way , so I asked the women present if my impression were correct . Do women find him handsome ? " No - - the other guy . " I guess that must account for Lowe's many appearances on screen because his acting talent comes in as rather Lite . Not that he's so BAD . It's just that most of us could do just as well . Look . Let's be honest . There's nothing outstanding in any way about this film . It's entertaining , up to a point . But the theme is spelled out for us . As Lowe tells Spader , " I'm just filling all your wishes . " And the theme is much more subtly - - even masterfully - - explored in " Strangers on a Train . " Go to the original .
Fatal Femme	Joanne Whaley is a deceitful slut in this complicated neonoir thriller , and Val Kilmer is the private eye she manages to suck into her scheme to steal money from Michael Madsen who has just stolen it from the Mafia . There are multiple murders along the way . In the end everybody gets dead except for Kilmer who makes off with the entire stash . I don't know why the plot let him get away , because he's done all kinds of illegal stuff and proved himself as untrustworthy as anyone else . But the narrative has established him as just about the only sympathetic character in the movie - - his wife recently died in a drowning , for instance . The natural locations around Lake Mead are splayed out across the screen in gorgeous color . You really want to dive into the electric blue of that man-made lake . Urban settings are less well realized . The story line is involved and not very plausible . This babe , Whaley , conks Michael Madsen over the head with a rock while he's at the urinal , which is among other things very bad manners . What's she doing in the men's room anyway ? What kind of a movie IS this ? After Whaley and Kilmer have been together for a while , Madsen finally catches up to them , threatens and beats Kilmer , and rapes Whaley who manages to find a gun and appears to shoot Madsen multiorgasmically . But no ! Madsen shows up for the climax of the film and he and Whaley fall into each other's arms and laugh . I guess he's forgotten about getting bashed in the urinal . And I guess he's still alive because Kilmer didn't bother to check and see if Whaley had REALLY shot him after being raped . Are you following this ? Good , because I couldn't . Oh - - and I also must have missed the part in which Kilmer gets to take the money out of the attache case and fill the case with junk , including a can of Spam . In fact - - well , okay , I admit it . I lost track of the money per se once or twice during the film . I'm also not certain why we are left to assume that , at the end , Kilmer can be presumed to be safe from both the Mafia and the police . I'm sure there's some reason because I am a mechanical determinist . Performances . Whaley is suitably sluttish and very yummy . She looks a little and acts a lot like Natalie Wood and is about the same size . I rather liked her appearance - - that saucy ever-jiggling bosom , those big dark eyes looking outward in two slightly different directions . Whatever " charisma " means , Val Kilmer hasn't got it here . He recites his lines as if reading them from a cue card on an afternoon drama . There is no animation in his delivery or his movement . He seems bored by having to speak . And he has prissy good looks that are repugnant . But , man , did he come awake for some roles in later movies , doing for instance a splendid job in " Heat . " But here he seems to be playing his instrument with a mute . Poor Michael Madsen , a nice guy in real life apparently . But if you've seen " Reservoir Dogs , " you know what he's like here , slavering over the prospect of torturing bound prisoners with lighted cigarettes , automatics , a hunting knife , a baseball bat . Sometimes he switches from one application to another in the middle of a schtick . I was kind of in the mood for it and was pretty much disappointed by it , but I can see why someone in a less demanding mood might enjoy it . It doesn't really seem to deserve much applause .
Lupino's picture .	A pretty good Warner Brothers working-man flick , recycled though it is , that makes you feel for the poor guys driving those big rigs and trying to squeeze in as many hours on the road as possible . But that's only part of the plot . The main story has the slightly mad Ida Lupino , married to the boss , the good-natured airhead of Alan Hale , falling for George Raft's blue-collar kind of guy , who in turn is in love with foxy and sympathetic Ann Sheridan . Disgusted by Hale , Lupino does a monoxide number on him so she can be free to marry Raft . Raft , however , is an ethical guy and rejects her . Lupino then goes to the police in a major snit and blames Raft for forcing her to murder her husband . At the trial , she breaks down . Raft is freed and takes over the business . All's well that ends well . I wonder how many legal-types have ever seen a witness break down on the stand . Did anyone ever cry , " Okay , I DID it , I DID it . She had it coming , but I didn't mean to kill her . It was an ACCIDENT , I tell you , and ACCIDENT ! Understand ? " Well , that's not exactly what Ida Lupino does on the stand here . Instead , she sobs , " The DOORS made me do it ! " The film is more interesting than it is compelling . Of course we want the good people to survive and flourish , and we want the evil people to suffer and die a lingering death . Lupino's character is not exactly evil , though , which is one of the things that makes the movie interesting . She's a little impulsive and disturbed throughout , and at the end she turns into a complete fruitcake . While we certainly don't want her nefarious scheme to succeed , neither do we want to see someone who's obviously insane suffer more than they are already going to suffer in the days before phenothiazines . No . Lupino has a tough enough road ahead of her in some psychiatric warehouse . We are spared at least seeing her led down the last mile and being strapped in the chair . Warner Brothers ground out dozens of these kinds of flicks during the 1930s , often reworkings of the same plot , and they knew what they were doing . Very professional team at Warner Brothers . Jack Warner worked his major stars half to death and paid them about as much as waiters were paid at The Brown Derby - - and no tips .
It Could Have Been Worse .	This could easily have been turned into an exploitation flick , the kind that's so easy to visualize among today's profusion of junk . See , there would be a John Lennon look-alike with a phony Liverpudlian accent , and half the film would follow him around on his last day on earth . Then there would be a Mark David Chapman , who wouldn't have to be much of a look-alike because nobody knows what Chapman looks or sounds like , but he would have a violent past and have bizarre encounters with negative images of spooks and spirits , instantaneous shock cuts , an ear-splitting electronic percussive score , the fondling of the blue steel Smith and Wesson , the climactic ejaculation in the portcullis of the Dakota , the foot chase , the speeding cars , the shrieking sirens , the exploding fireball , the shots exchanged in the empty warehouse , Chapman spread-legged atop a flaming petroleum tank screaming into the empty night sky - - " Made it , Ma ! TOP OF THE WORLD ! " Well , you get the picture . But this Indie production doesn't adhere too closely to the dumbed-down Hollywood template . It's more subtle than that . It's quieter , more thoughtful , if not more enlightening . Because , after all , who can understand Mark David Chapman ? The killing of John Lennon was preposterous . Sure , Chapman considered Lennon a " phony , " as defined in Chapman's favorite book , " The Catcher in the Rye . " Lennon , who made so much of his spiritual identity , owned five farms with Holsteins , a weekend cottage in Florida , and five apartments in the Dakota . But by such a lenient definition of " phoniness , " we are all phonies . Lennon could have been anybody - - almost was . Chapman even carried around a back-up list of other targets in case he missed Lennon - - Jackie Kennedy , Johnny Carson , and two or three other phonies . So this movie , or any movie like it , that attempts to dig up a motive from Chapman's fulguritic brain , sets itself an impossible task . Not even Chapman knows the answers . If the film doesn't follow the received wisdom of Hollywood , it at least imitates a good source , Martin Scorsese's " Taxi Driver , " which derives a lot of its stuff from Bresson . There is a slow and deliberate narration by Jonas Ball , who plays Chapman , telling us of his feelings , his deliberations , his confusion . The movie was shot inexpensively in New York and there are multiple shots of the Dakota , an apartment house that's probably familiar to fans of " Rosemary's Baby . " The acting is naturalistic . It sounds real , rather than read from a script , as in so many TV commercials . There are the kinds of awkward pauses that are typically found in real life . Nobody's a stereotype . The cops who arrest Chapman clearly dislike him because of what he did , but they show more curiosity and disapproval than anger . The film is slow but surprisingly gripping . This is partly because we know what's going to happen . And what's going to happen is so pointlessly tragic that it's hard to sit through . The climactic act is so hateful that it makes the movie irretrievably joyless . It's like watching a well-made film of a man walking down the sidewalk and having a safe fall on his head . Who needs it ?
Flashy story based on Wells ' Novel	The 1960 version by George Pal has stop-motion effects that seem dated now , especially compared to the dazzling images we see on the screen here , and yet I kind of prefer the earlier version . It was dated , pedantic , and simple - - or simple minded , if you like . But that very simplicity made it easier to follow the plot and to understand the points that Wells was eager to make . This version is longer , better acted , but is filled with action , some of it gory , that Pal's version wasn't very concerned with . Neither version , I gather , was that close to Wells ' original . Pal's was closer in depicting the Eloi as an air-headed white-bread society with pink skins . This one is more realistic . The Eloi seem to be a mixed race . They look vaguely Polynesian - - what with body tattoos , pareus , and cowrie shells . In fact their culture looks like that of the Samoans and so do many of the Eloi themselves . If you took a sample of genes from all three major racial stocks , put them in a blender , and dumped them out on a table , they'd look like Samoans , which is not the worst fate in the world . Mara ( whatever happened to Weena ? ) doesn't look quite as corruptly innocent as Yvette Mimieux but we can live with that . Guy Pearce is pretty good . He has a commanding face , prognathous and full of masculine bone structure , and his performance is quite different from that in " L . A . Confidential , " the only other work of his that I've seen . Jeremy Irons has a bit part as the Uber-Morlock , the brains of the subterranean outfit , so to speak . He's given what I guess are philosophical points to make in his brief appearance but I must be slow because I didn't get them . The problem with these films is that they both throw away Well's reasons for why things turned out the way they did . Capitalism has led to a two-tier society ( the eaten and the eaters ) , and evolution ( still a controversial idea ) had its way for reasons that Wells spelled out . All of that is missing . We don't get any reasons for the lack of sexual bifurcation in the Eloi , nor any reason for their empty-headedness . Instead , we are given the Eloi as is - - " Here they are , folks ! " No hint whatever that they are the descendants of the worn-out wealthy class of earlier days . I don't mean that this film should have been a series of lectures on the future physical and cultural evolution of our society . Just that certain questions and answers could easily have been built into the story itself , particularly if some of the violent scenes , unnecessarily long , had been elided . And what the hell is the black , stinky , gooey stuff on those blowgun darts anyway ? It can knock down a full-grown man but it only frightens a little girl . Overall impression : Not bad , not insulting , but it looks as if it were the consequence of a meeting of a board of MBAs who began by asking , " What NEW story is there that we can juice up with modern computer-generated images ? The Time Machine ? Great ! Cannibalism and a destroyed earth - - a bonanza of fireworks ! "
Undistinguished but enjoyable thriller .	Hitchcock was professionally competent in directing this , but not yet the tantalizing genius he was to become with maturity . John Gielgud , Madeleine Carrol , and Peter Lorre are sent to Switzerland to eradicate an unknown German spy who is about to buy Arabia during World War I . First , Lorre offs the wrong man , some poor British ninny who just happens to have a German wife and has lost a suspicious button . Robert Young meanwhile has shown up as an American gadabout , flirting with Gielgud's mock wife , Carrol . The trio of assassins continues on the track of the genuine German spy , though with less zeal , now that they've thrown an innocent man off a mountaintop . The real spy turns out to be Young . In a spectacularly cheesy model train crash , Young dies after shooting Lorre , and Gielgud and Carrol are on their way to a real marriage . You wouldn't need second sight to recognize this as a Hitchcock movie but you'd have to examine it with a bit of care . There are one or two shots in which the camera dollies in for a closeup of a printed message or some other small object . The usual tourist's eye view of the location is used - - Switzerland , mountain climbing , a chocolate factory . Madeleine Carrol is a pleasant-looking blonde . And of course there is the train . Gielgud provides the stiff upper lip , inexpressive as ever , that he would later lend to his colorful character roles as butlers or whatnot . Robert Young is blandly acceptable , both as giddy suitor and sneering villain . Peter Lorre has to be seen and heard to be believed . In dark makeup and curly hair , his oily skin glistening , he speaks with an accent that is impossible to pin down , hovering somewhere between his native German and generic " Latin . " You know what Chico Marx was to vaudeville Italian ? Well that was closer to a real accent than anything Lorre comes up with here . Speaking of the Marx Brothers , Lorre has Harpo's simple approach to seducing attractive women too . When he sees one , he bares his fangs and hustles after her at a run . When irritated , he's given to tearing toilet paper off the roll and flinging it around in festoons . The film is likable in its own unpretentious way , although the DVD I watched ( part of the AH Signature Collection ) was so crummy I was unable to read more than half of the mysterious printed messages that come to Gielgud's attention .
Taut Little Melodrama .	Sensible but dull husband Arther Kennedy and domineering demanding wife Lizabeth Scott are driving through the California night to a party in their convertible . She doesn't want to go , although they've promised to show up , and she nags him until he turns around and heads back to L . A . A car passes them in the opposite direction and , evidently mistaking them for someone else , the driver tosses a bag with sixty large into their back seat . They pull over to examine this unexpected gift . Now , sixty thousand dollars was a lot of money when this movie was shot . Today , of course , I tip the barber half that much , but it certainly stirs up Lizabeth Scott's acquisitive instinct . Her dim bulb of a husband argues that they'd better take it to the police and they argue and a gun goes off and , well , the money winds up in a locker at Union Station and he winds up at the bottom of West Lake . From then on , the trajectory of the story follows the template of Murphy's Law - - if anything can go wrong , it will . Here is Lizabeth Scott with all that stash and nothing to account for except a missing husband , in whom the police show a distinct lack of interest . But then Dan Duryea shows up at her apartment , claiming he's from " the detective bureau " and is simply checking on a convertible with plates similar to hers . Duryea , never a good guy , is the man the money was destined for and it doesn't take him long to twig . He bats her around a little , or threatens to . ( He's always doing that . ) And he more or less becomes her partner when she tells him the truth , but only after he has coerced her into being more " friendly " towards him . Other characters enter the story - - Kristine Miller , who is Kennedy's sister and is the most appealing character in the film , and Don DeFore , who is the brother of Lizabeth Scott's previous husband , whom Scott drove to suicide . Everybody and his brother seems to know what's going on - - except the cops who interpret everything in the simplest possible way so as to avoid any tedious paperwork . It ends with all the loose ends tied up in a ritzy Mexican hotel . I was certainly glad when Lizabeth Scott met her end , otherwise she'd be spending the rest of her life in fancy Mexican hotels instead of the dumps I've stayed in with windows overlooking an alley strewn with crumpled toilet paper and broken beer bottles . The direction by Byron Haskin is only functional but the script , by Roy Huggins , is nice and tight . Very little time is wasted . If the story has innumerable twists and the dialog has little sparkle , there still are a couple of good lines , most of them given to Don DeFore . Scott , though , when she first meets Duryea , asks , " What do I call you , other than stupid ? " ( That's not bad . ) And Duryea tells her , " Don't ever change , Tiger . I wouldn't like you with a heart . " All pretty hard-boiled , as is the story itself . I could never get with Lizabeth Scott as an actress . Dan Duryea is a parody of himself , his skinniness padded out with broad-shouldered , loose-flowing , double-breasted suits . And Don Defore , looking a little chubby and good-naturedly goofy , really belongs in light romantic comedies . But the mystery sweeps you along . We don't find out until more than half-way through where the money came from . And we don't find out what Don Defore is doing in the movie until the final few minutes . Overall the movie has about as much originality as the title - - " Too Late For Tears " . I mean , did someone actually have to think that up ? Or did they just pick it out of a shoe box ? An engaging divertimento if you have time on your hands .
No-Nonsense Crime Drama .	Lloyd Bridges had a face made for the camera , full of smooth , bony planes , a clean forehead , all dominated by a couple of deep-set eyes that seemed to glimmer in the shadows of his brows . And he had , throughout his career , the quick , nervous energy of a small predator , maybe a ferret . Even in the ripeness of his age , in the Hot Shot movies where he was a comic admiral . He made some decent movies but never achieved major stardom . Even here , in a relatively low-budget drama about counterfeiting and the Secret Service , he is a central figure but only a quasi-star . The police deliberately allow Bridges to escape from the slams in hopes that he will lead the Secret Service , personified mostly by John Hoyt , to the people who now are beginning to grind out money that is " queer " on plates that Bridges used to own . The escape was engineered because the Secret Service knows that Bridges has no place to go except to his ex girl friend in L . A . They have accordingly bugged her apartment and insinuated an undercover agent into her life . Hoyt is the undercover agent who allows himself to be sucked into funding a plan to produce the queer money . The specific idea to to capture Bridges and his accomplices the moment the money changes hands . That may be a little confusing , I know , but the plot is a little complicated . And besides , my mind couldn't quite wrap itself around John Hoyt as a serious undercover agent of social control . I kept seeing him as the three-armed Martian in a " Twilight Zone " episode . That image sometimes became a bit blurry and Hoyt would appear in a toga as one of the conspiratorial Senators from MGM's " Julius Caesar . " Anyway , the plot zooms forward as if self propelled . There are fist fights , shoot outs . Before the end , Bridges is back in the slams . Hoyt tells the desk sergeant , " Let's keep this quiet . Book him under another name . " Desk Sergeant : " How does ' Briggs ' sound " ? Hoyt : " As good as any . " Desk Sergeant : " It's my mother-in-law's name . I just wanted to see what it looks like on a police blotter . " That's about the only example of witty dialog in the movie . Almost all the rest is spare and functional , along the lines of Bridges ' , " If anybody gets hurt , it ain't gonna be me cause I got the gun . Just remember to get this heap started when you see me comin ' . " It's not a bad movie , just a routine one . Richard Fleischer directed a number of small-budget dramas like this before going on to bigger and better things like " Doctor Doolittle . " Well - - bigger , anyway . Want to see a funny movie about counterfeiting ? Try " Mister 880 . " A more sophisticated movie about counterfeiting ? " To Live and Die in L . A . "
Proletarian Noir .	I understand Jules Dassin was more or less driven to work in Europe by the HUAC investigations . If he was a Commie you'd never be able to tell from this film , which fits right smack into the frame established by the Warner Brothers ' working-class films of the 1930s - - " Manpower , " " Tiger Shark , " " They Drive By Night , " and a dozen others . " They Drive By Night , " was written actually by the same writer as " Thieves ' Highway , " Besserides , a Greek-American from California's central valley , a truck driver by training . Dassin has directed this piece about relatively small-time skulduggery and double crosses efficiently , and he has a good cast . Richard Conte is more animated than usual . Lee J . Cobb is a kind of Johnny Friendly who runs a big but crooked fruit stand . Barbara Lawrence is beautiful , as a model should be , and is as tall as a giraffe . Valentina Cortese has a thoroughly novel role - - a whore with a heart of gold . Her acting isn't exactly subtle . Maybe she had trouble with the language . But she's magnetic , perhaps because she's given some of the best lines in the film and is a more complex character than most of the others . Maybe too it has something to do with her appearance . She's not a beautiful woman . Her face is long , and her nose almost equally long . It's not a Roman nose either . It's Milanese . She has tiny shoulders and very little neck so that she seems hunched over most of the time . But her eyes are exquisite if they are considered individually , as they must be because each is unique and each looks in a different direction . Yes , I think that's her secret . The eyes have it . The story is out of a B movie . The good guys are good and the bad guys are bad . There are some characters in between - - Millard Mitchell , Cortese , Conte , and two mostly comedic hot-shots - - who may not be entirely dishonorable but are capable of being bent by the drive for money and revenge . The B-movie budget shows , alas , and there's a tacked-on ending in which a cop shakes his finger in our faces and warns us that just because we've been wronged , that doesn't mean we can go around taking the law into our own hands . The scene was written and directed by Darryl F . Zanuck without Dassin's knowledge . Watching this engaging but no-more-than adequate film , one wonders what could have been done with an A-movie budget . A little more time ( shooting took about one month ) , more money , more thoughtful casting , more polish on the script . It might have been better than good enough .
Only a Mild Shock	Vincent Price , at a time when his career in expensive features was beginning to slide , is a psychiatrist who murders his wife for the love of another woman , Lynn Bari . Price carts the body off in a trunk and dumps it on the rocks to simulate an accident . But the murder has been witnessed by a woman across the courtyard , Anabel Shaw , a delicate looking creature who is expecting the immediate return of her husband , a POW for two years . The husband , Frank Latimore , walks into the hotel room late at night to find Shaw sitting on the " divan " in a state of shock , staring wide-eyed and speechless at the wall . Quick - - off to the private sanatorium of the best shock specialist on the West Coast , who happens to be Vincent Price . What a conundrum ! Price and Bari know that Shaw has seen the murder . If she recovers from the state of shock , she'll blab it all over the place for sure . The only way out is to start her on a course of insulin shock therapy and , during the fourth and final trial , give her enough of an overdose to knock her off . That ought to keep that would-be blabbermouth quiet . This B-grade crime drama is confused in some ways . The writers seem to have known next to nothing about post-traumatic stress disorder or its treatment . And there are multiple ways of getting around the problem without murdering the helpless Shaw . It doesn't start off as a very promising film . The original murder is handled tactfully and isn't enough to send anyone into tonic immobility . Price bops his wife over the head off screen , for crying out loud . But then I found myself gradually drawn into the story , curious about it , rather than gripped by it . I don't know what Price's wife looked like but Lynn Bari is nothing special , unless she and Price conjured up some more than usually exotic stuff when the two of them were not in the presence of the camera . Furthermore , Lynn Bari's role is that of Lady MacBeth , constantly urging Price on to increasingly nefarious deeds . But the pair show absolutely no electricity on screen , so Price's crime passionelle is less than believable . Price is a peculiar actor . He started off in supporting roles in big-budget movies , his mellifluous baritone enriching every film he was in . But he had an even better flair for the comedic than for the dramatic , as in the hilarious " Champagne for Caesar . " Later in his career he was able to blend the two talents in the outrageous rip-offs of Poe and , most notably , in the thoroughly enjoyable " Theater of Blood . " Lynn Bari has the vivacity of a tree stump . Reed Hadley shows up as a polite but too-nosy detective . His face may be oddly configured in some respects but his voice , like Price's , is memorable - - reassuring and authoritative . In the end , Price saves his soul but is captured and , presumably , sent to the gas chamber because of medical ethics and the Hippocratic oath , which begins , " First , do no harm to the movie . "
Okay , who's the canary ?	This is a minor motion picture . MGM has put together a fairly simple story of a good German-American who takes the place of his evil twin , who is the German Counsel and runs a spy ring . The good German ( Conrad Veidt ) worms his way into the nest of evildoers , exposes all of them , is betrayed by a pet canary , and allows himself to be taken back to Berlin for punishment in order to save his girl friend . If the plot sounds implausible , that's because it is . There are some solid supporting players ( Ray Teal , Moroni Olsen , Marc Lawrence , Martin Kosleck ) but Veidt is no one's idea of a romantic lover . Not with that pinched face and those thin lips that seem to have been painted dark , as if he were a madman who just stepped out of somebody's cabinet . He does the long-haired , bespectacled , pipe-smoking good twin adequately , but his evil twin seems much more natural . Anne Ayars speaks in a way that seems to have been endemic to women in the 1940s . There has definitely been a change in women's supersegmentals . Contemporary women are rapidly losing their vowels , so that " sure " becomes " shr " , which is actually Chinese . I've kind of made fun of the movie but I enjoyed it . It's in black and white , the score is no more than functional , and Jules Dassin has directed unpretentiously . It's not gripping so much as reassuring somehow . It's nice to contemplate a movie made during a time before movies became " films " , before there were movie critics ( except James Agee , who was a Franciscan fool ) , before movies could be entertaining without being blockbusters and costing a zillion dollars . When you watch this , you can almost smell popcorn .
Being rich is better .	Rather standard working-class drama of the sort that Warner Brothers was turning out , though with more emphasis on the issue of unions and union-breaking than was usual . The usual stalwart support is present , such as Ward Bond and even Akim Tamirov . Maybe part of the reason it doesn't have more impact on viewers these days is that the working class audience , living on the edge of poverty , doesn't really exist as a social consideration anymore . The people who made this movie and the audience who lived this kind of life are now all dead . Far fewer people know what existence was like when it was constantly overcast by the threat of imminent poverty . In the Great Depression , during which the generation described by Tom Brokaw in his book " The Greatest Generation " grew up , unions were still controversial and there was a good deal of violence involved in the development of collective bargaining . Goons might bash in your head . A union organizer might be ( and at least in one case was ) castrated and murdered . And a miner might blow up a mine . One third of the nation was unemployed and there was no Social Security or Unemployment Benefits . Well , no time for a history lesson here . And it's just as well because I know practically nothing of the history of industrial relations . Considering it as a film , I can only echo what another reviewer , " Howdymax " , in still another of his unusually perspicacious comments , has already said . The movie is Dreck . Try to think of it as an historical artifact , like a Leni Lenape tomahawk or a Roman coin . It's no longer useful but it's oddly fascinating to see and handle . That may help you get past Mr . Paul Muni's outrageous overacting . If he could do it , he would chew up not only the scenery but the walls of the mine shaft , the Miner's Bar , his supporting players , the script , the director , the camera , and the viewer .
Expensive wreck .	I've always enjoyed the British version , " A Night to Remember , " based on Walter Lord's popular book . Yes , it's black and white , and a bit dated , but it's a straightforward telling of an awesome disaster . The 1953 Hollywood version was a boring soap opera which was set aboard the Titanic simply so that some exciting and dramatic scenes could be tacked on at the end . This one is more like the Hollywood version , only with a budget extended to the power of n . What a wreck ! In some shots the ship doesn't seem the size of a man-made artifact at all . It seems impossibly huge , twenty leagues long . When the stern rises into the air and a figure falls from the fantail , the figure dwindles down toward the sea which seems a million miles away , and vanishes except for a minuscule white spot marking its splash point . The Titanic in this movie is colossal , stupendous , magnificent , gargantuan , or - - in a word - - titanic . Before the f / x-resplendent climax we endure a romance between a lower-class handsome young man and a pretty , rich young lady . Now , few people realize this , but this is the first cinematic exploration of the theme of True Love overcoming Class Distinctions . Yes , it's true . Love conquers all and you can be sure that threepence or so will be no more than grist for its mill . The film's full of stereotypical character and they're not worth going into . Well , one example - - the wealthy coward who tries to buy his way into a lifeboat . More examples . ( There are so many . ) Here are the two lovers clinging to the flagstaff as they plung into the see . " This is where we first met ! " , she says breathlessly . Earlier the couple find a brand new automobile in the cargo . He leaps into the driver's seat and beeps the ancient horn gaily , as in a Walt Disney movie . She sits elegantly in the coach . " Where to ? " he asks . " Take me to the stars ! , " she chirps . There's a subplot involving a stolen jewel , straight out of Basil Rathbone's Sherlock Holmes movies . Basically this is a megabuck special effects extravaganza built around a B-movie script . So much is lost . Like the irony of the California , sitting a few miles away , watching and misinterpreting the Titanic's distress rockets . The piling up of personal telegrams that kept the radio officer too busy to tend to the ice warnings . The Titanic disaster was an interesting lesson in sociology though , factually speaking . Women and children only , right ? Very gentlemanly . Very Edwardian . And most of the women in first class passage were in fact saved . A far lesser proportion of women and kids in second class were saved , and only a handful from third class . You can actually MEASURE the relative impact of social class , gender , and age . I don't want to make this film sound like the catastrophe that the Titanic's first voyage was . If you liked , say , " Pearl Harbor , " you'll probably like this . It has pretty much the same structure . There's something else that occurred to me while watching this though . When should we just leave the real Titanic alone ? Some years ago , Telly Savalas was featured in a TV program called something like , " Treasures from the Titanic , " in which he displayed and described items retrieved from the wreck and the surrounding sea floor . Savalas gave his best imitation of a carnival barker . You know , smiling , holding up a boot for the camera , pronouncing , " This was somebody's shoe . Imagine . Someone wearing this shoe as the stately liner made its final descent . " The disarticulated carcass of the Titanic is a giant necropolis , filled with human remains and , who knows ? , ghosts . It's a burial ground of sorts . Should we really go searching among the bodies for watches and gold teeth ?
Harmless , old-fashioned comic adventure .	I'm not sure why Tom Selleck's career as a leading man stalled when it did . I'm told he's handsome . And he has that cracked Jimmy-Stewart voice . In interviews he seems bright and articulate . He doesn't do a bang-up job in this light-hearted zap number but who could ? All he's called upon to do is act drunk once in a while , and if he doesn't do as good a job as John Wayne did in " True Grit , " well , maybe it's because Wayne has had so much more practice . Oh , and Selleck is also given lines like , " Surely , the great Suleman the Exquisite would not harm a small servant of his grateful guest . " Something like that , anyway . Selleck did a fine job as Dwight D . Eisenhower in a recent TV movie - - " Ten Days to D-Day , " perhaps it was . The plot here - - self-indulgent pretty socialite hires handsome drunken pilot and his mechanic side kick to fly around most of Asia to find her missing father before she's disinherited - - is pretty familiar stuff . Runaway socialites and canny pilots . I keep thinking of Jimmy Cagney and Barbara Stanwyk lost in the desert . The photography is a bit gloomy but the locations are unusual and the action and comedy balance each other nicely . There's even a dogfight , which the slower , heavier two-seater with its single Lewis machine gun would surely have lost against the more nimble single-seater with its two machine guns . The reason the clumsier airplane wins is that it is flown by Tom Selleck , whereas the superior machine is flown by a stereotyped square-jawed blond German with no sense of humor . The music is lush and romantic . The scenery rolling . The old airplanes fun to watch as they sputter along or flop over in hammerhead stalls . The dialog sort of lumbers along in the same way , without enough funny lines or wisecracks . Still , it's not offensive in any way . The kids will probably enjoy it . Maybe they will even learn a little something about Buddhism , such as that a world religion by that name exists . Not a gem , but not bad .
Unassuming UFO Abduction Flick .	In 1975 five guys were driving through the desolate forests of Arizona and one of them seems to have been killed or kidnapped by a giant pulsing orange UFO . The others take off and return in a hurry to town and don't report the incident . When they finally do , everyone else in the little community of Snowflake thinks that they killed Travis Walton ( D . B . Sweeney ) and left his body up there somewhere . Even the state's criminal investigator ( James Garner ) is skeptical . One or two thorough police searches of the area turn up nothing - - not the crater that the loggers claim was created by the UFO - - but no body either . Young Travis is missing for five days and nights , dressed only in denims , in the mountains where the temperature drops into the 20s ( F ) . When he turns up , he's naked , incoherent , bewhiskered , and looks slightly used . He tells his friends who , once again , delay reporting the return of the dead Walton . Later Walton , in a flashback , informs the authorities that he spent the missing time aboard a kind of space ship ( the decor of which closely resembles that of the crashed one in " Alien " ) , where he was covered by a kind of giant condom by wrinkled , pinkish crew members . The results of the polygraph tests are inconclusive , one of Walton's friends having walked out in the middle of his . ( He was hiding a criminal record . ) There has been considerable dissension among the five loggers , though the reasons are vague , and the movie ends on a note of uncertainty . The chief logger ( Robert Patrick , Agent Doggonit in " The X Files " ) and Walton visit the site of the incident a few years later . Walton has always blamed the others for leaving him behind and scurrying off . But now the two estranged friends make up , smile , and drive away from the site in peace . It doesn't really click for some reason . Except for James Garner , who is his reliable self , full of folk wisdom and common sense , the performances aren't very good , and they need to be , because the script wanders around from here to there , sometimes passing beyond implausible into positively dubious . Must ALL the townspeople glare at Patrick and the others - - in the café ? At the town hall meeting in the church ? And the film has surprisingly little in the way of sense of place , of local color . There is no vastness in this vast wilderness . The interiors of the working-class homes look like generic working-class " homes " . And the script is so weak it leaves us in doubt about what's going on with the polygraph tests . The dialog , even when delivered believably , lacks sparkle and tag lines . On the other hand , a lot of effort evidently went into Walton's experiences aboard the space ship . I don't know whether " Alien " ( 1979 ) was such a good influence on space ships or not . Before " Alien " all space ships were shiny , metallic , high-tech , impeccably clean and full of right angles . Since " Alien " they all look like something cobbled together out of Play-Do by a demented five-year-old kid , then poked full of holes , and squirted with organic honey . And why all this stuff about the horrifying experience anyway ? Val Lewton discovered that sometimes the scariest things of all are those that you don't see . They'd have been better off throwing that money into the script and the cast and coming up with an effective psychological drama and mystery . I can see a neat little film coming out of it . As it is , we're more or less forced into going along with Travis Walton's spectacular story , unless the detailed flashback is lying , as well as the five loggers . Were Walton and the others pulling a hoax for whatever reason ? Who knows . Walton must have made some money out of it - - he wrote a detailed book about the event and he's co-writer on this movie . That doesn't mean it didn't happen , of course . There is simply too much evidence from credible people that SOMETHING is going on , something entirely non-paradigmatic , and we don't have the slightest idea what it is . It's a stretch to think that aliens are behind it , but if they are , I have a suggestion for our extra-terrestrial visitors . Next time you decide to pluck somebody up and take him for a long ride into outer space , don't choose some redneck nobodies in boots and cowboy hats , with names like Lamar Oakum and Dwight ( " Big Bobbie " ) Thumm . Drop in on Washington , DC , and make off with a politician . Take your pick . Keep him as long as you like .
Why Won't They Believe Me !	Stanwyck is a painter who spots a murder taking place across the courtyard of her high rise . The murderer is the suave George Sanders , a distinguished historian and author . She calls the police , in the person of Gary Merrill , but do you think Merrill and his boys believe her ? Not for a moment . They go so far as to examine Sanders ' apartment and car without finding " a scrap of evidence . " I found this startling . The proper metric for " evidence " is not " the scrap . " I was able to exhale with relief half an hour later when Merrill reverted to the more appropriate measurement , the " shred " of evidence . Whew . A close call . For a moment the script had taken on the sheen of originality . Sanders , who is of course a real murderer , is the soul of civility and reason with the authorities . But Stanwyck becomes more and more alarmed . Sanders introduces the notion of her being mentally ill , so he begins to doubt her own sanity . And , at night , Sanders creeps into her apartment and types threatening notes to himself on HER typewriter . He presents the notes to the police , most reluctantly , but , after all , his life may be in danger from this deranged woman with the idee fixe . When she ' brought in and confronted the the notes , she can't remember writing them . ( Because she DIDN'T write them . ) Gary Merrill has come to like her but must now stand aside as the Captain , Ray Shannon , decides to send her to a mental hospital for observation . He has no authority to do that , by the way , at least not anymore . She has a fit of gibbering hysterics at the police station . At the hospital she's interviewed by hostile shrinks and must live with stereotyped kooks . There are more troubles until , finally , she visits Sanders in his apartment and he tells her the truth . Yes , of course he killed that tart . What good was she to anyone ? He himself was bored with her . To top it off , he begins to shout epigrams about " when the time comes " - - in German . ( The writers have not forgotten or forgiven World War II . ) Sanders tries to throw her out the window . He's already typed her suicide note on her typewriter . The police having stumbled upon evidence linking Sanders to the murder victim , show up just as Stanwyck is escaping the apartment . She runs off down the city streets , followed by Sanders and , behind him , Merrill and a dozen cops . Stanwyck pauses once in a while to grab a stranger by the lapels and scream , " Help me ! They're trying to kill me ! " She climbs to the top of a tall building being constructed , with the murderous Sanders in hot pursuit . I won't spell out the details of the climax except to say that it is not a tragic ending . Stanwyck is okay , a little more animated perhaps than in some of the other films she made around this time . Merrill is professional and has a reassuring baritone . Sanders is his usual impeccable cad self in most scenes but I wish he could have avoided that Nazi rant and losing his cool during a fist fight at the end . He's not the type . I don't know why this film is interpreted as some sort of product of a patriarchal society . The helpless witness to a murder is a cliché , but it's not gender specific . Jimmy Stewart was in the same boat in " Rear Window . " He couldn't convince the police either . ( There weren't enough shreds of evidence . ) And the scene in which the oleaginous villain sounds perfectly reasonable while the innocent accused goes all to pieces and starts screaming with indecipherable rage isn't gender specific either . Jack Lemon went to pieces at a critical moment in " The China Syndrome . " And Mathew Modine went berserk trying to explain things to the police in " Pacific Heights . " It's a well-established cliché . On the other hand , there is a general tendency for women to be portrayed as helpless victims whom no one believes . Call it " the suffering victim " fantasy . The LMN network is full of movies with titles like , " Please Don't Take My Baby . " The corresponding male fantasy is that of the conquering hero . Pick any film on the Action Network for an example . " Rambo : First Blood " is a good one to start with . It has to be that way . It's Nature's design . Can you imagine Arnold Schwarzenegger having witnessed a murder and no one believing him and his being sent to a mental hospital and threatened with defenestration by George Sanders ?
Nice performances , clotted plot	You really can't fault any of the performers here . Tom Cruise has a boyish high-school handsomeness and an unthinkingly naive demeanor to go with it . Jeanne Triplehorn has big dark soulful eyes and does and says what she's supposed to . But the lesser actors are the more interesting . And they are here in droves . Gene Hackman , the late What's-his-name Viterelli ( I can only think of him as " Jelly " in " Analyze This " ) , Holly Hunter looking sexy and sassy , a hypomanic Gary Busey who , when capable of it , really delivers , Paul Sorvino who underplays ( honest ) , Hal Holbrook and Wilfred Brimley being nasty , poor Tobin Bell as the albino who must have played a dozen hit men and mass murderers by now , Ed Harris now with a completely shaved head , Terry Kinney as the pale blond nice guy who conceals his demons , and Steven Hill as a ruthless FBI man . The performances and the locations make this worth a dekko . This ought to be Sidney Pollack's turf alright - - corruption in a law firm and illegal activities by the authorities , the kind of polluted panorama that he often finds appealing . But somehow it doesn't come off . I haven't read John Grisham's book but it's hard to believe the plot could be as complicated as this movie . There were times when I was completely lost , especially towards the end when the firm begins to unravel and the chases and breathless phone calls start . Probably the most interesting character's is Gene Hackman's crooked but very human lawyer . His scenes with Tripplehorn are really quite good , his hesitations , awkward silences , embarrassed chuckles , and vapid smiles . His last scene with her , as he lies half drugged in bed , is outstanding . The ending is hard to swallow . Cruise gives the Feds just enough legal information to put the bad guys away for several years , based on the fact that the firm overbilled its clients and used the post office to do it , which is a federal offense . A clever move on the part of Cruise but I had a hard time visualizing these murdering wealthy perps doing any jail time . I mean , for what ? For sending a client a bill that charged too much ? That would put my plumber in jail , my doctor , my shrink , and a strange porno web site that I once unwittingly subscribed to - - but these guys ? Nope . Even if they were convicted , I see Dershowitz handling the appeal
" The universe or nothing . Which will it be ? "	The fantasy about the evolution of Western Civilization over the course of several generations , beginning in 1936 . England seems to be at peace . Then , out of nowhere , a ruinous war that wrecks everything , followed by an epidemic that , like the Black Death , winnows the population . As the disease dissipates , we're taken to Everytown in England , now run by a pompous dictator , Ralph Richardson , who is making war against " the hill people . " There is no petrol , no medicine , no chemists , no books , no nothing , except there seem to be plenty of weapons and bullets . Into this raggedy populace comes aviator Raymond Massey . He lands in town , claiming that he represents an organization call Wings Over the World . Richardson , sneering but wary , promptly puts him in a dungeon and disregards Massey's warning - - " Others know where I am and they will come . " Well , they DO come apace . A fleet of large black multi-engine airplanes with open decks like the cruise ships of yore . They brush away the obsolete local air defense and drop " peace gas . " It knocks everybody out but kills no one . Wings Over the World brings prosperity to the people of England . Cities are rebuilt , there is plenty of food , and science charges ahead . Soon , the society , now led by Massey's grandson , is ready to shoot a young couple to the moon . After that ? Who knows . Enter one of the artisans who has constructed the great Cretanesque marble statues of Everytown and Everywhere , Sir Cedric Hardwicke . He's disturbed by this notion of Science with a capital S . Let's stop this nonsense and go back to the old days . Weren't we just as happy then ? And this space business . Ridiculous . Maybe H . G . Welles had just digested Hegel or something . Every time there is an idea , it generates its own opposition . From Ralph Richardson's blind opposition to progress , we move to Hardwicke's opposition to blind progress . Hardwicke musters his troops and they charge the " electric gun " which is about to SHOOT a bullet with a couple of people in it to the moon . KaBoom . Science , in the person of one of Raymond Massey's avatars , wins . He stands with a pal in an observatory , pointing out the magic bullet on its way to a lunar landing , smiling and satisfied . We can never go back to the ways of yesteryear . " The universe or nothing . Which will it be ? " Compared to Welles , I consider myself a mental midget but it seems to me he's a little confused here . Science , as I know it , endorses no values except scientific integrity . It's a useful tool for finding out things , but it doesn't tell you what to find out , or what to do with what you find out . Yes , Darwin was a scientist but so was Lysenko . Alfred Nobel , a man of peace , invented dynamite , a weapon he thought so destructive that it would put an end to war . Science makes progress of a certain kind possible , but if we want to decide what KIND of progress , we have to look elsewhere , into the more arguable corners of philosophy . Speaking of that , Welles , and the film based on his story , bring up a lot of social issues for at least a brief treatment , but religion is nowhere to be seen . That's Welles for you .
Pedestrian Romantic Melodrama	When the film was released , the adverts referred to it as " The Strange Love of ( whisper her name ) Martha Ivers . " That gives you a pretty good indication of the target audience - - snoops and gossips . Actually , the movie is rather better than that , but not that much better . Sam Masterson ( Van Heflin ) returns to his home town of Iverstown after an absence of 17 or 18 years to find that his teen-aged girl friend , Martha Ivers ( Barbara Stanwyk ) has married the nerdish Walter O'Neil . Martha is now the powerful owner of the local factory . ( It's an indication of the care that has gone into the writing that we never have any idea of what the factory makes . ) Walter ( Kirk Douglas ) is still an alcoholic weakling and Stanwyk orders him around like a flunky . As kids , the three of them were involved in the accidental death of Martha's mean old aunt ( Judith Anderson ) and years later , with Martha now pushing him , Douglas as the local District Attorney sees to it that an innocent man is convicted of the crime and hanged . Stanwyk has inherited the factory and glories in her wealth and power , but Douglas , though he loves her , has never been able to forgive himself for his part in what is now two deaths . This is the mess that Van Heflin stumbles into . It's a long time being established . Nothing much happens for the first forty minutes or so , except that the cynical but basically good-hearted Heflin picks up Lizabeth Scott , she of the husky contrabass voice , perpetual pout , and coarse demeanor . But Scott is of no particular importance to the plot except to act as Heflin's conscience . That conscience is tested when he runs into his old friends Stanwyk and Douglas . The first thing Stanwyk does after shaking hands with Heflin is to put moves on him , which he fends off . Douglas hears about this and hires four or five goons to kidnap Heflin and rearrange his face . Then Stanwyk and Douglas , wondering what Heflin is sticking around town for , conclude that he is there to blackmail them for the crime they committed when they were teens . They ask him how much he wants . Then it begins to get really confusing because Heflin appears to accommodate himself to their assumptions , finally asking Stanwyk for half ownership in the factory . To her , it sounds like a pretty good idea . She and Heflin could go far - - if only they could somehow get rid of that drunken husband of hers . And that's all we hear of the blackmail business . It's never mentioned again . Stanwyk throws herself on Heflin once more and this time succeeds . At least we assume she succeeds . They're out in the woods and he grabs her and smothers her with kisses . The camera cuts to her hand dropping a flaming faggot into the camp fire . Dissolve . The fire is reduced to smoldering ashes . ( This was directed by Lewis Milestone , who should have stuck to war movies . ) There is a final confrontation between the three of them . Douglas drunkenly spills the beans on Stanwyk . Beans that Heflin has previously been unaware of . In disgust , Heflin leaves the two of them and stalks out into the night , calling them both " sick . " What keeps the movie interesting is the acting . The three principals are quite good . Interesting to see Kirk Douglas playing a wuss . Another few years and Van Heflin would have been cast as the drunk ( cf . , " Madame Bovary " and " The Three Musketeers " ) and Douglas would have been the tough skeptical gambler . Stanwyk , too , gives a good performance although why she was cast so often as the treacherous sex pot is beyond me . The role calls for an actress who can ooze heat , whereas Stanwyk's presence suggests a desk calculator . It's not so terrible a movie . It's not insulting to the audience . It's just rather dull , especially the first hour or so , during which nothing happens that would be of importance to any audience except one composed chiefly of snoops and gossips .
Too much caster oil .	John Ford and Will Rogers made three movies together in the mid 1930s . " Steamboat Round the Bend " is a broad comedy dealing with what Joseph Campbell called " creative mythology " - - the need to overthrow old myths in favor of more recent ones . " Judge Priest " showed Will Rogers as an easygoing magistrate with a casual approach to the law and a serious approach to fishing . " Doctor Bull " is probably the least of the three . Rogers is a small-town doctor who we see ministering to his many patients , curbing a typhoid epidemic , curing a paralyzed young man , seeing to it that young girls " in trouble " are properly married , and courting a local widow . If it doesn't succeed - - and it doesn't - - it's because Ford and the writers couldn't decide what kind of story this was supposed to be and , chiefly , because Will Rogers is miscast . Rogers began as a stand-up one-man show , twirling a lasso , commenting with gentle and homespun wit on politics . Some of his comments have entered the national Bartlet's . " I never met a man I didn't like . " " All I know is what I read in the newspapers . " The character of Doctor Bull is not laid back and although Rogers still shuffles and mumbles , the story is more of a medical drama than anything else . Bull is not sentimental or tender . He's gruff , often angry and insulting . It's like fitting a round peg into a square hole . The medical aspects don't work either . The premarital pregnancies are only intimated , not spelled out . Bull cures the paralyzed kid with an injection of serum that seemed to cure a similarly paralyzed cow . ( It's treated as a triumph for Bull . ) Nobody involved seemed to care much about the kind of medicine that Bull practiced . He's always being accused of being old fashioned , among other gossip , and in fact he does seem out of it . When he's successful , it's because he seems lucky rather than innovative . Doctor Bovary had more sense . On the whole , the film lacks much of Ford's usual humor , his grasp of character . It's as if everyone were having a good time rather than putting effort into a weak screenplay . Still , it's nostalgic . Doctors don't make house calls with their black bags anymore . It makes sense , of course . A doctor whose training was expensive , time consuming , and demanding , can find better things to do with his time than drive around from house to house with his bag . If , instead , the patients come to him at his office , he's able to use his time exclusively in practicing medicine . Max Weber called this the " rationalization of labor . " It cuts wasted time . When the paralyzed guy discovers feeling in his legs again , I'm extremely glad that Ford didn't put us through one of those , " Look ! I can WALK ! " scenes . But there should have been more oomph in the picture somewhere .
Kind of complicated , atmospheric crime thriller .	Nice shots of the bayou under the opening credits . Unspoiled rivers , pristine swamps , oaks draped with Spanish moss . It all looks rather promising . I guess you can still find such subtle but majestic littorals , maybe along route 90 around Houma , but from most highways in southern Lousiana all you see is oily swamp water with derricks planted in it . Beer cans and garbage and , quien sabe ? , corpses floating in the murk . The movie's kind of like that too . The location shooting is just fine . Everyone sweats up a storm in the heat and humidity and it's no wonder that they head for the gin rickeys with all that ice . New Orleans is exposed in all its funkiness . The French Quarter is more or less avoided , but we get to see the lesser neighborhoods , now drowned and empty of human life in the wake of Katrina . There are the shotgun houses of the poor , the stripper bars playing bluesy music . The streetcars travel not through the Garden District but through ordinary residential streets . Beautiful in its own rotting way , almost phosphorescent with corruption . Outside the city there are bait shops that rent boats and sell tackle . One of these is run by Alec Baldwin , ex cop , recovering alcoholic . The story isn't very much , when you come right down to it . Hard to follow at times but not really captivating and absolutely mainstream genre . Baldwin has a marvelously normal family , including a stolen adopted girl , but is accidentally involved in some shenanigans I couldn't quite follow , something about smuggling , which draws the attention of the mob . Baldwin doesn't seem to actually DO anything that threatens their presence but they surround his house one lightning-filled night and do his loving and courageous wife ( Kelly Lynch ) . The rest of the plot is a revenge story , with Baldwin tracking down the killers one by one . There are some good action scenes , a chase across the rooftops , a battle on a streetcar . All the action is done in slow motion so you get a chance to savor it - - the crashing crashing cars , the catapulting bodies , the muzzle flashes brilliantly lighting up the interiors of dark houses . PS : Mister Director , can we have a moratorium on slow-motion deaths ? It's more than a cliché ; it's positively decadent by now . Let's get together and blame Sam Pekinpah , okay ? I thought the conclusion was pretty well done . After his wife is blasted to shreds by shotguns , an attractive young blonde - - and old friend - - moves into his house in the woods and comforts him ( nonsexually ) . They once were quite close . Now - - see - - Baldwin's wife is gone , and he's got this little Latina girl that he's adopted , but there's a big hole in the nuclear family . ( In other words , the guy needs a wife . ) A conventional script calls for him to overcome his grief and fall in love with the comforting and loving blonde babe . But no . When he makes clear that he holds his wife's memory sacred , the blonde leaves him a note and takes off , realizing he's not ready to get on with his life , as they say . The last scene has Baldwin in his house , gazing lovingly at his sleeping little girl , then falling on his back beside her . Sensing his presence she twists over and puts her arms around his chest , and he places his hand over hers and stares at the ceiling . It is not a cheap shot . It's a brief but genuinely tender scene . De rest ob dat movie be kind of filet gumbo in da bayou .
Warms the Cockles of Your Heart .	There's not much original in this story of a high school kid who yearns to send rockets into the sky rather than work in the local coal mine . It's all pretty formulaic . But formulas are in such common use because they are dependable . Who would argue with A squared plus B squared equals C squared ? They get the job done . Jake Gyllenhaal is the obsessed kid . He looks ordinary and is fascinated by an arcane subject like rocket design in a way that only a teen ager can be . He lives in a small West Virginia town where everything revolves around the coal mine which , like the town itself , is moribund . He has his mother's love , of course , but his dad ( Chris Cooper ) grew up in the mines and is now a kind of manager , and Gyllenhaal's aspirations occasion some irritation in his father . Cooper wants him to come down in the mines like everybody else instead of fooling around with this nonsense and worshiping Werner von Braun . Cooper makes a particular point of never attending any of Gyllenhaal's experimental launches . Gyllenhaal's teacher ( Laura Dern ) recognizes that the kid is a wizard and supports him . At first the others in town treat him and his interest in rocketry as half loony . One by one , though , the kid draws others into his sphere . A pimply nerd and a handful of other alienated students join him in building rockets that at first explode if anyone looks cross-eyed at them . Eventually others , including a black machinist at the mine , help him build rockets that act , not like inverted pendulums , but like rockets . There are , naturally , some obstacles along the way . His father's constant belittling of him , for one thing . And then there's the matter of finding money for materials , which leads to one or two comic incidents . Then his father is injured in a mine accident for which the company won't pay , so Gyllenhaal must drop out of school and go down and work in the mines for a while , accompanied by plangent violins . But in the end , he is sent to the Science Fair in Indianapolis , where he displays his rockets and their components . The score swells into an orgasmic triumph . ( It's the International Geophysical Year of 1958 . ) Does Gyllenhaal win first prize ? No power on earth could force an answer from me . Gyllenhaal returns to Coal Community , WVA , where he sets off one last big celebratory rocket . The entire town of Coaldorf has attended , everyone bursting with pride . Gyllenhaal dedicates this rocket to everyone who has helped him in his travails , listing them one by one , before finally reaching " my father " - - and , lo , there is Dad edging his way to the front of the crowd ! Final shot : the space shuttle being launched from Cape Canaveral . It's got every cliché in the book but it's kind of sweet too . None of the performances stands out , although Chris Cooper does a good job with the role of the all-but-fossilized , but gentle , father . He's a pretty good actor . Of all the films about adolescents finding their own voice , this one is about average , but it's suitable for family viewing . The kids will understand it as well as the adults , and although their minds may not be exalted , neither will they be turned into suppurating boils . The location shooting is good , too , leading us to understand why Gyllenhaal would like to leave Coalton-sur-mont behind him .
Sometimes Funny , Always Loud and Fast .	Back in the 1950s there were a series of films dealing with problems encountered by an increasingly prosperous and suburban America . Building a house , having your daughter get married , your first child , your first grandchild . Most of them were well written and amusing . " The Money Pit " belongs to that series but , inasmuch as it's already been done , is a little retro . But it's also updated . This isn't the story of a bourgeois family erecting a rural estate , as in " Mister Blandings Builds His Dream House . " This couple ( Tom Hanks and Shelley Long ) aren't married ; they're ( gasp ) cohabiting . Furthermore , it isn't just Daddy who brings home the bacon . Shelley Long works as a violinist in the orchestra of her ex husband , Alex Gudonov . It's different from " Mister Blandings " in other ways too . It's less subdued . The earlier film , which followed in general the same paths to similar laughs , clearly was aimed at an audience of adults who were all moving to Levittowns in 1950 . The gags were mostly conversational and situational . Here the pace is pushed and people shout and have arguments , and the laughs depend far more on collapsing staircases and the disintegration of several stages of platforms against the walls . It's closer to Laurel and Hardy . But , aside from the jokes that the kids will appreciate , there are still some stingingly funny exchanges in the dialog , as when Hanks calls the local plumber and is quizzed by the plumber about things like his age , his insurance , his annual income , his job history . Some good lines are given to Gudonov as the orchestra conductor . At a rehearsal : " The union rules say I must release you for lunch . Those of you with a conscience and a taste for Haydn will not be able to eat it . " And , commiserating with Hanks after Long leaves him : " You have just lost the best woman you will ever meet and you will regret it the rest of your life . Of course , I lost the same woman but it doesn't matter because I am shallow and self centered . " I don't want to give away any more of the jokes because , pratt falls aside , there aren't really that many of them . You've seen most of the jokes before in earlier movies or in sitcoms . The filthy water coming from the faucet , the exploding oven , the collapsing mattress , the leaking roof . But they're still amusing and some of the dialog is sprightly , like Shelley Long , a pretty blond who assumes a most inelegant position while bending over or squatting . She's like a young kid who is unaware of the way she's throwing her limbs around . If there isn't much that's new , the film still floats along good-naturedly and gets the job of diversion done .
A Regular Sheepshank	SPOILERS . It's hard to imagine why they keep remaking classics , aside from the desire to make more money . Frederick Knott's mystery can be played a number of different ways . A TV production some years ago used Anthony Quayle , a splendid actor , as Chief Inspector Hubbard . It followed the script precisely and was dull . This version is updated , more explicit , and more complicated , a sheepshank compared to the original square Knott , and not only isn't an improvement over the play but is well below the standard set by Hitchcock's rendition in 1954 . Hitchcock only made the film because he'd had several flops in a row and needed something safe , something that had already proved its popularity , in order to " recharge the batteries " as he put it . He may have chosen it out of desperation but it is suffused with his idiosyncratic brand of irony , humor , and technique . Who could take Ray Milland as the roguish would-be killer Tony Wendice seriously ? He belongs up there in the pantheon of Hitchcock's villains along with James Mason in " North by Northwest . " Here we have the play spread out over several locations , more violence and blood , and Gywneth Paltrow taking a bath - - none of which really helps much . How can they botch up such a tightly bound plot ? By loosening it , introducing irrelevancies , losing the focus on the misplaced key , throwing in simulated sex , and reducing suspense while increasing the movement of the actors . As the head villain , Michael Douglas plays it dead seriously . He broods a lot . His occasional muted laughter is barren , his smiles as phony as they come . He may be rich as hell but he never seems to be having a good time . Of course it doesn't help when your wife is being boffed by some other guy , even if you don't care much for her . Vigo Mortenson , as the boffer , is the auxiliary heavy , and I suppose looks kind of sexy in a greasy , long-haired , unkempt sort of way , the kind of Byronic figure who cares for nothing except his art and the satisfaction of his sensual appetites , which may appeal to women who enjoy being invited to tame this brutishness , the kind of women who enjoy riding slightly spirited stallions . That's the way the part is written anyway . But Mortenson doesn't deliver on the " fine madness " business . His strong face is almost without expression and his voice close to toneless . He comes across as the con man he really is , underneath that painter's smock . Gwyneth Paltrow is the boffee . Her face is beautiful , architecturally structured . It seems all odd angles and large , queerly slanted blue eyes . Her appeal is a bit goofy , too , rather like her mother's , Blythe Danner's , but very real . Her bony frame under those chic outfits lends her image a gawky elegance . She looks inexperienced , vulnerable , easily exploited , manipulable . If she were a greeting card and you opened her up , she would read , " I'm so sorry . " I won't go into the plot details much except to say that the characters of Mark Halliday and Lesgatt / Swan are combined into one . Losing the key is a killer mistake as far as the narrative is concerned and it can't be made up for by giving additional screen time to big-name Hollywood stars . The direction is plodding , I'm afraid . The most gripping scene in Hitchcock's " Dial M for Murder " is when Grace Kelly answers the phone and keeps asking who is on the other end , while the killer , having appeared from nowhere , is standing in the shadow behind her , poised with a startlingly white scarf , waiting for Kelly to replace the phone so he can get it around her neck . The attempted murder is horrifying . It ends with Kelly grabbing a pair of scissors ( the presence of which , in that particular place , has been carefully but offhandedly explained earlier ) and stabbing the killer . The same scene here is more violent . The director shows us Paltrow being thrown all over the place , sliding on a butcher-block table with her robe flying open so we can get a glimpse of her bare legs ( she just got out of the bath ) , dishes smashing , pots being bonged against each other on the ceiling rack . Paltrow grabs a knife - - and here it comes - - but no . The killer manages to disarm her even while strangling her . ( Insert further description of plates falling , pans clanging , women screaming , Alaska being drilled for oil , a Keystone Kop falling off a cliff , a rotating kaleidoscope , a merry-go-round with the horses riding the children , a heroin addict trying to insert a suppository , and so forth . ) Finally , having run out of ideas , the writers have Paltrow fumble for a gratuitous - - get this - - meat thermometer and plunge it into the guy's neck so that blood shoots out of his carotid artery like a fireman's hose gone berserk . There's gore all over the place . The body seems to lie in gallons of it . There are bloody footprints along the floor , smeared hand prints on the wall , all the way from the kitchen to the bedroom where an incarnadined Paltrow winds up shivering . Maybe it's unfair to compare this murder scene to the way Hitchcock filmed it , but , really , bad taste is bad taste . Well , let's leave the corpse alone . You want to see an enjoyable version of this play ? Try " Dial M for Murder . "
A random walk through serial killer territory .	I kind of enjoyed this although it meandered all over the place and its characters were as lugubrious as the weather of the Canadian coast where the film was shot . It's extraordinary how little laughter is to be found in this sullen setting . Oh , there's sarcasm . Some of the characters trade wisecracks , but nobody laughs at them . By my count , there was one laugh . Or , rather , a brief , maniacal snort from a totally deranged serial killer , a woman , sounding like Natalie Wood's nervous snort . Nobody - - and I'm really thinking hard here - - nobody even SMILES except the two lunatics and , as I say , only ONE of them laughs . The film weaves together into a slightly uneasy plaid three unrelated stories . First , there is the serial killer business . Jane Adams is the female partner of this murdering yuppie couple and she's great . She has these wide and unblinking eyes - - not like a deer caught in the headlights but more like the headlights themselves . And she's always mincing around in these expensive slips . One of them is chocolate colored . I never even knew they MADE chocolate-colored slips in Singapore . When Tom Selleck , as the local police chief , first visits them as part of an innocent inquiry after the first body is found , the couple are amiable and sympathetic . So Selleck immediately leaps to the conclusion that they " did it . " Credo quia absurdum . Second , there has been a gang bang involving a 16-year-old high school girl who refuses at first to squeal on her attackers because they threaten to release naked pictures of her to the press . The three high-school jocks who raped her are real sleazebags too . The most brutish of them is caught by a short , black policewoman smoking some grass in the boy's room . He blows smoke in her face , makes some contemptuous remarks , and brusquely brushes her aside , in return for which she maces him and puts him away . The young girl finally agrees to testify and the criminals suffer . Third , there is the underdeveloped relationship between Tom Selleck and the defense counsel for the rapists , Mimi Rogers . Their first meeting is hostile and lasts about twenty seconds . On their second meeting , a few nights later , Rogers calls on Selleck at his apartment , tells him she wants to get him into bed , hikes up her skirt and sits athwart his thighs . Then she gets up and leaves , saying , " Call me sometime . I'll get dressed up . " Now , this may strike an ordinary viewer as improbable , but actually it may be quite common . It happens to me all the time . The narrative wanders around , gloomy , slow , and unfocused . Yet I enjoyed it because it's interesting to see Tom Selleck suppress his " Magnum , P . I . " persona . Laconic , you know . Given to replies like , " yes " and " no . " He's an alcoholic . The reason we know this is that several people , including Selleck , say so . We never actually see him drunk . And when he decides to quit drinking , there is no change in his dour personality . But then there's something fascinating about serial killers , even fictional ones . They've been done to death in feature films , but that preposterous quality remains . We can understand why a person might want to murder his or her spouse or friend . They are the people whom we've put into a position to hurt us . But a total stranger ? These two lunatics make tapes of their victims before shooting them , and they choose them almost at random - - " He looks nice , " says Jane Adams about Selleck before they try offing him . The killers are complete blanks here . They have no backgrounds and no discernible motives . ( Selleck tells his subordinate to check every detail of their background but nothing comes of it . No results , and no LACK of results , is even brought up again . ) Overall , what a comment on human nature - - and climate .
Moderately Entertaining WWII Spy Drama	Melanie Griffith is am ambitious , quick-witted , German-speaking , young secretary at the Office of Strategic Services who is enlisted by her boss , Michael Douglas , and sent to Berlin to work for high-ranking Germans and uncover secrets concerning their V-2 rockets now being built at Penemunde . She winds up as a nanny in the employ of the sympatico Liam Neeson . She doesn't fall in love with Neeson , though the usual dramatic trajectory might seem to call for it , because her heart already belongs to Michael Douglas . He's too dumb to realize it . Berlin is full of agents and double agents . One of the latter plugs Griffith . She's rescued by Douglas and carried in his arms across the Swiss border with the details of the V-2 program concealed in her glove . Douglas and Griffith marry and live happily ever after . None of the principals gives a bad performance but Neeson is perhaps the most interesting of the characters . His devotion to the party is suspected of being lukewarm and he's under suspicion by the Gestapo . Alas , he isn't on screen much and disappears completely as the climax approaches . Most impressive is the evocation of the early years of the war . The make-up strikes us as garish . Berlin seems dark and ominous . The fashions and accouterments seem appropriate . Griffith isn't bad . At least she's not embarrassing . Except for " Mulholland Falls , " it may be her best performance . She's supposed to have learned German at her Jewish father's knee and have the accent of " a butcher's daughter , " but she doesn't . She has an accent , but it's strictly an American accent . Speer's name comes out at " Shpear " instead of " Shpair . " Diverting at first viewing , but not really worth seeking out .
Jarheads Can Take It .	There's a scene in which Swofford and his fellow Marines are watching the scene in " Apocalypse Now " in which the Vietnamese village is attacked by napalm-bearing helicopters and the gooks are all blown to pieces in a shower of bullets and jellied gasoline . The Marines are cheering wildly and the killing . They couldn't be happier that the natives are being fried . That's what's supposed to happen to the enemy . They missed the whole ironic point of the scene , of course . The world is simply not a Biblical one of clear good and evil . But if they missed the point , it's not simply because a lack of sophistication and a desire to destroy is part of their adolescent nature , but because they now belong to a system that reinforces that view . I think I kind of missed the point of THIS movie myself . I'm not sure why it was made because it doesn't tell us much that's very new . The scenes in boot camp , I'm absolutely certain , were vital to the development of Swofford's character and those of his colleagues but it's not very new . We've seen it before in movies like " Full Metal Jacket . " Not that it's filled with clichés - - the bragging Texan , the Brooklyn wise guy . Those are absent . It's just that there's nothing much to replace them . A football game that must be played in heavy chemical suits in 110-degree heat for the TV cameras looks , sounds , and probably is real enough , at least until the Jarheads start ripping off all their clothes while the cameras roll . Other incidents , like a truck full of parachute flares that explodes accidentally on Christmas Eve , are a little weak in credibility although , okay , maybe it did happen . The film shows us that the Marines are bored to distraction while waiting to be deployed in a combat area . There is an interesting description of how latrine waste is dealt with . But it's a little more disgusting than it is funny . The antics of the bored aren't very funny to a mature audience either . And there's very little drama . Jake Gyllenhaal I don't find to be a very appealing actor , although I haven't seen him in anything else . Peter Skarsgaard is fine , and so is the staff sergeant . Chris Cooper , as a cheer-leading officer , is GENUINELY funny because he's not trying to be . He asks his troops something like , " What do we do with the enemy ? " " Kill ' em ! " " I must be going ' deaf because I can't HEAR you ! " " KILL ' EM ! " " Eww , now I got a real ( erection ) . " The movie needed more scenes like this . The first time most of us probably heard that routine - - I can't hear you ! - - was either in second grade or at a summer camp in the Poconos . And here are these bemuscled Behemoths eagerly playing the same game , so steeped in a subculture that promotes blowing heads off and producing " the pink mist " that they don't realize the reptilian level at which their brains operate . That's not to demean the Marine Corps . We need a Marine Corps , and in order to do the job they may have to do they must be trained to do that job without hesitation , in the unswerving belief that it is the right thing to do , the Biblical thing to do . And they're not " retards " or dummies who are easily brainwashed either . I taught at Camp Lejeune for a few years and was never disappointed in their cognitive abilities . The problem isn't with the Marine Corps or with the young people who buy into the organization's values but with a larger and deeper system that makes the Marine Corps and its members necessary . It's a system rooted in human nature that knows no national boundaries and doesn't recognize uniforms . But that raises Big Questions that a movie like this , of essentially ethnographic ambition , isn't designed to deal with . The spirit of Camus hovering overhead notwithstanding , the movie is careful to avoid controversial considerations . Skarsgaard says , " politics . We're here , and that's that . " What we get out of this movie is a picture of day-to-day life as it was for Swofford . And the photography is splendid . Otherwise , it left me a little unfulfilled .
Didactic spy thriller .	It's the kind of movie that's likely to have started off with someone asking , " Have they made any action movies or , er , spy thrillers that take you through the CIA boot camp at Langley ? You know , like " 13 Rue Madeleine " ? The one where Richard Conte is a Gestapo agent who enrolls and has to get found out ? Everybody seems to be talking about the CIA lately . Has anybody made this kind of movie ? " Well , they have now . We follow the young computer whiz , Colin Farrel , as he is recruited and sent to " The Farm " in Langley where , along with other recruits , he undergoes basic training . Most of what we see him learning is , I presume , made up . If not , how did this information get out of The Farm ? And , if it's not made up , do we REALLY have a device that can be plugged into any wall socket and melt every electrical circuit in the world ? What are we waiting for ? We Luddites will be dancing in the streets . Except , come to think of it - - no more Playboy Channel . The hell with it . As in " 13 Rue Madeleine " the protagonist becomes , let's say , good friends with a fellow recruit , Layla ( Bridget Moynihan ) . Also as in the earlier film , the Chief of the Program , Al Pacino , identifies her as an enemy plant and pits Colin Farrel against her . Farrel versus Moynihan . Sounds like Madison Square Garden in 1946 . The ending gets both complicated and rather slickly routine . Everyone seems , wittingly or otherwise , to have double crossed everyone else . There is , in fact , an evil genius at work ( though we don't know his motives , any more than the potential enemies are identified ) . He or she gets his or her comeuppance , right through his or her chests or breasts as the case may be . Colin Farrel is okay . He has even features and his acting stays on track . Is he unusually appealing to women or something ? His name seems to be all over the place . Al Pacino is hairy , wrinkled , gruff , shambling , flamboyant , puzzling , and cheerfully cynical in the Jimmy Cagney role . It's fun to watch , though the photography is dark and we don't enjoy seeing people we've come to like get knocked off .
Slow plot , sparkling dance .	Robert Duvall has turned in such interesting performances in films like " The Godfather , " " MASH " , and " True Grit " that " Assassination Tango " comes across as a disappointment . The plot , the direction , and the performances are weaker than we might have hoped . As an actor , Duvall lapses into too many of his familiar arid chuckles . He whooshes when he's out of breath , which is okay , but then he talks to himself in order to let us , the viewers , know what his character is thinking . The other performers , with one exception , seem as if they'd been recruited from among a crowd of extras with more attention being paid to appearance than to thespian skills . As a director , Duvall aims at a kind of street-level realism that winds up as what can only be called simulated vernacular . Actors repeat their lines . Not just something like , " Wait a minute , wait a minute , " but , " Wait a minute , wait a minute , wait a minute . " Some of the banter sounds embarrassingly spontaneous , as in some of Casavetes ' work . It isn't that Duvall doesn't expose himself to risks - - he doffs his shirt and murders several strangers without blinking - - but it's just that the risks don't pay off . Maybe it would be better if the dragged-out plot had the sinuosity and precision of the dance interludes . There's no particular reason for Duvall's developing obsession with the tango . It's just flatly there , as is his friendship and tentative amor with one of the dancers , Luciana Pedraza . And yet an emotional involvement with the dance is understandable enough . What elegance ! If anyone thinks of the tango at all , the notion is likely to evoke an image out of " Some Like It Hot . " Joe E . Brown and Jack Lemon ( in drag ) snapping around one way , then the other , switching a rose back and forth between their teeth . But the real tango is different . ( Cf . , Saura's " Tango " . ) The dancers clasp each other and seem glued together from the neck up while their torsos and legs execute these unimaginably complicated maneuvers beneath them and carry them around on the dance floor . One false move and they'd both be flat on their backs . ( Come on , babuh , let's do da twist ? ) There is one outstanding performance in the film and that is Pedraza's . We first see her as Duvall does , when witnessing his first tango . She is dancing on stage with a partner , her shimmering black hair pulled back in a severe bun ( ? ) , a captivating , almost hallucinatory hologram of femininity . Afterward , when she takes her seat at the table with some friends , Duvall signals her from across the room . A friend brings this to her attention and she turns her face to squint at him through the smoke . If one is expecting a staggering young beauty , one will be disappointed . This is a thirtyish woman with a small dimpled chin and slightly flaring ears . But her stare is filled with curiosity , understanding , and warmth . Que mujer ! Her performance has the faux spontaneous quality of most of the other actors but at times she manages to succeed in convincing us that this is the sort of voice you might hear across from you in a café - - ordinary , except for a certain insidious Spanish accent that causes her voice to undulate in unexpected directions , the way her feet slither and glide across the dance floor . You don't really get to learn much about the tango , and I'm not certain just how professional the dancers are because I know nothing of the dance form myself . The assassination is unpleasant , although we keep hoping that Duvall gets away with it . ( He does . ) The movie ends happily with Duvall back in New York with his girl friend and her child , and it leaves us wondering what the point of it all was .
The Adventure of the Cornish Fraud .	David Suchet as Poirot , and Hugh Frazer as Captain Hastings , take a vacation at a resort in Cornwall , where they meet Magdalena " Nick " Buckley , the beautiful young woman with the startling gray eyes ( Polly Walker ) who lives in the mansion called End House next door . The three are having tea al fresco when Nick , waving her fingers , complains about the bees that fly right in front of your face . She seems to be having a run of bad luck lately because she's barely escaped two accidents ( runaway car , falling boulder ) that would have been fatal . After she leaves , Poirot reveals that he has copped her bonnet . It has a bullet hole through it . It wasn't a pesky bee after all , it was a bullet , and to prove it Poirot produces the bullet , identifying it as having come from a Mauser . This initiates a quiet investigation by Poirot and his sidekick . Nick had recently written a will before her appendicitis operation . Could the motive be money ? Ah , but not . Nick may be living in End House but she is almost penniless and will soon have to move out . Except that her derring-do fiancé now dies in a plane crash and leaves her millions . At Poirot's urging , Nick invites her cousin Maggie to stay with her in End House , along with a few friends already there . But , helas , Maggie borrows a dress from Nick and is shot one night and killed , evidently by accident . Then it gets more complicated and I don't want to go on about it . You know how Agatha Christie's plots work - - everybody seems to be a suspect . And , as often happens , there is some subsidiary or embedded criminal activity involved too - - such as forging a will or trafficking in cocaine - - which tends to throw off the pursuit of the murderer . In the end ( and hereabouts there be spoilers ) , Poirot reveals that both " Nick " and her cousin " Maggie " had the same first names - - Magdalena - - a family tradition . And Poirot reveals that the love letters from the derring-do aviator , as well as his will leaving everything to Magdalena , were intended NOT for " Nick " but for the now defunct cousin " Maggie , " whom Nick deliberately murdered . The atrociously good-looking Nick sneers , calls everyone stupid , admits the murder , and goes off to snuff herself . This is one of those stories that has holes you could drive a Peterbuilt 18-wheeler through . Question . Okay , they're sitting outside having tea and a bullet whizzes through Nick's bonnet . Who fired that shot ? She's been faking all those attempts on her life , so who shot at her ? And how does Poirot , without ever getting out of his chair , produce the pristine Mauser slug that barely missed Mlle . Nick's noggin ? Magic ? Or magnets . Question . At the end , Poirot produces the love letters addressed to Magdalena , and the aviator's will leaving everything to Magdalena . How does he know that they were really addressed to the other DEAD Magdalena , the cousin with whom he was in love ? Poirot and the police don't have a shred of evidence . ( Evidence always comes in " shreds " and is a dichotomous variable - - you either have a shred or , more often , you don't have a shred . ) It's all conjectural . Yet , as in a Columbo episode , the real murderer throws up his hands on such flimsy speculation and says , " Okay , you got me . " The location filming is splendid and the acting is professionally competent and Polly Walker is so succulent that she should have done a gratuitous nude scene , but this plot won't hold water . Usually we can ignore holes in the story but in this case they are so in-your-face that they thrust themselves into your awareness . Or maybe not . I don't know . But I don't think of this as one of Dame Agatha's better-built narratives .
Bruce Willis as Loose Cannon Cop .	In this one , the FBI are the good guys , more or less . A little naive maybe , except for Bruce Willis . The National Security Agency ( NSA ) are a supersecret group who plant spies all over the place and want to kill a little autistic boy who has accidentally cracked their top secret code . The NSA as a secretive organization ? There's absurdity for you . Anyway , there are a couple of bad guys within the NSA , led by Alec Baldwin , who follow Willis and the kid around . ( " Gloria " , the original , was a far more innovative movie . ) There are some rather mopey scenes between Willis and the kid but more often the kid is a nuisance , screaming and kicking over minor matters like the fact that he can't play with the buttons on the ambulance dashboard and the fact that his mother and father have just been blown away by a murderer from the NSA . The murderer is one of those guys who smiles a lot but has a cruel face and an even crueler haircut . He uses a pistol with a noise suppressor and is absolutely ruthless . There is also the obligatory young woman introduced halfway through the story and she gets swept up in events . The kid isn't required to do much except scream , kick , look distracted , or chant statements repeatedly . In the last few seconds of the film , the kid gets up from his chair , moves slowly over to Willis , and embraces him . The movie , which has been tottering along trying to stay upright , finally collapses entirely in a shuddering heap . The slam-bang action is predictable but okay . But people are liable to come away from movies like this one and " Rain Man " believing that all autistics are savants , which is just not the case . Both conditions are real enough but they don't always occur together . Autistics aren't usually pathetic and charming like this kid either . They don't need other people , they like to tinker with things or play with glittering objects , and they don't like change . They like predictability , so they'd probably like this movie . It's a fascinating condition and nobody knows what causes it . Anyhow , nobody with any experience demands much of a movie like this . But the expectations , however low , aren't met . Forget this .
Insubstantial Kidnapping Thriller .	Two ordinary guys - - Frank Lovejoy and Edmund O'Brien - - are driving to Mexico to do some fishing and they pick up a hitch hiker , William Talman , who later became Hamilton Berger on the old Perry Mason TV show . That was a big mistake . Talman , with a hideous and slightly deformed face and a voice like Jason Robards , is one of those psychopaths who goes on a murder spree for no particular reason . He pulls a gun and Lovejoy and O'Brien become his captives . Talman plans to take them through the sparsely populated desert of Baja California to the town of Santa Rosalia , then bump the two of them off as he hops the ferry to Guaymas , on the Mexican mainland , where he figures he will elude any police who might be in pursuit . That is , if he figures anything at all . Talman's plans are so ill reasoned that you have to wonder if the guy has any frontal lobes left . As it happens , the policia finally catch up with them and capture Talman , much to the relief of the other two who , by this time , are thoroughly browned off at having been humiliated and abused . Talman is enough to creep anyone out . One eye never closes . So , for the several nights they spend camping together , the others never know whether he's awake or not . It's not a very good movie though . The characters are all one dimensional . The sneering Talman is pure evil . Not engagingly evil either , like Hitchcock's villains . Just nasty and a little sadistic . Lovejoy and O'Brien , two competent actors , are stuck in their roles . We learn practically nothing about them except that O'Brien is impulsive and Lovejoy more thoughtful . Both are unrelentingly morose . With a pistol pointed at your noggin , that's understandable , but even in the first few scenes , before they get into trouble , neither of them seems especially enthusiastic about their vacation , and Lovejoy is positively cranky . The most animated performances come from the Mexican characters they meet , and there aren't many of them . The plot has so many holes in it that it seems cobbled together out of patches and things . Talman tells them that he " needs " them because he doesn't want to be connected with their car , but that when they get to Santa Rosalia he's going to bump them off . Why does he need them alive to drive to Santa Rosalia ? Why not bump them off in the desert and just take the car ? It doesn't make sense . It makes even less sense after the car is fatally damaged and they must walk the remaining miles to Santa Rosalia . I understand this is based on historical events and , to the extent that that's true , I'd have to guess that the kidnapper let the real guys live because psychopaths have trouble with impulse control . Circumstances waft their intentions this way and that . The kidnapper might have let them live because he enjoyed their chats or because he felt like having company or because he was too lazy to pull the trigger or because he liked having two plain-vanilla folks to boss around . Like most men who take hostages , Talman has created his own social world consisting of one king and two slaves . And as a poet once said , ' It's good to be da king . " Ida Lupino's direction is sufficient - - no more than that , and sometimes less . Example . Lovejoy and O'Brien spend two nights in their sleeping bags while Talman watches over them . The scenes are clumsily staged . Lovejoy and O'Brien are wrapped up to their neck in their dark sleeping bags , as if in swaddling clothes , and they lie rigidly on their backs with their faces up . Who sleeps like that ? It's worth seeing once but not worth coming back to . Everything about it seems indifferent . The photographer , Nicholas Musuraca , has worked on some fine noirs but this isn't one of them . Or maybe his work is better than it seems . I watched it on a 5-disk DVD set of Noirs . The quality stinks .
Frenetic Hope Comedy .	This is a splashy Technicolor comedy with Bob Hope as an impersonator on the run , Virginia Mayo as a kidnapped princess , Victor McLaglan as " The Hook " , and Walter Slezak as the ruler of an island that serves as a pirate's rest stop . It should be funnier than it is , and I was trying to figure out why it doesn't come off more satisfactorily than it does . It's certainly fast enough . Everyone seems to be running around , bellowing , and there are explosions and multiple sword fights , and a few minutes of romance . But it's not funny for the same reason that " Abbott and Costello Meet Captain Kidd " isn't funny anymore . It's a child's idea of comedy in that it lacks any sophistication . I don't mean to be supercilious but kids laugh at things that don't demand much of them . Somebody takes a pratfall and a fifth-grader laughs . Kids don't need to know anything other than what they see happening on the screen . What made the Road movies so funny was that there were pauses so that the audience could take a breath while Bing Crosby crooned a silly tune to Dorothy Lamour . And Hope and Crosby were constantly trying to outwit each other in ways both shameless and sly . When they had a friendly embrace and picked each other's pockets at the same time , we could identify with them , or at least with their desires . There was somebody for a grown up to ROOT for on the screen . The Road team had a different set of writers - - Panama and Frank - - and they were better at giving Hope gags than the writers of " The Princess and the Pirate . " Hope is given a couple of anachronistic wisecracks - - " made in Japan , eh ? " - - but they don't save the day because the rest of the movie propels us at warp speed through the ludicrous plot . One of the more amusing scenes is a minor rip-off from the Marx Brothers ' " Duck Soup . " What's missing is the easy banter between Hope and Crosby , the more delicate touches provided for them . ( " Delicate " , here , being a relative term . ) Hope on his own could be hilarious , as he was in " They Got Me Covered . " Danny Kaye was making movies in this period that were just as funny and , like Hope , he always played the same character , but it was a different character : the shy , neurotic schlub . Hope always played the same part in the 1940s too - - the sniveling , greedy , libidinous coward - - but nobody was better at it . Woody Allen borrowed some of Hope's mannerisms for his own performances . If you give Hope the right settings and the right gags he runs with the ball like nobody's business . But this part could have been done by almost any comic actor , maybe Red Skelton . " The Princess and the Pirate " was released in 1944 . Hope had some splendid movies ahead of him . In the 1960s he was churning out one turkey after another . I suppose he must have enjoyed working . He surely didn't need the money by then . When he finally quit , he played golf , continued to make his well-known USO tours to troops overseas , and lived to a respectably old age . Not at all a bad career .
Woman in Jeopardy .	Valentina Cortese has an interesting face rather than a conventionally beautiful one . Startling eyes - - the right eye looks straight ahead while the left is canted somewhat outward , lending her every expression a kind of fey quality . From most angles her big features are full of bone structure , dominated by an aquiline nose , compellingly ordinary . She has the overall appearance of a northern Italian paisana from the Po Valley . She could be stomping on bitter rice next to Sylvana Mangano . In this film , Cortese is an inmate at Bergen-Belsen and adopts the identity of a friend who dies . Not that this makes any difference in the rest of the story . She might as well be who she claims to be . Anyway , with her new identity , she returns to a Gothic house on Telegraph Hill in San Francisco that she has inherited from a deceased aunt . Her young son - - or rather the son of her dead friend - - lives there with his guardian ( Richard Basehart ) and a strangely distant maid servant ( Fay Baker ) . She and Basehart , after a too-quick romance , have been married , but the moment they move into this cockeyed American Gothic house things seem askew . Basehart has the difficult job of projecting politeness and caring towards his wife without even the underlying hint of warmth . And Margaret , the icy maid , seems to have wandered in from " Rebecca . " The only person Cortese can depend on for honesty and confidence is William Lundigan , in the Kent Smith role . In fact , everybody and everything seems to have wandered into this rather unfocused romantic drama from someplace else . The young kid has a playhouse in the back yard , bigger than the domicile I now occupy . It has a hole in the floor and wall and there is a scene in which Cortese , snooping around as usual , almost falls through to the street half a mile below when she is surprised by the ominous Basehart . I thought surely the climactic scene will involve that dangerous hole , but no . It's never seen again , thrown in willy nilly like so many other adventitious elements . The whole production is a patch work of vague threats , all seen from the point of view of the uncertain and perhaps imbalanced Valentina Cortese . I didn't much care for it . Not so much because it's a mixture of romance , mystery , and drama in which everyone seems to be scuttling around behind everyone else's back , but because little of it seems to hang together . Pretty thoughtless . Others might enjoy it more than I did .
Glen Ford : Sniveling Coward ?	Travis , Crockett , Bowie and the rest are back behind the barricades at the Alamo in 1836 . Budd Boetticher directed this tale of Glen Ford , the only escapee and survivor . Of course , Glen Ford would not have left except that he and a dozen other heroic defenders had families and ranches up there around Oxbow and they drew lots ( actually beans ) to select the single one of them to leave the Alamo and see that those families thrive . So when Travis draws his famous line in the sand and says , " All of you who are with me , step across this line , " only Glen Ford hangs silently back . Travis arranges Ford's escape and the others , who don't know beans about the lottery , sneer at him and call him a coward . Well , it didn't do the families of Ford or any of the others any good . It seems there are a gang of traitorous Texans who have been promised land grants by Santa Ana after the war . The gang is led by the ever-villainous Victor Jory as " Jess Wade " - - a name to conjure with - - and the ineffably viperous Neville Brand . They have murdered all the families and burned all the ranchitos . This fills Ford with rage . Ford rides into town to warn the residents of the approach of Santa Ana's troops but Hugh O'Brien's soldiers are already there , and O'Brien knows about Ford's leaving the Alamo . Complications follow , involving multiple shoot outs , a Mexican kid devoted to Ford , the pursuit of the town's wagon train by the gang , the slow melting of O'Brien's hatred towards Ford , the gathering warmth of Julia Adams ' schoolmarm , the destruction of Jory's gang , and the redemption of Ford . This is a thought-provoking movie . So , okay . Everyone considers Ford a coward and deserter because he fled under fire . The only men who knew the reason for it are dead . When townsmen , soldiers , women , and children spit on him and get ready to lynch him - - why doesn't he EXPLAIN why he left ? That's the principal thought the film provokes . But of course Glen is not the kind of man who talks excessively or " feels sorry for himself " or tries to excuse any of his actions . Here's another example of what I mean . He's in the midst of a shoot out with Victor Jory atop a mountain . The footpath gives way under his boot and he seems to roll down the slope for several thousand yards before sprawling , apparently dead , in the scree . Jory smiles down at the body way below and doesn't even bother to shoot him . The unconscious Ford is about to die but is rescued by the little Mexican kid and Julia Adams . They manage to pull him through after a day or so . Ford regains consciousness and begins to climb to his feet . No , no , say his two saviors , wait until you regain your strength . " A man's gotta get up sometime . Why not now ? " You don't seriously expect this guy to EXPLAIN himself , do you ? Now , I am not an historian or a gun freak , but my impression is that this movie does to historical accuracy what a bulldozer does to asphalt . The Old West ( roughly 1865 to 1895 ) depicted in movies can be divided into three tiers . ( 1 ) Absolute disregard for accuracy , as when John Wayne gallops his horse along a road lined with telegraph poles . ( 2 ) The Movie West , in which wardrobe and plot conventions are as taken for granted as our most primitive beliefs . ( 3 ) The " Realistic " West , in which somebody has done some research and spent some money on period props . This one purports to belong to the third tier but yearns with all its soul to leap down to the second tier and finally , unlike the defenders of the Alamo , surrenders willingly . The Battle of the Alamo took place in 1836 , not during the conventional period . And there are some nods to period accuracy - - soldiers wear the hats of sea captains , one carries a saber , there are a sprinkling of buckskin shirts , the ersatz Mexicans wear embroidered jackets , and the hat brims are sometimes wider than usual though not always . But that's it . The rifles and muskets are muzzle loading , as they should be , but they're shorter than usual so they don't get in the way of the action . And for only one brief moment do we see one being loaded the gals in the bonnets . Too much exposure to the inexpert use of balls , ramrods , powder horns and the like would slow the tempo from agitato to moderato . The pistols aren't flintlocks but the Colt and Remington six shooters common to all Westerns . At one point , Glen Ford fans his pistol and gets off a quick series of blasts . They're carried in conventional gun belts and holsters , not clipped to belts or stuck through them . The men wear ordinary shirts with string ties and vests . The tight bodices and wide skirts of the women are generic and ex post filmo . They all seem checkered and loud . They might have been seen at a Nebraska picnic in 1920 . I don't mean to suggest that this detracts in any way from Julia Adam's recherché appeal , any more than does the concave profile of her nose , which seems to begin in the middle of her forehead . If there's a lot of stereotypy in the plot , is it at least well executed , helped by the dialog ? No . Boetticher needed the poetic Burt Kennedy as a writer , and the marmoreal Randolph Scott as the lead . It's okay if there's nothing better to do or if you want to be wafted away into a world as remote from the real as Oz .
Not a bad period SF .	There is a space wheel in orbit around the earth , not unlike Kubrick's that came fourteen years later . Half a dozen of the crew are being trained for an exploratory trip to the moon . They take off as scheduled , but at the last minute their orders are changed . They will land on the planet Mars to find out if it is fit to add to earth's diminishing supply of basic materials . En route , the general in charge goes berserk and is accidentally killed while trying to destroy the ship . Another of the crew is hit by a tiny meteor fragment and is lost in space . The landing on Mars is successful and , in fact , it looks as if the planet can support crops for transport to earth . The final take off is perilous but the crew survive and their solidarity and confidence are enhanced . The effects aren't bad for the period . Oh , they look clumsy by today's standards , but not by the standards of , say , Flash Gordon serials of the 1930s and 1940s . Seen from space , the earth has at least a few scattered clouds and doesn't look like an illustration from a fourth-grade geography textbook . And there is a nod to weightlessness , with the crew having to wear the usual " magnetized boots . " The paintings of the Martian surface must have looked realistic at the time , and the soil is as red as in upland Georgia . That's about it for the good part . The bad parts fall into two classes . ( 1 ) Scientific implausibilities too outstanding to go unnoticed , and ( 2 ) an unfocused script involving stereotyped characters . I'll skip most of the questions about the technical aspects of the film except to wonder here how it is possible to grow a terrestrial flower in soil that has never known life and is bereft of nitrogenous waste . True enough that " only God can make a tree , " as one of the comments . ( Except in California , where anybody can make them . ) One more lapse can't go uncommented upon . A Japanese crew member ( actually Number One son from the Charlie Chan movies , born to a Chinese family in Sacramento ) explains earnestly why he wants to make the trip . Japan had just fought a bad war , but they were forced into it because they had no natural resources . ( More or less true . They still don't , except for labor and ingenuity . ) Well , in the absence of resources , the houses were made of paper and people ate with chopsticks because there was no metal for forks . And this idealistic Japanese doesn't want to see the rest of the world reduced to the condition the prewar Japanese occupied - - " Too many people and not enough food . " So he years to address the supply side of the equation without even mentioning the demand side . Too many people and not enough food ? Then fewer people = enough food . His perspective is strictly utilitarian and he leaves out any mention of population control . The mission is short-sighted and ultimately self-destructive . We've been there before . We're there now , and it's not working too well . One of the more majestic sights in the United States is the Giant Meteor Crater in Arizona . The first thing entrepreneurs did after it existence became public was to establish a mining camp at the bottom of this huge hole and dig for whatever might be left of the meteorite in order to retrieve the metal and melt it down into dollars . The remnants of the camp are still there , an irritating speck under the eyelid of the scenery . The crew themselves . Right out of a World War II movie . One a Japanese , another an Austrian , two stern officers ( father and son ) , an Irishman with a sweet temper , and the unavoidable Brooklyn wisecracker . Things cannot hold . The center falls apart . Why does the skipper start spouting gibberish from the Bible ? Or - - okay , let him quote verse - - but why does he try to destroy the ship ? What's the point of having the son kill the father and take over command in order to save the space ship ? Or should we call it " the mother ship " and start ruminating about Sophocles ? I mean , it's possible to be driven TOO far in trying to fit this meandering script into a coherent whole . Phil Foster , who plays the wise guy from Brooklyn , turns in a weak performance . When he speaks it's as if his speech organs were made of blubber . He and the other stereotypes are sometimes painful to watch and listen to . I don't mean to bomb the movie . I only wish that as much talent and skill had gone into the script as had obviously gone into the special effects . As it is , the former undermines the latter .
Underwater .	Something about a U-boat that sinks with a million dollars in gold bullion . After the war , the skipper enlists the help of an amoral floozie and an expert underwater diver ( Ralph Bellamy ) to retrieve the gold . They inveigle their way into the crew of a ship that is on a scientific expedition , with Fay Wray a prominent scientist and underwater photographer . The ship sails to the location of the gold . The scientists go about photographing underwater beasts from their diving bell while the undercover gold seekers continue their conniving . Bellamy , a thorough scoundrel , finds himself strangely attracted to Fay Wray . And who wouldn't ? Bellamy must have seen her in the previous year's " King Kong , " popping up out of the water en déshabillé , tumbling out of her torn slip . The libidinous swine . Fear not , though . He teaches her how to use his diving suit - - one of those old-fashioned encumbering types with a round metal headpiece , now replaced by SCUBA gear . In return , she teaches him how to be a gentleman . Towards the end of this shipboard romance / adventure , the German skipper and the amoral floozie double cross Bellamy by drugging him , then setting off the recover the gold and make an escape by themselves . Meanwhile , below the sea , the diving bell containing Fay Wray and some inconsequential male member of the cast is attacked and brought into lethal embrace by a giant octopus . Bellamy recovers from the drug in time to don his suit , drop to the sea floor , and amputate the octopus's arms with a cutting torch . He and the others barely escape . But the German doesn't escape at all . A loop of the heavy retrieval chain wraps around his ankle and when the trunk of gold falls apart , everything is yanked overboard . Full fathom five , the skipper will now guard the gold buried in mud for all eternity , while Fay Wray will live happily ever after with Ralph Bellamy , at a point in his career when he was capable of getting the girl . I felt kind of sorry for the octopus . Did you ever see a movie in which an octopus was presented in a positive light ? No . No , you didn't . On a beach near Pago Pago a recently speared octopus ( fe'e ) was thrown into my lap . There it lay , too pooped to move , but flashing different colors in a frantic but futile effort to match its surroundings , an agony that lasted almost five minutes . I would have released it , having been in its position a thousand times myself . I'm convinced that they have feelings too . Later , it was unceremoniously boiled stiff and then eaten in chunks dipped into its own ink . There's not enough to this movie to either recommend it highly or to criticize it harshly . It must not have taken long to write since the plot progresses by the numbers . But it's kind of fun to watch the ship at sea . I would guess those scenes were shot off Catalina . Bellamy tries on a gruff , half-articulate personality that doesn't seem genuinely his , and Fay Wray is shrill but beautiful . Not a masterpiece but a diverting Hollywood product of the early 30s .
Cheapt , nicely written drama .	It's really Claire Trevor's movie . She probably has more screen time than anyone else and hers is the only character that shows any development at all . The plot engine begins when she stumbles on two freshly killed bodies - - Lawrence Tierney is the executioner - - picks up the phone to call the cops , hesitates , then calls to buy railroad tickets to leave town instead . She's just divorced her husband , " a turnip " , in Reno , which was a big deal in 1945 so we know that she's weak to begin with . By the end her morals have crumbled and she's in cahoots with Tierney , who is now married to Trevor's rich foster sister . They carry on their affair under the sister's nose . Trevor lies to the police and to the private detective played by Walter Slezak in order to shelter Tierney . She seems to have gone all to pieces but in the climactic scene she recovers her wits and calls the police to pick up Tierney , in return for which Tierney offs her . Her performance is professional and convincing . She's at exactly the right age to be prompted to do impulsive things by having led a stagnant existence and currently being stricken with an acute attack of roiling glands . In some shots she looks like a beautiful young woman . In others she seems slightly used . Three years later she would win an Academy Award for her role in " Key Largo " as a good-hearted dedicated alcoholic . The other characters are interesting in their own ways but the performances are often routine . This isn't true for two of the others : Walter Slezak and the hapless Elisha Cook , Jr . Slezak , the P . I . , is plump , cynical , a little corrupt , and he keeps coming up with these quotes , usually from the Bible but also from a Missionary Hymn written by Heber and the most famous line from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar , or maybe it was from Plutarch . " Et tu , Brute ? " he asks of a waitress demanding that he settle his bill . " I don't care how much you et , " she replies , " but you owe me for the telephone calls . " It would be nice to have seen more of Slezak's character . Elisha Cook , as Tierney's " friend " , is oddly written and played . He's almost effeminate in his treatment of Tierney , cooing and reassuring him , willing to murder for him , while Tierney never treats him with anything but contempt , and finally kills Cook for reasons none of us can understand . Tierney himself - - well , is he handsome ? Does he look good to women ? I have to assume that he is and does , because I can't begin to imagine why else he is there on the screen . Certainly not because of his acting talent . He has only one expression , a formidable scowl . And when he tries to make believe he's smiling , it comes out as a pitiless smirk . " Born to Kill . " Right . He bashes in a rival's head with a poker or one of those knife sharpeners that resemble a rat-tail file . When his girl friend clumsily discovers him , he strangles her too . He arranges the murder of an inquisitive older woman . He winds up gutting Elisha Cook , Jr . He shoots and kills Claire Trevor and tries to shoot the cops . There are some people who , if they hadn't existed , it would not have been necessary to invent . Robert Wise directs with speed and efficiency . The story is wildly improbable but it flows along without any razzle dazzle . Some of the performances are quite good , and some of the dialog surprisingly graphic . ( I'm thinking of the scene in which Trevor , trying to save the inquisitive old gal , tries to warn her off by describing in some detail how it feels to have a knife stuck into your heart or a bullet go through your skin . ) Those virtues aside , it's a routine B movie .
The Incredible Shrinking Busybodies .	Albert Dekker is a reclusive mad scientist hiding away in a laboratory in the Peruvian jungle . Boy , are three scientists back in the states surprised to get an invitation from Dekker to join him . The three surprised scientists are Charles Holton , Janice Logan , and Thomas Coley . They make the arduous journey to Peru and are joined by a lowbrow miner , Victor Kilian , for reasons the script doesn't bother to deal with . At Dekker's laboratory they meet Pedro , Frank Yaconelli , a lovable and sometimes comic Peruvian peasant . I knew the minute I saw him that he was a tostada . That's the function of minorities in movies like this . Dekker , in a padded suit and thick spectacles , greets them and asks them to look through his microscope and tell him what they see . " Iron crystals . " Thank you - - and good-bye . The visitors are aghast . They made this trip just so that they could spend 30 seconds looking through Dekker's microscope ? Well - - yes . The scientists are offended and curious about what's going on . They discover that Dekker has built his lab next to a super-rich vein of radium ore , which he is using in experiments that shrink living organisms . When Dekker discovers that they have discovered the nature of his discovery , he shrinks them too . Alas , he finds that his now-shrunken five human beings are beginning to grow imperceptibly back to their normal size , so he asphyxiates one , blasts another with his shotgun , and pursues the remaining three until , with pluck and ingenuity , they send Dekker tumbling into a bottomless well . They grow back to normal size and return to civilization , vowing not to tell anyone because who would believe them ? Who would believe them indeed ? The set designer was obviously influenced by Universal's earlier monster movies because Dekker's lab is a crumbling stone affair like Frankenstein's castle . Most of the movie consists of the tiny humans running around , trying to escape . First they are dressed in white , toga-like strips of cloth , except for the Peruvian peasant who wears what appear to be diapers . Later , they appear in designer clothes of various colors , still modeled after the Romans , nicely tailored for Janice Logan , who looks awfully cute prancing around in her little ensemble . It's too bad she's not much of an actress , but then nobody in the story is particularly magnetic . Dekker huffs and puffs and does everything but cackle like a maniac . Thomas Coley , as the male lead , is a lankylooking galoot , to borrow a phrase , whose performance is actually embarrassing . To be fair , nobody could do much with the dialog . For some reason the main players don't use contractions when they speak , so that " can't " is always " can not " , and " I'll " is always " I will . " I don't know how important any of that is , though , or whether it was important at all to contemporary audiences . The special effects are the thing . And considering the period , they're not too bad : mattes , rear projection , over-sized sets - - sometimes a combination of effects . Not as good as " King Kong , " but still an extravaganza for the 1930s . And it's in Technicolor too . ( Supervised by the ubiquitous Natalie Kalmus , who never contributed anything to Technicolor except her name . ) Winton Hoch , a real scientist , had a hand in the photography . He was later to win awards with films like John Ford's " She Wore a Yellow Ribbon . " The runaways survive all kinds of threats or , in some cases , they don't . They're attacked by cats , alligators , a berserk blind man , and they're threatened by a chicken . Only Pedro's faithful dog plays it straight with them , man's best friend after all . One wonders if the people who made " The Incredible Shrinking Man " saw this film . It's difficult to believe they didn't . The improvised togas look familiar , and there's that pet cat , Satana , who tries to eat them in a frightening scene . An amusing diversion .
The Tramp's First Steps	Not much to be said about this Chaplin short . Charlie was introducing the tramp character , it was early in his career ( 1915 ) , he had responsibility for everything and was working like a coolie . So it isn't surprising that " The Tramp " lacks the wit , sophistication , sentimentality , and innovative quality of some of his later productions . ( The sentimentality could get pretty heavy handed . ) The gags are mostly crude here . Charlie hits somebody . Somebody hits Charlie back . Charlie kicks him in the pants , and so forth . Compare this with , say , " The Idle Class " to see what a difference time , intelligence , and talent made . By the way , Chaplin's status in the 1940s as persona non grata in the USA has been attributed to his being a communist / socialist / pinko / subversive / fellow traveling spy ( when in fact it probably had more to do with his fondness for young girls ) , but you'd never know it from this specimen . He takes advantage of just about everyone but Edna Purviance , and he abuses them for the fun of it , even his lessers on the social ladder . At this point , the tramp wasn't exactly a sympathetic figure .
Cagney as Good Guy	Until this movie appeared in 1935 , Jimmy Cagney had played roles in which he was a con man or a gangster of some sort . The formula having grown a little weary , Warners put him in " G Men , " in which he joins the FBI and pursues murderers and other people guilty of moral terpitude . Saw this for the first time tonight after having waited a good number of years and was satisfied but a little disappointed . What a cast - - Stu Erwin , Loyd Nolan , Robert Armstrong , Ann Dvorak ( pronounced roughly " Dvor-zhock " , like the composer , although her real name was McKim ) . Then there was Barton MacLane as a bad guy , Margaret Lindsay as a good girl . And the performances are about what you'd expect - - that is to say , pretty good , with the exception of Robert Armstrong of " King Kong " fame who would be better put to use as a traffic signal , only instead of " go " , " caution " , and " stop , " he could transmit " surprise " , " remorse , " and " anger . " Whatever happened to Ann Dvorak ? She's unconventionally stunning , was a gay , sexy , recklessly clumsy dancer , had the biggest , most expressive eyes in the business , and - - as we all know - - the eyes are the windows of the hootchy cootchy . Lamentably , the story is a crazy quilt of barely related plots stapled together out of old scripts and recent newspaper clippings . It might have made a good comic book . You can pretty much tell from the moment they're introduced who's going to be toast . There's the personal animosity between Cagney and the gang he knows back home , some stuff that tries to capture the headlines of the early 1930s about Midwestern gangs , and a faux history of the FBI's reactive development . Scenes alternate between rather dull and talky , and speedy , unimaginatively staged ambuscades . I think the same car crashes through the same store window twice . I felt more nearly complete after having watched it . Cagney's performance alone makes it worth watching . He lacks some of his usual mannerisms , the shrug of the shoulders , the hitch of the pants , but he's bouncy and smart-alecky . It's only the narrative and the direction that seems lacking or leaden . I mean , after all , I waited about twenty years to see it , and I think the Warner Brothers owed me more than they delivered .
Expectable rogue cop fare .	There are a couple of good things about this thoroughly routine cop mystery . Some of the performances are really pretty polished but they mostly come from actors in minor parts , such as Ron Silver and James Handy . And Silver looks great . His hair is combed back and up in what might be called a long brush cut . He's given a slight beard and mustache and a pair of rimless glasses which turns him into - - believe it or not - - a youngish Wolf Blitzer . None of the other performances are less than adequate with the possible exception of Allison Eastwood's , although she's certainly a beautiful woman . Painful to think that we may have lived through almost her entire film career , from " Tightrope , " when she was eleven , through such highlights as " Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil , " to this . The plot's ordinary . One of the cops is shooting people through the eyeball for reasons no one can quite figure out . All they know is that it's a cop . Suspicion falls on one guy , then shifts to Gina Gershon , then shifts to - - well , enough . The last few minutes turn things around in a strictly predictable way . The photography is cheap-looking and nothing is made of the location so there is nothing in the way of local color . The script is meant to be dramatic rather than humorous but sometimes it sounds as if the writers ' naturally occurring sense of the sardonic could no longer be repressed . Discussing some sort of perversion , one cop remarks : " So what ? Sex is legal in this state . A couple more Democrats in the house and it'll be compulsory . " The commercial plot develops in such a way as to keep a viewer interested , though not engaged .
Iron Face in the Velvet Glove .	Whew , Barbara Stanwyck plays one tough babe in this film . She begins as a waitress in a saloon owned by her father ( who has been pimping her out since she turned fourteen ) . Yes , he's heartless . So's a professor who gives her a book , " The Power of Will " by Nietzsche , advising her to go to the big city and USE men to get what she wants . She's a quick learner . When she and Theresa Harris , a pretty young black woman who was to be the waitress at Sally Lund's restaurant in " The Cat People , " are about to be booted off a train , Stanwyck simply seduces the guy in a scene that , while in no way explicit , leaves no doubt about what's going on . There follows employment at a bank and a string of men , each one higher up the socioeconomic ladder , until she reaches George Brent at the top . ( One of the juniors she leaves behind is John Wayne , whose acting style already seemed fully matured . ) At the end , the bank collapses ( 1933 ) and Brent loses his position and is indicted and set free on half a million dollars in bail . Perhaps because of his loss of status , the realization that Stanwyck has no intention of cashing in her jewels and bonds to help him , or the fact that his character is saddled with the improbable WASP name of Trentholm , he poisons himself . But does he die ? Nah . Stanwyck comes to her senses . The money means nothing to her and Brent means everything . She breaks into sobs over his wandering narcotized stare in the ambulance as it rushes , sirens wailing , to the hospital . It's kind of crummy . None of the characters is especially developed except in the most shallow ways . The acting is professionally competent , no more and no less . The score , the direction , the settings are undistinguished . I kind of enjoyed it . Wardrobe did a fine job with Stanwyck's outfits . She begins in ill-fitting rags , progresses to her " Baby Face " outfits in which her face and figure are virtually smothered in ruffles and lace , and winds up in sleek gown bedecked with bangles - - and a blond . Her on-screen image was always so steely , especially later in her career . It isn't until you see her in some of her earlier films that you realize how tiny and slender she was - - how vulnerable she seemed . But she was also lit from within by some kind of thoughtful determination , whether it led to good or to bad . It's an interesting film , practically a prototype , more than seventy years old now . Watching it is a little like peering into a time capsule . My - - what long skirts they wore !
Rather routine late noir .	Maybe some of us have been spoiled by more modern ethnographies of hoodlumism . " Goodfellas , " for instance , showed us just how it worked on the streets . " The Big Combo , " solidly noir though it is , deals with the big boys at the top , like many others of the genre , including " The Big Heat . " Richard Conte plays Mister Brown , the head honcho . We don't even know what he does for a living . We just know that he is ruthless , has lots of dough , drips with pheromones so that women fall all over him , and causes several murders to be committed in the course of the story . His nemesis , an officer on the police force , is Cornel Wilde , who tracks Conte down and constantly tries to pin on him criminal acts for which he is , or is likely to be , responsible . But as Wilde's superior officer , Robert Middleton , keeps telling him , " There isn't enough proof . " And Middleton is right . There isn't enough evidence unless Wilde can turn one of Conte's gang against him , or his wife ( Helen Walker ) , or his girl friend ( Jean Wallace ) . Conte has two goons working for him , Lee Van Cleef and Earl Holliman , who I think would better have been called Mister Pink and Mister Lavender rather than Fante and Mingo . That most perceptive of moral arbiters , Pat Robertson , who could find homosexuality in a Teletubby character would have no trouble with THESE two . I mean , they appear to sleep naked in twin beds , and when they're in trouble one lays his hand tenderly on the other's shoulder and says , " When this is over , let's go away and never come back . " Jean Wallace has this great mane of gorgeous , shimmering blond hair , a pretty but not stunning face , and little in the way of acting talent . She was , I think , Mrs . Cornel Wilde at the time , wasn't she ? Helen Walker , playing a sane woman who is playing an insane woman , is past her prime and lost the dove-like beauty she had ten years earlier . Not to knock her for it , though , because it happens to all of us except me . Richard Conte is a version of his usual cocky gangsterish film self , played a little more animato than usual . He seems to revel in his own villainy and has no excuse for it either , having started with nothing and double-crossed his way to the top . None of this , " I was an abused child " junk . He's given the best lines too , as suits a vicious crime king at the top of his game , while the earnest , slightly dour Wilde is stuck with righteous indignation . The story really isn't very new , nor gripping except in the usual way . That is , we like to see good people not get killed and we like to see evildoers punished . What keeps this solidly in the rank of the traditional noirs are certain directorial nudges and , above all , the photography . If there was an outdoor daytime scene , I missed it . Well , okay , one or two , probably done by the second unit . And these shadows , which are all over the place , are not just gray but almost impenetrably dark . And they're ominous shadows too , shadows in which we might see a match flicker as someone lights a cigarette before emerging from the darkness bearing a Tommy gun . The visual composition is both esthetically satisfying and functional , as they were in " The Spirit " , Will Eisner's noir comic strip . But overall it's a kind of fagged out example of noir . Any style , no matter how fresh it may have been at or near the beginning , eventually exhausts itself , in artistic and organizational contexts alike . That's why so many American genres ( eg . , Rambo-like action movies , Westerns ) are so seldom seen anymore . Time to revamp ?
Exploitation	What an infuriating documentary . Actually , as I write this , it has been almost exactly ten months since Al Qaida flew two passenger jets into the World Trade Center . A shocking event which killed more than two thousand innocent people and forever altered the skyline I admired so much as a kid . I wondered at the time if any entrepreneurs would have the chutzpah to somehow turn this appalling thing into a marketing gimmick and concluded that no one would . But I was wrong . Six months after the fact , ads began cropping up for medals made out of the actual steel frames of the collapsed towers . Little by little , other somber commercials appeared . Some brokerage firm now has TV commercials featuring real-life , actual SURVIVORS of the tragic WORLD TRADE CENTER catasrophe ! The survivors , their pockets stuffed full of cash , face the camera and tell us of their experiences , ending with the conclusion that the best way to fight terrorism is to go right on working and to invest with Salomon Smith Barney or whomever . I'm afraid " Hotel Terminus " generates the same feeling , a mixture of anger and disgust . The deportation , imprisonment , and murder of Jews and other minorities is far too horrifying an historical fact to serve as a vehicle for such an on-screen display of self righteousness . Ophuls did a superb job in " The Sorrow and the Pity , " mainly by letting the participants and the newsreels speak for themselves about a situation filled with ambiguities . And how eloquent those sources were ! Here , we get way too much of Marcel Ophuls telling us what we're supposed to be thinking and feeling , and about a situation in which good and evil were relatively clear cut . It isn't that his self display fails to be engaging . He's a good performer . Searching for an unwilling interviewee , he wanders through the guy's garden patch , lifting cabbage leaves and asking , " Are you under here ? " And he does a splendid reenactment of a telephone call to another prospective interviewee , playing both parts . Those participant who agreed to be interviewed do a pretty good job of hanging themselves , by the way . One of them comes up with something like , " Oh , yes , Barbie wasn't a bad fellow . He loved his dog . " ( No kidding . ) It would have been fine if Ophuls had left it at that , although a viewer might understandably wonder how many snippets of conversation had been edited out , and what they consisted of . Weren't there any good guys at all ? Can an entire population be so stupid and unfeeling ? And Ophuls ridicules on camera those witnesses were were unwilling to speak to him about the carryings on that they clearly feel guilty about , or at least ashamed of , because , as they frequently argue , it all happened so long ago . What does Ophuls expect of them ? That they should " come forward " like guests on Oprah Winfrey ? If they could ablate their memories as easily as Ophuls can edit his film , they would surely do it . One scene is especially irritating . On camera Ophuls visits a house or hotel that Barbi presumably once lived in . The proprietor emerges and begins to speak to Ophuls . The only language he knows is French . ( Ophuls is equally good in French , German , and English . ) As Ophuls begins to throw him some change-ups , though , the proprietor begins to back off , saying he'd rather not talk anymore . Ophuls then begins shouting accusations at the guy - - in ENGLISH . The guy is backing dumbly away , with occasional protests , while Ophuls screams things like , " The reason you don't want to talk is that you KNOW he lived in your house , " and so on . Well - - this isn't an interview . This is Marcel Ophuls playing Yaweh for the rolling cameras , for the English-speaking audience . It will be a sad day for the entrepreneurs when all of the participants and witnesses to these events have grown old and died . There will be no one left alive to humiliate and to blame . We'll need to start all over again , with only the historical record providing us with a guidebook about what not to do next .
Prologue	The first of the Bob Hope and Bing Crosby " Road " series , and not the best . What's wrong with it ? People have complained that it is plot heavy but that's a little hard to swallow because the plot could be used to stuff a portobello mushroom . The problem , I think , is that it's too serious , if you can believe it . When one of the guys loses Dorothy Lamour he acts as if he's really hurt , which destroys the ethos of the film . Too many songs , although none of them is worse than any of the ones that were to follow . No ipsative gags . How could there be ? There can't be any reference to earlier movies like this because there were no earlier movies like this . Bob Hope acts as if he is trying to follow the plot , instead of improvising and winging it . He hasn't become quite the cowardly miles gloriosus of the later films . Crosby is saddled with a past from which he's trying to escape . And the gags - - though lingered over - - just aren't there . Yet it's not a bad movie . Two guys go to Southeast Asia and meet a girl . Everybody's good humored . It's diverting . You won't be depressed after you see it .
Murderous Drums .	Charlize Theron's agent has finally stopped shoveling her into heavily made-up and unglamorous roles like " Monster " and " The North " . Here , she wears her dark hair short and severely pulled back with a kind of diminutive pony tail . Her features seem freshly washed , washed out even , plain and beautiful . And she must be keeping as fit as the ballerina she once was because she sprints a lot better than I do . ( I'm more of a stroller . ) Tommy Lee Jones is getting older and his face now resembles a relief map of Afghanistan . His hair line is creeping back towards his occiput , his ears are enormous , and the pouches under his eyes monumental . He looks great and has lost none of his acting skills . Susan Sarandon has a relatively small role as the mother of a soldier whose chopped-up and barbecued remains have been found near his base in New Mexico . The son , Mike , recently returned from a year and a half in Iraq . Jones is the father , an ex career army man himself , who drives down from Tennessee to find out what happened , since neither the army nor the local police seem to have any clear idea . It seems to be a genuine mystery , along the lines of " Courage Under Fire " , " A Few Good Men , " and " Friendly Fire , " perhaps involving an army conspiracy to cover up unpleasant facts . And it's the uncovering and unraveling of this mystery that the bulk of the film is devoted to . Yet , it both more than just a murder mystery - - and less . Theron , as the local detective in charge of the case , helps Jones track down the three or four men who may have been with Jones ' son the night of his murder . There are hints of drug smuggling and Mexican gangs , but none of it turns out to be material . I'm about to give away the ending here , so be careful . Jones , a former sergeant in the MPs who has served in Vietnam , doesn't believe for a moment that his son was involved in smuggling OR that the men from his unit were involved in his son't murder . " You don't go into combat with a man , then come back and do THAT to him , " he pronounces . Well , the fact is - - that's precisely what happened . The four men got drunk at a strip bar and Mike turned truculent and abusive , and he stayed that way on the drive back to the base until one of the others , a nice-looking , well-spoken , sympatico kid , confesses that he found himself stabbing Mike repeatedly , over forty times in fact . One of the others had worked in a butcher shop and knew how to cut carcasses up . Then they tried and failed to burn the remains . There WAS no real motive , no drugs or anything , just the usual kind of brawl that young military men are liable to get into with each other . The kid whose confession we see chuckles at the thought of the murder and says they didn't bury the remains because they were hungry and wanted to visit a fried chicken joint . " I'm really sorry for your loss , " he tells Jones , and he seems to mean it , but he doesn't quite understand why the others don't quite understand . That turns it into an indictment of an unpopular war . War brutalizes the people who participate in it , the winners as well as the losers . Okay , as far as it goes , though the proposition is debatable and certainly doesn't apply to all or most combat veterans , who are more likely to damage themselves than damage others . But the Reveal also makes the rest of the movie - - about the unraveling of a traditional mystery involving motives - - tangential . Most of the movie is wasted on following a red herring . And there are times when a sanctimonious tone creeps into the film . Susan Sarandon insists on seeing her son's burned and disarticulated remains . ( We've already been through this formulaic event before , with Jones . ) " I'm very sorry for your loss , Ma'am , " says the army's Criminal Investigation officer , and he means it . Sarandon has been looking into a refrigerated room and asks to enter the room to be with her son . " I'm afraid not , Ma'am . I'm sorry . " Sarandon begins to leave , then turns around and says to the officer in an accusatory tone , " You don't have any children , do you ? " The film is on her side . But what the hell is the officer supposed to do ? Let her into the morgue so she can smell the burned flesh ? How about if she wants to fondle the lopped off limbs ? He's just doing his job and he clearly sympathizes with her . It's too easy a shot . There are in addition some emphatic layings on of the story of David and Goliath in the valley of Elah . If it's supposed to pump up the profundity quotient of the plot , it doesn't work because it has nothing to do with the plot . I'll just skip over the retro and rebarbative male-chauvinist-pigism . The direction and performances are fine . But the script has some glaring weaknesses , as if it either hadn't been thought through or - - worse - - HAD been deliberated over and a choice had been made to go with formulaic scenes , though the scenes themselves be as disarticulated as Mike's body . It's moving , of course , but it's cheap too . +
Raw Rudimentary Western	We don't often get a chance to see Glenn Ford as a bad guy , but he's pretty nasty here . He's a mean German who finds a fortune in gold in the Lost Dutchman mine in the Superstition Mountains near Phoenix , Arizona . Carries a Sharp's carbine . Shoots comarades in the back . Torments women while watching them die of thirst . Snarls a lot . Speaks with an accent , or tries to . But then , come to think of it , nobody is any good in this movie . It has no hero . The narrator in the framing story , William Prince , is a contemporary , a grandson of Ford's . He's not exactly a bad guy , but he's certainly not a good guy either . He's given one of those hard-boiled narratives , ripped still quivering from the flank of a nearby film noir . " I figured I had it comin ' to me . Nothing ' else mattered . " That sort of thing . Ida Lupino sells her body for the gold . Gig Young pimps his wife . Will Geer smiles sardonically and wipes out people with his rifle . Everybody is corrupted and some die because of their greed . The lust for gold is disgusting and uncivilized . Where do I get some ?
I'll Have the Soyburger , Thank You .	Judging from the title , I'd expected this to be something along the lines of a fable like " Supersize Me " or some documentary on The Learning Channel teaching us a lesson on hot dogs and french fries . But no . It's am ambitious drama about the illegal importation of Mexicans to work in a meat-processing plant to service a chain of burger joints called " Mickeys . " There are multiple narratives . They cover the story of a marketing agent for Mickeys ( Gregg Kinnear ) who finds out more about how Mickey's burger patties are produced than he cares to know . Then there are the illegal Mexicans who include the magnetic Colombian actress Catalina Sandino Moreno from " Maria Full of Grace . " Actually I got some of the Mexicans mixed up . Not Moreno or Luis Guzman , because they're familiar faces , but some of the other characters blend into one another , especially in the meat-packing plant where all of them wear the same uniforms and surgical masks . We get to know a little about some high school kids who are offended by the conditions the cattle live under , and by the fact that there excreta are dumped into ponds and eventually reach the river . There are relatively short scenes involving Kris Kristofferson and Bruce Willis . The movie is a polemic that demonstrates how money and the need to make as much of it as possible corrupts . " Everything's being taken over by machines , " intones Kristofferson , an old curmudgeon who loves " the land . " That's pretty much the point of the whole movie , as long as we can define " machine " broadly to include mechanisms made up of socially agreed-upon rules . I was generally sympathetic to the film's agenda but it might have been better if the script had stuck with one person and one narrative thread - - maybe Kinnear's . The script is guilty of pandering though . Mickey's Burgers corrupts , and absolute Mickey's Burgers corrupt absolutely . There's something hateful about everyone associated with Mickey's . The foreman bones all the good-looking young women . Even the guy working at the local outlet spits a ginder into one of the burgers before passing it on to the customer . ( Cf . , " Casino " in which the same thing was done . ) And what , asks the film , can be done about it all ? Nothing . The dice of the gods are loaded . The governor of Colorado received hundreds of thousands of dollars from Uniglobal Meat Packing , and the chief of the state's EPA is married to one of its executives . The high schoolers get a lecture from an experienced activist and they cut the wires surrounding the cattle pen . Alas , the cattle are too stupid to know they have been freed and they refuse to leave . That's one advantage cattle have over us . They don't suffer from ontological Angst . They don't ask themselves questions like , " What the hell am I doing , standing here up to my shakra points in my own manure ? " They probably don't have any fear about their fates because they don't have the concept of " death " . It comes as a surprise when one of them is beaned with an air gun , drained of blood , gutted , sawed up , slashed to pieces , and fed to happy families . The writers and director have the good taste to save this scene for the climax of the movie . I mean that sarcastically . Eating meat represents a low level of ecological efficiency . Instead of eating 100 calories worth of grass , we feed the grass to cattle , butcher them , and get 10 calories out of it . The rest of it goes to waste , in both senses of the word . Yet the movie is offensively preachy . Why must an important message be spelled out as if to a class of first graders , encased in lectures ? Seeing the chunks of meat and fat being processed is enough to turn anyone into a strict vegetarian . The problem is that Homo sapiens is , and has always been , an omnivore . And the problem behind THAT problem is that there are too many Homo sapiens and their number is increasing exponentially . The more of us there are , the more pressure we must by necessity put on the natural and the economic environments . If things continue as they are , there won't be any Kris Kristofferson's boasting about protecting his land from machines . We'll all be chewed up and spit out like hamburger patties because people have to eat , don't they ? The only nation on earth that seems to have this figured out is China . It doesn't take a computer to nail down the figures . An abacus will do . Something just occurred to me . Suppose you're a vegetarian restricted to a kosher diet ? And in addition you were committed to organically grown food and averse to genetically engineered food , artificial additives , preservatives , and you avoided fats because they cause cancer , and salt because of concerns about blood pressure , and proteins because of the possibility of gout , and carbohydrates because they might lead to diabetes ? That might ease the problem of overpopulation .
Deliberately paced , stylized , abundantly empty .	I guess I'm going to have to give Reygadas A for effort . What we see on screen certainly LOOKS good . The photography is splendid and the human or humanoid figures are memorable in one way or another . It sounds good too . There's no noticeable score but the situational music ranges from rap through military marches to Bach , and the otherwise silent background sometimes is filled with clicking heels , peeps , and ticks . That's about it for me . The residual impression is a failed attempt at an artistic masterpiece . In the opening scene , before the credits , we see the inexpressive face of an ordinary middle-aged man . The camera , always slowly and deliberately , moves down his overblown torso and we see the back of some blond woman's head covering his groin , her hair sprouting up in ungainly spears and tangles . At a glacial pace the camera sidles sideways and we see ( explicitly ) that she is fellating the guy , her movements about as unsprightly as the camera's , and her eyes are closed . The camera moves verrrry slooowly in until we see only her closed lids . They pop open , her irises stare wildly at us , and a tear rolls out of one of them and down her cheek . That's not too bad , but it's an example of the director's technique at just about its peak . A few other scenes are equally shocking but for the most part watching this is like rolling a giant stone up a hill . There are one or two underlying plots in all this artistry . One has to do with a general's daughter , Ana , working for kicks in a cathouse . Several people have argued that this is the only way male directors can think about women with sexual appetites , which strikes me as a pretty cheap interpretation . Anyway , Marco , the fat guy we see in the opening scene is her chauffeur and for some reason agrees to get it on with him . They make love joylessly . " Marco , calm down , " she tells him as he lies there passively , staring at the ceiling . Marco also makes love to his wife , a human butterball , which is like making love to one of the monumental Mayan pyramids at Chitchen Itza . It's easy to make fun of people who are visually imperfect but you have to give these actors credit for being willing to expose their flawed bodies on screen like this . ( I can only make these statements because my own physical manifestation is without blemish . ) Not to say that the young Ana's figure is unusual . She looks pretty good . But all the sex is made to look about as much fun as riding an exercise bicycle . If it were no more alluring a sport than as presented here the human race would have died out thousands of years ago . Well , anyway , it fits the overall gloom of the other story , the one about the child that Marco and his wife kidnapped , the child who died while a captive . The climactic scenes bring the problem of guilt and penance to a head but we don't really get to know much about it until half-way through the film , and then only through minimalist conversation . You know , if you were to play a DVD or a tape of this movie and stop it somewhere at random , you'd probably get an image of two people gazing silently at one another . Failing that , you can expect a tableau of a dozen or so people standing together motionlessly as if they were dolls placed there by a child , staring silently at the camera . There is one spectacular shot in which Ana and Marcos are getting it on and the camera moves verrry slooowly out onto the balcony of the room and then takes us on a slooow tour of the Mexico City neighborhood , looking no better and no worse than any other big-city neighborhood , before completing its 360 degree travelogue and returning to the now-exhausted couple on the bed . It reminded me of the spectacular shot towards the end of Michelangelo Antonioni's " The Passenger . " While Jack Nicholson is getting murdered quietly in his room , the camera passes through the bars of the window and takes us on a scenic tour of the street outside before pulling back through the bars and showing us Nicholson's corpse . I got the point of Antonioni's camera movement . The bars in the window were removable so the camera could get outside and replaceable so it could get back in - - a self-conscious display of technique . This whole movie reminds me of that shot . Still , the visuals are beautiful , the film does have its moments , and a lot of effort clearly went into the production . So they still use storyboards ? Because if they do , this was thoroughly storyboarded . If you're in a contemplative and patient mood , and if you don't mind quite a lot of experimental technique , you should find this film an interesting one .
Alice in Wonderland .	This is a love story . That it happens to be based on an interpretation of Diane Arbus ' life is supervenient . This could be any young woman from an artistic but conventional background living in Greenwich Village in 1958 . Or it could be Alice in Wonderland . When Nicole Kidman , as Arbus , first enters Lionel Sweeney's ( Robert Downey's ) apartment upstairs , she can't find him in the colored shadows but when a teapot whistles she finds a note next to it . " Pour the boiling water into the tea cup . Let it steep . Drink it . " It might as well be Alice's little bottle that is labeled " Drink me . " Anyway , that visit introduces Kidman to a world quite different from the one she's used to . Downey is covered with more hair than Lawrence Talbot whom he , in fact , resembles . In some ways it works to his advantage . All we can see of him , his tresses aside , are his dark liquid eyes , and all we hear is his deep , sonorous , mysterious , monotonic voice . He tells her what to do , in detail . " Take off your slippers . " " Close your eyes and don't turn around . " " Disrobe . " At that point I would already be out of there . It wouldn't be because he's Jo-Jo the Dog Faced Boy but because I don't like being ordered around - - except by particular women at a time and place of my own choosing . Downey begins to take her around town to meet his friends . While traveling in public , Downey wears a hood something like the elephant man's . Yet it serves more to call attention to him than to deflect it , because the hood is clumsily made of white cloth and crudely stitched with horrifyingly over-sized black thread . The hood screams , " Look at ME . " But Kidman is no stranger to the moral power of victimhood and she knows how to use it . When Downey first addresses her as " Dye-anne " she quickly corrects him , " Actually it's ' Dee-onne ' . " She's probably been correcting other people all her life and may have gotten to enjoy it , otherwise why not let the solecism glide a time or two , or soften the correction somehow , maybe something like , " My friends pronounce it ' Dee-onne ' . " Imagine if the man we know as Mario Cuomo abruptly began demanding that people call him " Mah-rio " , as in Italy . He could be the equivalent of Leonard Bernstein who used to really chew people out for saying Bern-steen when he insisted on Bern-stine . Or was it the other way round ? I forget . Where was I before I was overcome by these sociological insights . Yes , " fur . " That's right . Thank you . It's an extremely and consciously artistic movie and it's atmosphere is stunning , as is Nicole Kidman . The problem is that it falls into an all-too-familiar trap . The victims ( in this case the human anomalies ) are good and the ordinary people are not so good . Kidman's husband , the holotypical normal , is distant , humorless , and rather dull . In actual life he couldn't have been quite that inexpressive since he at least grew a beard which , in 1958 , was still an object of public comment . But when Kidman invites her new friends in for dinner , he can't stand them and walks out . Kidman's parents are presented as a pair of prunes . The anomalies , on the other hand , may be a bit shocking to look at or to watch . I mean , there's the otherwise limbless woman who does everything from eating to painting with one foot . But , heck , they're a lot of fun too . They have parties together , listen to jazz , drink , laugh , and smoke dope . The climactic scene has Kidman shaving the ape man - - all over . He comes out looking remarkably like Robert Downey , Jr . After that they make love , and after that he takes a last swim out to see . And Diane - - that's Dee-onne - - Arbus wasn't far behind him . The movie generates a good deal of pathos but it suffers from the stereotyping of its characters . It would have been nice to have just one mean dwarf . Or if the anomalies had just one other normal-looking friend . However , the introduction of even that small amount of ambiguity might have undercut the sympathy and the tears that the movie works so hard to jerk .
One Last Caper and I Retire .	James Caan is a thief recently released after eleven years in the slams . Somebody owes him money and he collects it - - out toughing the possessors . This boldness impresses the Big Man , Robert Prosky . Prosky , who has a finger in every meretricious pie , delivers the money personally and invites Caan to join him in his organization . The benign , agreeable , avuncular Prosky and his team will plan out jewel robberies , pay for equipment , and so forth , and Caan and his partner , Jim Belushi , will execute the plan for a given percentage of the take . Caan , an expert thief in every way , is reluctant . He's always been his own boss . But he has a problem . He needs money to hire a good lawyer to get his friend , Willie Nelson , out of the slams . Nelson is terminally ill and would rather die on the outside than on the inside , though he never explains the logic of that position . Caan meets Prosky and agrees to one last caper . Prosky not only agrees but sees to it that Caan gets a ranch house in the suburbs and that he and his wife , Tuesday Weld , are able to adopt a baby . Well , I pretty much foresaw a bad end for Jim Belushi as the cheery partner of the main character , close enough to be on hugging terms with him . And when the Belushi family and the Caan family spend a few days frolicking on the beach together , with still almost half an hour to go in the film , I figured Belushi was dead meat . Most of the movie is about as formulaic as that . Prosky has promised Caan almost a quarter of a million for pulling off a long , risky , highly technological heist , but after the job he hands Caan an envelope with only a tenth that amount . Additional expenses and all that . Not to worry , though , because Prosky has a dozen other scores lines up for Caan . Caan balks and winds up semi-conscious on the floor with Prosky standing over him , viperous in his wrath . Before his goons dump Belushi's body in what seems to be a vat of acid , Prosky tells Caan that Caan has no gratitude . That Prosky now OWNS him and he will do as he's told , otherwise he and his family will find life increasingly unpleasant . " I'll put your of a wife on the street and and will her in the ! " Caan gives all his accumulated money to his wife and child and kicks them out . Then he walks away from the final shoot out wounded but alive . The story is basically sound and Caan's part is well written , if not as well delineated or nuanced as Dustin Hoffman's in " Straight Time . " Caan plays it nicely too . He's particularly good in a scene in a coffee shop in which he explains the subculture of inmate life to an engrossed Tuesday Weld . If the plot is predictable , it's still engaging . The problem is that the direction sucks . I'll give an unimportant example . Near the beginning , after Caan has warned the white-collar crook that he expects his money back , he has to leave the office and walk through a room full of nerds and female secretaries . They're all sitting and staring at him and his gun - - except one woman who is standing in the corner . Caan lifts his pistol in a two-handed grip , aims it at her , says " Sit down , " then lowers it and walks out the door . Why did he do that ? Why aim a pistol at a terrified young woman in order to get her to sit down ? Why get her to sit down ? What the hell does Caan care whether she's standing or sitting ; she's in a state of tonic immobility like a frozen mouse . How did that take find its way to celluloid ? Caan has been drawn as the essence of cool . He should have strode through the room like an expressionless Superman , his pistol at his side . I said the example would be small , but there are too many multiple small examples . I think there are four shooting deaths and one wounding . Every one of them is in slow motion . So is the body dumped in the acid . There are two explosions - - ditto . Ho hum . And the musical score is atrocious - - pounding , edgy , distracting , loud electronic guitars and percussion that could have come straight from a skin flick . That approach isn't necessarily inappropriate in a crime thriller - - if it's used judiciously . Wang Chung had it just about right in " To Live and Die in L . A . " But this score is simply unimaginative noise and should be reserved for the exclusive use of the CIA in torturing prisoners . On the whole , above average performances ; average script ; bad marks for direction and score .
The Last Refuge of Scoundrels .	One of the less interesting episodes in the otherwise splendidly amusing early series . I don't know why it doesn't quite work . If the plot were described here , in print , it would sound typically promising . Jackie Cooper is a candidate for the US Senate . He's received a couple of death threats which have prompted police protection . His bloviating campaign manager tells him he must get rid of the skeleton in his closet because Cooper is supposed to be a happily married man . The skeleton is in the form of Tish Sterling , which is a very nice skeleton indeed . With her pale face , gracile form , and big blue eyes , she looks like a kind of kewpie doll . If you lay her gently on her back , her eyes might close . Well , Cooper understandably doesn't want to jettison Sterling , but on the other hand his bossy , loud-mouthed campaign manager is getting to be a pain in the neck , so Cooper lures the guy outside of police protection and shoots him three times and - - well , then it gets complicated . Cooper starts staging phony attempts on his own life that seem completely adventitious . He doesn't need to do it . It's over-reaching and it undoes him in the end , with Columbo the instrument of the undoing . The writers must have had a slight block in putting this together . There are a couple of attempts at humor - - Columbo goes to a tony Beverley Hills tailor and is treated like the idiot he is , Columbo is stopped for a spot auto inspection by the state police , Columbo stumbles and fumbles more than usual , more than balance demands . And Jackie Cooper as the heavy is no help . There are only one or two notes on his instrument . The one we see most of is authoritative bluster and shouting . His character doesn't really seem to love Tish Sterling enough to kill for her . He manipulates her throughout . Well , the golf course of life is filled with sand traps . It's still worth watching if you enjoy Columbo , just a bit disappointing in its serial context .
Kids shouldn't play with real guns .	We are at Bunker Hill Military Academy , a prep school with students ranging in age from , say , high-school seniors to boys so small that they can't possibly have experienced any of the delights of puberty . The cadet corps is run by proud Timothy Hutton . His immediate subordinates include the sensible Sean Penn - - yes , sensible - - and the semi-psychotic Tom Cruise . In overall command is the avuncular General George C . Scott . The problem is that , as Scott announces to the cadets , the school will be closed and sold for its real estate value next Fall . They are going to mow the place down and build condominiums . Scott dies promptly of a heart attack and , led by Cadet Major Hutton , most of the kids confiscate the stores of weapons and lay down a list of demands before they will allow the school to be dissolved . I was all on the side of the cadets . Not that I love military academies but that I hate condominiums . It's rather like why I'm a vegetarian . I hate the taste and texture of vegetables but I love to kill them by eating them raw or boiling them . This film sounds like it has a lot of social relevance - - the military and patriots and men of honor on one side , and the peace-mongering wussies who never had a fist fight on the other . Now we're all going to refight the Vietnam War . But it's not like that at all . Timothy Hutton is a bright kid with leadership qualities only , as it's explained somewhat clumsily , he has reason to hate his father , who is a Sergeant Major , and has found a substitute in General George C . Scott . And therein lies the problem . Hutton has absorbed only part of Scott's message about self discipline , and death before dishonor , and all that elementary stuff . After all , he's only seventeen . It's only with a little seasoning that we can begin to look behind the buzz words . Hutton is supported by Penn because Penn has " never walked out on a friend , " and it's Penn who finally talks Hutton into ordering the adoption of another common tactic - - " declare victory and depart the field . " But Tom Cruise is the genuine nut job aboard for this adventure into terra incognito . Throughout , he's always been something of a martinet . He is the leader of a group of red berets . I don't know exactly what they're function is but it appears to be something like the Gestapo's . And while the rest of the cadet corps is marching sullenly and weaponless towards the gate where the National Guard is waiting , Cruise cuts loose from an upper window with an M-60 screaming , " It's beautiful ! It's BEAUTIFUL ! " The performances are all pretty good without any being exceptional . The chief weakness is in the script . It's opened up a whole can of worms and doesn't want to get its fingers dirty by digging into it . The problem with pride , honor , and a feeling of knowing more than others , is that that whole assemblage of attitudes can't exist without an enemy . If you're superior , then you must by definition be superior to someone else . In this case , there are only off-hand references to the pencil-pushers and bean counters . Not that the film presents external forces - - the local cops and the National Guard - - as anything other than reasonable or even perfect . But solidarity is self reinforcing . It feels so good to be part of a group that's even only temporarily powerful that often the original goal is lost sight of . That's what happened during the prison riots at Attica . The governor granted some of the inmates demands and the inmates ripped up the concession to great cheers from the throng . Finally the governor granted ALL their wishes - - and an inmate in the center of the yard ripped them up to great cheers from the throng . The point was no longer to have their wishes granted but to relish the momentary sense of power . And the distinction between civilian power over the military is hardly mentioned . It's one of the lessons that Scott apparently never passed on , but it's a fundamental one . It's why our Commander-in-Chief is called a " president " and not a " generalissimo . " Here's something the governor and the National Guard might have tried . They might have simply waited the kids out . What the heck . They couldn't have had that much food . The electricity and water could have been shut down . Enthusiasm for the cause was hardly universal - - about half of them quit . Morale would have crumbled eventually . Fads fade quickly among teens . And Tom Cruise's final insane outburst was completely unjustified by what we'd learned of his character earlier , but then it had to happen or we'd all have been denied the pleasure of the final shoot out . We're built for speed and action , not waiting patiently , not thinking things through logically . In a sense , Tom Cruise stands in for part of all of us . And so do the proud Timothy Hutton and the sensible Sean Penn . I hope when we face our next crisis , whether national or personal , we can find some middle ground .
A puzzle wrapped in an enigma and so forth .	Unlike the original , " Village of the Damned , " this film skips the introductory stuff and begins in medias res , with the kids already six or seven years old , half a dozen of them , spread around the world in different countries . There is no explanation of how they were born except in the claim of an English mother that she'd " never been touched . " In principle , that's okay . But in this instance it means there is no dramatic introduction that's the equivalent of those disquieting first scenes in the original , in which Midwitch is shrouded in some kind of invisible cloud that renders people unconscious the moment they enter it . What I mean is that there isn't a lot of mystery in most of this movie . We see the kids drawn together in London . They hardly speak . Some of them never utter a word . And they hole up with their pretty , blond adult servant in a dilapidated church , resisting all efforts to get them to return to their normal lives . Why are they there ? ( Or , let's say , why are they here ? ) We don't know . They don't know either . They manage to share thoughts with one another without speaking . They put together some solar-powered machine that blows the minds of anyone approaching them with even the slightest of hostile intents . And they don't hesitate to kill people who try to exploit them . They're both sinister and lethal . And nobody knows their goal . There is a big argument among the military and the scientists about whether they should be destroyed or not , and one of the children is shot dead during a killing spree . Finally , the community deems them too dangerous to survive and brings to bear enormous ordinance to exterminate them and clobber the deconsecrated church they've barricaded themselves in . There's a lot of rather obvious Cold War intrigue going on . Every nation wants to take its own superchild and put its brain to use . ( For a surreal example of this theme , read John Hersey's novel , " The Child Buyer . " ) The Cold War material is right up front , but when that dilapidated church first appeared I wondered whether religion were behind the story . It was . The child who was killed is brought back to life . And the children stand hand in hand while they're martyred . I won't get into too detailed an explanation of exactly HOW religion fits in because , mainly , I can't . I didn't understand the thing . The narrative seemed to be going in a direction similar to that of " The Day the Earth Stood Still . " I am sacrificing my life to convince you that you should stop your bickering . And yet , if that is in fact the message , it comes across as if written in proto-Indo-Hittite . What's left at the end resembles the cloud of dust that settles over the now-demolished church . I'd like to be able to recommend it more highly but it's left me as confused as the screenplay . I think , if I hadn't a clearer idea of what I was aiming for , I'd have left the original alone .
So this is Paree ?	Paris Hilton is an attractive blonde with a keen figure . She was 19 when she and her lover filmed this homemade production . But she might as well have been 9 instead of 19 . Her lover Rick and Paris , or " Paree " as he calls her , act throughout like two kids playing Doctor in a sandbox . They coyly enact the universal ritual in which the horny male pursues the shy female . " You like that , don't you ? " , asks Rick . " Ewwww , no ! , " squeals Paree . Behind the role enactment , neither is particularly shy or modest . The film opens with Paree filming a close up of her own respectable breasts . Showing Paree rolling around nekkid on the hotel bed , Rick asks , " Do I have the hottest bitch in town , or what ? " The male keeps growling playfully about sex . The female responds by talking about love as if she knew what it meant . In the end sex and love diffuse into one another and everything else melts together in a fluid resolution of any oppositions expressed earlier . I'd never seen Paris Hilton before and had only heard of her through brief references on TV news and photos in news magazines . I missed out , therefore , on the bonus points that come from the titillation of seeing a celebrity exposed . If you haven't seen the soap operas in which she's appeared or any of the movies she's made , she's just another stranger in a skin flick . And how IS the skin flick ? Not too bad as cinema verite . It's like watching Andy Warhol's " Blue Movie " in which two kids joke around and have sex on screen . Unfortunately this one has about a third of its footage filmed through what seems to be some kind of the military night scope that turns everything a different shade of green . It's hard to make out what's going on . In addition , when a participant looks up at the camera his or her tapidums gleam like electric arcs . The phrase that comes to mind is " a deer caught in the headlights , " except that these two are anything but frozen in tonic immobility . The - - uh - - the most important part of the film is shot clearly , thank heavens . Women may be able to fake it but men can't . On the whole it's worth watching , even aside from the raw sex . I just love to see the young folks enjoy themselves , frisking around , capering , winking at the camera .
Verdict Guilty - - Defendants AND Movie	SPOILERS . I watch this once in a while if it happens to be on TV because the performances are as good as they are . Tracy is the epitome of rock-ribbed Republican rectitude . Widmark is good . Maximilian Schell is nothing less than great . He deserved his awards . Burt Lancaster should avoid any part that calls for an accent unless the movie is a comedy . But Garland and Monty Clift are truly pathetic , for more reasons than the script gives them . But that's the problem with the movie - - the script . The trial is a court set up in such a way that we must fight the values behind World-War-Two Germany all over again . Except for Lancaster's character the defendants are inhuman caricatures . Werner Klemperer is compelled to be a malignant version of Colonel Klink . The others are plain nasty . And Schell must try to get them off by defending their actions , which is impossible . The best he can do for Lancaster is to argue that Lancaster knew the justice system was rotten but was determined to minimize the harm it did by working against it from the inside , occasionally letting rotten things happen because the rottenness was prescribed by the law . If you think about it , that's kind of what a judge is supposed to do , isn't it ? See that the law is carried out ? Here's how two analysts posed the dilemma : " The criminal law usually punishes people that break laws , not carry them out . The responsibility imposed by such a standard requires a judge to choose between resigning immediately or becoming an international criminal if he enforces an unjust law or becoming a German criminal if he refuses to enforce it . This is a lot to ask of anyone . " ( Bergman and Isamov , " Reel Justice , " 1996 . ) But it's best not to think too hard about this movie . Some idea of its self-congratulatory and self-righteous nature is given by Abby Mann's speech when he won the academy award , accepting it not only for himself but " for all intellectuals everywhere . " Really . He's very mistaken if he actually believes that this movie is in any way " intellectual . " It doesn't invite analysis . It invites judgment based on hatred of the Nazis . Or , let's be honest about it , hatred of Germans . There isn't a good German in it . Tracy's butler and his wife seem compliant and obedient but " we knew nothing of what was going on . " Then there is Marlene Dietrich , cultivated and intelligent and helpful and friendly towards Tracy . When the guilty verdict comes in , her true nature reveals itself and she refuses to answer his phone call , sitting alone in the dark , filled with the kind of anger that brought Hitler to power . ( The Germans will never change , not even the best of them . ) Tracy has a last jailhouse conversation with Lancaster , at Lancaster's request . Burt has been mute throughout most of the trial , refusing to speak in his own defense , but here he tries to tell Tracy , as one morally upright man to another , that he , Lancaster , didn't know Germany was going to turn into what it did . Tracy sneers at him and says , " You knew what was going to happen the first time you sent an innocent man to jail . " That's judgment at Nurenberg for you . The movie never asks what a moral person might do in Lancaster's circumstances . Mann and Kramer don't bother to ask because they already know the answer . The rest of us may not be quite so sure what we might do because we are aware of our moral flaws , our weaknesses , our desire to get along trying to do well without stepping on too many toes or striking useless heroic poses . But the writer and director haven't really thought about it . The worst scene in the movie , perhaps , among so many , has Schell grilling Judy Garland ( Judy Garland ! ) , who as a young girl had some innocent dalliance with an elderly Jew who was then convicted of consorting with Aryans and was disappeared . The most damning evidence was that she'd been seen sitting on the man's lap . She stutters neurotically while Schell bears down on her and he finally shouts at her - - " DID YOU - - SIT - - ON - - HIS - - LAP ? ? ? " Enough is enough , finally . I really dislike this movie for its fake humanitarianism . The victims were innocent , but does that make all of their countrymen evil ? That's the kind of stereotypica , digital , black-and-white thinking that will lead to the next war , the next genocide . If the Nazis hadn't existed we would be almost forced to invent them because as a society we need bad examples . Without evil , how can we possibly convince ourselves that we are good ? So we can all leave the theater or switch off the TV , eyes brimming with tears at the tragedy that has been brought to our attention again , cheapened though it is by this film , and go to bed glowing with self satisfaction .
Lights , Camera , Speed , Action , Action , Action . . . . n .	In this outing , Arnold is a lone operator within the Justice Department's Witness Protection Program . His assignment : Prevent the delectable Vanessa Williams from miscreants because she has discovered a high-level plot in her defense-contractor employer to sell super-ray guns to the enemy . As it turns out , there's a lot of money changing hands around here . And , as we all know , money corrupts and absolute money corrupts absolutely . ( Okay , that's not exactly what Lord Acton said but I don't care . ) One of those corrupted is a highly placed colleague in the Witness Protection Program - - James Caan by name . Well , all of this fol de rol doesn't amount to much more than an excuse for Arnold and Vanessa to run full tilt through cavernous offices and airplanes and secret facilities and docks on which ships are being loaded with those X-ray rifles . You have rarely seen so much action before . Vanessa is beautiful , resourceful , but vulnerable . Schwarzenegger is simply made of steel . His best stunt is this . An emergency parachute has been thrown from a crippled airplane . Arnold exchanges a few more shots with his enemies . ( He rarely misses ; they almost always do . ) Then he plunges out of the open door to chase the parachute towards earth . Overtaking it in mid-air , he slips into it the way you or I might slip into a windbreaker . The errant airplane , trailing smoke , manages to foul his chute . No matter ; he tears it off and opens another chute that we didn't know he had , just soon enough to land with a crash on top of a clunker in an automobile graveyard . Unhurt , of course . Unfazed , even . A second later he's cracking jokes with a couple of black tots . The most interesting thing about these movies is the kind of villains they come up with . Germans are always a good stand-by . Never forgiven them for World War II . And then Russians are also good . The Cold War . The Mafia also made splendid heavies , but not so much since " The Godfather . " Then there were Latino members of " the cartel . " Latterly , a few swarthy Arabs have been sneaked in . But this film transcends such simple-mindedness . Get this , now . Aside from the corrupt individuals in the Justice Department , the heavies are the Mafia okay - - but the Russian Mafia this time ! THEY'RE the ones who have paid for the ex-ectoplasmic-X-ray guns and intend to run off with thirty thousand of them . And who are they going to sell them to ? The " terrorists . " How's that for permutations ? Russian Mafia Terrorists . As a matter of fact , Arnold cashes in some IOUs and the Italian Mafia are on OUR side during the shoot out - - mostly for comic effect . I can't recommend it and I can't NOT recommend it . You've seen it all before in one or another version . If you like this sort of thing , well , then , you'll like it . It's just more of the same .
Gorilla My Dreams	I won't bother with the story . If you don't know it by now you have been living in Plato's cave . Kong breaks free of his shackles in a huge New York theater , bursts through the walls , and finds himself in the middle of a busy , night-time Times Square , crowded with electric lights , cabs , pedestrians , trolleys , and a Pepsodent Sign . It's mid winter and the streets are slippery with slush . Well , Kong just trashes hell out of the place , and that's the part of the movie I liked best , although I'm compelled to admit to having seen it only in disjointed snippets . There's something soul satisfying in seeing this big ape skidding around at top speed , deconstructing all these taxis , smashing through huge marquis , stomping on crowds , picking up people and throwing them away because none of them is his true love , Ann Darrow ( Naomi Watts ) . I really liked that Times Square . I mean , that was before it turned into a gallery of whores in the 1960s , and before it became a family-friendly extension of Disneyland . Times Square was livable then , without King Kong in it anyway . Everything zips right along from one repetitious and familiar scene to another . Man - - this gorilla really moves quickly . He holds Watts in one hand while he fights off a couple of T . rex with the other , and he whips her around at such speed that in real life intertia would tear off her head . The jungle scenes became a little boring after a while . Too many things zap menacingly towards the camera , especially dinosaurs with wide-stretched fang-filled jaws . One of those goes a long way . And , in an excess of bad manners , Kong simply has too many combative encounters with too many other unevolved creatures . Cripes , if this is a typical day he should be glad to move to New York . There's a lot of money on display here . If my source is accurate , the movie cost only $50 million less than China gives in aid to North Korea every year . I had a problem with the , um , the central romance too . On the one hand we have King Kong who is nothing if not BIG . On the other hand we have the diminutive Naomi Watts who seems to be made of egg shell . He loves her . We know that from the original . But in THIS version she clearly falls for him too , all watery-eyed and sighing and smiling with delight as he picks up her Barbie-doll figure and they twirl around together on the ice of a lake in Central Park , Big Fred and little Ginger . But what - - precisely - - are his intentions towards her ? And hers towards him . This is the 1930s , so how does he propose to support her ? Is he interested in a career in medicine ? Does he have a college degree ? Has he even graduated from HIGH SCHOOL ? And what after the marriage ? What THEN ? Do they sleep together in the conjugal bed ? Suppose he rolls over ? What happens if a baby comes along ? Can they truly say they've thought this thing THROUGH ? Well , enough of that . And enough of dinosaurs too . I don't want to see any more on the screen , especially the man-eating kind . And can we call a moratorium on King Kong remakes while we're at it ? They're getting to be so common that even I worked in one , the far superior , art house hit and cult classic , " King Kong Lives . " No more King Kongs , okay ? And no more Gustav Klimt prints either . And I'm getting pretty tired of girls being named " Jamie " too .
Its Not About Sex , It's About Power .	As I read it , this rambling film is a case study of declining potency . Jean-Pierre Leaud is surprisingly unprepossessing as a dumpy , long-haired director who's made a couple of well-received skin flicks with titles like , " I'm Hard , I Come , I Sing , " but has had - - well - - director's block since 1984 . It's a sad tale . And you feel sorry for the actor right away , if you remember Leaud in Truffaut's earlier films or in " Belle de Jour , " a dark and sometimes menacing vibrant presence . Felt sorry for his character as well . The film makes it clear that sex is like power is like life . Leaud's 1968-style political activism is now obsolete . The new activism opposes a government that treats us " like a statistic . " Its ultimate response is elective mutism , so Leaud winds up communicating with his son by reading his notes instead of having a conversation . We can see Leaud's power - - his vision , if you will - - being taken away from him . He's directing a scene in which a fake chauffeur is seduced by a 16-year-old heiress . ( I think I'm getting this right . It was a little confusing . ) He lays out his plan for the rest of the crew . As usual , the cameras will stay perfectly still while filming this sexual encounter . One camera for closeups of organs and faces , the other for a medium shot . The actress will not emote while the chauffeur does her . No phony moaning or wild gyrations . Leaud , the director , will take care of that part for her . Finally , he wants her to , well , swallow aa she might offscreen . Those are his directorial intentions . Just before shooting starts , the Assistant Director plays some romantic music , thinking it may help the scene . " No music , " says Leaud politely but firmly . The scene begins the way Leaud wants it . But Leaud is staring at the floor . The AD asks , " Aren't you going to direct it ? " Leaud replies : " I've already directed it . " But not to the AD's satisfaction . First the AD begins prompting the actress - - " Louder . We can't hear you . " Then , little by little , the AD takes over the scene . He instructs the actress to shout and move around more . He plays the forbidden romantic music . He moves the cameras around . And the actress gets a cliché right in the face . What might have been a more or less personal scene has been turned into something that the industry grinds out like Wendy's Whoppers . And all this time , Leaud has been moping in his chair , without a whimper of protest . That scene summed it up for me in many ways . Other scenes got by my interpretive apparatus entirely . I don't know what's going on when Leaud leaves his wife . I have no idea why Leaud asks permission to build a house on a friend's land and then , after laying out a sketchy floor plan of a tiny shed , simply sits there staring at it for scene after scene . Is it " symbolic " ? If so , the symbolism whizzed past me without doing any damage and went on its way . I think I DID get symbolism elsewhere . When Leaud's son and his girlfriend make love in a meadow , we don't see them " doing it " but we get a lot of shots of sheep running around all woolly and sweaty looking . Very mammalian stuff . Is the movie worth watching ? Probably . Nice photography , good acting . Definitely , if you're a 50-year-old and your vision is increasingly impaired by senile cataracts .
Routine but picturesque revenge Western .	It's got most of the stuff you'd expect in a longish Western involving the moral maturation of half-breed , orphaned Steve McQueen . All he knows as an awkward and unskilled young man is that three guys blew his father's brains out , chopped up his mother and made a tobacco pouch out of her skin , and burned the house down . McQueen runs into a gun dealer , Brian Keith , who takes him under his wing and teaches him to shoot . ( First things first . ) He tracks down the first killer and sends him to his reward . The second murderer , Arthur Kennedy , selfish and whining , is a little harder to get at because he's in a Louisiana prison camp . But McQueen gets himself sent to the same camp anyway , which demonstrates an abundance of will power because who would want to be sent to a prison in the Louisiana swamps in the late 19th century ? Devil's Island would be an improvement . He and Kennedy manage to escape with the help of Susanne Pleshette . Pleshette passes on after being bitten by a water moccasin and chewing McQueen out for his desire to kill . We can understand her humane impulses but they seem a little out of place in a Cajun woman who freely spends the night with anonymous prisoners in their barracks from time to time . And as an uneducated , backwoods Cajun girl , Pleshette gives a fine performance as a New York sophisticate . None of this saves Kennedy from McQueen's wrath . McQueen emerges from under water holding his pistol and plugs Kennedy several satisfying times . Kennedy's terror and pain at least distract us from wondering how you can fire a pistol whose barrel is full of water . Next in line - - some Catholic monks . They rescue him , starving and being beaten by hooligans , and give him a Bible to read while they shelter him and preach the pointlessness of revenge . The only lesson McQueen absorbs from the Bible : " An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth . " Bless you , my son . The third guy is Karl Malden - - REALLY slimy , a leader of an outlaw gang that kills in cold blood to steal payroll money . Of course ALL the murders are without any redeeming qualities . All of them embody the seven deadly sins . Malden , however , is the first one to know that the vengeful son of that murdered family is after him . He only knows the guy's name - - Max Sand - - not what he looks like . And he puts McQueen through a couple of impromptu tests , showing him the pouch made of his mother's skin and whatnot , but McQueen is prepared for this and doesn't bat an eye . After a robbery McQueen reveals his identity and Malden tries to scoot away . I have no idea why McQueen chose this particular moment for the Big Reveal , and you won't either . In any case , Malden and McQueen shoot it out , resulting in a wounded Malden crawling out of a stream and cursing McQuee - - even throwing the pouch at him . But - - wait for it . McQueen , having plugged Malden painfully through three hinge joints , decides in the face of Malden's ranting that , " You're not worth killing . " Again , why McQueen , who has never shown the slightest compunction about taking the lives of his targets , should suddenly decide to spare Malden , the head honcho , the big cheese , the great decider , is one of those mysteries that will have film scholars scratching their heads in bemusement for centuries to come . It's not an insulting movie and it doesn't pander . It goes so far as to deprive the viewer of the bloodbath expected at the end . " FINISH IT ! " Malden screams through his pain , but McQueen leaves him to spend the rest of his life in a wheelchair . There's something else good about it too . Henry Hathaway , no artist , was always an efficient craftsman and his skill is on display here . And the photography in Inyo National Forest is superb . Makes one want to ride a horse - - a gentle , philosophical kind of horse - - through the sagebrush and scattered , twisted fir trees of the Sierra Nevada - - in the sunshine - - breathing nature's own pine-scented terpines .
Combat , mano a pseudopod .	As action flicks go , this one's pretty typical . Arnold leads the usual band of expert musclemen into some tropical country on a mercy mission , or was it a mercenary mission , picks up a pretty young Latina ( Elpidia Carillo ) after a furious battle with well-armed swarthy guerrillas who make easy targets , and encounters a - - well , an alien , while on his way back to meet the chopper at the rendezvous . As Arnold pointed out at the time of release , you really get two movies for one . A regular excursion action flick and a science-fiction action flick . Boy , are these guys macho . ( One of them is one of those North American Indians with an intuitive , spiritual collective unconscious who senses when the thing is nearby . ) And they carry the ugliest guns ever seen on screen . It's the kind of " lost patrol " movie in which the characters get picked off one by one by an unseen enemy until , in this example , only Arnold and Carillo are left alive to hop on the chopper . The major difference between most examples of the genre and this one is that the other examples ordinarily take breathers and give the characters a chance to chat , so we get to know them a little . Not much time for that here . A coffee break would mean one less opportunity for the group to shred the banana plants with their slugs and grenades . The alien gave me a bit of a problem , I have to say . Here he is , all decked out in high-tech equipment including a helmet that gives his vision infra-red capabilities . ( He presses Arnold's head up against a tree and examines it carefully through this heat-registering device and you can tell what great shape Arnold is in because his nose is cold . ) He's also got some kind of rocket launchers built into his arms and carries some strap ons that enable him to heal quickly or , failing that , to set off an atomic explosion . All of that high-tech stuff didn't bother me . But his organic evolution hasn't seem to have kept up with his technology . Okay , he's got opposable thumbs . Thank heaven for small favors . And he's bipedal . But that's about it . How do you design and build delicate equipment like that when your fingers end in claws ? And when he removes his helmet we see that his mouth is surrounded by four maxillapods , crab-like claws that can serve no other purpose than to shovel food into his diminutive mouth . They've invented space travel but not the fork ? Finally , his hair is made up into dreadful dreadlocks , which looks pretty retro from our perspective . What's this alien doing here anyway ? " He comes when the summer is hot , " Elpidia intones . ( A sissy after all . ) He seems to be a trophy hunter . He skins the people he kills but then seems to do nothing with the body except burn it so he can add the skull to his collection . He fawns proudly over those skulls . Does he show any other values aside from the desire to kill other living beings and preserve their heads as trophies ? What I mean is , does he have any NON-HUMAN traits ? Well , actually no . While they are being pursued , Elpidia drops a weapon and Arnold stops her and says , " No ! He didn't gill you befawh because you vair unahmed . " Later on , though , he shows no such compunction about deciding to kill a wounded and unarmed Arnold . Then , too , when challenged directly by Arnold at the end , the alien unburdens himself of his technological accoutrements and faces Arnold hand to hand , raising the question of whether they have Roy Rogers movies on the place from whence the alien came . If you're a fan of action movies , Arnold , earth-bound science fiction , or any combination thereof , catch this one if you haven't seen it yet .
Episode in Later Series Meets With Modest Success	Colombo solves this murder by figuring out that a call could not have been made from a cell phone in the mountains behind Malibu . Falk still has some dash , but the writers have slowed his intellect more than usual . He's not familiar with satellite dishes and television . He's only " heard about dem things . " And he's not so sure about cellular phones either . " Dey give you tumors . " Colombo , however , is savvy enough to stage a bicycling accident on a rural road in order to trip up the killer . Colombo is a constant in these movies . His character never changes . If he's more amusing in some episodes than in others it's because he's sometimes given better lines . ( My favorite , from another episode involving Janet Leigh , is " cadaveric spasm ? ! " ) But if the villain is dull , so is the story . And Colombo's murderers come generally in two categories : the flamboyant and the icy cold . My vote for best icy murderer : Patrick McGoohan , the Colonel in charge of the military college . Here , William Shatner makes a pretty effective flamboyant murderer , hammy to the point of outrageousness . Some actors coast along on their normal off-screen personalities , but Shatner gives it everything he's got , huffing and puffing , the theatrical contours of his voice taking us on a roller coaster ride , sneering and strutting and superior and entirely unbelievable . He seems to be having a hell of a good time , barely able to keep from laughing out loud . Maybe it's partly because he regularly checked his appearance in a mirror and found that his mustache couldn't make up its mind about its color . Still it's a bit sluggish . I guess that in order to make the story and the flagging energy behind the series seem a little more contemporaneous , the writers have brought in an openly gay love affair and a hint of incestuous feelings . Neither is particularly interesting , nor are they relevant to the plot . And I have no idea what the title means : " Butterfly in Shades of Grey . " Did I miss something ? The plot is somewhat hard to follow at times too . A Senator is destroyed , somehow , on the air for no special reason and some minutes are spent on this incident . Enjoyable though . If not among the best , it's not among the worst either .
Where's the noir ?	It's never been clear to me what a film noir is . A treacherous woman ? The traditional iconography of black sedans and snub-nosed revolvers ? Black and white ? Seedy surroundings or exotic ones ? Murder or grand larceny ? Revenge ? Charlie Chan had all of them . This one would seem to have all the proper elements though . Here is Dick Powell , who gave a good performance as Philip Marlowe in " Murder My Sweet . " A . 38 and a . 45 caliber pistol . Rhonda Fleming , a femme than whom no one is more fatale . A semi-comic sidekick in Richard Erdman . Good old Los Angeles setting , and well chosen too . Fine noir title . Yet the whole thing just doesn't jell . If film noir has anything , it has two basic elements , as Alain Silver pointed out - - dramatic photography and unusual camera placements . This has neither stylistic element . It's shot mostly during the daytime and Robert Parrish , an intelligent guy , has shot it as the straightforward unraveling of a mystery surrounding a double cross . You could substitute Cagney and Bogart and you'd have a typical , inexpensive Warner Brothers ' gangster movie from the 1930s . Dick Powell looks good in his neatly tailored suits and flat-brimmed fedora . He gets to drive a two-ton Nash as well . He's just been released from the slams after serving five years for a robbery he did not take part in . But , man , is he expressionless . When he makes a wise crack or is supposed to be sad , his face takes on a look of agony , as if trying to rearrange its own musculature is a colossal effort . And the script doesn't help him . The hospitalized Erdman asks about his , Erdman's , girl friend . " What about Doreen ? How bad is she ? " Powell : " As bad as she can get . " William Conrad gives a stereotypical performance too but it is probably the best one because , cliché or not , the evil fat man is invariably a colorful role . Think of Sidney Greenstreet . Regis Toomey as the cop with whom Powell has a suitably ambivalent relationship looks like General George Marshall . In fact , I'm not entirely convinced they're not one and the same person . Let me put it this way . Have you ever seen the two of them in the same room together ? And the end , such as it is , kind of collapses in on itself . There isn't the expectable shootout . The villain doesn't twist around and fall from the roof with a splash . There is no clinch followed by a dissolve . Instead , after learning the true story from an unwitting Fleming , Powell tells her they're leaving for Timbuctoo and tells her to pack . Then he walks out , spills the beans to the waiting police , and strolls away . I'm kind of making fun of it but I rather enjoyed it too . Everyone likes to see a puzzle solved .
Good Example of the Genre .	It's surprising that there isn't a decent DVD available for " Retreat , Hell ! " It's a good example of the kind of war movie that was produced during World War II and a few of the post-war years , before the war was reexamined and faced more realistically . It has elements of all the generic conventions . Frank Lovejoy is the Marine colonel who has to whip his battalion of raw recruits ( is there any other kind ? ) and retreads into shape . His tactic for achieving this is to morph into Frank Lockjaw . Only towards the end does he begin to show his more sensitive side . Yes , on the surface he may be crusty and hard-hearted . But underneath that , he's a real softy . It's a good thing they didn't dig any deeper into his character or they might have found another layer in which he was a real MEAN SOB . Richard Carlson is the retread from World War II , a reservist pulled back into active duty as a company commander . He's forced to move his wife and two lovely kiddies into a Quonset hut and he's deprived of their company , despite his whining to Lockjaw . He toughens up though and learns to be a Marine first . There is the kid , Russ Tamblyn , who at this stage of his career could not yet act , who must prove himself as much a Marine as the rest of the men in his family . ( He looks about fourteen . ) One of his brothers is an officer serving near Tamblyn's unit and we know at once , when Tamblyn asks for permission to visit after a battle , that the brother is KIA . Then there is the somewhat slow , drawlin ' Southrin boy who provides a bit of comic relief , though not much . And the Gunnery Sergeant who must harden his men for battle . The usual conventions are followed . There is the mail call ritual , the fierce climactic speech about how we'll fight on and reach our goal , outnumbered and surrounded though we may be . The final entrance of the troops and equipment into Allied lines . And when some bystanders ask this ragged group what outfit they belong to , Frank Lovejoy ( now thoroughly humanized ) straightens up and replies proudly , " First battalion , United States Marines . " It really does hark back to World War II movies . The enemy are faceless . The rifle shots don't sound like rifle shots at all . A fired weapon emits a modest ka-Whoosh instead of a loud pop . There is the tension of waiting while the enemy approach like black cockroaches over the snowy hills and our troops are out of ammunition until , at the last moment , the skies clear and cargo planes make the necessary drop , just as in " Battleground " , a superior example of the genre . Some of the engagements are shot in the hills around Hollywood , but there is some combat footage from Korea inserted too . The actual events have been cleaned up a bit for public consumption . The reason the Marines and the Army had been caught with their pants down is that they had sailed northward through the British lines as if on a picnic . MacArthur had found little resistance in North Korea and was determined to thrust quickly through to the Manchurian border , while the more prudent British adopted a cautious advance on a broad front . MacArthur had assured President Truman that there was no chance of Chinese intervention , a big misjudgment . MacArthur had also declared the men would be home by Christmas which didn't happen and this is mentioned by one or two characters in the film , but sadly , without bitterness . The retreat from the reservoir was genuine hell . The weather was bitterly cold and frostbite was common . The Chinese troops had more protective clothing than ours . And omitted from this movie are newsreel scenes of frozen bodies being dragged on sleds behind trucks during this slow , sixty-mile retreat . I'd give this movie bonus points for having taken a chance on its being about a retreat instead of a victory . We don't hear much about Korea these days . It ended in a stalemate . Retreats , defeats , and stalemates are the stuff neither of legends or commercially successful movies . They don't follow the accepted scenario in which we either win or put up a gallant fight before being wiped out by a treacherous foe . " A Bridge Too Far " was another risky production . I doubt that this one would have been made in quite the way it was except for a proclamation by one Marine officer who , when asked if they were retreating , said , " Retreat , Hell . We're just advancing in a different direction . " A ringing line like that is enough to transform our perception of what we are witnessing on the screen .
Folie a Deux	William Friedkin , who usually knows what he's doing , directed this unusual movie about a lonely woman , Ashley Judd , who waitresses in a lesbian bar somewhere in the ruder parts of the American Southwest . She meets a guy , Michael Shannon , at the bar and he spends the night on the floor of her dumpy motel room . Shannon is as weird as he looks - - a little shy , taciturn , perceptive , but off kilter in a way that's hard to define . Judd herself has been thoroughly deglamorized by wardrobe , makeup , and age . Her character seems to have little imagination and an awareness that might kindly be described as a bit below normal . She's a tough babe , though . Judd and Shannon seem to get along well together , even if no sparks fly . Enter Harry Connick , Jr . , her ex husband out on parole . He's all pumped up after a couple of years in the Crowbar Hotel for armed robbery . He's slightly disappointed when he shows up and Judd tells him to get out , bringing up a name from their past . He belts her in the face , knocks her down , then explains , " I told you never to talk about that . Now whose fault is that ? " He means it's her fault she was bashed because she did something he'd told her not to do . Right off the bat I had this plot figured out . Judd and Shannon fall quietly in love - - two people who need each other desperately - - but Connick is going to keep intruding into their lives , becoming more threatening , until he assaults them and is killed by Shannon and everyone thinks " good riddance " and breathes a big sigh of relief . Boy , was I wrong . By the end of the movie I had nothing but sympathy for Harry Connick , Jr . ' s , character because he was the only person in the entire flick I could understand . What begins as a naturalistic , slice-of-life study of a couple of marginalized people turns into a precipitate descent from simple acedia into some simulacrum of madness consisting mostly of delusions about bugs . Literal bugs . Insects . Shannon , who is completely bananas and covered with self-inflicted wounds , identifies the bugs that surround and infect them as " aphids . " Sometimes , he rattles on about them as if they were inorganic , some kind of nano-intelligence , computer chips . The pace of both events and dialog increases from largo to prestissimo without going anyplace at all . Shannon has evidently escaped from some Army hospital where he may or may not have been a subject in an experiment with mind-altering drugs . A doctor , who calls himself " more of a consultant " , seeks him out and explains things rationally to Ashley Judd . He's calm and sensible . But then , out of nowhere , he decides to sit down and light up a crack pipe . And when Judd and Shannon are sitting next to the dead body , which they believe to be a robot , Judd goes into this nonsensical , hysterical rant about she being the " drone mother " and how the egg sacks of the bugs spread and I defy any human being to interpret what she's talking about . Maybe a robot could do it . The two are by this time ensconced in a room papered with aluminum foil ( " to interrupt the signals " ) , lighted by neon-blue insect repellent lamps , and festooned with fly paper and citronella candles . They end by hallucinating a helicopter landing nearby , perhaps on the roof , everything trembling and whirling in the wind , and they blow themselves and the motel up . It's a daring movie . I don't know what it's supposed to mean . Take , for instance , the scene in which Shannon is stabbing the doctor's dead body over and over and over . Judd isn't freaked out by the gruesome murder . She's screaming about the six-year-old son she lost in a supermarket ten years ago . The logic simply isn't there . At the same time this is not a real picture of schizophrenia , which , to an outside observer , is a lot duller than what we see on the screen . I've given this flick a rating of five . By that , I don't mean to suggest that this is in any way an " average " movie . In some ways it's just plain awful , and in others it's superb . The performances of everyone involved , for example , could hardly be improved upon . Ashley Judd has been good before ( and sometimes not so good ) but she's never been better than here , especially in the first half when her exchanges with others are more naturalistic and nuanced . You know , when she screams less . Friedkin's direction I suppose does the best it could with such a nebulous story . Judd and Shannon only spend one night in bed together and at the moment of maximum fluidity the score jangles electronically and there are momentary inserts of seeds spilling and , finally , the head of a praying mantis staring into the camera . What the hell has that praying mantis got to do with it ? Oh , it's a BUG . I know that . But why a mantis instead of the aphid that plays a central role ? When praying mantises copulate the female manages to turn her head and decapitate the smaller male , which , both headless and heedless , keeps on copulating . Here it's the other way round .
Comic Book Adventure .	I don't know why they make these kinds of movies . Just for a chance to spend a lot of money ? I can think of 57 better ways of spending it , beginning with " Send some to me . " Alec Baldwin is handsome and Penelope Ann Miller is yummy and John Lone is a good actor . The sets are phenomenal , the score epic in dimension , the special effects special . The plot , in an exemplary case of arrested development , is stuck at the fifth-grade level . It's hardly worth describing but let's just say John Lone , as the passionate villain Kahn , has made an " atomic bomb " and wants to take over the world with it - - the world as it was in the late 1930s . ( Kahn ? How does a Chinese guy come to have an Arabic name ? Never mind . ) It ought to appeal to kids , what with its dusty sarcophagi creaking open , it's Kung Fu Chinoiserie , its magic daggers and hypnotic trances . There are little tid-bits for adults too . A villain invites the luscious , silk-clad Miller down to the laboratory to see his beryllium spheres , part of the bomb he's working on . " I'm not interested in your spheres , " she tells him with gelid disdain . There was a time when everyone who had a radio tuned in to programs like this - - " The Shadow , " " Inner Sanctum , " " The Whistler , " " Suspense . " ( " The Shadow " often featured the voice of Orson Welles . ) Some of the programs weren't bad , as a matter of fact , and many of them were adapted for noir films of the 40s . " The Shadow " must have been fun for a kid but it's the kind of fun one tends to outgrow , rather like Abbott and Costello . I can see , though , where a family might enjoy this spectacular spectacle . The kids certainly will , and there's just enough in it to keep the adults from nodding out .
Leaves You Numb .	An action movie with a gimmick . Nicholas Cage is a Las Vegas illusionist who actually has the power to see into the future - - but only insofar as the events are connected with his own body sheath . He can tell , for instance , if he's about to be hit by a car while crossing the street , and thus avoid it , but he can't tell if somebody else a block away is about to be run over . A gang of international terrorists has smuggled a nuclear device into the United States and is going to demolish a city . The FBI , chiefly in the rather attractive form of the no-nonsense agent in charge , Julianne Moore , once they find out , are naturally enough interested in enlisting the help of Cage . He's reluctant , for reasons having to do with adding some tension to the plot , but finally agrees after the FBI track him down , capture him , and convince him of his misperception of the circumstances . Oh - - and Jessica Biel is thrown into the mix to provide Cage with a threatened girl friend and a bit of sex . The movie is directed at a frenetic pace . The music pounds us into insensibility . The action is speeded up and the camera revolves around Cage's figure like a manic merry-go-round . But all this is to be expected in an action movie designed to hold your breath until you feel dizzy . We get to know virtually nothing about the dozen or so young terrorists , male and female , who want to destroy us . None has a dog or a stamp collection . I keep thinking of how Hitchcock handled villains . Hitchcock's villains , even in his most patriotic and simple-minded films , were always interesting and highly individuated . The polite Nazis in " Saboteur " and James Mason's suave heavy in " North by Northwest . " These guys are just devoted nihilists , no more than that . The only thing of interest about them is the language they speak . This varies from one dumb action movie to another , and it's always revealing to follow their evolution in Hollywood scripts . For years after World War II , they spoke German . During the Cold War they became Russians . After the collapse of the USSR they morphed into Spanish-speaking cocaine drug lords from " the cartel . " More recently , they've begun speaking Arabic and looking vaguely Middle Eastern . ( Sometimes there were retrograde dips : the gang of thugs in " Die Hard " spoke German with Russian accents . ) This particular gang speaks three languages . English - - but with a British accent - - German , and French . The first two are traditional in the genre . But French ? When did they become terrorists , and how do you say " freedom fries " in French ? In any case , whatever language they happen to be speaking , with whatever accents , they are dismissable except as plot engines , their animus driving the story along at breakneck speed . Fast , yes , but confusing too . Cage is leading the FBI agents through one of those warehouses with lots of catwalks and plumes of steam . He can tell when a sniper is around the corner by imagining himself turning the corner and being shot . But then , with no fanfare , he goes overboard and begins purposefully imagining himself turning both right AND left at the same time , to see what will happen to him in either case . Soon enough , he is morphing in his mind into three or four Nicolas Cages striding off in different directions , and each of these splits again into three or four . By the end of this sequence there are more than a dozen Cages scurrying around in this warehouse , each independent of the other , and each representing a possible future that the ORIGINAL Cage , half a mile back there , is imagining . And - - are you keeping this straight ? Because there were times when to me they began to make the same impression as a horde of cockroaches scurrying away from a fruitcake . This movie is not the type that will deny the viewer the catharsis of a nuclear explosion that demolishes Los Angeles and kills all the principles , so don't worry about that . However , after we have the satisfaction of viewing the cataclysm , the camera takes us back to Cage lying in bed beside his girl friend . It's all been in his mind . ( Whew . ) He immediately contacts Moore and tells her he's made a mistake . They have to adopt a different approach because once you change the future , that changes everything . I suppose this is his version of " the grandfather paradox " of time travel . If you go back into the past and murder your own grandfather before he has had a chance to reproduce , how can you exist ? But does it apply to the future ? The answer isn't self evident , and the whole thing is dismissed with Cage's offhand dictum . It's the last line in the movie , and it's a cop out . But then the whole movie is nothing more than a high-concept cop out . I kind of enjoyed seeing it - - once . I often enjoy action movies . They aren't high art . They're not the Guggenheim Museum or the Brooklyn Bridge . They're vernacular art , like a colorful and ergonomic gas station . We need both , but " Next " is more like some sprawling wooden shack all by itself at a dusty crossroads , with decrepit gas pumps in front and a sign , " Red's Pit Stop and Car Wash . " But there's a cardboard sign tacked to the door , " Closed Due to Exhaustion . " I think at this point I should either quit or ask the waitress for a fresh analogy .
No , Paris is Not Burning .	I'd like to recommend this movie because it deals with a subject of such historic significance , but I found it confusing . It meanders all over the place , like the Seine . The Germans have been ordered to destroy the city , including its historical monuments , by an insane Adolf Hitler , if it is ever in danger of falling into Allied hands . That's clear enough , but then the waters turn turbid . The General in charge , Gert Frobe , is reluctant to follow the order for humanitarian reasons but will evidently do what he's told . He's held up by the French resistance , who gather their small arms and fire on German patrols . ( They were a lot more organized than I'd realized . ) A messenger is sent to the Americans to ask them to divert from their plans to destroy the German army and aid in the liberation of Paris . The request reaches General Bradley who agrees . The Free French Army enters Paris , followed by the Amis , and shortly the Germans are subdued and the city saved . For me , the most stirring moment is when two men activate the bells of Notre Dame . What a job . The huge old chimes weight tons and are covered with cobwebs and it takes a heap of huffing and puffing to get the clappers going but this is the liberation of Paris . It's one of those " spot-the-stars " movies , with more famous faces than you can count , and every other time one of them first appears on screen , the director , Rene Clement , moves the camera in for a close up in case you might miss the dimple in the middle of Kirk Douglas's chin . Well , maybe it's understandable since you've only got about 30 seconds to spot it . A central character would probably have helped to integrate these loosely linked tesserae . The sound is so terrible it distracts a viewer from the already fragmented story . The voices are all dubbed , of course , and only occasionally by their real-life owners , like Orson Welles and Tony Perkins ( in a stereotypical and dispensable role ) . The gun shots sound as if they were lifted from an inexpensive Italian war movie . Loud incidental noises have been added to the sound track - - the crunching of boots on gravel , the clicks of a bolt action rifle . Maurice Jarre's score isn't bad , however closely it resembles some of his other works during this period . The visuals are okay . Some black-and-white news footage from the street fighting is integrated into the drama . But it's not a gripping film and not very innovative . If a man is shot , he twirls around and dies in conventional Hollywood fashion . Nice shots of some Parisian tourist spots though . We get a good look at Napolean's tomb . I'm glad that Paris wasn't destroyed . The greatest sandwich I ever had was at a nondescript café in the Gare du Nord . And it's good to see the Free French Army in combat in a movie like this . They may have been organized in exile but they did a splendid job alongside the rest of the Allies in Italy , particularly at Monte Cassino .
The Holland Tunnel Adventure !	Once while being towed through the Holland Tunnel my old Ford lost a wheel that rolled placidly down the left lane before wobbling and flopping to a halt . It must have held up traffic for half an hour , but that's nothing compared to what happens to the Holland Tunnel in this typical disaster flick . Boy , if things can go wrong they surely will . Fortunately there is always the short chance of a last-minute escape , light at the end of the tunnel , so to speak , and only a few dispensable characters must be left behind to pump up the sentiment quotient that the formula requires . Some hazardous material blows up in the middle of the tunnel that links New York City and New Jersey . A huge fireball whooshes out of both ends of the traffic conduit , killing everyone except the handful of survivors who Sly Stallone , in his magnanimity , volunteers to reach from the outside and lead to safety . You've met most of these trapped characters in one form or another . There is the beautiful young woman , terrified but still able to make wisecracks and perform improbable physical feats . There is the heroic black cop mortally injured while saving others and begs them to leave him behind and save themselves . There is the antagonist , usually dumb , who pipes up at every roadblock to castigate the only leader who can save them . " This is IT ? You told us you knew what you were doing ! " There's the endangered child . There's the elderly couple who don't think they can make it and the old lady doesn't . ( Cf . , " The Poseidon Aventure , " here and everywhere else . ) The menace follows a predictable trajectory . First fire , then collapse , then monstrous rolling objects , then collapse , then water . At one point Stallone must slip through a series of three gargantuan exhaust fans , any one of which could slice and dice him if he doesn't get through it before his fourteen seconds run out . It's like playing a game in a video arcade . Still , it's diverting enough , if that's the sort of thing you're looking for . It's total lack of originality keeps it from being an Ideal Type , but so what ? It's only a movie .
The Sleep of Reason Breeds Monsters	In the prologue , the script has James Mason , the actor , come out and show us Mary Shelley's grave and explain the origin of the story . Then the script more or less buries Shelley's original under a collapsing iceberg of additional myth , fantasy , and whimsical repetition . This TV miniseries comes in two parts . Part One isn't bad . Leonard Whiting is Victor Frankenstein . David MacCallum is his mentor in building the creature ( Michael Sarazzin ) using electrical energy and parts of cadavers . Christopher Isherwood was behind the script and - - well , I'll tell you . If this isn't an allegory I don't know what is . Sarazzin , as the creature , climbs from his gurney wearing only a few strips of bandages , his jewels prominent , his face and hair carefully groomed . " Beautiful ! " gasps Frankenstein . And with a sweet and beckoning smile the creature repeats , " Beautiful . " The two handsome young men get along quite well together , though to be sure one of them is rather dead . Frankenstein's fiancée , Elizabeth , turns pretty much into the beard . Oh , sure , he's engaged to her but we know in which direction his affections lie . But now our story turns a bit . The creature suffers the agonizing fate of every narcissist . He ages - - and quickly . And as he ages his features collapse and seem to rot , so that he shortly begins to look like Dorian Gray's portrait . ( Another allegory there , which we needn't go into . ) The creature , discovering that he's turned ugly and feeling bitter , begins to brood , and Frankenstein locks him up and begins to pursue his plans with Elizabeth again . The creature gets out and visits Frankenstein and Elizabeth at a fancy ball . He turns out to be one of those rowdy guests you find at every party - - smashing mirrors , windows , and furniture , and killing a few guests . Somewhere around here , Part One ended and Part Two began . Part Two was a mistake . The creature takes a back seat most of the time . Instead , enter Dr . Polidori ( James Mason ) , no relation to the Polidori who shared that weekend with Shelley and the rest . Polidori informs Frankenstein that the BEST way to bring a fabricated body to life is by using chemicals , not electrical energy , and for a moment we expect them to begin arguing like two yentas over the back fence discussing a recipe . At any rate , Polidori enlists Frankenstein's help in creating a female body - - this time using HIS methods . She turns out to be Jane Seymour , which is a considerable improvement over Michael Sarazzin if you ask me , even though we don't get to see her wearing three or four bandages . There's a problem , however . If Frankenstein's monster was flawed in that it aged too quickly , Polidori's creature ( whom Polidori names " Prima " ) turns out to be thoroughly cuckoo . She strangles a cat for no reason . Well , I guess there's ALWAYS a reason to strangle a cat , but some of her other behavior is just plain shocking . I forget most of the other things , but it doesn't matter . Seymour too interrupts a fancy ball , doing a charming , impromptu pas de seul . Now Victor Frankenstein begins to look upon Prima with more than the usual admiration a scientist feels for an invention . Who wouldn't ? Elizabeth , now Frankenstein's bride , begins to get jealous - - and so does the original CREATURE , who wrenches off Seymour's head . What a dirty trick . They all wind up dead in the arctic . That includes Frankenstein's creature , although he's described as having an " iron body " impervious to cold and is shown to be immune to bullets too . But I guess he not only doesn't age well . He doesn't travel well either . The acting's not bad and the production values are good for TV . There are many cameos - - Gielgud , Wilding , Moorehead , Richardson , and others - - but the parts aren't substantial . It didn't really matter that the story didn't follow Mary Shelley's original very closely , although many of the issues it raised ( science vs . theology ) are still relevant . The main problem was that most of Part Two was unnecessary , almost redundant . In Part One Frankenstein invents a flawed male creature . In Part Two Polidori invents a flawed female creature . Almost everything between the end of Part One and the arctic climax could have been snipped out with little loss . Not a badly done movie , though . It's not trashy and it's not insulting . It's just without much significance . Worth seeing once .
Pedantic and sketchy police story .	The sociologist Robert E . Park wrote in the 1920s about marginal people , by which he meant individuals stuck between two statuses , neither fish nor fowl , unable to identify with either . His analysis focused on roles that stood in some shady area between " management " and " labor . " As examples he used white-collar workers and factory foremen . According to this movie , which is " based on a true story " , he could have included police detectives on NYPD who were opposed to the death penalty . The story is set in 1968 and illustrates the two attitudinal poles . It begins by showing us the takeover by students of Columbia University in New York . Then , immediately after Detective Mitchell wins a decoration from the department , it shows him turning down what amounts to an order from a public relations officer to broadcast a message in favor of New York's death penalty , which was then under review . Boy , is this guy marginal . His fellow officers do everything but spit on him , even after he heroically brings down the killer of a brother officer . His family , his friends , the DA's office , all turn against him . He could be Frank Serpico . One wonders whether that critically and commercially successful earlier film was in the minds of the people who greenlighted this rather sketchy and overdone tale . The film has the feeling of having been rushed through production . The acting is perfunctory . The locations unevocative . The moral lesson is that we should all do our jobs and tell the truth and justice , as the community defines it , will out . That's what Detective Mitchell says on the witness stand during a critical scene at the end . Of course we've heard it before , only it usually comes at us as , " I'm a soldier , not a politician . " The movie is stacked against the death penalty , not so much by any logical or ethical argument , as by direction . Mitchell has a couple of nightmares of people being electrocuted and wakes up gasping for breath . Everyone who counsels him in favor of execution seems either grasping or mentally stunted . Fortunately we are spared scenes of the victims actually being electrocuted , which have come to be practically de rigeur since they seem to satisfy some morbid sentiments in some of the audience members , those who can't pass a highway accident without hoping for a glimpse of the mangled body . I found the film preachy and not well executed though , for what it's worth , I would endorse its message .
Ab initio .	An early rendition of Chaplin's tramp that lacks much of the inventiveness of his later works . Much of what is enjoyable about it , at least for me , is the picture it yields of a Los Angeles that is underpopulated . There are beach scenes in which a background bather , heedless of the working crew and camera , runs down the strand and jumps into the water . In another shot , a man walks his dog through the seagulls . In still another , a pack of careless and innocent dogs romps and loafs in the background . In 1915 rural roads were unpaved and dusty . Malibu was an empty beach . The San Fernando Valley was home not to strip malls but acre after acre of orange groves . " Smog " was not yet a word . The movie is funny enough to watch , but not achingly so . Better things were to come .
Perplexing war movie .	No , it's not about the first moon landings , although it sounds as if it should be . It's about a group of German soldiers led by Michael Caine and aided by Donald Southerland as an Irishman , who parachute into England in an attempt to kidnap Winston Churchill and bring an end to the war . They fail , which can't be too big a surprise . The movie's plot is all over the place . Caine and his men are disguised as British paratroopers and they more or less take over a small British village , claiming to be on an exercise . But they wear their German uniforms under their fake British uniforms , and one of the men while saving the life of a young girl , dies and has his true identity revealed . This happens rather early in the movie , so the whole disguise business lasts only about 15 minutes . After that , the movie becomes routine . The Germans strip to field gray and hole up in a church . They are surrounded and outnumbered by American rangers and fight to the death , although it's not clear why they just don't surrender . The war is nearly over . What lifts the movie a bit above the expectable - - and this may be completely accidental - - is that it's not easy for the average viewer , used to watching less complicated material like Funniest Home Videos , to figure out which side to root for . The Germans of course have been fighting for an evil cause . Yet , in this instance at least , they are men of probity and honor . Their goal is not to assassinate Churchill ( if that can be avoided ) but to put the snatch on him and try to negotiate a settlement with the Allies . And you can tell the people who made the movie did not want a horde of hairy Huns playing goose-stepping Nazi types because the soldiers look like young men . One of them seems to be still in his teens and plays Bach on the church organ . And the U . S . Army that we see is led by a Colonel who is , as far as it's possible to tell , a complete idiot . The actor , Larry Hagman , hams it up outrageously , but it doesn't come across as comic , just stupid . His Colonel is so puffed up with ego , so angry at not having been allowed to see combat , that he chews out subordinates all the time and struts around with tiny mincing steps . When a woman finally puts a bullet through his head and he looks a little indignant - - well , it almost funny but not quite . Donald Southerland is a stage Irishman of a type we've seen before - - all charm and rosy cheeks . He laughs gaily at the prospect of putting his life in danger . He's romantic , falls in love with the wrong girl , likes a drop now and then , and is always ready for a fist fight . At the end , Caine finds himself in a position to shoot and kill Churchill . His face turns grim . He approaches the PM who stares at him with horror , and he deliberately shoots the guy . ( Who turns out to be a mere stand-in for the real Churchill . ) I don't know why he did that . It's not really in keeping with what we've seen of Caine's character so far . He's a proud man but not a cold-blooded murderer . I suspect the scene is in there to give the audience a momentary frisson - - " WHAT ? Churchill DEAD ? " It's pretty corny but then there are other banal scenes throughout the movie . The true identity of the Germans is revealed only through the hoary device of having one of the soldiers save an enemy's daughter from drowning and giving his own life in the process . The script is poor and the direction ordinary but the performances are competent enough , given what the actors have to work with . Jenny Agutter's nose turns up like a ski jump , like the inverted clipper bow of a Japanese battleship , like the trajectory of a freshly launched shuttle from Cape Canaveral . Any normal man would want to kiss it and bite it a little . Judy Geason looks just fine too . It wasn't nice of the writers to have her shot , but at least she survives .
Tour de force for Julianne Moore	I'd like to give this a higher rating . This is a first-rate cast to begin with , and every one of them delivers the goods . And I almost always know where the writer , Richard Price , is coming from , in his screenplays and his essays . ( Haven't read any of his novel . ) But somehow this disjointed story doesn't get pulled together . There are really two plots . Julianne Moore is a mother who claims her four-year-old son was taken away by a hooded black man . Moore is a working-class single Mom living in a mostly black project in some dumpy town in industrial New Jersey , whose projects ought to go the way of Pruitt-Igoe . Jackson , along with his partner Bill Forsythe , are cops investigating the case . Well , Moore is hysterical half the time and seems to be overacting the part of the desperate mother . There is a general sense among the residents of the project that she killed her own child and is blaming a black man , so we get a lot of threats and speeches from African-Americans who believe they're being set up . Jackson finds himself in the middle . The climax gives us a slow-motion battle between enraged black guys and the white helmeted cops who nettle them . That's plot number one . And they are being set up . Moore , as it turns out , returned to her apartment to find her son dead of a deliberate overdose of the cough medicine she'd been giving him to keep him quiet . With the help of a friend in the projects she buried the boy in the kind of densely wooded area where dead bodies tend to be discovered . Little by little the true story is squeezed out of her by Jackson and by a sympathetic but savvy social worker ( Edie Falco ) . Moore winds up lashing out and screaming and is put in the slams . That's the other plot , and it's more important than the first . Anyone expecting an action movie will be disappointed because this is not an action movie . It's hardly even a crime thriller or a police story . It's a character study , mostly of Julianne Moore's character - - and what a job she does . She seems to be wearing no makeup . And her face , which is not Hollywood glamorous to begin with , looks washed out and a little haggard . She has a broad jaw and thin lips . Her eyes are close together . And her nose , what there is of it , seems plopped on in a topological afterthought . She looks like a cartoon character who has just run face-first into a frying pan . Yet this lack of stereotypical beauty fits the part admirably . She radiates an inner intelligence . And there is a lengthy ( somewhat overwritten ) scene in which she must ramble on about what it means to have a child - - the rewards and the burdens . And she shows us the conflict between having a wind-up toy that will love you when you need it , and a whining crying kid who won't shut up and go to sleep . ( Get out the cough syrup . ) It's a long and demanding scene and she handles it with near perfection . In another noteworthy scene , the social worker , Falco , is trying to ease the truth out of the distraught Moore . Falco is telling Moore about another case in which a father took his son away . " I told him that I didn't want him to bring the child back . I just wanted to know if the child was alive or dead . He didn't have to speak . All he had to do was nod his head and give me a straight answer . Yes or no . Was he dead ? Just nod your head . Is he dead ? " And we realize that Falco is no longer talking about a hypothetical kidnapper but is speaking gently but directly to Moore . These are outstanding scenes and yet I felt the two subplots were cobbled together with staples . The black rage seemed to be there only to juice up a story which , it might otherwise have been argued , belonged on Lifetime Movie Network . And dramatic high points aside , the story does at times become sluggish . A curious but irrelevant search of an abandoned orphanage . The movie is about parent / child relationships . Jackson has a son of his own in the same prison that Moore winds up in . The dilapidated orphanage reeks of sewage and futility . The film certainly demonstrates Moore's range as an actress and , that aside , ought to prompt all of us to wonder if people should have babies before they're prepared to care for them . Not to be perfect parents , but to be what Freud would have called " the good-enough parent . "
Diverting Genre Film .	It conforms to all the conventions of its particular genre or rather combination of two sub-genres : ( 1 ) the training camp movie , and ( 2 ) the war movie . Two city guys grew up together but don't like each other much . The guy who turned out good is Richard Arlen . The guy who turned sort of mean is Chester Morris . They both wind up in the Army Air Force gunnery school in Texas . Both are sergeants but , by virtue of his having run a shooting gallery , Morris is an instructor and Arlen is one of his dozen students . It's kind of interesting watching the training regimen . The students learn to assemble machine guns blindfolded , shoot skeet , shoot at a moving target , and finally do some practice in the air at a target sleeve being towed behind another airplane . I could never understand how they could hit anything moving in three dimensions from a shooting platform that was also moving in three dimensions . Imagine a formation of lumbering Flying Fortresses flying at 250 mph . being attacked by a horde of Messerschmidts zipping around at 325 mph . Then put yourself in one of the gun turrets . It would be like trying to shoot a fly with a beebee gun while jumping on a trampoline . As in all training camp movies , the two acquaintances have a beef over a local girl . And among the students there is the dummy , the washout , the weakling who gives it his best effort and dies trying . Then it's overseas for a crack at those Japs . By this time , the good Richard Arlen has become a commissioned officer and a pilot . The mean Chester Morris is still a gunner . A bombing mission . They are attacked by five Japanese fighters after they've dropped their bombs . Rat-a-tat-tat . All the fighters are gone , but the Lockheed bomber is seriously shot up . Two men are dead , pilot Arlen is wounded , and " the motors are gone . " ( I have to insert here that they are called " engines " , not " motors , " and that Maxwell Shane , the writer , was evidently not in the Air Force nor an engineer . ) A landing on an isolated airstrip in Japanese territory while the mechanic repairs the engines and wounded Arlen gets patched up . They're almost done when Japanese troops appear in the brush and start popping rifle shots into the plane . Morris deplanes with his Tommy gun and mows them down , giving his life , while the others barely manage to escape . It's not a bad movie , given its intent and its modest budget . Chester Morris was a stalwart B-movie actor , a decent Boston Blackie . He's only of medium height but tough as hell . Morris always seems to be biting his lower lip and glowering . He puffs up his beefy chest , tucks his chin in , and struts around with his arms swinging manfully at his side , a kind of parodic masculinity . As an actor , Richard Arlen causes a great big hole to appear wherever he is on the screen . The role of the babe is perfunctory . Some of the supporting players can't act as well as I can - - and I can't act . I don't think a heck of a lot of thought or effort went into this quickie . At times it's almost painful to hear the corny dialog . Yet it's not without interest . It probably helps if you like airplanes but if you're looking for originality , look elsewhere .
Emma Goes Underground .	Like the other episodes , this one is completely unbelievable . It's fantastic , along the lines of some feature films that were appearing at the time - - " Our Man Flint " , in which the " Telephone Company " plans to take over the world ; " Funeral in Berlin , " in which Harry Palmer fights a billionaire who plans to take over the world . Here , it's an underground city filled with a population organized into castes . The leaders plan to irradiate the world above , then when things quiet down , emerge and occupy an empty Britain . As usual , what it lacks in believability , it makes up for in style . I mean , that's what it's GOT - - style ! Neither the dialog nor the plots are particularly witty or thought provoking . But what clothes ! What make up ! What cars ! What loony incidental music ! What Emma Peel ! Enjoyable and diverting piece of fluff .
Loose-limbed , ambitious thriller .	Basically a chase thriller in which an experienced hit man working for an unnamed government agency ( Scott Glenn ) takes personal revenge on a former friend , irritating his employers and prompting them to send a team of two other hit men ( including Harvey Keitel ) to rub him out . But the wily Glenn takes two hostages ( Craig Wasson and Giovanna Zacarias ) and leads the pursuing pair on a merry chase along " the highways and by-ways of this dysentery factory . " In the end , the unnamed government agency is satisfied that Glenn is offed and the incident closed . In reality , Glenn and Zacarias have fallen for one another , made a successful escape , and are living a happy life in a mountain cabin . The fact that the government agency is unnamed should give you a hint about what kind of story this is . It's one that won't step on anybody's toes , including the CIA and Mexican law enforcement agents . The story as sketched in above is really rather skeletal , I know , but there's not really that much more to the plot . The performances vary a lot in their quality . Scott Glenn is his taciturn icy self , his face and torso more etched with experience than ever . Giovanna Zacarias is by no means beautiful in any ordinary sense , yet her character is intelligent , empathic , and proud . She has strong features and glistening black eyes and although she may have been a whore ( " the woman of desperation " ) she might just be the kind of puta you would think about taking home to Mamma . Keitel combines being laid back with being as tense as an unsprung jack-in-the-box . Craig Wasson sounds like Albert Brooke and looks a little like him . He does not deliver anything I could detect as a believable line . If you are being kept captive by a CIA hit man and wanted to sneak away , would YOU constantly argue with him and your girl friend ? Would you shout at him in a public restaurant ? In other words , would you do everything you possibly could to make him keep his eye on you ? That's not entirely Wasson's fault . He can only say what the script orders him to , and the script doesn't really give anyone too much to work with . The betrayed hero of Vietnam is already a cliché , with his flashbacks and bitterness leading him into violence . In the course of the film , he is humanized by Zacarias ( " Luz " , great name ) . And once she understands the source of his torment she undergoes a kind of Mazatlan Syndrome and bonds with him . There's something else that creeps into the story , or tries to , from time to time . There's religious imagery all over the place . And there's a good deal of talk about God and forgiveness . It simply doesn't hang together though . ( The novel might have dealt with these questions a little more effectively . ) The last time Glenn prayed was when he was being tortured by the Vietnamese , and he prayed for death . When God didn't answer , he gave up on God and believes God now reciprocates . Well , Luz still believes in forgiveness and she must have been right because that mountain cabin at the end is sure idyllic .
Not uninteresting but routine genre film .	Flag-waver about the training and tsuris of bombardiers during World War II . It's kind of interesting to hear about the motives of these cadets and informative to learn about their training program . The uniforms are nice , and sometimes Randy Scott as the only pilot involved in the program wears a dashing white scarf under his leather flight jacket . The aerial scenes are actually pretty well done , considering what the budget must have been . There's very little air combat but the effects are effective . During a night raid by B-17s on Nagoya ( which never happened ) the bombers are attacked by Japanese fighters and someone went to the trouble of showing us that the line of tracer bullets lags behind the traverse of the gun firing them . It's like spraying a garden hose rapidly from side to side . Considering that the target is moving in three dimensions it's a wonder that any of them are hit . Let's see . I think that's about it for the best parts . The movie seems a slapdash affair with some miscasting and a weak script . Pat O'Brian is not a hard-nosed disciplinarian of a commanding officer . Pat O'Brian is Father Duffy . The actor who plays " Chico Rafferty " can't do a believable Hispanic accent . Abner Biberman is a Japanese sergeant who simply cannot do a Japanese accent . " Sooo - - you sink you vill not speak ? You are long about zat . " There's a lot of unengaging friendly competition for the affection of one young woman who happens to work as O'Brian's secretary . It's made manifest at the beginning of the film that most of the office staff will be women because " they're more efficient at it than men . " But everybody's after this one babe . ( Maybe because she's the daughter of the millionaire pioneer airman who built the field . ) O'Brian even proposes gruffly to her . I half expected her to say " you're married to the Air Force . " A terrible song is pounded into our ears - - " Rah , Rah , Rah , for the BOMBARDIERS ! " ( I couldn't help being reminded of Mel Brooks ' parody , " Jews in Space . " ) One of the trainees is doing poorly because , although he's bright and capable , he seems timid . Before the board , he explains that he keeps thinking of the people who will be under his bombs . His mother had called him a " murderer " . The general patiently explains that , well , son , don't think of them as people . Think of them as the enemy's arsenal . Don't believe everything your mother tells you . And pray to God for the courage to bomb the crap out of those monkeys . Something very much like that , no kidding . One of the more exhilarating moments is near the end . Scott's lead bomber has been shot down . He and ( a miscast ) Barton MacLane as the comic relief sergeant are captured . Scott escapes and drives a flaming truck into the middle of an ammunition dump to provide a fire that will guide the B-17s . He leans out of the window , grins up at the sky , and shakes his fist , shouting , " Come AWN , you BOMBARDIERS ! " ( They come . ) The film was thrown together , I guess , and the script left deliberately at a level that school kids would understand . I don't mean to loose an entire salvo on the film . I've watched it two or three times now and find much of it enjoyable , particularly the scenes of action aloft and training below . But I can't get through it without wincing now and then when it turns into a berserk kind of " kill ' em all and let God sort ' em out " piece of lowbrow propaganda . It isn't the propaganda that I mind , so much as the fact that it's pretty brutally presented . " Triumph of the Will " is propaganda too - - and propaganda in an evil cause - - yet it's a far superior film . For effective propaganda from our side , delicately blending training , romance , and action , see " Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo . " Still , as I say , the kids may enjoy " Bombardier " from beginning to end .
Scott Western , Routine and Reliable	Scott is arrested by James Millican , a detective for the Pleasonton Agency . The two have nothing personal against each other . When the detective is accidentally killed , someone has to cut off his hand to free Scott from the handcuffs . Scott takes the detective's place and , a bit later , is made sheriff of Lanyard , Kansas . He makes friends . He makes enemies . There are unscrupulous businessmen . Scott cleans the whole place up and gets the girl . By this point in his career Scott had decided , wisely , to turn out nothing but Westerns . He looked and acted the part well . According to Bob Osborne's commentary on TV , Scott enjoyed working out of doors , sitting back and reading the Wall Street Journal while the stunt men did the rough work . Scott was a keen investor and retired a wealthy man to the golf country of North Carolina without ever looking back at Hollywood . He bowed out after Sam Pekinpaugh's " Ride the High Country , " a good note to leave on . He managed his career - - his life - - pretty well , all in all . Most of his Westerns were , if not exactly identical , cut from the same mold so the comparison of one to any of the others must depend on fine judgments about details . Is the film in glorious color ? This one is not . Is the location interesting and evocative ? Not this one , which looks like the San Fernando Valley used to look before the last inch of it was paved over . Better than usual support ? No . Is Scott given any help from the script ? An oddity of character ? A quirk ? An occasional wry turn of phrase ? Not here . The result is a typical and not unrewarding Randolph Scott Western that doesn't distinguish itself from the many others he made in these years . Nice to see Victor Jory as something other than an open sleaze bag .
St . Andrew Frowns .	Steed and Mrs . Peel find that one of their colleagues has disappeared while playing golf . Investigating the club and its management , they find that there have been several other disappearances , all at the 13th hole . They discover that the 13th hole is rigged to explode when a stranger sinks his golf ball , in order for the hole to later extrude a TV antenna that bounces its signal off a passing communications satellite and allows the gang of spies who run the club to communicate by directed TV with the USSR scientists to whom they are passing scientific secrets . Got that ? Good . I had a spot of bother myself . Patrick MacNee , as Steed , is his usual nonchalant self . He smiles and wisecracks his way through the episode , wearing a hat lined with chain mail . His golf outfit looks like something Edwar VI might have worn . Diana Rigg , as Emma Peel , is criminally beautiful and sexy to boot . She finds herself the target of a couple of golf-oriented double entendres - - " Like to play ? I'll give you a few strokes , on or off the course . " Her response , as always , is never more than a cold glance . Nothing is to be taken seriously , of course . When Steed and Mrs . Peel destroy the spies ' laboratory , the villains flee but Steed knocks them all unconscious from a distance by driving golf balls at them . There's nothing that marks this episode as unusual or outstanding in any way . It's all nonsense , along the lines of Maxwell Smart but with a rather more subdued wit , don't you know .
Wendell Corey : No Vincent Bugliosi .	Not entirely without interest , this is a rather dark story of Wendell Corey , an Assistant D . A . alienated from his wife and two children , who bumps into Barbara Stanwyck by accident and falls for her . They have a secret affair . Then Stanwyck's wealthy old auntie is shot and killed during a burglary and the evidence all points to Stanwyck , who is brought to trial . It seems like an easy case for the D . A . ' s office except that the records show that Stanwyck has been receiving phone calls from a man who continually identifies himself by different names . Corey's boss , Paul Kelly , calls him " Mister X " , and worries that the defense may introduce reasonable doubt using Mister X as the fomenter . Now , Corey is in an uncomfortable position , to say the least . He's assigned to try the case , convict his lover , and send her to the gas chamber . But he has all kinds of problems . Not only is he devoted to her , not only is HE the mysterious Mister X , but he believes Stanwyck when she tells him she's innocent . He winds up sending her notes , advising her on who to hire as defense counsel , and he sends her five thousand bucks to manage expenses . Corey also decides to bungle the case in as nuanced a way as possible . I ask you , the experienced viewer of old black-and-white crime dramas , is she innocent or is she setting up Corey as the fall guy ? Stanwyck is set free . And Corey discovers there is another man in the picture . There have probably been OTHER men , as well . If he is Mister X , there was first a Mister A , then a Mister B , and then . . . . Mister n . ( That's the way you denote a finite string of variables of unknown length in statistics . ) Stanwyck spills the beans to Corey . This is known as " cooling out the mark " . But she does a very clumsy job of it , leaving Corey in a state of humiliation and despair . Stanwyck has shown no remorse so far . But as she is driving away towards a new life with her Greaseball boyfriend behind the wheel , she decides to coagulate his eyeball with the car's red-hot cigarette lighter and , well , there is a fiery plunge off a cliff , and she winds up dying on a hospital bed . After she makes her final confession to Paul Kelly , she passes away peacefully , the vehicular catastrophe not having disfigured her in any way , her hair and make up impeccably done . Not even her false eyelashes have been disturbed . This movie must have been made after " Double Indemnity " because it follows the same trajectory , more or less . I much prefer the original , or even the remake , of " Double Indemnity , " but this isn't an insulting copy , only a less original one .
The imaginary playmate comes out of the woods .	Famke Janssen is no longer the wide-eyed teenager of her early movies but is definitely in contention for the title of World's Tallest Danish Pastry . She's ravishing . Alas , she has little to do except give a bit of good advice to Robert DeNiro's psychologist near the beginning and to show up just in time to save his daughter Dakota Fanning's bacon at the end . Robert DeNiro is surprisingly good in what is for him an unusual role , a quiet , thoughtful , analytical humanistic type . With eyeglasses . It isn't until near the end that he become a somewhat more familiar figure . Elizabeth Shue does very nicely by the part of a sensitive and warm woman , of just about the right age too , who wouldn't mind taking the place of DeNiro's recently deceased wife , which she does too , in a curious kind of way . She's quite attractive with her long curly hair the color of straw , schlepping around that magnificent bosom . No wonder Charlie gets jealous . I'm just throwing in these observation seriatim , trying to avoid an outline of the plot , because the plot take the road less traveled and I don't want to give too many hints . Still - - Charlie is the playmate of ten-year-old Dakota Fanning . He may or may not be imaginary . The acts he performs have real enough consequences and they could NOT have been performed by a skinny little ten-year old , so that leaves only two possibilities . Either this movie has a genuine supernatural element , or one of the apparently normal human beings is nuts . Rolling right along with the performances , and passing quickly over a sheriff who has a disconcertingly suspicious habit of smiling at the wrong times ( such as when querying a possible witness to a murder ) , that leaves Dakota Fanning . A ridiculous name , a splendid performance . Where do they find kids who can hold their own against veterans like DeNiro . She shows considerable range and is at least as convincing as anyone else in the cast . And she has this quirky appearance too . In profile , and with her hair styled as it is in this film , she looks amazingly like one of Lewis Carrol's photographs of Alice Liddel . She has the wide face of a child . Her eyes are like two gigantic marbles , white with big blue irises , that seem barely to be held in their sockets by their lids , which slant outward and upwards like a kitten's . If she can make it through adolescence she may have a future in films . The photography is quite good . It captures the gray overcast and denuded thickets of a wintry northeastern forest . The interiors are neatly done as well , except that the lights have an irritating habit of going on and off for no perceptible reason . Each time they go off , there is a loud BANG on the sound track . Ditto , for each time they go on . In the last scene , even a flashlight flicking on and off emits what seems like a sonic boom . Doesn't leave much to discuss except the plot , does it ? And this movie depends a lot on its resolution of the puzzle it's been posing , so I don't want to reveal it . I'll just say it reminded me a bit of the climax of " The Shining . " In fact , the whole business could have been written by Stephen King . Come to think of it , there's a similar movie written by King , about a writer in a cabin by a lake who - - Well , enough of that . The plot doesn't make a heck of a lot of sense . Why does the daughter treat Charlie the way she does until the very end ? Some misleading slight of hand there , if you ask me . Worth seeing for the performances , the photography , and the easy shocks . It will not occupy a prominent place in anybody's resume .
By the Numbers	It starts off with an interesting if already familiar problem : How do we dig out corruption in the NYPD when there is so much crack money floating around ? In " Serpico " a Brooklyn narc hijacks the hero off the street and threatens him , saying , " This is serious money . " That's the milieu we find ourselves in here . Peter Weller is a nobody Legal Aid lawyer trying to get his drug-dealing client off because the suspect actually killed in self defense . An undercover cop tried to rip off his drugs and cash in Central Park , shooting him in the process . The opposing prosecutor is Weller's ex-lover , Patricia Charbonneau . Weller enlists the aid of an undercover friend of his , Sam Elliot , in trying to uncover the truth . The questions addressed are important , and the script sounds literate for the first half hour . Someone went to the trouble of ferreting out apt quotes about justice from the New Testament . But after that it goes downhill fast . It's as if somebody had handed in a decent and thoughtful script about the characters , then another party had taken the script and doctored it , putting in a quote from Dirty Harry ( twice ) , a shootout in what looks like Times Square , a funny car chase through the streets of New York ( twice ) , wisecracks in times of mortal danger ( " You drive , I'll shoot . " ) , and finally a rip off of a physically impossible feat from Schwarzenegger's " Commando . " Too bad . Charbonneau and Weller are well matched , each with prominent bony facial features . Charbonneau sounds like Sondra Locke if you close your eyes . Sam Elliot is reliable too , and he demonstrates his range here . At one end , he can lower his face then cock it over his shoulder at someone and offer sage advice with a smirk and a baritone . At the other end , he can chuckle . Peter Weller I've always liked , though he shows his limitations as an actor here . Whatever prompted him to pursue a Master's degree in , what ? , Ancient Civilizations ? And then look for positions as Adjunct Professor at places like Franklin and Marshall and Syracuse University ? ( I've got it . He needed the money a part-time teacher makes ! ) Whatever his motives , I admire him for his intellectual curiosity . Weller's character is no invincible superhero either . When somebody holds a gun to his head he's scared to death and tells them what they want to know . Notwithstanding all that , this isn't a movie designed to appeal to grown ups . There's no point in listing the plot loopholes or loose ends . The evil people are plain evil . The good people are plain good . There's none of the ambiguity of real life . One can only wonder what a yeoman director like Don Seagal or Sidney Lumet might have done with material like this .
Mr . Christian - - take a hike .	Here , the director seems to be in search of a style . What we see of this love triangle on the Isle of Mann , involving an honest fisherman , his gorgeous wife , and his principled but weak friend , is all overacting . The conventions of silents like this must have been imported from the stage though , to be sure , Hitchcock's grounding was in film from the beginning . Still it's distracting to see the characters over-do every expression and gesture , as if making sure that no one in the rear of the theater misses the reactions of the live people on stage . Pete Quilliam ( Carl Brisson ) is the fisherman who loves the daughter ( Anny Ondra ) of the dour pub owner . Anny is flirtatious but uncertain . Pete wants to marry her but her father objects that Pete is too poor to be a husband . Off sails Pete to Africa to make his fortune , or his misfortune if it comes to that . He leaves Anny's welfare in the hands of his best friend , Phillip Christian ( Malcolm Keen ) , which is always a mistake . During honest Pete's absence , Anny and Phillip fall in love , and when they receive a telegram saying that Pete has met his demise , they are free to marry . But they've kept their love a secret , partly because Phillip is ashamed and partly because he is in line for a judgeship , and the outcome of that election might get a little problematic if he were mixed up with a mere barmaid . Meanwhile , nothing prevents Anny and Phillip from doing the horizontal mambo in out-of-the-way places . But - - surprise ! Pete isn't dead at all ! He debarks from his ship , rich , ebullient , but dumb . Anny marries him out of a sense of obligation while Mr . Christian sulks in the background , carrying his burden of guilt . Anny gives birth to Phillip's child and Pete exults , " I'm a father ! " ( Still as dumb as ever . ) Then things get twisted . Phillip becomes the judge his family wanted him to be , Anny tries to commit suicide , and Pete finally wises up . Phillip resigns . He , Anny , and their child , march off bravely into the sunset , scorned by the villagers but determined to start anew - - somehow . As distracting as the overblown acting is , I forgive Anny Ondra because , let's face it , I'm a latent heterosexual . My God , she's cute . A tiny blue-eyed blond with winsome features , narrow shoulders , and gracile form . Any normal man would want to squeeze and bite her . It's Malcolm Keen's duty , as Phillip Christian , to look glum and contrite . As Pete , Carl Brisson acts as if he needs a clinical dose of lithium . His eyes bulge with effervescence and his smile is like that of a chimpanzee with its lips pulled back in that sly way that chimps have . And when you come right down to it , it's mostly Anny's fault . After all , as a flighty young girl , she flightily gave her word to Pete that she would remain faithful to him . And she was morally loose with Mr . Christian the moment Pete's ship was hull down on the horizon . Then she allowed good old Pete to think the baby was his . And instead of resigning herself to a career as a dutiful wife in marriage to a man she liked but didn't love , she has to leave the baby , take off , live in Phillip's closet for a week or so , and then jump in the harbor . She thinks of nobody but herself . Yet , again , I forgive her . The two guys are no paragons either . Pete belongs in a home for the criminally naive , and Phillip should have sentenced himself to one week in the Hudson County Jail in Jersey City . That would have taken some of the starch out of him . It's not a bad film , just rather ordinary . Hitchcock had yet to find his métier , and this isn't it .
Crook Gives Up Rackets For Succulent Blond .	Robert Taylor is Johnny Eager , one of several Johnnies with strange last names to come out of Hollywood during the 1940s - - Johnny Apollo , Johnny O'Clock , Johnny Belinda , Johnny Logical Positivist , Johnny Be Good , and what not . Of course Taylor has small room for complaint when it comes to names . He was born Spangler Arlington Borough in Nebraska . In this film he's on parole , see , and pretends to be nothing more than your honest cab driver but he really runs some kind of underhanded business involving dog racing . He uses everybody around him , a real nasty guy . The only trustworthy friend he has is the alcoholic Van Heflin . Then Taylor meets and falls for a real classy dame , Lana Turner , born Julia Mildred Turner in Wallace , Idaho , navel of the universe . She's the daughter of the morally upright and thoroughly obnoxious DA , Edward Arnold , who has sent Taylor up the river once and wants nothing more than to find an excuse to do it again . Arnold's character's name is O'Hara but , though he looks a little Irish , he looks a lot more like a German burgher , which is not surprising . He was born Gunther Schneider in New York . Okay . End of names . I don't know what got into me but I feel a lot better now . Taylor really has the hots for Lana Turner and it doesn't come as a shock . She has the beauty and sensuality of a perfectly mature pinot blanc grape , all ready to pop when squeezed . But she's a little stand-offish with Taylor , though obviously attracted to him , so Taylor arranges a phony scene in which she seems to murder someone and he saves her from her mock crime . This puts her in a dependent position and it also gives him a bit of leverage with her father so that illegal activities can be carried on apace . Two birds with one gun . It takes Van Heflin the entire movie to convince Taylor that he's a moral pustule , and in the end Taylor gives it all up for the sake of Lana Turner and his own self esteem . Taylor and Turner were both MGM products and the studio certainly proved its loyalty . Neither could act very well and both had short peaks in their popularity arc , but both kept soldiering on in MGM's movies , aging but still useful in that they didn't get in the way of the scenery . Taylor was a reasonably nice guy , personally if not politically , but as he grew older his features became coarser and he was handed roles that were increasingly villainous and sometimes downright sadistic , as in " Westward the Women , " in which he seems to relish punishing his female charges with a bull whip . Turner's career faded less dramatically . The two characters in this film are obviously from different socioeconomic strata . Van Heflin quotes Richard III to him . And aptly too : " I can smile , and while I smile , can cut your heart out with an ax . " Turner quotes Cyrano de Bergerac of whom Taylor says , " That don't go with me . I don't care how ugly a guy is if he don't go all the way . " Everybody quotes Shakespeare and Rostand and all those other high-falutin ' Greeks and Taylor , a total numbskull , keeps coming up with ripostes like , " Ahh , you're going ' daffy . " The most interesting character , although not the most original , is Van Heflin's Jeff . What's he doing here anyway ? He keeps hanging around Robert Taylor , guzzling whiskey and making moon eyes at his boss . Of course the function of the character is to provide Taylor with a gently reproving superego . " Gee , Johnny , what'd you have to clip her in the mug for ? " But the audience already knows that Taylor is possessed by terpitude , a snake . An equally compelling motive for his being here is that he's got a crush on Taylor - - and maybe vice versa . Not a bad flick . Mervyn LeRoy , of " Little Caesar " , was a decent director . It's just not very original , not nearly as tough as it sounds or as unpredictable or penetrating as was probably hoped .
Scott Western , Routine	Spoilers . The story is simplicity itself . Scott is the marshal keeping the town ( referred to several times as a wild beast ) peaceful despite the efforts of two corrupt businessmen to take it over and run it on their terms . They hire a gunman ( Pate ) to come in and knock off Scott . At about the same time Scott's showgirl wife ( Lansbury ) shows up . They've separated because she doesn't want him using guns to earn a living . Or something like that . ( Where have we seen this before ? ) Pate shoots Scott , who recovers later and shoots Pate . The businessmen are subdued by the rest of the townspeople who have come to their senses and acquired ethics . Scott hands over his badge because the beast has been tamed and the town no longer needs his kind of marshal . He rides off into the sunset with his wife and a carriage full of luggage and mulligan stew . The end . Angela Lansbury is a first-rate actress . She wows the audience in pieces as different as " The Manchurian Candidate , " " Death on the Nile , " and " Sweeney Todd " on Broadway . But she's given practically nothing to do here . Warner Anderson's acting is flat and matter-of-fact but he's okay . The other villainous businessmen are less than interesting , which is too bad because movies like this depend as much on the character of their heavies as they do on the star . Wally Ford is in the Thomas Mitchell / Edgar Buchanan part . The movie's score blossoms during the overture to Lansbury's stage appearance . Elsewhere the score is overblown and sounds hastily assembled with comic notes where none are called for . The second half of the movie deteriorates . I cannot imagine why the rich ranchers and the rest of the townspeople ( the wild beasts ) have a sudden and entirely unmotivated change of heart and rally to Scott's side . Also , Scott gets to beat hell out of a human being the size of Man Mountain Dean , without using a gun . The two men have a lengthy and brutal fistfight and wind up with their shirts torn to shreds but not a drop of blood is spilled . But the first third of the movie gives Scott some scenes and dialog that are outstanding for him , considering his usual persona . He shoots a man in self defense and is , if not ashamed of having done it , at least remorseful . The victim's widow has some sensible and believable lines too , and not favorable to Scott . Scott doesn't go on about his sadness - - he never goes on about anything . But we can sense the writers and the director giving him a chance to play something more than a heroic marble statue . It would have been nice had the rest of the movie been so played .
Mildly Diverting Comedy .	It's the depression and everyone is hard up except the very wealthy . ( Plus ca change . . . ) Ginger Rogers is a working girl forced to share an attic or loft with Norman Foster , an artist who refuses to take any money from the society matron ( Laura Hope Crews ) who pursues him . George Sidney is Mr . Eckbaum , the slightly frantic landlord who tries to keep everything going . He arranges it so that Rogers , who is a telephone salesgirl by day , and Foster , who has a job as a night watchman , never meet . Trying to keep the place " respectable , " you know . Well , the two roomies who don't know each other take a long time to meet . In the meantime , leaving nasty notes for one another and playing painful pranks , each comes to loathe the other . But - - guess what ! - - they meet accidentally outside their attic , assume false identities for different reasons , and fall for each other . This plot , I'm sure , goes back farther than " You've Got Mail " or " The Shop Around the Corner . " I honestly don't know how far back in the mists of ancient history it goes . When did they invent rentals ? It's a bit slow at first . George Sidney is funny , though , as the wisecracking Jewish landlord . His son Julius brings him a bowl of noodle soup for the famished Rogers but spills some on the carpet . " Ahh , next time I ask you for TWO bowls of zoop - - one for the lady and one for the carpet . " If you don't think that's funny , I ought to warn you that that's about as good as it gets . Robert Benchley is in it too , as the amorous boss of Rogers at the Icy Air Refrigerator Company , but his particularly Ivy League brand of humor may be an acquired taste . Except for " Foreign Correspondent , " come to think of it , where his non sequiturs were superb . Guinn ( Big Boy ) Williams also appears in the small role of a comic taxi driver . Foster isn't much of an actor but Ginger Rogers is delightfully piquant as a tough but vulnerable proletarian . She has a wonderful figure , which she gets to display , but her movements are stiff and no one could have predicted that within the next few years she would be a partner in the most famous dancing team in the world . Everything about the movie is smooth and logical and never rises above the level of " nice " - - slightly amusing , slightly warm , and with a happy ending .
Stanwyck's Past Catches Up With Her .	Kind of a historical curiosity . Here it is , 1929 , and it's a talkie . The microphones were hidden in bouquets and under lapels . The noisy camera was hidden within a sound-resistant " blimp . " On those many occasions when people weren't walking or dashing around , they stood in staged groups facing the camera , as if for a wedding photograph . And the truth is they didn't need to dart around that often . The story rests with the dialog , which , without too much in the way of perspiration or creative frenzy , could have been a radio play . Barbara Stanwyck's character is young , pretty , vulnerable , and innocent , and she is talked into accompanying the womanizing cad , Rod La Roque ( his real name , more or less ) onto an offshore ship where liquor can be served legally - - this being Prohibition and all . The ship drifts within territorial boundaries and Stanwyck is arrested and her reputation stained . Hiding this scurrilous incident , she manages to marry an older and very wealthy man , William " Stage " Boyd , and she lives with him and his sister , Betty Bronson , in their mansion . But , lo . Rod La Roque shows up again , this time trying to seduce Stanwyck's young sister-in-law , Bronson . Both Stanwyck and La Roque remember that night from eighteen months earlier but neither lets on in front of the others . I don't want to make this exposition too long so - - an abbreviated version would simply say that La Roque makes a date with Bronson in his hotel room , but Boyd , having discovered what a cad La Roque is , shows up first and shoots him by accident . He leaves . But Stanwyck had shown up first and hidden upstairs . Then the cops arrive and Stanwyck's tryst with La Roque is uncovered . Then Betty Bronson shows up . Then Zasu Pitts , the hotel switchboard operator who has overheard the shooting , is brought in - - and , trust me , she is a DEAD RINGER for Betty Bronson . It would require a DNA EXPERT to tell one from the other . La Roque lives long enough to tell the true story and absorb whatever blame is to be distributed . Everyone goes home happy , except for La Roque , of course , who is completely dead . The film generates a certain amount of suspense and pity , but not much of either . But it's pleasant to think of a time in history when a woman's reputation could be ruined by her having been swept out to a ship that served liquor . Kind of nostalgic , like those cloche hats the ladies wear or the caviar and champagne that the rich could afford . There is no directorial stamp worth noticing and the plot , as I say , seems to come from the radio plays that were becoming popular at the time . A curious artifact , this movie , like a cuckoo clock .
Wretched excess .	In movies like " Twister " you only get one real disaster , although admittedly it's a doozie . In movies like " Earthquake " you can get several disasters for the price of one - - the ground shakes , dams burst and cause floods , there may be a fire . In movies like " The Day After Tomorrow " you get no end of disasters , and you flirt with the end of the world too . Let me see . Floods . Tsunamis . Cold snaps beyond belief . Tornadoes . ( No fires . ) A sick child threatened with abandonment . A sick adult who needs medicine that can only be found in a super dangerous place . A gigantic crevasse in the ice into which men and machines fall . ( This will have to do in lieu of an earthquake . ) Hurricanes . Blizzards . Airplane crashes . The doomed team having a final drink of twelve-year old scotch . A middle-aged man hiking in snowshoes from Washington to New York hauling a sled , in order to be with his trapped son because " I promised him . " Other things of similar ilk . I didn't mind so much seeing LA get it . Nothing against the Capitol Records Building ( which takes off in a tornado like a stack of frisbees ) . It's just knowing that the storm is taking along with it several dozen Taj Mahal Motels painted day-glo purple . And the " Hollywood " sign , which , to borrow a phrase , looks like " an explosion in a shingle factory . " On the other hand it was tragic to see New York first inundated by seawater and then frozen solid . The notion of patrons in The White Horse Tavern frozen stiff while still hunched over their chessboards brought tears to my eyes . And the frosty statues in Julius's , immobilized during a sip of a martini , pinkies still pointed upward . Actually , the special effects are very good . The flood in New York is naturally much better than George Pal's justly celebrated earlier version . And there's something appealing about scenes in which people creep about on deserted ships . That , by the way , reminds me of the one big surprise in the movie . Hundreds of people are trapped by the flood on the upper stories of the New York Public Library , shouting at one another , and suddenly everyone goes quiet . A very low rumble is heard from the avenue outside . People rush to the windows and what we see is shocking - - the prow of a huge Russian tanker proceeding uptown with slow majesty . I guess , from reading the " trivia " entries , that the director was serious in his concern about global warming - - as he should be . The movie doesn't really convey that anxiety . I know a little about climatology but the explanation got passed me . ( Maybe the book made more sense . ) As it is , the science we hear is very sketchy and given by fiat . ( Why does atmospheric subsidence over the Canadian north bring with it storm and snow instead of stability and low temperatures ? ) Because Dennis Quaid's model says it does ? Anyway , I was lost . The last ice ages left us with our immediate hominid ancestors ( " Cro-Magnon " ) , woolly mammoths , and who knows what else ? This one seems to leave us in thrall to tropical third-world countries , which should make for an interesting sequel . I enjoyed the movie's visuals . ( It's impossible to comment on the acting . ) What's worrisome is that global warming - - despite a multitude of attempt to muddy the scientific waters - - is now pretty much universally accepted by investigators without vested interests . " The Day After Tomorrow " turns it into an excuse for just another expensive disaster flick . It's worth watching though . That Russian ship groaning past the Public Library is a gem .
Autoerotic and grotesque .	Kids , read no farther . In fact , leave the room and play Nintendo . And put your dirty socks in the hamper . If you think YOU'RE warped wait until you see the characters who populate this movie . You'll not only emerge from the experience reassured , you'll wind up feeling like a paragon of normality . The story ( if that's the word for it ) has Spader getting into a head-on smasheroo with a car in which Hunter is a passenger . Her husband is thrown through the windshield and killed . Spader is hospitalized with various pieces of shiny steel holding his long bones in place . He finds the pain and discomfort and immobilization so arousing that when his wife ( Unger ) visits him it leads to masturbation . There's a lot of that sort of thing in this movie . You'd never think Holly Hunter would suffer from such a paraphilia but she does . So does Spader's wife . Hunter and Spader run into each other , figuratively , in a garage full of wrecked cars and make furious love in one of the surrealistically twisted carcasses . Before you know it , the Spader family and Hunter have fallen in with a group of - - well , there's no easy name for people of this quality . Koteas , the head of this underground cohort , is some sort of show-business stunt driver who , with a few associated , restages fatal car crashes of celebrities . Spader and Hunter are one of a dozen or two spectators who come to watch the staging of the 1955 crash between James Dean's Porsche and a Ford driven by somebody named Turnipseed . None of the men involved in the stunt wear helmets or seat belts and there are no roll bars or any of that wimpy stuff . Koteas ' shiny Porsche Spider backs up , then speeds full blast into the front of the Ford . Kaboom . Sirens burping , the cops arrive and everyone scuttles for cover . It is never explained exactly how Koteas makes enough money to smash up beautifully restored Fords and Porsches . ( His next big show will involve the decapitation of Jane Mansfield . ) At Koteas ' home they watch movies of test crashes with dummies instead of porn . Spader's wife has seemed relatively reasonable up to now but she finds herself turned on by crashes , stunt men , and the rest . When she and Spader are making love ( this time in bed , not in the back seat ) , she asks about Koteas . " Did you see his penis ? " Spader : " He says it's all scarred from a motorcycle accident . " Unger ecstatically : " Ewwwww . " Anyway , to get on with it , one thing leads to another - - one thing being crashes and the other being flaming death amidst twisted metal . What with everyone being swept up in the craze and wanting still more of the excitement , the only sensible way to arouse and satisfy your wife is to smash into her car and kill her , right ? Two Big Os for the price of one - - Orgasm through Obliteration . So Spader continually rams the convertible driven by his willing wife until it flips over on the side of the highway . But she's not dead after all . " I'm all right , " she mumbles . " Maybe next time . Maybe next time , " he whispers to her and then does her bloody and half conscious body in the sere grass . So what's it all about , you ask ? You might find that SOME people have no idea but I have a very firm answer . I don't know . At one point Spader asks Koteas why he's so interested in this stuff and Koteas replies portentously : " It's the reshaping of the human body by modern technology . " Gosh . It's an awesome statement but what does it mean ? How is modern technology reshaping the human body ? Does he mean that vehicular accidents tear it all to bits ? Is he somehow thinking of the Thighmaster or simulacrum that imitate rowing or cross-country skiing or walking upstairs ? Is Cronenberg really after ROCK HARD ABS ? Here's what I think he's up to . It's been called self testing . It's seeing how far you can violate ordinary tastes and still get away with it , rather like a toddler who insists on wobbling along by himself until he either falls down or somebody picks him up . The real message of the movie is that there is no message . It's a highly ritualized violation of the viewer's expectations of taste . A Halloween prank . What else could it be ? It's certainly not a realistic portrayal of a bunch of perverts . Where could they possibly get insurance after the first dozen crashes ? And the fear and sexual responses are antagonistic , the former mediated by the sympathetic nervous system and the latter by the parasympathetic . Somebody who jumps off a cliff might have a spontaneous ejaculation , a sympathetic reflex , but he's not going to have an erection . I don't mean to pan the movie entirely . Unger and Hunter and Roseanna Arquette are sexy and attractive women . ( There's a homosexual encounter involving Spader and Koteas , but it's not sufficiently prolonged or explicit to be anhedonic . ) At any randomly chosen moment , the screen will show cars on the highway , cars crashing , people having sex in cars , or people talking about cars crashing and people having sex in cars . And it's neatly directed too . What shiny metal and what frangible flesh ! Everything but the bodies seem gleaming and cold . My only problem was that I didn't like it . Not my perversion .
" Deep " space .	At the end , George Clooney is reunited with his dead wife . He stares at her unbelievingly and asks , " Am I alive or am I dead ? " " We no longer have to think like that , " she replies with a smile . " We're together - - and we're happy . " Well I would insist on knowing if I were alive or dead . Instead of ending with a big smooch , the movie would end with my whipping out a notebook and giving Natascha MacElhone a long interview aimed at finding out what the hell is going on . I never really could figure it out , but here's my best guess . Early in the movie we have a scene of Clooney , MacElhone , and some friends having an intellectual post-prandial discussion of evolution . " Nothing special about us , " argues Clooney , " because it's all a matter of probability . We are a statistical inevitability . " ( MacElhone frowns . Maybe this is why she shortly commits suicide . ) Okay . So Clooney believes in a mechanistic universe . And now - - remember that I'm guessing - - the movie sets out to prove him wrong . The universe is designed after all . And the planet Solaris , which Clooney and a few others are investigating - - is GOD . Yes , God . Actually this would be a kind of relief because it would end all the power struggles around whether God is a male or female figure . Since Solaris is a planet , it has no gender and can properly be called " it , " unless there is a lot about planets that we don't know yet . In the end , Solaris seems to absorb the space ship and everyone and everything on it . In other words , at the very end , when Clooney asks his formerly dead wife whether he is alive or dead , the answer is that he's dead . Specifically , he's gone to heaven to be reunited with his loved one . Now , I hope that's true . That our spirits ( and maybe our bodies ) go to a nice place called heaven , but this idea has been around for years and the movie raises all the old questions about heaven . Did Vlad the Impaler go to heaven too ? Did Adolph Hitler ? And what about my dog , Phoebus ? And my cat , Oscar the Wild ? My delicate delphinia ? The movie seems like a long one . It goes on and on . Clooney reaches the space ship to find out what's happened to it . The two surviving crew members give him nothing but elliptical answers . " You'll find out . " Or , " If I were you I'd just keep my door locked tonight . " It turns out that the planet is reproducing figures of loved ones from the crew's memories of them as kind of an experiment . ( I guess , but cf . , " The Martian Chronicles . " ) The other crew already know this when Clooney gets there . Why didn't they just tell him ? As it is he has to discover it for himself . The locked door doesn't help . Well , okay . So MacElhone is nothing more than a simulacrum of reality , although she doesn't know it . When this is made clear , she asks to be deconstructed because , after all , she doesn't exist anyway . But Clooney can't dispose of her even though she's not human . ( Cf . , " Blade Runner . " ) MacElhone is neat looking . She has high zygomatic arches , a bony nose and pointed chin , and enormous dark eyes . She's a knockout . And she's photographed splendidly . In fact the whole movie is photographically super-par . Clooney seems a likable guy , enough so that , even though I've heard him described as devastatingly handsome , I can forgive him for it . He has the everyman quality that Clark Gable or Spencer Tracey had . He'd be a good guy for a fourth at bridge and a couple of beers . The movie , though , whew , it's confusing and dreary . Not a single shot is taken outdoors in daylight . And the absorption of the space ship into Solaris seems patterned after a similar scene in " 2001 " but without the psychedelic whammies . It aims to provoke thought and I suppose it does that , but it is anything but emotionally gripping . We never get to know the other two crew members , one of whom seems nuts and the other downright hostile . And the relationship between Clooney and MacElhone is sketchy . It's worth seeing - - once .
A Long Movie About Flirtation and Jealousy .	I wish I had something better to say about " Les Enfants du Paradis . " I understand it was shot under almost impossible conditions during the Nazi occupation and the cast and crew are held in an esteem almost Olympian in height . Helas , it seemed to drag for me . Three hours of a mime pursuing a flirtatious woman who attracts all kinds of men , high and low . It's a long time and I had some trouble keeping my eyes open . God knows , I'm not asking for the kind of warp-speed movies we're bombarded with today , nor does everything need to be dumbed down to the level of a grade-school kid . But , really , it could have been snipped here and there and been more of an eyeball magnet than it is . There's a good ten minutes , for instance , of a mime's performance on the stage of a kind of Commedia del'Arte . He prances in silence with a child , a blustering policeman , and a coquettish laundry woman . The mime is no Marcel Marceau , and nothing comes of the performance that couldn't be communicated in two minutes . Instead , we watch him for ten . And I couldn't figure out why all the men fall for Arletty . As Randolph Scott said in one of his Westerns , " She ain't ugly . " But she ain't exactly enchanting either . The film's longueurs stretch on and on , like the Street of Crime , as far as the half-open eye can see . Nothing much happens . A bit of trouble with the police . A duel . The mime beats a huge bouquet of flowers to death . Some suggestive dialog that must have seemed wicked in 1945 . Mostly people stand on a stage and play catch with words . It's said to be the " Gone With the Wind " of French cinema . I've seen enough of " Gone With the Wind " for one lifetime too . However , " Gone With the Wind " has its adoring fans . So does " The Sound of Music , " though , and that's bound to induce some sort of digestive problem in a viewer who is not a fan . " Les Enfants " has its fans , including some people whose opinions I respect , so maybe others will get more out of this than I was able to .
Effective use of clichés .	" I runne to death , and death meets me as fast , " wrote John Donne . In this case - - the deaths are designed to be one step removed from reality , recorded on videotapes and shown as " snuff " films . Everybody seems to runne even faster to somebody else's death , or so the movie keeps telling us . We gawk at automobile wrecks along the road , hoping for a glimpse of a mangled body or two . On television news programs , " if it bleeds , it leads . " Anyone can go to a P2P site and download video clips with such ennobling titles as , " Marine blows off Iraqi's arm . " Who needs " snuff films " anymore ? But , actually , that's not the subject of this film anyway . It's really a Brian DePalma ripoff , with every cliché in the book . Ana Torrent is the student-in-jeopardy . When she's investigating a kind of dungeon with a young man she believes is a friend , the door slams shut , locked , behind them and , pop , the lights go out and they only have half a box of matches to find their way through the cobwebs . If that's not enough , at the climax she's in a deserted house with a sadistic murderer and , pow , a fuse blows and the lights go out yet again . As a sinister professor of cinema argues , the American film industry is flooding the market with junk . In defense of our national pride we should give the public exactly what they want right here in Spain - - more junk , better junk , bigger junk . I think the director of this film really believes it because he's done a superlative job of following the formula . For instance , in a DePalma film , there may be a guy that the woman-in-jeopardy might think of as a friend , perhaps a non-conditional love psychiatrist , but she may find some bit of evidence , some small thing , that throws suspicion upon him . I can't count the number of times some artifact or some factoid throws Ana's suspicions on a friend here . I mean it . I really couldn't count them . The switcheroos come so thick and fast they become glutinous and indistinguishable from one another . One's flicker fusion threshold is exceeded . Is Ana Torrent really the little dark-haired girl who whispered her way through " The Spirit of the Beehive " ? Well , as Marlon Brando tells Eva Marie Saint in " On The Waterfront , " " You grew up nice . " She has no chin to speak of , great big dark wet orbs , clean features , and looks vulnerable and smart , not unlike Thalia Balsam but less loose-lipped and more remote . Chema , who may or may not be her weird friend , looks like Johnny Depp with stringy hair and a beard . The murderer looks like some heart throb exhumed from a movie of the 1950s , maybe Frankie Avalon or Fabian . The professor , although a pervert and a murderer , looks handsome and distinguished . All professors look that way . I looked that way when I was a professor . I still look that way , despite what you may have heard from my psychotherapist or my so-called friends . The director might think he's preaching to us about our taste for violent imagery . ( If he's saying that we have one , he's certainly right about that . ) But he's pandering too . He's showing us the very thing he's condemning us for wanting to see , and he's guiltless but hardly guileless . It doesn't help to know that we're watching fake sadism exercised by actors in a fictional movie , that it's like watching Daffy Duck looking at himself in a mirror , with neither image real . That's a joke between the cartoon and the audience . Here , the joke is entirely on the audience . The more apt comparison is to one of those war movies in which we witness suffering and see blood all over and the movie is called an " anti-war movie " , but our side always seems to win . I thought " Thesis " was captivating because it was so well executed , but considered it insulting as well .
Waiting for God	SPOILERS . I'm trying to remember the story of Job . Let's see . God and Satan were having a conversation and God claimed he could test any believer without breaking him . I don't remember why he picked Job , a devout man , but , boy , did God test him . ( Woody Allan might ask why God didn't give Job a written exam instead . ) This is a kind of Job story . I began watching it because , frankly , I was hoping Mimi Rogers might uncover part of her magnificent torso but I stayed because I got caught up in this complex story of a rather simple belief system . Mimi is put to the test too . And there is a sort of cultish group thrown in , made up of people who have seen the light . What does the light look like ? According to the script it has something to do with a dream about a pearl . I am being a little vague on this point because the film is vague . ( Also I don't know how pearls figure so markedly in a mythos with a desert background . ) And the version of Christianity the film present us with is truly primitive . There are constant references to Jesus Christ , although the acts of God we witness reflect the temper of the angrier God of the Old Testament more than the merciful God of the New . How can you be saved ? It's easy . You love Jesus Christ and do whatever God orders you too . A reasonable person , as the spouse-swapping Rogers is at the beginning , might ask , " The Buddhists seem to get along without Jesus Christ , " and the Hindus and Moslems too , and the converted come right back with a smiling answer , " But they are not saved . " I guess that leaves out the Jews too , although Christians worship the same God , but only through an intermediary , and with different rituals . The movie was especially gripping when Rogers apparently has a vision in which she is to take her daughter to the desert and wait for the end of the world . She takes only the necessities - - no money and no food - - expecting the arrival of Gabriel and the rest at any moment . Her date stands her up . She turns more raggedy with each day and finally does something terrible and is brought to jail by a sheriff's deputy ( Will Patton in a sympathetic role for a change ) . Then the world ends with a minimum of special effects . Her daughter and Patton wind up in heaven , but Rogers is bitter about having been disappointed by God and evidently winds up spending eternity in Purgatory . That's it , folks . I don't know whose side the movie is on - - the born-agains who glow with the inner light of sanctimony , or people like Rogers who find that a God capable of such cruelty is not worth loving unconditionally . I suppose if Heaven is a good idea , it's better to surrender to God , especially if you're looking for an " exclusive neighborhood " to live in . Yet we're left admiring Rogers for having made up her own mind . She believes fiercely , first in God , and then in her distaste for Him . All the while I kept thinking that this movie deals with the kind of Big Issues that European directors are so fond of . I have a feeling that if it had been shot by the French , the story might have been very similar , beginning with all that ontological Angst , but that the central question would have dealt not with God but with Marx or Marcuse or somebody .
Naturalistic spooky moved turns slasher .	It starts out rather well - - an Australian guy and two British tourist girls visit a tourist spot far from anywhere , Wolf Creek , site of a huge meteor crater . The director and photographer do a splendid job of capturing the neverending vistas of the Australian outback . Majestic , yes , but strangely ominous too . The desert landscape ought to be sunny but it seems instead to suffer from an eternal twilight . And thunder sometimes rumbles overhead . And then there is a cloudburst , and the tourists can't get their car started , and their stuck inside shivering , and a beat-up truck comes trundling through the night towards them . The tourists are scared , naturally . At firs they aren't even sure it's a vehicle . But the spell of the Dreamtime ends and it's a jovial old bushman who examines their engine and tells them he'll have to tow them to a small town for repairs . He'll do it for nothing . First , though , a brief stop at his isolated encampment . The four of them sit around an outdoor fire cracking jokes , everyone joining in the laughter and having a hell of a good time . Things turn a little grim as the weathered older bloke describes his occupation - - killing things and tearing them apart . And things get a little more puzzling when the young fellow makes a joking remark at the Bushman's expense . The old guy cocks his eye at the speaker and stares silently at him for about 30 full seconds while the others begin to squirm . So far , so good . Then it turns into an outright slasher movie with screaming women tied to poles and covered with blood , a villain beaten into unconsciousness who leaps back to life at the wrong time , rape , a speeding car escaping from a murderer , a muddy slide into a ditch , dressed carcasses hanging from meat hooks , and I don't know what all . Well - - see Texas Chainsaw Massacre for another example . I didn't watch the end . What's the point of watching innocent young people slaughtered by a maniac ? Or watching the maniac get it in the end , as he probably did ? The acting was fine on the part of all the principals . The young folks are disarming , innocent and carefree . They're attractive without being drop-dead gorgeous . And the old coot was great , grinning like a skull while telling stories about dismembering ' roos . I mean , if this guy weren't totally round the bend , living in a garbage dump and raping tourists , he'd be great to have a couple of beers with . I didn't like it after the first 45 minutes or so but if you're a fan of this sort of thing , you'll enjoy it .
A Rorschach of a Western	The eminent , mad Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung wrote of UFOs that there was something out there , but what it was , was a mystery . As such they permitted us to project our own thoughts and emotions onto them . They provided us with a kind of Rorschach ink blot test . We could interpret them according to our social values . Many routine Westerns provided us with the same opportunities . The Westerns generally stuck with the conventions - - a clip on the jaw and the recipient is unconscious for as long as the plot requires . But within that framework we could explore our problems in model form . It's like playing around with a toy instead of facing the real thing . For instance , it might not be such a hot idea to deal directly with racism . Why bleed the box office returns from the traditional South ? But , hey , Indians can serve as stand-ins for African-Americans , as in " The Searchers " ( 1956 ) . Movies designed for audiences with the Great Depression fresh in mind could use " big business " as the heavy . We could even win the Vietnam war with Rambo . This movie , " The Quiet Gun " ( a generic title if there ever was one ) explores social issues common to the late 1950s - - divorce , adultery , prudery , racism , lynching , conformity , gossip , and the impartiality of the justice system . No African-Americans , though , just a " half-breed " Indian . It's not a bad little film , though it does seem almost flamboyantly dated now . ( Living in sin ? ) Forrest Tucker is a professional and competent actor and it shows . Lee Van Cleef , of the ophidian eyes , is what he is . Jim Davis plays a somewhat sympathetic victim for a change . Some of the minor parts are just terrible . What were the town fathers in real life - - the producers ' uncles or something ? It's inexpensively shot on a ranch set . No spectacular vistas here . And it's in black and white , which isn't necessarily bad . If the script lacks sparkle , and if Hank Worden replays his goofy dumb role yet again , the movie still is watchable and has something to offer us , as if it had been recently exhumed from a time capsule . Not at all terrible .
Where's Belafonte when you need him ?	Relaxed - - very relaxed - - murder story , with Denzel Washington as a detective ordered to find and capture his friend so the murder can be rapidly cleared up and the tourist trade flow along liquidly . Halfway through , Washington begins to believe that there is more to the case than meets the eye , and that his buddy will be no more than a scapegoat . Very nice location shooting in Jamaica . If you like reggae , you will LOVE this film's score . There are lots of shots of the beautiful beach . Hey , mon , why you jomp in dee wah-tah faw ? The more desperately seedy areas of Kingston are avoided , as they would be in one of Hitchcock's movies set in an exotic locale . The viewpoint is that of the tourist used to saying in nice hotels , the kind with jacuzzis but no venomous snakes . Denzel Washington handles the accent pretty well without quite shedding his own phones . Sometimes it fades more than others . The other performers don't really have too much to do . Everyone seems to be enjoying himself , as if on vacation . The movie is rather good-natured considering the plot . The white guys tend to be bad , while the local people of color are at worst raffish . Is there still such racial friction in Jamaica ? I don't know , but in the Bahamas the races get along well with one another , as they do in much of the Caribbean . Maybe big cities breed animosities spontaneously . There's nothing truly outstanding about this routine flick , except , as I've noted , the score . It's not especially exciting , mysterious , amusing , or engaging in any other way . It's not a bad flick if you're prepared to let it take you by the hand and lead you along the colorful streets , pointing out sites of interest , suggesting you taste the jerky and try one of those pink drinks in a tall glass with a flower and a paper umbrella sticking out of it . We call it Captain Bluebeard's Mango Flavored Rum Punch . Mind the umbrella . One of awah tourists lost an eye last year . Don't drink ? Fine , bad faw the health . Care for one of awah Jah-may-can cigars ? You might not remember much of it later but you won't object to having watched it .
Worthy Attempt	This is a somewhat retro TV movie . It probably should have been made some years ago , when many people in the USA were unaware of these issues , basking in fantasies of every man being equal . A black cadet at West Point is victimized , is blamed for it himself , and discharged from the Army . It's hard to figure out what point the movie is trying to make . It certainly isn't that " it takes all kinds , " as the aged Johnson Whittaker says philosophically . Because we only see two in this movie , the simply good and the simply bad . Well , I guess Sam Waterston's lawyer seems like an upright and just man , but even he is revealed as a closet racist at the end . The problem lies almost entirely with the script . It reads as if it were something that won a high school prize in Dubuque . Points that are already obvious are spelled out for us . Points that could easily have been made visually are put into indignant speeches . The dialog wobbles all over place and time and social register . Sometimes contractions ( " won't " ) are used , sometimes they aren't ( " I will not . " ) . Sometimes the dialog is American ( " will " ) and sometimes British ( " shall " ) . Anachronisms are thrown haphazardly into the text . Jackson is made to say things like , " Sham , my a , they beat the s out of him ! " And , " You just don't get it , do you ? " And - - this one's clever - - " Right now the wind is behind your back , but some day it's going to change and all the s you're writing will blow back in your face . " Even that's not enough . Jackson has to add , " Some day you are going to eat your words . " There's no score worth mentioning . The photography is competent . The acting is generally good , despite the miscasting . Sam Waterston is not a stiff-necked hypocrite and crypto-racist . Sam Waterston is Jack McCoy , and Abraham Lincoln , and Nick Carraway . Jackson does quite well in a clunky role , but someone like Morgan Freeman might have projected more thoughtfulness and masked intensity . The actor in the role of Whittaker as a cadet hasn't got much going for him , but Al Freeman , Jr . , as the older Whittaker is professional and dignified , although his final obiter dictum on how the country is doomed if it doesn't shape up soon falls rather heavily to earth . ( It's not Freeman's fault . ) Two performances are outstanding , though , because the actors ham it up delightfully and bring some absurdity to a project overburdened with solemnity . John Glover is a remarkably slimy and supercilious villain . I love the guy in everything he's been in . He never disappoints - - and he's slightly cross eyed too . The other performance , surprisingly , comes from Mason Adams , whose voice you will recognize from commercials . I will always remember and honor him for the deathless line , " And I thought mustard had to be yellow to be good . " He's phenomenal as a Southern racist Harvard-grad lawyer who will brook no nonsense from anybody . Those performances are among the reasons I can think of to see this film . It will also serve to enlighten those who are unaware of the racism so prominent in our national history . It's a sad truth that so many of us still need that issue brought to our attention .
Parade Rest .	For Bob Hope , in the 1940s , this is pretty routine stuff . Hope pretends to enlist in order to impress his girl friend , Dorothy Lamour , and winds up in the army by mistake . I don't know why this isn't funnier than it is . It has a cast of seasoned comedy actors , of which Lynn Overman is the best , with his dry Edgar-Buchanan wisecracks . The problem is with the script . It has a ground-out quality . Abbott and Costello , Laurel and Hardy , Mickey Rooney - - everyone seemed to be making the same movie , and this role could have been handed over to anyone . Hope is an extremely funny guy in the right context but this isn't the context . The script is unimaginative . The direction by David Butler is leaden . There are long pauses after a gag , before the dissolve , while the audience is supposed to be laughing . It seems at times that eons come and go , dynasties rise and fall , geological epochs pass , while we wait for the dissolve to the next scene in a silent room . Hope was a lot better later on , especially in the Road movies with Bing Crosby to play off . And he would be much better by himself too , in such outings as " My Favorite Spy . " This one is worth watching and at times is engaging fun , but , for Hope , strictly by the book .
A Deconstruction of Ludic Elements in Contemporary Parodistic Cinematic Syntax	I suppose there are three major elements to consider in figuring out what kind of spoof you're watching . ( 1 ) The dumbness of the gags . ( 2 ) The kind of genre being referenced . And ( 3 ) the level of self awareness of the characters . The gags can range from elegant to really visciously vulgar . The stupid ones have broader audience appeal and probably make more money . This movie probably made a lot of money . ( Eg . , one of the gay characters is assaulted by having a phallus thrust in one ear and out the other . ) They're not all that gross . When Cindy runs to her room and contacts 911 on her PC , she gets the question , " What is your problem ? " and types in , " White woman in trouble . " But the run of the mill gags are pretty lowbrow . Over the final credits is a rap song with lyrics like , " Take your tongue , and cut it out your mouth . Take it home , feed it to my trout . Fry him in a pan , shoot him out my can , right into your face , so you know your place . " If you find that level of wit funny , it's your kind of movie . The genre being spoofed here is the teenage horror / slasher flick . Not something like " The Shining " or " The Innocents , " but something like , " Scream , " and " I Know What You Did Last Summer . " I can catch most of the cliches being skewered in something like , " Big Deal on Madonna Street " ( a caper movie ) or " Fatal Instinct , " ( a private eye noir ) but I'm certain that most of the allusions here got past me because I don't find the original films very entertaining so I'm not familiar with them . The characters here are more self aware than in any spoof of recent memory . They know they are in a movie - - all of them . At one point two young people are going to make love for the first time and the guy says , " Just like in a movie . " The girl says , " No , this isn't a movie . " And he says , " Sure it is , " and begins naming the crew while we see them gathered around the camera . It isn't that this hasn't been done before . There's a deliberate , fleeting shot of the director and crew in " Candy , " and in " Blazing Saddles " the characters break into the set of a musical being filmed on the neighboring sound stage . " Shakespeare in Love " flirted with this , when one of the characters says , " I own tobacco plantations in Virginia . I think there may be a future in tobacco , " and glances furtively into the camera . It's just that here , we are always aware of their awareness , whether we actually see the camera or not . I didn't find the movie very funny . It doesn't seem instrinsically funny when a retarded character named Dufus walks around with his lips twisted into an odd sneer , any more than it was funny when Mel Brooks made twitching faces as the mayor of the town in " Blazing Saddles . " Teenagers seemed to enjoy " Scary Movie , " or at least that's the impression I get . There must have been some respectable activity at the box office and at Sam's Blockbuster after all the hype that accompanied this release .
Less funny than the original .	This is an updated and revised version of the 1975 original . The first version was presented to us as a serious story about the subjugation of women but , like " Mommie Dearest " , turned out to be more amusing than dramatic . In this version the comedy inherent in the conceit is out in the open . The only problem is that it's not too funny . Not the fault of the performers , who are all good . Nicole Kidman is a fine actress and comedy is well within her range . Bette Midler , by contrast , is always comic and always Bette Midler . Midler's post-conversion sweetness is hilarious mainly because we see Bette Milder trying so HARD to play " sweet . " Mathew Broderick is not bad either , perhaps a bit bland but it fits the part . Glen Close , trapped in her robotic role , is almost unrecognizable beneath the makeup . Christopher Walken gives the best performance of the bunch , as he so often does . Every line he utters has some sort of quirky quality . And he must have enormous self control because he gets the funniest lines and never cracks a smile . Watch him present the TV commercial that will be used " when we go global . " He wears a white lab coat , like a TV doctor , and walks the viewer through the robotization process with careless ease . He's even funny after he gets his head knocked off and the sparks fly out . I said it was updated , and what I meant is that there is now a gay couple living in Stepford . And Paula Prentiss has been replaced by Bette Midler , so a lot of jokes about Jews show up - - " why not decorate your menorah with pine cones ? " " How about if I just arrange a lot of pine cones on my front lawn so that they spell out BIG JEW ? " The original had to do with men feeling threatened by their wives ' desire to raise their consciousness , whatever that means , and to develop interests outside the home . This version has gone beyond that vague feeling of oppression . The Stepford Wives are now all ex-CEOs , brain surgeons , and Pulitzer Prize winners . Even the robot terrier was a prize winner . The men no longer feel threatened . They stopped worrying about that years ago . Now they just feel humiliated and beaten by their more successful spouses . What humor there is can be found mostly in one-liners . Wisecracks that are sometimes funny imposed on an essentially humdrum script . The situations themselves aren't amusing . There is , for instance , no scene to equal the one in which Katherine Ross stabs the now-robotic Paula Prentiss in the vicinity of her belly button , shorts out a couple of anodes , and sends Prentiss into a stereotyped infinite loop of behavior - - going through the motions of serving coffee but letting the cups drop on the floor and so on . Now THAT'S funny .
Rousing fight , otherwise average .	It gets off to a slow start , a story about miners being cheated out of their claims by crooked bureaucrats and gangsters . Takes an hour before you find out who the spoilers are . They do not include Marlene Dietrich , who plays the owner of the local " dance hall " or whatever it's called , and whose affections Randolph Scott and John Wayne compete for . Boy , is she blond in this one , and with a wig that makes her resemble an olive on a toothpick . Wayne is a cocky guy , rarely serious , with a smile that eerily combines shyness with self-confidence . Scott beams with virility . There is a sneaky " good girl " too , who is actually one of the gangsters . No one puts much effort into any of the roles . It's the kind of movie in which one of the minor villains takes a bead on a good guy having a conversation , is shot dead , and the talk continues without any remarks relevant to the recently deceased . If someone says something even vaguely offensive to another man , his reward is a sock in the law and his lights go out . All of the fist fights take place in accelerated motion which , at the time , must have added zest to the action but today draws attention to itself as the expression of a souped-up camera . The climactic fist fight lasts longer than most . Bodies tumble all over the place - - through doors , down staircases , over bars , onto tables , and through huge plate glass windows . Clothing is ripped to shreds and there are bruises and a trickle or two of blood , but nobody's nose is bleeding and no one loses any teeth or breaks a finger . It's shot in California although it's supposed to be the Yukon . You can tell it's a Yukon-type Western because all the characters wear high-laced boots with woolen socks folded down over the tops , instead of cowboy boots . Otherwise it's a cowboy Western . Diverting enough , especially when it gets down to business in the second half . What I want to know is , where the hell is Gabb Hayes ?
Fussbol with gravitas .	This kind of football is serious business . Oh , I know it seems silly for a group of Allied prisoners during World War II to sacrifice their chance to escape just so they can go back and whup the pro team of Nazis . A ridiculous fantasy . It's just a game , after all . But there seems to be something about what Americans call soccer that really gets the testosterone flowing . There have been several riots over the last decade or two in soccer stadiums , some with fatalities . And in 1968 , shortly after a three-game series between El Salvador and Honduras , we had the so-called soccer war between the two impoverished Central American countries . The armed forces were engaged . A C-47 flew over the enemy's lines , rolling 50 gallon drums and other ammunition out the door , hoping some of it might somehow explode . It would have been comic had not 2 , 000 people died , 8 , 000 been wounded , and perhaps 50 , 000 displaced . John Huston must have made this kind of movie for that kind of audience . It's one of his minor works and we don't get to see the director having any real fun putting it together . It's about a rag tag team of POWs thrown against a Nazi team and passing up their opportunity to escape in order to finish the game . ( Guess who wins . ) I gather that our team is made up of real-life soccer heroes . Even a provincial American has heard of Pele . Except for Rocky Balboa , who is the world's heavyweight boxing champion . Oh , and Michael Caine , whose paycheck couldn't have been of sufficient magnitude to compensate him for the waste of his natural acting talent in this movie . It's really not much more than a big soccer game climax grafted onto a standard POW escape movie . You ought to hear the Shastakovich-like heroic music when one of the teams wins . I'll bet that gets the old testosterone flowing , but I think I'll stick with those lines of wooden figures that kick a ball bearing back and forth on a table top . That way , if I have a chance to escape from prison , I can just say the hell with it and run away .
Modest Comedy From Ford .	You have to keep your eyes open to see John Ford as a motivating force behind this slender but still successful comedy . If it weren't for the rituals - - civil and military - - and the booze , well , it would be hard to tell . Dan Dailey is the first man from Punxatawy , West Virginia , to enlist after Pearl Harbor but his boyish thirst for action goes unslaked when he is posted as a gunnery instructor at a local airfield . Two years pass , during which the townspeople who were so proud of him become used to his always hanging around while the war goes on elsewhere . ( Some hero . ) Despite his insistence , the Air Force will not give him combat duty . Instead he collects stripes and good conduct medals at home . His father , William Demarest , is frankly irritated with him . Suddenly Dailey is assigned to a B-17 bound for England , as a last-minute replacement for a crew member . The plane runs out of fuel and Dailey accidentally bails out over France instead of England . Here he is picked up and quizzed by the maquis in the person of Corrine Calvet , tempting as creme brulee . She gives him some important film about the German V-2 rocket sites and , to get him through German lines , pretends to marry him during a loud party . He drinks too much wine and the next morning is hustled aboard a British Motor Torpedo Boat suffering from lack of sleep and a calamitous hangover . The crew of the MTB believe he's sea sick and force feed him a tot of rum which mostly spills down his chest . He delivers the film to the astounded authorities in England . He can barely keep awake so they give him a belt of scotch to revive him . He's immediately flown back to Washington , crowded behind the pilot in a P-38 . He's groggy from lack of sleep so the pilot gives him a shot of cognac which Dailey feebly pushes away . During his report to General Marshall , he mumbles and weaves before passing out , so they try to give him some bourbon to revive him before he is whisked away to a hospital . By this time , Dailey is incoherent and the physicians try to put him in a straight jacket before he manages an escape . He makes it back to Punxatawny on a freight train , staggers to his home and begins to crawl in through the kitchen window . His father mistakes him for a burglar and whops him over the head with a night stick . To revive him , his mother gives him a glass of cooking sherry . Mistaking it for milk , Dailey takes a gulp or two then spews out the rest all over the floor . All is resolved and Dailey is to be given a medal by the president . As he is being flown away , the CO of the local airfield smiles and says , " Remind me to give that boy a good conduct medal . " It's nothing like the comic interludes of " What Price Glory , " more amusing than funny . Dailey worked with Ford on two other pictures and there are a few familiar faces here and there - - Jack Pennick as a drill sergeant . It's never slow . The pace is fast but somehow feels forced , as if Ford were anxious to get through it and begin something that interested him more . A lot depends on Dan Dailey as the central figure , and actually he's pretty good . He never seems to have found a niche in Hollywood . He was tall and was a decent hoofer but was mostly confined to supporting roles or as part of an ensemble . His acting style was bluff and straightforward but perhaps he didn't have the face of a leading man . And he didn't grow into an interesting character actor either . All of it a minor puzzle . Ford didn't provide much help . All of Ford's movies had comic elements in them but , like Alfred Hitchcock , his essays at pure comedy , like " Donovan's Reef , " didn't quite click . Comedy was Howard Hawks territory . It's worth seeing , this movie , a perky and good-natured comedy .
Interesting but dated crime drama .	What a dark movie ! Everything seems to happen at night . Ricardo Montalban is a member of " the Mexican FBI " and George Murphy his counterpart at the INS . They form a partnership to investigate the illegal smuggling of braceros ( Mexicans with temporary worker programs ) across the border where they are exploited by unscrupulous American interests , then robbed by bandits when they return to Mexico . Talk about your contemporary problems ! It's a decent mystery . The acting is up to snuff . The direction and the photography are professionally competent . And that's about it . Ricardo Montalban gives a good performance and the rest are middling . I prefer Sig Rumann in comic roles , maybe alongside the Marx Brothers , whereas he's a serious heavy in this one . There is always Alfonso Bedoya , along with one of his henchmen from " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre , " but he doesn't have much to do except mangle the English language and his character provides no deliberate relief from the intensity of the story . There's something - - unconvincing ? Is that the word ? Not a moment goes by when you forget you're watching a movie . No matter how hard I tried I was unable to suspend my disbelief . Ricardo Montalban may be too handsome to be a bracero . His haircut is not that of a poor laborer but a Hollywood star . In fact all of the braceros seem too well groomed . Their clothes don't seem lived in , although they are all provided with bundles wrapped in serapes , and they all wear straw sombreros . They're burdened with lines like , " Tell me , my husband , is it dangerous ? " And it's impossible to sense any feelings of social responsibility behind or in front of the camera . Watch " Viva Zapata " with its screenplay by John Steinbeck for an illustration of what's lacking here . And watch " Traffic " for a treatment of the systemic problem that does not devolve into a Manichaean struggle of the good guys versus the bad guys . There are ethical problems on both sides of the border , although the ones on the Mexican side seem to dwarf those on the other , as that perceptive reviewe Howdymax has observed . There is one unforgettable scene though , in which George Murphy is sliced and diced by an agonizingly slow-moving diesel-pulled harrow . ( I think that's what it is . There wasn't much farm machinery in Newark . ) Murphy , by a curious coincidence , was elected to the Senate from California back in the 60s . There was a small furor at the time over the ethics of the bracero program . They were getting pretty shabby treatment and some wanted to end the program . Murphy's position on the issue was firm . He approved thoroughly of the bracero program . Braceros , he argued , were better at picking lettuce and carrots and melons because " they were built closer to the ground . " I swear I'm not making that up . Well , the movie may be obsolete but the questions aren't . It makes for interesting viewing .
A doggy bag for this escargot ?	I managed to catch this only in snatches but , judging from those , it's not as bad as it might be . Tim Holt ( " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " ) is the new commanding officer of a naval base on the edge of the Salton Sea in the California desert . There have been nuclear tests nearby and an earthquake releases some giant mollusks with great shells that seem built around the Fibonacci numbers , two hideous eyes , and an overall resemblance to my drill instructor in boot camp . A number of sailors and civilians mysteriously disappear . They were eaten , of course , by these snails . One of the eaten people is Barbara Darrow , which is a damned shame , if you ask me , edible though she may be . Commander Tim Holt manages to catch on to what's up with the help of the scientists that are unavoidable in this kind of movie - - Hans Conreid and Max Showalter , familiar faces . Holt's romantic interest is Audrey Dalton , a striking , pale brunette beauty who looks a little like Jean Simmons but without the intimations of insanity . There's some development of character too , which reflects a refreshing attention to narrative on the part of the writers . Holt is at first stern , demanding , and impatient but , under Dalton's influence , becomes more forgiving and human . Most of the clams or whatever they are get blown up by the Navy scuba divers , but one manages to get loose in the lab . Dalton grabs up her child and locks the door to a store room . The hungry monster has spotted them and begins to chew its way through the wall . After a brief attempt to get the child through a small window , Dalton gives up and , weeping , terrified , tells the youngster to hug here . Then the two of them sit there waiting to be eaten . Now , it is in no way politically correct to say this , I know , but there is pretty good evidence that the tendency of females , like Audrey Dalton in this scene , to sit and accept negative circumstances without trying to overcome them may be constitutional . Seriously . If you take a boy baby and hide his plaything behind a wall of wooden blocks , the likelihood is that he'll get angry , knock the wall down , and grab his toy . Little girls have a greater tendency to sit passively and cry , knowing that the toy is just behind that little wall . Trust me on this . I taught Developmental Psychology . You may be displeased with this factoid but you should be grateful for having learned something you didn't know before . That will be fifteen cents . For what it's worth , we'd all be better off if we stopped knocking down things that were in our way , now that we've got nuclear bombs . At any rate , Holt comes to the rescue and tries out various weapons on this monstrous creature . It has no shell at this point . It looks like a giant banana slug the size of a rolled up king-sized mattress . He distracts it from Dalton and the child long enough for sailors to rush into the lab and shoot it dead with M 1s . As I say , it wasn't as bad as I'd expected , but it was clear by this time ( 1957 ) that the atomic monster business was getting fagged out . We'd already had giant ants , spiders , praying mantises , locusts , and whatnot . And you can see that snails are pretty far down on the fear factor . Nice echt-1950s black-and-white photography , though , and the location shooting isn't bad . The acting doesn't really amount to much but it gets the job done . Tim Holt is a likable kind of fellow and Audrey Dalton is pretty and the snails are unspeakably ugly . What more could you ask for , if it's late and you can't sleep ?
Who Wants to be Liberated ? Raise Your Hands .	It's hard to believe that we once took this sort of stuff seriously - - all those stale bumper-sticker slogans , the merry-go-round minds . It seems like fiction now , but it surely wasn't at the time . I enjoyed wearing funny clothes in Berkeley , getting stoned with everyone else in New York , and observing the goings on at peace rallies in Philadelphia . But if we're going to be nostalgic for the late 60s and early 70s , this is a reminder that in some ways they were pretty lousy years . When they move to LA , one of the ladies in the SLA says , " No gas . No electricity . At LAST we're really poor ! " The SLA , a couple of black ex-cons and their white slaves , were seen as legitimate by a lot of people . Honest , there was widespread sympathy for them , especially academics and the kind of people who wished they could be poor and black . " Rolling Stone " s Man of the Year in , I think , 1970 was Charles Manson - - and the tribute wasn't sarcastic . Violent revolution had acquired functional autonomy : revolution because it was good in and of itself . The movie is like a trip to Disneyland . It's so dated that it's hard to believe it wasn't faked . It depends entirely on Patty Hearst's memoirs of her captivity , so its perspective is limited to what she sees . It was supposed to reveal " all the secret things , " but the fact is that the book , like the movie , isn't really very enlightening . Her movements are spelled out okay , but Natasha Richardson's narration doesn't really tell us anything much about the reasons for Patty's change from frightened captive to frightened but willing accomplice . " I went deeper and deeper into myself , " says the narration . ( How do you do that ? ) Richardson is really about as good as you can get . If she can't tell us very much that we can't already guess ( Patty was scared to death ) at least she manages to bring a certain idiosyncratic quality to the blank that Patty seems to have been . Ving Rhames is Great - - a fine BOOMING baritone who is scary as hell as he pounds his big bear chest and shouts , " I AM a prophet ! " Right on , Bro ! The other SLA members are less distinguished . I couldn't remember their names . Dana Delaney is the " nice " SLA member who combs Patty's hair and clues her in on what the rules are around here . Bill Forsythe ( my supported player in " Weeds " ) is also good if a bit monotonous as the white guy who wants to be black and kill lots of pigs . After the bonfire in LA , Forsythe sits morosely with a new group of white SLA recruits and moans , " We need black leadership . " Frances Fisher is also memorable , bitter , and as cold as an icicle . Schrader's compositions and lighting are sometimes arty , but seldom enough so to distract from the story . He gets in a few good licks at the middle-class hypocrites too . While the LA safe house is burning on TV , Patty shuts herself away in the bathroom of a motel across the street from Disneyland . ( " All the bourgeois comforts , " says Forsythe when they enter the room . ) And here is how Schrader shows us Patty's suffering while the safe house burns and she realizes that the cops and the media are kind of hoping she's inside , dying . Patty is curled up against the bathtub at the left of the screen . On the right of the screen is a blindingly white sink . In the middle of the screen is an equally antiseptic closed toilet with one of those paper ribbons across the top that signify that no one has opened the toilet since the ribbon was placed there . It's neatly done . Patty a blotch of color in the fetal position , surrounded by middle-class comforts , but on the other side of the bathroom door , between her and the exit , between her and safety , are two insanely furious SLA members watching the death of their comrades on the news . Was she guilty ? Well , what is guilt ? Look , if a man loses his arm , can he be blamed for being a lousy driver ? Patty didn't suffer a physical loss . It was a social loss but as Durkheim argued , social facts are as real as physical ones . All of us are products of our experiences . That's why those of us who did not undergo her travails can afford to condemn her as a criminal . She was brainwashed . In a sense we've been brainwashed too , only in a different direction .
All this time we thought it was the big sleep . . .	This movie isn't as terrible as some reviewers have made it out to be . Let's say , overall , about average for its type . The photography is more than adequate , the locations unmistakably including Egypt . The score does its job well . And the acting is on par with Charlton Heston's usual . He can do better when he wants to , as in " Khartoum . " Stephanie Zimbalist is fresh , attractive , and seductive - - both before and after she is possessed by the spirit of Kara . She's pretty sexy too , decked out in tight bell-bottomed slacks and wearing her long auburn hair held back by a barette - - is that the word ? One of her more exciting moments comes when she steps down in the tomb and kisses her father warmly on the lips . She seems to have not much more than a few expressions to work with , which is okay ; Gary Cooper only had one and a half . She relies mainly on an intense stare and half smile , which can signal either happiness or evil intent . The editing is confusing and the ending leaves the story open for a sequel which will probably never come . The story itself is dated , although spiced up with some Omen-like executions . Heston would never get away with removing those artifacts from Egypt today . Not unless there was a huge under-the-table payoff made . No more Elgin-marble controversies . The archaeological techniques are dated as well . The archaeologists we seem to think of as heroes would be considered criminally sloppy by today's standards . If you excavate a site now , you don't just dig into it to see what you can find . You dig a trench into the site , from the outside inward , so you leave most of the site intact for future research . We don't know what analytic techniques will be available a hundred years from now , anymore than Carnaveron and the rest could foresee Carbon dating . Brouilloin , the information theorist , called this " the principle of fundamental surprise . " If we knew now what we will have discovered a hundred years from now , we would already have discovered it . What Schliemann did at Troy was simply dig it up until all the information was gone , the archaeological equivalent of strip mining . King Tut's tomb was handled just as badly . When they first cracked the wall of the as-yet unsullied part of the tomb , a breath of air whooshed out from the opening . That air was three thousand years old . It was the same air breathed by the Egyptians who built the tomb . We will never know its chemical composition or what kind of particulate matter might still have been floating around . And the soil of the tomb , which surely contained biological materials like pollen and the residue of three-thousand-year-old microorganisms , was treated like - - well , like ordinary dirt . The movie has few zingers . It moves slowly and deliberately , a pace that many modern moviegoers are no longer used to , after so much exposure to MTV techniques . And the director - - all directors - - need to have it pounded into their skulls that when a character looks into a mirror on screen , the audience is not supposed to see her staring obliquely into the camera lens . Not only does the use of this stupid trick contribute absolutely nothing , but it is distracting and jarring , and an insult to at least some of the viewers .
What's Going On ?	Practically a ideal exemplar of " routine thriller . " Friedkin had a marvelous time in the 1970s , coming up with some original genre pieces like " The Exorcist " and " The French Connection . " All of his work is commercial but Exorcist was gripping because it was so successfully manipulative , and French Connection gave us a cop who was unexpectedly mean and embedded his character in a fascinating mystery story . Here , though , there's not much originality on display . There's nothing wrong with the direction or the performances . ( I think this is the second movie in which Linda Fiorentino makes a phone call in the nude . Rather a nice touch . ) Friedman makes good use of San Francisco locations but some of the scenes do come through as derivative . The first chase through one of the city's Oriental theaters that I can remember is in Orson Welles ' " Lady From Shanghai . " There is also a car chase up and down the city's streets . It will never match the car chase in " Bullett " but in order to make the scene look new the director has these two cars not only racing downhill and being jolted at the intersections on the way down . They actually leave the pavement entirely and rocket into the air . And the chase extends through a parade in Chinatown , a scene in which a couple of pedestrians get flattened . Something similar appeared in a movie directed about 20 years ago by Peter Bogdanovich . Friedkin does open his film with an excellent exploration of a well-appointed house in the city . The camera takes its time examining the tribal masks , the Degas on the wall , while the less outrageous excerpts from Stravinksy's Rites of Spring serve as background . ( We gradually become aware that someone is being murdered off screen . ) It's well done . There's a good deal of realistic gore too , and about the same amount of sex involving Fiorentino . Evidently she likes to dominate the man , tying his hands behind his back and making him do things that only rabid subordinates would do . Her expression during ordinary love making suggests it's more of a nuisance than a pleasure . And we see one murder that has produced about a bathtub's worth of blood and another in which the victim's brains are exposed . I'd better quit now . Old memories are being redintegrated and I can't tell whether they're from a traffic accident , my marriage , or both . But basically the problem is with the script . Instead of a murderer , there turn out to be several murderers , none closely related to the others . A lot of surprises pop out at us in the last few minutes , complicated and with little in the way of groundwork . Some questions are left unanswered . I still don't know who Caruso was chasing through Chinatown . Nobody involved in the film seems to have cared enough to polish this into a more acceptable shape . Too bad .
Biography Channel , Writ Large .	Well , according to this biographical documentary , the producer Robert Evans has lived the life of an elevator , or maybe a toilet seat , with a couple of truly good highs - - " Marathon Man , " " Chinatown , " and others - - and some down periods involving cocaine , murder , and the loss of his beloved mansion in Woodland Hills . It's based on Evans ' own autobiography , and he narrates this doc . One might expect it to be filled with self justification , along the lines of , " Yes , I brought suit and left him destitute but it was never about the money . " Instead , he's pretty generous with praise for his pals and surprisingly " understanding " towards those who have brought him down . I put quotes around the word " understanding " because what I mean is that he doesn't heap his calumny upon his undoers . He leaves them pretty much blameless . But I don't believe for a moment he " understands " them , or if he does he's not being frank about it . His wife , Ali McGraw , didn't leave him for Steve McQueen because Evans stayed away from home too long while working . No respectable Hollywood producer would include such a hoary cliché in a movie , unless John Wayne was the hero . How about , " You're married to your job " ? As Evans himself says in the narrative , " I was never psychiatrically oriented . " Evans seems to have a decent sense of humor about himself . He can poke fun at his early acting efforts . Once you've achieved great success , you're at liberty to do that . If Picasso had once been a bicycle repairman he might have joked about how bad he was . Yet the role distance is there , even though Evans ' narration undermines it with an excess of dramatization . There may always be tragedy just around the corner , but when you're hearing Evans tell you this in a voice that sounds like Rock Hudson's after chain smoking two packs of Gauloise , it remains less than convincing . The images reflect the volatility of his career , as does the music . At his height , living in his mansion , accepting awards , dating models , being interviewed while wearing a pair of tinted glasses whose color matches the tint of the pullover sweater he chose to wear that day , the cuts arrive con brio . Later , during the dark years of the late 1980s , the music turns mournful and melancholic , and there are dismal shots of Evans ' deserted swimming pool with maple leaves scattered across the surface like Evans ' wasted dreams , like his hundred-dollar bills . Some of it is not entirely believable . Depressed , Evans checks himself into some sort of sanatorium . He describes himself as being " behind bars " and his room is " like a cell . " He relates the story of his close escape from the " goons " that guarded the hallway . ( He was picked up by his chauffeur . ) What the hell is this - - The Betty Ford Clinic or The Snake Pit ? He's a perceptive guy , no question about it , and had a string of good luck too . Life , though , has left him battered . The epilogue suggests he's made a successful comeback with movies like " Jade " and " Sliver . " That's arguable . But , to be perfectly honest , despite the suffering Evans has endured and now put on display , I'd have traded places with him at any point in his life and so would anyone else .
Comedy , edgy and diverting . .	Albert Brooks , who wrote this and acted in it , is a Hollywood screenwriter who's being rejected with every script he submits . He lives in a mansion with his wife , Andie MacDowell , and is going nuts because he won't be able to support his family . A successful writer friend , Jeff Bridges , puts him in touch with a muse , a Greek spirit known for inspiring artists . The muse is Sharon Stone . And she is some work of art . She not only impinges on the lives of Brooks and his family . She takes them over . She has demanding tastes , grows quickly bored with the suite at the Four Seasons that Brooks is paying for . She has a whim of iron , sending Brooks out for Waldorf salad from Spago in the middle of the night . She's friendly towards Brooks ' wife and urges her to begin the commercial cookie-making career that she's discarded over the years . MacDowell follows Stone's advice and finds self-fulfillment before the oven . Meanwhile , Brooks is going nuts . He's spending money and time keeping Sharon Stone satisfied but he's getting very little inspiration out of her . An occasional , off-the-cuff suggestion - - that's all . Brooks develops a script based on her hints but reaches a block at the end of Act II , with his protagonist owning an aquarium and nowhere else to go . He presses her abjectly for an idea and she suggests that , since they must use drilling equipment to build the foundation for the aquarium , why not have them strike oil ? Right out of " The Beverley Hillbillies . " In the end , Stone turns out to be not a muse but a multiple personality who has escaped from a private psychiatric hospital in Ohio . Last time out , she was Picasso's daughter . Brooks of course is a neural shambles by now , but - - Lo - - Paramount buys his script and everything is fine - - except that the producer at Paramount turns out to be Sharon Stone in another disguise . There are a lot of cameos in the film , some easily recognizable , others not - - from Wolfgang Puck to Martin Scorsese who does a hilarious turn as himself , planning a remake of " Raging Bull , " only this time the guy is really THIN . " You see it ? Can you see it ? " Scorsese speaks faster than a normal person can think . Overall , it's mildly amusing , and that's about it . Nothing wrong with the professional players . Brooks is the anxiety-ridden middle-class character that he's perfected by now . Sharon Stone is seasoned . Andy MacDowell is beguiling . But the script is full of logical holes . This is okay in a comic fantasy , in itself , but there are so many of them here that they become noticeable . We can contrast " The Muse " with a comedy like " Groundhog Day " to illustrate when I mean . In " Groundhog Day , " with an equally preposterous premise , one thing follows inexorably from what has happened before , so the film DEVELOPS . That sense of inexorability is lacking here . If Stone is really not a muse at all , but just a psychiatric case with an occasional shopworn notion , then what are people like Scorsese and Ian Cameron and Rob Reiner courting her for ? And , shortly after she escapes from the doctors who have come to fetch her back to the institution , how does she suddenly show up as a producer at Paramount ? It's good for a laugh but nothing has set the situation up , so it's a shallow chuckle rather than the conclusion of any plot thread . It's like : A man walks along the street , slips on a banana peel , and falls on his bum . Ha ha , but so what ? Another instance : When he brings that Waldorf salad back to Stone's suite at night , she's lost interest in it and turns him away . Still holding the big bowl of salad , he backs into another hotel guest and crashes out of sight to the floor . We see the guest's face looking down as he asks , " Are you alright ? " Well , we already KNOW what the gag is going to be . But instead of keeping the camera on the guest's face and hearing only a moan from the floor - - or seeing Brooks ' salad-covered head very slowly emerge from the bottom of the screen - - there's a cut to Brooks on his back , decorated with salad . Where was the muse when she was most needed ? The best feature of the film is Albert Brooks ' performance . He's done it before just about perfectly , and here he does it again . It may be that no one in the history of movies has better expressed astonishment mixed with self-righteous indignation . What a terrific whiner he is .
Doggie Style	They took the easy way out on this one . Liam Neeson - - who , for the first time , I must judge to be in over his head - - gives us a Kinsey who is a prophet without honor in his own country , a scientist first and always , practically a saint . Beginning as an entomologist he finds himself wondering what EXACTLY goes on in the human boudoir . We have to take into account that this is the mid-40s and nobody knows from sex . What I mean is that many believed that if you did something bad to yourself you'd grow hair on your palms . Things like that . A little outre . And here comes Kinsey . What Darwin was to biology , and Freud to psychology , Kinsey was to the physical and social aspects of human sexuality . He used what are called " snowball samples , " which are what you have when , say , you interview one gay guy and ask if he knows any other gay guys that might agree to an interview , and so on . This is not a very good way to get a sample , but Kinsey was operating in difficult times . Not a good sample ? Nobody else HAD any samples ! The chief source of data on sexuality was " clinical experience , " the province of MDs who brought their own ideas to the discussion . Before Kinsey there was only Van deVelde's marriage guide , the most shocking message of which was that sex was for more than just reproduction , and when you went on your honeymoon don't expect to spend all your time coupling in a locked hotel room . Leave some space for skiing . The more literary among us in elementary school would sneak the guide off the library shelves and furtively skim through it looking for the dirty parts . But overall the movie is rather dull . It's a simple-minded picture of Dr . Kinsey , the ex wasp man . He was not only a knight in unshining armor , although he was that too . He was a pretty weird guy . The movie shows him going about gaily collecting " data " , disinterested and coolly eager , but he had a lot more in the way of personal involvement than the movie suggests . There is a scene in which he is alone with a young man in a hotel room and they both agree that on a scale of one to ten - - ten being completely homosexual - - they're about a three . Then they do something about finding out if that's true . That's all we see of Kinsey the man exploring his own sexuality . However he knew something about his bisexuality before undertaking the study , and he explored it in his adulthood . He got his wife into the picture more than once too . And there were group gropes that grew a little , well , what might later have been called kinky . Kinsey enjoyed himself by tying ropes around his penis with plenty of knots ( in the ropes ) and then tugging on it to the point of pain as well as pleasure . There were times when he went a bit too far and suffered unpleasant infections . I hope I'm remembering this accurately . It's mostly from a profile in the New Yorker from some years ago . Now , the REAL Kinsey sounds like an interesting fellow , whereas this paragon of objectivity is rather a bore . He can't seem to talk about much except how badly we need more information on sexual habits . ( He was entirely right about that . ) But he talks like that at parties too , and it gets repetitious after a while . The movie ends sadly , after a cinematic biography whose trajectory is familiar to most of us . Genius has great idea and devotes his life and his talent to its exploration . He goes too far and alienates others . Runs out of money . Loving wife sticks with him . But we all know that though he may have died thinking he was a failure , his work will long outlive him . The direction is flat , the dialog lacks sparkle , and Liam Neeson has a haircut that only Kim il Chong could envy . What an interesting movie could have been made about this man and his career .
Giant shadow .	I don't know why this movie doesn't work , but it doesn't . I guess I'd hold the writers and the actors responsible - - the direction is efficient and the score good . The script tells us things that most of us already know , without adding much that we didn't . Thankfully it avoid extensive shots of the death camps . If anyone needs to be told about that , he's hopelessly benighted anyway . That mass genocide was perhaps the most horrible expression of the baser impulses of human nature , and like any transcendental event should be treated with caution , not with an eye to the box office . Still , the dialog is flat and ordinary . Giant closeups of faces telling us important things - - " For the first time , I've realized I'm a Jew " - - doesn't really help . It's like being hit over the head by someone wielding a crowbar and yelling - - " GET IT ? GET IT ? " Yes , we get it . Stop already . Kirk Douglas isn't bad . In fact he's pretty good , outdone only by Topol as an Arab sheyk - - " I course your Faddair . " Cheese , Topol is good . And so is his role . He plays " The Sheik of Arabie " on a Victrola and rolls his eyes with glee . John Wayne's performance is perfunctory and so is Frank Sinatra's , but the latter's involvement is interesting . At one point in the film he protests , " Don't leave me alone - - I'm anti-Semitic . " Far from being anti-Semitic he was , let's say , pro-Semitic . Like a lot of recent immigrant families in the Northeast his had a keen eye for the strengths and weaknesses of ethnicity , and Sinatra plumped for the strengths in Judaism . He envied and admired Jews for their family values and their solidarity , and even learned to read a little Hebrew . A scene in which he spurts seltzer water at an attacking Arab fighter is beneath comment . Overall the film is not a success because it doesn't spell out in any detail exactly what Mickey Marcus actually DID for the Israelies . It won't do to have two minutes of Marcus telling them " Attack ! Attack ! , " when ten times that amount is spent on an unconvincing adulterous affair with Senta Berger - - not that having such an affair with such a magnificent woman would be a blot on anyone's escutcheon . ( I could never spell that word . It means " shield " . ) I guess it's worth watching once , just to remind us of a part of history that some of us have not bothered to look into . As a film , ( shrug ) .
Key : Largo .	The story involves the theft of a multi-million-dollar necklace by thieves Jack Nicholson , who runs a wine shop in Miami , and Michael Caine , a safe cracker on parole . Nicholson packs his suitcase intending to leave his wife , Judy Davis , and his stepson , Steven Dorff , and run off to New York with his innocent girl friend , Jennifer Lopez . In New York , he intends to sell the hot ice to a fence and return to split the cash with Caine . At the last moment , Nicholson has an argument with his wife , she clobbers him with a poker , frantically throws some clothes into Nicholson's suitcase , and drives off with her son . The necklace is stashed in a compartment of the suitcase , although neither she nor Dorff knows it . They find out soon enough . Nicholson and Caine track them to Key Largo and there are arguments , fights , a car chase , until Davis and Caine wind up dead , Dorff takes off in his new boat for the horizon , Lopez drives off alone with one of the stones , and Nicholson winds up in the hands of the law . It has a lot going for it . Nicholson and Caine rarely go wrong . Judy Davis does hysteria well . Jennifer Lopez is a natural actress , a beautiful young woman with a cantilevered rear end . The locations include some of the more colorful parts of Florida . And there's one effective action scene during , and immediately after , the car chase . So why doesn't it work any better than it does ? It's a mean-spirited movie . Every character seems greedy , spiteful , and deceitful . There's nobody to root for . It's easy to argue that this is rather more like real life than having good and evil splashed across the screen , but the values don't go much beyond that . No one has any particularly generous impulses . If someone dies , they simply disappear from the story . The only scene in which a genuine conflict of motives appears is when Nicholson is rooting around the bloodied body of his dying wife in an overturned car , searching desperately for the stupid necklace and sobbing with remorse at the same time . And even this is undercut by pettiness . Her last words to Nicholson : " you . " The ill-considered roles cripple the performances too . Nobody is poor , but no one has a chance to do much more than try to outwit the others . It's also disturbing to see actors we like , like Caine and Nicholson , in parts so petty . They're fine when they are outrageously malignant and venomous . ( Nicholson ululating hoarsely and limping through the snow with an ax in his hands . ) But realistically , as reprobate as the rest of us ? Nope . I also can't understand why the location shooting doesn't take advantage of Miami and the Keys , where it was clearly shot . We see mostly interiors and back yards . Even a fishing boat in the Gulf of Florida feels claustrophobic . There's no sense of space or even of the city . And the photography doesn't help , somehow nudging a viewer into the perception that southern Florida is chilly rather than shimmering in humidity and heat . Where's the sweat ? John Huston's " Key Largo " was all shot on a Warner Brothers ' sound stage and does a better job of establishing the atmosphere . Finally , the MacGuffin - - that million-dollar necklace - - bespeaking a lack of imagination . Sounds like a job for Charlie Chan . Well , I don't mean to be too harsh . It's not badly done . It's just that so many opportunities for it to have been better were missed in the script and in the direction . Disappointing .
Her Cups Runneth Over	I don't know if this looks like a Howard Hughes film but it sure looks like Howard Hawks . ( Why do guys whose last names start with H also have first name starting with H , such as Herbert Hoover , not to mention Hubert Horatio Humphrey ? ) We have the sort of sexy non-actress that Hawks was so fond of . How many of his discoveries have gone nowhere , except for Sherry Lansing ? Sexy , yes . As one authority put it , her bosom spreads out over the picture like a thunderstorm over a landscape . And here , in excelsis , is male bonding in its most flagrant form . The camera dwells on Jack Beutel's soulful face as he lies back on the bed and while Tchaikovsky's love music swells in the background . This could easily be turned into a gay movie . All you would need is a good pair of garters . Hawks was to rip off his own earlobe-shooting bit in his later Red River . What a storm of controversy this picture raised while it lay on the shelf for a few years . Watching it now , one wonders why .
Suspenseful .	This film , " Ransom ! " with an exclamation point ( 1956 ) , is the original from which Ron Howard's " Ransom " wth no exclamation point ( 1996 ) , was derived forty years later . It's not very common for a remake to equal the original - - hell , it's rare ! But in some ways the more recent version beats this one . The recent version is really quite different . ( The exclamation points should be transposed . ) " Ransom ! " focuses exclusively on Glenn Ford , who underacts as the father of the kidnapped boy , and Donna Reed plays the overwrought mother . We never even see the kidnappers , who decide to play ball with Ford after he decides that his son will be killed whether he pays the ransom or not , and so threatens to offer the full amount as a reward to whoever drops the dime on the criminals if they don't return his son . It gets a little dull . Ford has no idea that his son may be dead already until the police and a friendly reporter clue him in to the very real possibility . Ford suffers a lot and sweats through his decision while Donna Reed goes to pieces on him . The remake gives us equal time with the gang of kidnappers , a varied group , some mean , some with consciences and loyalties . The remake is an edgier film with far more action and blood and the kind of shoot out at the climax that producers , writers , and directors seem to believe a modern audience demands . The chief heavy in the remake , Gary Sinese , not only has his face pounded into a substance with the texture and specific gravity of guacamole but is finally plugged multiple times , first by the vengeful father . The director of the remake , Ron Howard , is given to producing smooth , uplifting family films with neat happy endings . This one is a little rougher than his usual fare , but Richard Price contributed to the screenplay and he has a flair for dialog that is unexpected and catchy . Maybe that helped . The plots in both versions are very similar of course . Dad decides not to pay ransom and threatens to give it away as a reward to any squealer , regardless of what happens ( or has already happened ) to his son . The kidnappers have a choice of turning the kid over alive or else constantly wondering which of their friends is going to turn them in for a million bucks . This is a variant of a game called " the prisoner's dilemma , " which I won't describe for two reasons . One is that it would take too long . The other is that I've forgotten which variant of the game is embodied in this plot . Interested parties can look up " the prisoner's dilemma " on the internet . I think Wikipedia . com has an entry on it . Maybe not . This original isn't a bad film . The difference between the two is that this one concentrates on Ford's moral quandary , while the remake shifts more towards the action side of the spectrum , giving it somewhat richer visuals . This isn't seen on TV very often , but if it's on it would be worth watching . The question hanging over the father's head is a heavy one . Should he pay the million bucks for his son or not ? If I had it , I would certainly have gone ahead and paid it for my son , even though the little tyke hasn't yet shown me the proper respect or indicated any interest in a career in medicine . Come to think of it , I'd have to wrestle with the decision - - but in the end I'd have paid . Probably .
High Society	Richard Powell , on whose novel this movie is based , certainly knew his Philadelphia in the early 20th century . It was tradition bound in the sense that some coastlines are iron bound . And everything that deviated from that tradition was kept under cover because it was a quiet city . No scandals , no engaging corruption , no roguishness . You have to read E . Digby Baltzell's " Puritan Boston and Quaker Philadelphia " to understand the historical roots of this self-effacing character . Powell got the education part right too . The elite of Philadelphia send their sons to Princeton . If the kids go into a profession , like law , medicine , or finance , they revert to the University of Pennsylvania , which happens to have the best professional schools in the business . Those traditions seem to be dying now . The Main Line mansions that once housed people of class like Grace Kelly are now owned by basketball players and people of that ilk . Watching this movie is like looking into a time capsule . The film gets that part right , and that's about it . Otherwise it resembles any other sprawling trans-generational epic story in which people make mistakes then after many travails find themselves again . Family secrets , idealists turned cynics , bastardy , money , social class , love , rebellion , marrying the wrong person , multiple subplots , chicanery , other assorted familiar mishigas - - it's all here . I mentioned that the movie was like something that ought to be in a time capsule and that's true in more ways than one . Everything we see on the screen is old fashioned . The direction by Vincent Sherman has no pizazz whatever , not a nod in the direction of modernity . Staging is strictly functional in the sense that nobody gets in front of anybody else , and when a reaction shot is called for the editor lingers on the face for a few extra seconds to make sure we get the point . The photography is high key and has lots of fill and comes out flat . ( In stark , and even welcome contrast to many of today's films in which even hospital operating rooms are in deep shadow except for the actors ' faces and the hole they are bent over and peering into . ) Everything seems to be shot indoors on a sound stage with perfunctory furniture and accessories . The makeup turns a pseudo-elderly Brian Keith Irishman into a caricature of Boss Tweed . The wardrobe completely lacks either realism or originality . ( A butler appears on the witness stand - - dressed in his butler suit . Barbara Rush is decked out , in all seriousness , in a turban - - in 1959 ! I am anything but an expert on haute couture but turbans belong on Gale Sondergaard in a 1944 Sherlock Holmes movie . ) Despite all the dialog about cash and custom , there is no sense of place . The story might have taken place in almost any big city and might have been shot at any time between 1935 and 1950 . As for the performers , Paul Newman doesn't do a bad job but neither is there any Paul-Newmanness in his acting . He looks at the floor , hits his mark , speaks his piece , and is done . The people who come out of this the best are perhaps Otto Kruger , an old smoothie himself who has been through this sort of thing many times before , and Robert Vaughan in a juicy supporting role . John Williams , in his umpeenth role as a lawyer or investigator of some kind , also comes out ahead . There are a couple of scenes , though , that stick in the mind . Alexis Smith , no longer a spring lamb , looks yummy and when she is consumed by horniness and tries to crawl into Paul Newman's bed at night he weasels out of the complicated business in such a way as to leave her breathless with gratitude . Newman's explanations to the dotty Billie Burke about how she can easily avoid paying taxes on some stock she owns and some charitable contributions she makes was , I thought , quite instructive . If it left me saddened , and it did , it was only because I am so poor I don't pay any taxes and so those kinds of shenanigans were of no more than intellectual value to me . There's a short courtroom scene ( only one witness : the snooty butler ) that wraps everything up neatly and resolves all problems . It's hardly gripping , although the stakes are high . If you're in the mood for this kind of film , it ought to be satisfying enough , but I wound up with a sense of despair at all the opportunities that were simply thrown away because no one seemed to be paying attention .
Ooogh .	For whatever reason , I kind of enjoyed this . A spider attacks an isolated small town . The kind of thing that would raise the hackles of any news broadcaster goes unremarked at the national level . The spider is a gigantic tarantula . The threatened townspeople are represented by two teen-agers . The local finally get their act sufficiently together to blow up the entrance to the cave and seal off the demonic thing . So what else is new ? Nothing . Yet I got a kick out of it , possibly due to the chemical influence of some tequila bought at half price at The Pink Store in Palomas , Mexico . Who knows ? Who knows about the monster for that matter ? ( It has a voice and screams and growls . ) Or the dumb and sluggish responses of the local authorities ? Or the total absence of federal forces , although this gigantic thing is draining the life force out of local citizens . Cripes , imagine a dirty bomb - - or a hurricane . I enjoyed the inevitable and self-described " egg head " , and the two teen agers flopping around in the tarantula's web , though tarantulas don't weave those kinds of webs . What does it matter . Here we have a pretty young girl flouncing around in her voluminous skirt on a sort of trampoline . If you're into this sort of thing , this is the sort of thing you'd be into .
Inexpensive but effective horror thriller .	Brian Donlevy is a scientist at the head of a space exploration program . One of his rockets returns from space with two of its crew missing and the third in a kind of waking coma . Film from the flight suggests to Donlevy that perhaps there is some life form floating around in space , intelligent , but without matter , just pure energy , and that it latches on to any living organism it happens to encounter and reproduce itself . That's quite a stretch . As it turns out , Donlevy is correct . The comatose survivor of the space ship is smuggled out of the hospital by his unsuspecting wife ( Margia Dean ) . This is a big mistake on her part . The victim , Richard Wordsworth , has been compelled by the force that occupies his body , to smash his hand into a cactus plant , thus turning his hand into a spiny glob . He's already killed on man with it . When his wife discovers his hideous deformity she shrieks and Wordsworth exits the car and stumbles off into the night . Donlevy and the police are in pursuit , and a good thing because the victim of this infection is slowly turning into a blubbering blob , from his arm up . There is an encounter with a cheerful young girl who wants him to play with her , but Frankenstein's monster - - I mean the lumpy Wordsworth - - smashes her dolly and heads towards the zoo for a meal of antelope , lion , and whatever else he happens to find . By this time , he's sliding like a slug rather than walking . The thing is now the size of a giant octopus and is accidentally discovered during a BBC broadcast in Westminster Abbey . Donlevy manages to electrocute it - - it's no longer a " him " - - and stalks off to begin the space exploration program anew . I saw this when I was a kid and it scared the pants off me . Now , more mature , more experienced , a man of more substance , I found it a little embarrassing . The budget must have been minuscule . I still sympathized with Wordsworth as he slowly , agonizingly , is transformed by the force occupying his body , and in fact Richard Wordsworth's performance is very good . Donlevy is a barrel-chested actor without much range , though he was an interesting man . He was dogged by an alcohol problem and was part of General Pershing's punitive expedition into Mexico after Pancho Villa's incursion in 1916 . Some of the supporting cast were good enough to go on to substantial careers in British cinema - - Lionel Jeffries and Gordon Jackson , for example . The performances of one or two others induce winces of pain . Margia Dean sounds dubbed - - and does not utter a believable line . David King-Wood , as Donlevy's assistant , actually commits the fundamental error of glancing at the camera during a scene - - not his fault . Maybe not the director's either . There may not have been enough money for another take . The logic behind the monster's development is also befuddling . What is " intelligent energy " ? If the thing can live off plant matter , as it apparently can , else why absorb the cactus , then why does it seek out animals ? And why does it take so long to absorb the energy or the cells or the ectoplasm from Wordsworth , when it can do the same to a human victim in a few minutes ? You're better off approaching this with your mind in neutral and treating it as a horror show that is far too delicate for anything resembling close examination . Put aside all thought and just let your skin crawl .
Colonial Soap Opera	Robert Taylor whizzes into Saigon with his rich pals and meets wide-eyed , innocent half-caste Hedy Lamarr . The others leave , but Taylor stays behind in his white suit and Panama hat and courts Lamarr , whose mixed racial background makes things difficult for her . For one thing , she can't get a passport . And although Taylor and Lamarr marry and love each other - - well , you can't live on the fruits of love . They run out of money and live in an exotic , run-down hotel so shabby that it resembles the hovel I now live in . Poor Taylor can't find a job either . Lamarr has a trick or two up her sleeve , so to speak . She was formerly a " friend " of Joseph Schildkraut - - the sinister , and most improbably Vietnamese villain your worst nightmare might incarnate . When Taylor gets drunk and passes out , Lamarr " visits " Schildkraut again . He takes her to the opera , Manon Lescaut , this being one of those movies in which the heavy has class . Schildkraut juggles circumstances and the unsuspecting Taylor finds himself offered a job at last . But things darken . Evidence emerges suggesting that Lamarr did a " favor " for Schildkraut , perhaps more generous than simply accompanying him to the opera , and that's how this job offer surfaced . A simple , naive , red-blooded , God-fearing American , true to his principles , Taylor flings Lamarr aside and announces that he's leaving on a ship for America without her . Distraught , Lamarr visits Schildkraut for the last time and shoots him dead . ( I can't help imagine the two of them - - Schildkraut and Kiesler - - making jokes in German about their ludicrous Oriental makeup . ) Lamarr returns to her squalid hotel and shoots herself somewhere in the body , probably a place that doesn't disfigure her too much . She dies slowly enough for Taylor to return and announce that his earlier renunciation of her was so much rodomontade , that he loves her deeply , and that the two of them are leaving on that ship together . It's only after he tells her this , that he realizes she is dying . " I'll get a doctor ! " " No , no . Don't leave me . " For the next several minutes , the question hangs in the air : Who will be the first to expire , Lamarr or the viewer ? ( And this script comes from BEN HECHT , the fedora-wearing , go-to-hell newspaper reporter from Chicago ! ) I could never get with Robert Taylor ( b . Spangler Arlington Borough ) either as a man or an actor . He was certainly handsome enough in these early movies , enough so that questions were raised at the time about his having hair on his chest . ( His agent produced a photo of a shirtless Taylor to show that he did . ) But his features coarsened with age and MGM kept him soldiering on in lower budget pictures for more than a decade . Hedy Lamarr was a stunning beauty , once glamorized by Hollywood's star-making machine . In her first , notorious film , " Ekstase " , the teen-aged Hedi Kiesler seemed a little zoftig in her nude scenes , but enormously appealing , even if not yet etherealized . The set dressing is fine though , jaded as we now are with real location shooting , we can never believe that we are actually in French Indo-China . The photography is professional too .
" Holy Pancakes . "	The entries is this series are pretty much alike . Nancy Drew ( Bonita Granville ) , a teen-aged girl , finds some mystery in Riverside Heights and pursues it , despite the warnings of her father and friends , to its happy end . Everything is shot on the cheap on the Warner's back lot . The startling feature of this film , and the others , is Bonita Granville . While not strikingly attractive , she has what might be called a presence . Oh , she overacts outrageously but so does everyone else . But she flits from place to place like a hummingbird , flounces flouncing , both hands held in the air like Fred Astaire , whipping along , subject to speech pressure like a hypomanic . Except when whispering - - " There's a hidden door somewhere . " And even that deserves an exclamation point which I refuse to give it . Her friend , confidant , and unwitting fool , is Ted Nickerson , a gawky adolescent boy . Nancy Drew inveigles him into so many questionable enterprises , after most of which he winds up humiliated , and she shows so little interest in him , that at some point he must ask himself , " What have you done for me lately ? " Oh , Ted . You poor schmuck . Another few years and you'd be wearing a brown uniform in a brown milieu while Nancy was back home forgetting all about you .
Twilight Zone Unplugged .	A perfectly plausible story of five astronauts who take off in a 1950s space ship , make a wrong turn , and land on Mars instead . After that , things get kind of hairy . I understand this was rushed into production while George Pal's far more lavishly budgeted " Destination Moon " was being shot , with the aim of beating the bigger and more publicized film into theaters . Well , the haste , the lesser budget , and the lesser thought , shows in " Rocket Ship X-M . " Not that it's a BAD movie . I mean , it's not a Buck Rogers serial . But the difference in quality still shows . The five astronauts are Lloyd Bridges , Osa Massen , John Emery , Noah Beery , Jr . , and Hugh O'Brian . All are professionals and pull off their roles without disgracing themselves , though neither can any be outstanding . How could anyone give an outstanding performance while uttering lines like , " Reduce speed level two " ? Lloyd Bridges was evidently lucky enough to have his hair stylist stashed aboard somewhere because his Lenny-Briscoe haircut is never mussed . Noah Beery , Jr . , is the requisite ethnic or regional type , in this case the Texan who uses double negatives and brags about the size of his state . The script , written by Kurt Neumann with additional dialog by Orville K . Hampton , at times stretches its arms out towards the literary . Osa Masson gives a colorful description of a Swiss lake under the moon , " the water like cold coffee . " Somebody had to think about those lines . And Bridges manages a quote from Kipling . Okay - - Kipling - - but the quote is an apt one and someone had to have read the poem before writing the script . What the film has in the way of the odd sparkle in the dialog , it mostly lacks in science . Robert Heinlein was not the technical adviser here , as he was on " Destination Moon . " When " meteorites " zip past the errant space ship , they do so with an ear-splitting WHOOSH . The distant earth looks like a map in a high-school geography text , with starkly etched tan continents and primal blue oceans and not a cloud in sight . ( " Destination Moon " got that right . ) The astronauts walk around in outer space as if they were in their living rooms , although some objects have a habit of arbitrarily popping up into the zero-gravity air . Osa Masson , an attractive young scientist , gets some occasional needling from the men . There are comments about her icy devotion to science and her " feminine intuition . " She asks if they think she should have stayed home and baked and raised children . " Isn't that enough ? " , asks Bridges . It's very un-PC , naturally , but Bridges ends up suggesting that it's possible " to go too far in the other direction too , " a fairly reasonable observation , not exactly anti-feminist . Osa Masson is a tough babe and can take care of herself . What was far more disturbing was Morris Ankrum as the Big Mahoff back on earth , briefing the reporters on why we need to go to the moon . His explanation ? " To establish unassailable bases " so that we " can control the peace " - - just as we're controlling the peace now , I guess .
Rebels without a cause .	It's very impressive visually , nicely directed , well acted , scripted in a literate way , and immeasurably depressing . I suppose the plot has been covered in detail elsewhere so I'll keep it brief . The narrator ( Edward Norton ) is a bored , anomic insomniac who doesn't know why he's alive . He runs into a creepy and insulting babe ( Helena Bonham Carter ) who seems to care about nothing . Then he meets a brutally honest Tyler Durden ( Brad Pitt ) who seems to see through everything and everyone , who actively hates and engages in combat against modern ennui and phoniness , and things start to pop . Pitt and the narrator found Fight Club in which men who would otherwise be leading lives of quiet desperation get to pound the crap out of one another . Fight Club franchises spring up everywhere as men search for their lost cojones . Pitt becomes a cult leader and wages war against corporate art with homemade explosives . The upshot of all this , I won't reveal . I didn't like it at all . At first I thought it was going to turn into one of those Gallic philosophical conundrums with a lot of pointless non sequiturs in the foreground . ( Narrator : Is Tyler Durden in my dream ? Or am I in his ? " ) Then it appeared to morph into an excuse for more bloodshed and violence . And then it got really twisted . I never realized a guy could shoot off a large-caliber pistol in his mouth and carry on a normal conversation five minutes later . It will , I suppose , be claimed that this is an original - - in contrast to the formulaic rubbish ground out by Hollywood these days . True enough , but it's not all THAT original . Proving your masculinity by enduring punishment ? Is there a Rambo movie in which Stallone doesn't bleed , or get himself dipped in pig excrement , or electrocuted half to death , without flinching ? In the stockade , in James Jones ' " From Here to Eternity , " the guards treat the inmates with unspeakable brutality . So what do the prisoners do to prove their transcendance of authority ? They beat hell out of each other , in games , in ways that the guards wouldn't have the imagination to dream up . Not to mention a hundred movies about The Big House and POWs and slaves biting their tongues during whippings . The punishment within the group is only part of the story , of course . It leads to a consideration of secret cults and their desire to rid the world of credit cards . We've had that before too , with Charlie Manson and the Reverend Jim Jones . And if Tyler Durden is going to insult the narrator by calling him " Ikea Boy " , and if the group is going to assault society by demolishing icons like Starbucks , don't they have some kind of obligation to provide more constructive icons ? Shouldn't they have some sense of beauty , truth , and logic that takes them beyond moral nihilism ? Or is the movie actually saying that Western civilization SHOULD be destroyed ? The film is ugly to watch , partly because the message itself is so banal , and partly because the imagery is so repulsive . The back of somebody's head is blown off . Human fat is boiled down to make soap . Fight Club members lives in an abandoned house near a toxic waste dump amid unutterable squalor . They don't seem to change clothes . ( The narrator shows up for work at his office with his own blood on his shirt . ) They don't bathe . Brad Pitt shuffles around in a filthy bathrobe wearing a pair of lady's slippers with clotted fur around the tops , as Doris Day might appear during a trip on battery acid . It isn't that I find such voluntarism necessarily bad . I'm sitting here writing this , wearing only a sarong and a pair of eyeglasses in the middle of the desert . But doesn't bodily filth reach a point at which it becomes intolerable to the self , never mind the person you're trying to sell your homemade soap to ? Mostly , though , what a beastly message . If you want to swagger around , a member of a cult , dealing out summary punishment to those whose values aren't your own , why not join Blackwater or some other mercenary group and at least get paid more than one thousand dollars a day . Or if you really want to get in your face with respect to bourgeois verities , give away everything you have and serve soup to the homeless at St . Anthony's Dining Room . Or vote Libertarian ? Or become a Theravada Buddhist monk , earning merit and living on alms ? I guess , though , that nothing like that is going to get your testosterone pumping and that's what concerns this movie . Know when blood testosterone levels peak in men ? During late adolescence , when our fantasies are even more limited than our brain power .
Time of the Troubles .	A commodius vicus of recirculation brings us back to Howth Castle and environs in 1921 , the time of the Irish revolution , the IRA versus the Black and Tans . But make no mistake . This isn't a sentimental tale about lovers of freedom fighting against the oppressors . It's about as brutal as you can get . And there's nothing in the way of history here - - no nonsense about Essex and Tyrone four hundred years ago . The script begins in medias res , right in the middle of the conflict . Jimmy Cagney , a surgeon , is the Commandant of the IRA and serves as a mentor to the American Don Murray , one of his medical students who is swept up by accident into the confrontation . The movie treats the Black and Tans as a kind of Gestapo and takes pains to separate them from the more reasonable British Army . The IRA in turn comes off with far less sympathy than the Mafia did in " The Godfather " movies . Cagney is especially hard hearted . He plays it that way all through to the film's end - - and his - - one of those guys that every war seems to attract , in which battle acquires functional autonomy . The goal is lost sight of and killing becomes a goal in itself . As I write this , the news is reporting the murder of two British soldiers in Northern Ireland . They weren't part of an army of occupation . One was an engineer . Neither was an enemy but we can be reasonably sure that for those who shot the two to death , they managed to convince themselves the murder was an act of patriotism . Cagney is that kind of guy . He stops at nothing . One scene , on the beach with the cynical Glynnis Johns , suggests that his real problem is repressed sexuality . Don Murray is okay . He's clean-cut and handsome , and Dana Wynter at his prisoner is radiant . She's so gracile . When Cagney is about to put a bullet in her , it's no wonder that Murray does him in . It would have been like shooting a pet rabbit . But what a cast ! Cyril Cusack is marvelous , as he always is . Richard Harris is fine too , as a loud-mouthed braggart . Noel Purcell is given a screen credit but his role is smaller than most of mine have been , and I got no credit at all , just minimum wage and a box lunch . The direction is by Michael Anderson , best known , I suppose , for " Around the World in Eighty Days . " As a director of thrillers like this , there is a good deal of variance in the quality of his work . There are some startling shots . A cowering figure seen from behind Cagney's spread legs . And some of the startling shots don't work at all . Cagney , mortally wounded , is seen from ground level , and when he topples over forward his face bangs into the camera as it hits the dirt , facile novelty . Cagney was 60 years old when this was filmed and he looks a little chubby , almost cherubic , but he still manages to bend over and lurch forward when he walks , though perhaps with less lilt . His impression of an Irishman is mediocre . His best impression was always that of Jimmy Cagney , but he's not a contribution to the film's several weaknesses . He's a journeyman actor and knows his business . Ireland would have been a good location for shooting films noir . The cities are sprawling and grimy with some cobblestone streets and a constant gray overcast , often drizzly . When I was last there , during the last outbreak which seems to have ended finally , the graffiti was all about the IRA , pronounced Eee-rah by the kids . See Carol Reed's " Odd Man Out " for a sublime example of what poetry can be wrung from such a grim setting .
Unpleasant story	I don't know if much would have been made of this had it not been directed by Jean Renoir . It's a strange and confused film . The main characters are Bickford , a blind and embittered ex-artist ; Joan Bennett , his nymphomaniacal wife ; and Ryan , a Coast Guard officer tortured by post-traumatic stress syndrome . ( He has nightmares , conscious flashbacks , and is irritable and a little paranoid . ) It isn't a noir film except by the broadest definition of the term . Too much of it is shot outside in the daytime and - - here's a noir marker for you - - it has NO snub-nosed . 38 caliber revolver ! If it doesn't have THAT , it's no noir . The story doesn't make too much sense , but it's hard to blame Renoir for this . Rather the writer , Frank David , and , as I understand , the studio itself should take the responsibility . It's basically a romantic drama involving Bickford , Bennett , and Ryan that doesn't hang together too well . Why does Ryan suspect that Bickford can really see ? Why in God's name would a man to whom painting is everything pretend to be blind ? And what is going on with Bennett's character . She seems to be in lust with Ryan and they make love , but it is later revealed that she's gotten in on with other young men . For that matter , there are times when she seems genuinely fond of her husband too . Bickford's and Ryan's performances are good , as always . Both of the actors seem invariably to come across as rock hard and unyielding , here and elsewhere . There is no mystery to Ryan's job . He's a full lieutenant in the Coast Guard . During World War II Coast Guardsmen manned Navy transports and small boats like landing craft in both the European and Pacific theaters . Coast Guard cutters were assigned to convoy escort duty in the Atlantic and several were torpedoed . This , evidently , was what happened to Ryan's character . ( Kids - - I don't want you to get lost here . The USA and its " allies " fought against the Germans and Japanese between 1941 and 1945 . This was known as World War II . PS : We won . ) During the war and for a short period afterward , some Coast Guard stations conducted beach patrols on foot or on horseback . One patrol caught three Nazi spies who had just landed on a deserted Long Island beach from a submarine . It is a little-known fact that that no-longer-empty stretch of Long Island coastline is now covered with condominiums owned by plastic surgeons and plumbers and is worth one half billion dollars per square foot . The ending is a triumph of ambiguity . Bickford gaily destroys his own paintings , worth a fortune , to " free himself from the past . " In fact he blows the entire beach house up . He tells Bennett that she should drive him to New York so he can begin a new life , although he's already tried writing instead of painting and it came out like this - - " The idea that man is good is bunk . Pure bunk . Every man has a split personality . " At any rate , now that he is free of the past , so is she , whatever that means . They walk off arm in arm to the right of the screen . Ryan , without a backward glance at them , strides off alone to the left . It's as if the director had thrown up his hands , shrieked " Au DIABLE ! " , and told the actors to do whatever they wanted . Most worthy of attention : Ryan's and Bickford's acting . Oh - - and the breezy sunny isolated beach front atmosphere .
Important subject ; routine film .	All these young women are being murdered in and around Juarez . Nobody knows who's doing it or why . ( True enough , though not often noted in the American press . ) The editor of a Chicago newspaper ( Martin Sheen ) sends an ambitious reporter ( Jennifer Lopez ) to Juarez to investigate the events and report back to him . In Juarez , Lopez hooks up with an ex-lover ( Antonio Banderas ) who now runs the fictional newspaper Sol de Juarez . His is the only local paper taking the wave of murders seriously , the others treating them as minor incidents , perhaps the result of domestic violence . This is also the view of the police , who don't want to stir up any local muck . So Lopez and Banderas run into obstacles all along the way , even when they take under their wing a young woman who has almost miraculously survived an attack . The movie suggests that the real culprits here are the American-funded factories that were built in the border towns after the passage of NAFTA . The girls who work in these sweat shops , the maquiladoras , are not worth protecting - - not at four dollars a day - - and so are expendable because there are always more lining up for the jobs . This is a simple-minded explanation of a revolting , complicated , tragic and fascinating social problem . Some men , somewhere , have learned that it is easy to rape and murder a young woman around Juarez , bury her body in the desert , and walk away from it . And the movie slips us a formula , like an an easily swallowed pill , along the lines of " B is a function of A . " Plot aside , the development of events is confusing . I lost track of the identity of some of the characters and their motives . The movie never sinks to the obvious level of a stereotypical slasher film , though . It's ambition prevents it , and presumably the writer and director's taste . The action scenes are handled fairly well . The photography is a distraction . It's in high contrast , such that if , in a sunlit room , a figure moves into the shadows , it disappears into the blackness while the rest of the environment remains an eye-numbing glare . And the images are in saturated yellow , seeming to overheat all the surfaces and turn them grimy and even more squalid than they already are . At night , they are blue but the same effect is achieved . There's nothing wrong at all with the performances . Jennifer Lopez is no longer the sex bomb of yesteryear but she's acquired more character as an actress , still has that enduring mandible and cantilevered rear end . Antonio Banderas , I like . The guy isn't exactly handsome but has a face and demeanor that are at once masculine and sympatico . Martin Sheen may be a little weak , or perhaps it's his formulaic lines being shouted over the roar of giant newspaper printers . ( " Incredible humanity . " ) I wish this well-intentioned film had been better than it is . I think it's a mistake to simplify complex social problems into a conflict between a good side and a simple , single bad side . But that generates an even more disturbing thought . Suppose the film makers were right to boil this anfractuous story down into its bundle of two oppositions ? Suppose the average viewer is unable any longer to grasp the multivaried aspects of a wave of unrelated murders of young women ? Or - - well , not UNABLE to grasp complexity , just unwilling to put out the effort to do so ? How much easier to pick a villain and stick to it . How much more appealing to an impatient public . How much more commercial . Even if genuine ambiguity must be thrown out the window .
Menace 2 Society .	This is the story of a world-famous boxer unjustly imprisoned for more than two decades for felony murders he did not commit . His conviction , upheld in a second trial , before he is finally released by a federal court , is practically an operational definition of the term " railroaded . " Rubin " Hurricane " Carter would still be in Trenton State Prison , a hell hole if there ever was one , if it hadn't been for the altruistic efforts of three adults and one adolescent member of a Canadian commune , who became amateur sleuths by accident . The film isn't particularly complicated . In fact , it's dumbed down to a point beyond which a lack of comprehension would be attributed to pathology . Almost all the frissons that might have made this more than a simple tale of moral strength and fortitude have been left out or shaped to fit a familiar mold . Dan Hedaya , for instance , is Paterson , New Jersey's Detective Della Pesci , the personification of racist-motivated darkness . The only reason he's in the movie is to snarl , threaten , make foul racist remarks , chivvy Carter , and see to it that he spends as much time in the slams as possible . Now , imagine that the movie gives him edge and adds other dimensions . Imagine , instead of Detective Della Pesci , Inspector Javert of " Les Miserables , " another police officer who simply cannot give up his persecution and yet is recognizably human rather than another familiar stereotype . It would have been so EASY to give the heavy a family and a dog or at least a social context - - rising black crime in the cities of the 1960s and the panic associated with it . Yet the writers and the director throw away any chance to turn the film into something other than a condemnation of racism and the white people infected by it . As a kid , Hurricane stabs a middle-aged white guy only to save his chum from an oily child molester . Does anyone believe this ? Ho hum . Not to diminish the heinous effects of racism ( or , more generally , prejudice ) in our justice system . It's an imperfect machine , and Carter suffered abominably for every fourteen-year-old black kid who ever decorated a brick wall with graffiti from a can of spray paint . During one of his trials , the prosecution refers to his having been convicted by " a jury of his peers " and Jewison gives us a long shot of the all-white jury , in case we might otherwise miss the point . We can't help being relieved when Carter is ultimately released , and can't help thinking somewhere in the back of our minds about those twenty years of imprisonment . Nobody really has much to do as far as acting is concerned . Denzel Washington is pretty good at projecting pent-up anger and defiance . And the writers have his character develop too . At first he concentrates on turning his body into an instrument of power . But after reading some inspirational books he develops his mind as well , and in practical ways . He resists being swept up in the prison system by rejecting what sociologists have called " the small reward system " of total institutions . If favors are returned by cigarettes , Carter doesn't smoke . If submission leads to protection , Carter can do without the protection . His career in the Army , however , was not quite the smooth ride the movie gives us , but let's not dabble in too many discrepancies between art and life . The other characters are rather blank . Life in the Canadian commune was evidently not lastingly satisfying . ( Carter and Deborah Kara Unger's blond altruist were married , then divorced . ) But we don't really get to know much about them . They - - and Carter's legal defense team - - are played mostly as bland do-gooders who would have failed if not pushed to the wall by the power of Carter's will . There's a good movie around this story , lurking someplace , unorganized , entropic , waiting for someone to write it and put it on the screen . It's a parable of good and evil . Not of good people and evil people , but of people who are themselves good and evil , just like all the rest of us . But this isn't that movie .
Tiptoes Around an Interesting Question .	The movie itself isn't very good . It moves slowly and is badly photographed . The lighting makes too much use of neon blue , a popular fad around the time this appeared . The acting is okay , though , except for Ice Cube , who cannot seem to act . The score is routine . The script has two good things going for it . One is that the cops , though authoritarian in manner and attitude , are humanized without being sentimentalized . I'll give an example of what I mean by this . One scene , between Walsh and Ironsides , reveals to us and to Ironsides , that Walsh's cancer which had been though to be in remission has now metastasized and he's dying . Nothing much is made of the scene . Nobody breaks into tears . And Ironsides doesn't offer any false hope or , indeed try to comfort his friend in any way . He simply sits there and listens while Walsh , again without going into it , quietly talks about how he'd like to leave his family with a little something . The script and the director handle Walsh's death scene in the same understated way . Walsh's comrades try to revive him and finally give up . None of the assembled cops says anything . Cops wouldn't . But they are clearly moved by the passing of their friend . That's what I mean by " humanizing " them without " sentimentalizing " them . The second interesting thing about the film is that it dips a toe into some curious and seldom-dealt-with sociological waters . It brings up the question of primary allegiances . That is , to whom do we owe our main loyalty ? Which group are we willing to make the most sacrifices for ? Some groups are far more demanding of us than others . I may not care much about being a mailman , for instance , but I care an awful lot about being , say , an African-American mailman . Most ethnic groups are surrounded by clear social borders - - you're either one of us or you are not one of us . The same is true for some other groups - - doctors , airline pilots , U . S . Marines , and stunt men , to mention a few examples that I'm familiar with . Cops demand that kind of loyalty too . And here we have two " minority " members who find themselves working for the Sheriff's Office . Boatman is black and is a cop . Lori Petty is a woman ( and a Jew , I think ) and is a cop too . Which allegiance takes priority - - the allegiance to the minority group or to one's comrades on the police force ? What happens when loyalties come into conflict ? The film brings the question up but soon dumps it . Both rookies try to show their loyalty to their partners by hiding mistakes and so forth , but then they quickly return to the politically correct corners . Boatman realizes that he is black before he is blue . And why not ? There's not a bad African-American to be seen . Petty undergoes a similar transformation . It's kind of a cheap way out . We can all feel satisfied now that our true identities have been found and all the corrupt and dissembling cops have been cleaned out . Sure . I wouldn't recommend this , really . The missed opportunities are wincingly obvious . It's rather overlong , too , and the story resembles " Serpico . " Even the title is second-hand . " The Glass Shield . " It sounds like a variation on the pop culture phrase , " the glass ceiling , " suggesting that the female cop , Lori Petty , will run into prejudices . ( She does , but that has nothing to do with the plot . ) The title also references other paradoxical titles like " Steel Magnolias , " " Iron Butterfly , " " Led Zeppelin , " " Limp Biskit " , " The Glass Key . " If it took more than five seconds to arrive at the title , the writers didn't deserve their paycheck .
The Appearance of Impropriety .	This is a big colorful Hollywood drama and murder mystery . Van Heflin is a wealthy Broadway producer . In his wife's absence ( Gene Tierney ) , he befriends a twenty-year-old girl who is a would-be writer , Peggy Ann Garner . She stands out as refreshingly candid and likable , especially in the midst of all the vacuous and egomaniacal theatrical types around her - - the bitchy and outrageously hammy Ginger Rogers as a famous actress ; her husband , the lumpen Reginald Gardner who would starve on his own ; some snooty but likable Boston Brahmins ( Virginia Leith and Skip Homeier ) . Best performance in a small role : Hilda Simms as a waitress , the only cast member who acts as if she's not trying to reach the balcony . Heflin takes an avuncular interest in the innocent Garner and allows her to write in his apartment because it has an inspiring view of Central Park . Nothing more than that , and an occasional lunch or dinner together . But when Tierney returns and Heflin meets her at the airport , they reach their apartment only to find Garner's body hanging by the neck in the bathroom , in a spooky shot built around the shadow of the corpse with its head pulled all the way back . George Raft enters the story as a police detective who immediately eyes Heflin as a suspect . It turns out that the naive Garner was strangled before being hanged , and that she was in fact pregnant at the time . And here Heflin claims to have been " letting her work in my empty apartment during the day . " Right . Heflin spends the rest of the movie trying to track down the real murderer . Raft spends the rest of the movie tracking down Heflin . There follows one red herring after another , as it is gradually revealed that Garner was in reality a phony , manipulative , lying , greedy bitch . The killer turns out to be not who you might quickly think of . You know something ? This is basically a noir story but it's acquires a dual personality due to the impeccably ( and horribly dated ) grooming of the cast . There's not a single ignorant bum in it . No ex-boxer with a skull as empty as a basketball . The external shots of New York are fine and evocative - - a telephone exchange is Murray Hill , not 555 . There are ads in Times Square for the now extinct Knickerbocker beer , which wasn't bad . But the set decoration is sufficiently generic upper-middle-class to coagulate the normal eyeball . Bland , clean , sterile , with carefully place figurines in everybody's apartment - - Buddhas , African fertility jub-jubs , life-sized Chinese statues of the Goddess of the Jade Empire . Nothing is ever out of place . There are no dishes in the sink . The walls are creamy and the doors a dusky green . I hope no one is going to argue that this is a noir milieu . Not that the plot suggests anything more than the disarticulated skeleton of " All About Eve " either . It's not that sophisticated and not that overwritten , though it is more overwrought . As a director , Nunnaly Johnson was a good screenwriter . But how did he allow so many anomalies to creep into the script ? " The secret of love is greater than the secret of death . " If he's ripping off Oscar Wilde , then it's a higher order parody because Wilde was a parody of himself . And the title . A female black widow spider , as we all remember - - and in case we didn't , Van Heflin's portentous introduction reminds us - - kills and eats her mate after the marriage is consummated , exactly like my ex wife . But what's this got to do with the story we see unfolding on the screen ? Why . nothing at all . The more recent " Black Widow " , with Deborah Winger and Teresa Russell - - now there is a full-fledged and well thought out film ( except for the climax ) . Still , I don't want to dismiss this too easily . Van Heflin's character is true to his wife and likable enough that we don't want to see him hanged for something that he not only did not do , but did not even think of doing . If it weren't for that , this could easily have been a talky and ill-joined play , with everyone standing around in those neat apartments , hurling zingers at one another and ducking behind those pistachio tchotchkes .
Liesurely cross-cultural murder mystery .	There is an ancient Japanese saying , " Always leave the cage door open in case the bird returns . " Another ancient Japanese saying goes , " Tempus fugit . " Man , is this movie dated . When this was written , what the Japanese don't already own , they seem to be buying up . Their technology was light years ahead of ours and everyone was prosperous . But the bonny economy of Japan collapsed about fifteen years ago and has lingered in the doldrums since then . Crichton wrote this when the bloom on the Japanese chrysanthemum was flush . He does a fairly decent job of explaining the differences between the two cultures and how easily they lead to misunderstandings . His protagonist here is Sean Connery . The sidekick is Wesley Snipes , an L . A . detective investigating a murder that took place in the midst of some high-level negotiations between Japanese and American businessmen . Sidekicks are useful characters , almost essential to a didactic film like this . Their role is that of the naif . " You see , " the expert Connery can explain to the assistant Snipes , " this is how you do things around here . " The dumb sidekick of course is a stand-in for the dumb audience . The sidekick , though , is also usually a source of humor , like King Lear's Fool . And here Snipes ' range as an actor illustrates its limits . Nobody expect an actor of his dignity to do pratfalls or make a fool out of himself , but he's given some moment that are intended to be amusing and he doesn't pull them off . Not that they're genuine belly busters to begin with . Snipes always seems a little too much on top of things . What he doesn't understand , he treats with contempt . Punch first and ask questions later . ( His problem is nothing compared to the magnitude of Sylvester Stallone's . ) Connery seems on top of things too but in his case it seems acceptable . For one thing , that's his role . He's the teacher . For another , Connery , with those skeptical , asymmetrical eyebrows , may be the only durable lead actor in history to have never uttered a believable word . He is simply unable to take himself seriously , whereas Snipes is intense throughout . Snipes , though , is a fine physical actor and gets a chance to cool off some Yakuza now and then . The story revolves around the murder of a beautiful young house girl on the conference table of a board room . There is a lot of chasing around after disks and whatnot . Interesting to watch techies manipulate the data on their advanced , second-generation laser-disk readers . I hope the National Security Agency is watching this . The plot is intricate and mostly appears to be a peg to hang the moral and technological lessons on . Frankly there were times when I was lost . I'm not sure I understand the murderer's motives . But I must say I knew from the outset that it couldn't have been a Japanese because no Japanese man would be so impolite as to strangle a beautiful woman he was having sex with . At any rate I was happy to see the heavy dropped into a block of fast-drying cement and disappear beneath the surface . I didn't like his hair do anyway . The movie's nothing to get excited about , and everyone involved seemed to realize it . But it does while away the time in case you feel a need to make time fly even faster .
Portrait of the Protagonist as Schmuck .	Poor Farley Granger . He's memorable largely because of three pictures he made : " Side Street , " " Strangers on a Train , " and " They Live by Night . " ( In two of them he played opposite Cathy O'Donnell , as he does here . ) The roles were almost the same . Innocent young guy gets swept up in all kinds of murderous shenanigans , pursued by cops , wanting only peace of mind and his girl friend . This one is really more of a crime drama than a film noir , depending on the generosity of your definition . Granger steals what he believes to be two hundred dollars out of an unguarded filing cabinet . It turns out to be thirty large , blackmail owed by a prominent figure to a , well , a working girl . Stricken by conscience , Granger tries to return the money . But what a schlemiel he truly is . He could have simply kept the money because , after all , nobody has any idea he took it . And the blackmailing girl having been killed by her boyfriend , the money now belongs to nobody . He could have mailed the victim the remaining funds . He certainly knows the name and address since he was the mailman . Failing that , if he insisted on returning the money in person , the last thing even a low-mimetic type like Granger would do is waltz into the victim's office , announce his name and address , and then claim he was merely a " go-between " acting for a " friend " who wanted to give back the loot . Granger is saddled with a young wife and a brand new baby , who is only in the film long enough for us to witness his display of paternal pride . He needs the dough , you see . But every time he thinks he's being smart , posing as someone else , ferreting out the address of someone he needs to talk to , he gets outwitted , bopped on the head , and at the end he's taken for a ride towards the East River . He escapes , but barely . Paul Kelly provides the Reed Hadley narration at the beginning and the end . " This is a man who is a little weak , like some of us . A little foolish , just like most of us . " ( I wonder how often Rod Serling saw this . ) There is a nicely staged climactic chase and shoot out while cop cars zoom after a taxi . It ends in front of the New York City Courthouse . Granger is only wounded and while O'Donnell weeps and tries to smooch him through the ambulance window , Kelly reassures us , " He'll be alright . " Sure he will . As soon as he finds a way to beat the raps for grand theft larceny , breaking and entering , and several charges of felony obstruction of justice . Yet I kind of liked it . Neat location shooting . Manhattan in 1950 , more smog than today but fewer people . The bartender knows your name , although you can't trust him . One murder every day , Kelly tells us , as if this were shocking . ( In 1990 , there were 2 , 245 murders , or 6 . 2361111 every day . ) Not a sign of the potential energy the city was pregnant with , just about to become kinetic - - Kerouac , Burroughs , Cassidy , Ginsberg , Pollack . There isn't much location shooting but what there is , is effective . When Granger looks at a phone book , we see New York in 1950 , when the phone numbers has real NAMES for exchanges . Names like Plaza . And Murray Hill . And Circle . And Grammercy . What do you find now ? More NUMBERS , that's what you find ! 21212324680 ! You call that a telephone number ? And you're lucky to get the ( 212 ) instead of that new-fangled low-class one . Where did it all go ? Pass those Kleenex , would you ? Thanks . ( Sob ) Anyway , the plot at times becomes a bit twisted and hard to follow as everyone tries to track down everyone else , but you'll probably enjoy it .
Voloptuous and spooky .	To tell the truth , I was a little confused by the plot . Yes , it's true . The story that used to be on every high school reading list lost me here and there . I can't remember the original , but did it really include so much detail about family trees and inheritances and local conspiracies to hide forbidden truths ? It's hard to believe that it did . It probably doesn't matter that the story is confusing at times because the cinematography and set design are are so resplendently dismal as to be spooky in themselves . And if the constant twilight , the desaturated colors , the late Fall atmosphere , the general gloom of both the interiors and exteriors don't creep you out , there's always the Headless Hessian Horseman with his flailing blades . ( He twirls them around in his hands like a gunfighter's six-shooters and they have this swishing sound . ) The acting is pretty good too . Johnny Depp seems a little stiff at time but maybe the part calls for it . Christina Ricci looks almost edible with her wide forehead , enormous doll-like eyes , and diminutive splanchnocranium . The supporting players are all just fine , including Christopher Lee , with the exception of the kid who serves as Crane's sidekick . He sounds as if he's still practicing his lines . The story has a couple of false starts . Depp is first set up as a kind of visionary Sherlock Holmes type . He has invented new tools for investigating crime scenes . But none of them is explained and he is seen using them only once , for a purpose we can't define . We expect him , based on this early exposition , which leads to his exile from New York City to Sleepy Hollow , to be a scientific genius . But that's soon gotten out of the way . It isn't long before he meets the Horseman himself and realizes he's dealing with the supernatural . At that point , alas , the movie begins to lean more heavily on the clichés of the slasher movie . People do stupid things that put them in danger , for instance . Having just run away from the Horseman and knowing they are still being stalked by him , two guys stop running , turn around , and stare into the fog to see if their pursuer will show up . ( Huh ? ) The constituents of the slasher movie are always there , lurking in the mist , ready to attack at any moment , like the Headless Horseman ( and I DO mean " headless " ) . The very first murder , in the opening few minutes , has a guy in a cornfield get his head lopped off and we see the blood splatter across the face of a Jack o ' Lantern . Almost all the heads are chopped off graphically on the screen although there isn't that much blood , thanks . I suppose that kids , who ought to enjoy this movie , were part of the intended audience so the gore was contained . As for the Horseman himself - - well , I don't think I like him too much . He's presented as an immortal action figure . He's always in motion , galloping a horse at full speed , striding quickly around . He's dressed in a black cloak over black armor , which is alright , but I think he might have been spookier if he'd been less energetic and more of a plodding , implacable menace . The staging of his attacks are low-brow . There are sword fights out of any number of action movies , with two antagonists , flashing blades , twirling figures , swishing and clanking sounds - - all to no purpose since it's already known that the Horseman can't be beaten . At least they didn't throw in any flying kicks from the Chop Sockey movies . But the figure himself is really terrifying , especially when we don't have a clear view of him . The parts I enjoyed most were simply those in which frightened people were whispering in the shadows . The look and the feel of the late 18th-century Hudson Valley are admirably conveyed , though even that is a little too heavily laid on . Can't remember a single scene that takes place in broad daylight . It's as if the sun didn't exist in Sleepy Hollow .
Bang , bang - - then BOOM .	As with any effective action movie , you're glued to the screen even as you goggle at the stupidity of it all . People get shot , sawed in half by wire ropes , blown up , run over by renegade subway trains , electrocuted by helicopters whose rotor blades make a mare's nest of high-tension power cables . I couldn't count the number of exploding fireballs . There are , I think , three maniacal car chases . ( It depends on how you define car chase . Is a lone cab bounding at full speed through the woods of Central Park a " car chase " ? ) It's like watching a Roadrunner cartoon . Bruce Willis is spat out of an aqueduct tunnel by the force of the water , loops through the air , and plops down into a mud puddle unhurt . " Whew , " he's likely to say , " what a # @ # % ! % # @ ^ % ! ing close call THAT was ! " Samuel Jackson as his unwilling partner matches him step for step , in a plot partly structured along the lines of the old mismatched cop movies that ran out of steam a decade or so ago . Both Willis and Jackson are quite good for reasons most people already will recognize . There's nothing like a blood-covered Willis wisecracking and wincing with real pain as he extracts a piece of shrapnel from his flesh with his own teeth - - unless it's Jackson with his bulging eyes and crackling high voice responding angrily to some racist remark . " Say WHUT ? " I see I've kind of skipped much of the plot but it wanders off in several tenuously related directions anyway ? Jeremy Irons with a faux German accent is the heavy and he belongs in a different movie . Nobody else registers . You know what it's like ? It's like a comic pornographic film . " Debby Does New York . " Exciting episode follows exciting episode and they are linked by only the slenderest of narrative threads . Let's see . That makes it a combination skin flick , mismatched cop movie , and Roadrunner cartoon . Hmmmm . Yeah , I guess that about covers it . It's tense , amusing , and filled with stunts . And if you're in the proper mood it's captivating .
Action exciting , romance requisite , history baloney	This one has all the John Wayne tag lines , the less literate ones , like : " Don't throw your arm out of joint . " " Into each life a little rain must fall . " ( That's from Longfellow but he doesn't know it or he wouldn't have said it . ) " Knock if off . " " Let's not get religion . " " Drift " ( To a hooker . ) " Some guy makes a mistake he don't walk away . Forever more he don't walk away . " The story of a rifle squad in the Pacific , with Wayne as its leader / hero . The poor guy never lived it down . He was exempt from the draft but with everyone else volunteering he was under some pressure to do so himself . When his attempt to get a direct commission in the Marine Corps fell through he decided that he could do more good making heroic movies than picking up cigarette butts in some army camp . Nobody can blame him . The guy was into his 30s and had several kids . But his movie career as a war hero lends a certain irony to his pop image . As someone once said , " John Wayne wasn't a hero . He was a movie actor who PLAYED heroes . " All that aside , this is John Wayne as movie hero in excelsis . Filmed at Camp Pendleton , it has lots of exciting action scenes of Gyrenes being shot at and shooting back while crawling over sugar-like sand . It looks neat . Most of the guys carry M-1s and there are a few BARs . Boom boom . How to demolish a fortified position , by John Wayne . Then there is the requisite romance . John Agar , whom Wayne constantly referred to as " Mister Temple " during their shooting of " Fort Apache " because Agar had just married Shirley Temple , is the rebellious son of a dead officer , a former friend of Wayne's . ( He's only a sergeant . ) Oh , how the movie falls flat during their relationship . Mr . Temple marries a nice New Zealand girl and she becomes pregnant . When Wayne tries to congratulate the father , Mr . Temple says , " I don't want him to be like you . Sure , I'll buy him books . But it will be the collected works of Shakespeare , not the Marine Corps Manual . " Well , we all know that the mention of Shakesepeare is the kiss of death for any character in this kind of movie . Wayne himself has a brief meeting with Julie Bishop as a whore . Nothing comes of it that we didn't already know . The rest of the romance involves male bonding . History . There are two battle scenes : Tarawa and Iwo Jima . We took both of them of course , but at a terrific price . Tarawa was a disaster for both sides . The Japanese simply would not surrender even though the outcome was never in doubt . The marines , through no fault of their own or the Navy's , landed mostly on an offshore reef and had to wade through a hellish fire . And they didn't rush out of landing craft as we see in the movies . This was like a thousand yards offshore . They had to wade through a thousand yards of chest-deep water . Have you ever been in a swimming pool and tried to walk in water that deep , without 60 pounds of equipment ? The beach wound up littered with American dead , none of which this movie shows . The gesture towards verity is the depiction of the seawall , where all of our troops huddled for shelter . Tarawa was a very costly victory . So by the time of Iwo Jima we had learned not to limit the pre-invasion bombardment . Let's take our time . But the Japanese had learned too . ( We seem so often to forget that the enemy can learn from battles as much as we do . ) They had dug ant hills into the land of Iwo Jima . A person could live quite comfortably there . The naval bombardment , attended by a multitude of well-known journalists expecting an easy and well-photographed victory , didn't do the job . The landing was almost , not quite , without opposition . The real problem came when the Japanese rolled their artillery out of their caves , blasted the landing , then withdrew into their impenetrable bunkers . The movie shows us Wayne leading a team to the top of Mt . Suribachi under heavy fire and planting a flag . The truth is that the team that planted the flag more or less walked up there unopposed . And there were two flags planted . The first one was too small , so a second one was set up , and that's the one we see in photographs and in the sculpture at Quantico . The second one got all the publicity of course because it was too good to pass up - - a great big flag , an heroic half dozen men , one of them a Navy corpsman and another a Pima Indian . The surprising thing about this film is that it is so primitive in its values . I mean , for the time in which it was produced . By the early 1950s movies were generally beginning to show the less glamorous side of military life . But Allan Dwan was old . He approached it as just another task . His major problem with the film was not that its values were so retrograde but that Agar and some of the others got drunk at night . This is well worth seeing , if only in order to understand why William Manchester , a Marine in World War II , was constantly told , " Don't do this the way John Wayne would do it . " Someone finally piped up and asked , " Sir , what has the Marine Corps got against John Wayne . " ( The anecdote is from Manchester's war memoirs called , maybe , " An End to Darkness . " ) Manchester and his friends should have seen this movie . It's still shown as an example of how not to do certain things .
Never Send a Boy To Do a Man's Job .	Hitchcock was fond of telling a story about the meaning of suspense . If two men are seated at a desk , discussing baseball , and a bomb unexpectedly blows up under the desk - - that's shock . But if the audience KNOWS there is a bomb ticking away under the desk , they squirm in their seats and want to shout out warnings to the men and see them get up and leave . That's suspense . He always referred to " Sabotage " as an example of how NOT to manipulate the audience . There's plenty of suspense when the little boy , Stevie , takes the bomb unwittingly aboard the bus but when it blows up and kills everyone , the audience is disappointed . Well , Hitchcock's lesson has been learned too well . In most movies now , if there is a bomb about to explode or a missile about to be mistakenly launched , the expectation is that the bomb will roll safely into a sewer or a puddle of water and explode harmlessly , or the missile will be deactivated with only a few seconds remaining , or the device with the deadly virus will not release its contents because someone takes the plunge and snips the red wire instead of the green . Now , seventy-some years after " Sabotage " , it would be innovative if the bomb DID go off as planned . Sorry . Turned a bit tedious there , I know , but the explosion on the bus is the single most important scene in the film . Oskar Homolka - - he of the villainous face - - is married to Sylvia Sidney . Sidney's little brother , Stevie , lives with them behind the cinema they own . Unbeknownst to Sylvia or Stevie , Homolka is a saboteur who disrupts London's daily life for small amounts of money . ( The motivation for any of this isn't too clear . ) A man from Scotland Yard , John Loder , suspects them and , while under cover , comes to be fond of Sylvia Sidney . Homolka's contact or handler gives him a bomb and tells him to deliver it to Picadilly Circus at 1 : 30 . It's times to go off at 1 : 45 . But the suspicious Loder keeps hanging around and Homolka , not wanting to be unaccounted for at the time of the explosion , tells little Stevie to take the package to Picadilly and leave it in the cloakroom . Needless to say , Stevie is distracted by all manner of goings on . A street vendor pulls him out of a crowd in order to demonstrate a new toothpaste . He's stopped from crossing a street because a parade is marching by . The bus keeps hitting red lights . Finally - - BOOM . I'll quit here and not reveal the ending . The film is clumsily edited but identifiably Hitchcock's . He indulges in some special effects that were in uncommon use at the time . An aquarium tank full of fish becomes , in Homolka's guilt-ridden vision , a downtown boulevard onto which the surrounding buildings melt . And I'm not sure anyone but Hitchcock would have Sylvia Sidney as the woman who has just learned that her brother has been blown to bits by her husband , walk through a cinema , begin to chuckle at the Walt Disney cartoon , and then sit down to watch it . Who else would dare to come up with such a non sequitur ? The script doesn't give the director too much help . Homolka's character is named " Verloc . " It may be out of Conrad's novel , which I haven't read , but in any case it's a vampire's name , not a saboteur's . And what the hell kind of a name is it , anyway ? Verloc . Probably Russian . Conrad hated Russians . He wouldn't even eat cabbage soup , made from a vegetable mentioned more than once in the dialog . A lot of birds in here too , come to think of it . Homolka's immediate superior runs a pet shop full of the things and gives Stevie a pair of canaries . These villains , by the way , aren't the kind you're likely to find in a James Bond movie or even a Bond spoof . They're all uniformly poor ( it's 1936 ) and they have families . The performances are okay . No more than that , except for Sylvia Sidney , who's pretty subtle . No one is particularly colorful and there is little in the way of laughs or even smiles . John Loder's role is a stereotype . Interesting to see Torin Thatcher and Peter Bull in their youths . It's not one of Hitchcock's best-known films from his British period , yet it rolls along smoothly and engagingly . It's a professional job and perhaps a bit more .
Where is Everybody ?	Never having read Richard Matheson's novel , I can't comment on how closely the movie follows the book . Certainly closer than an earlier transposition , " The Omega Man . " A doctor seeking a cure for cancer winds up with one that kills everyone instead . A few million people are immune , as can be expected in a genetically diverse population . Most of them turn into fierce " dark seekers " who have lost all human impulses and only appear at night looking for real people to destroy . The monsters include dogs , but , for some reason , not lions or deer . Will Smith is a doc who is left alone with his German shepherd , Sam , in Manhattan . He lives in an apartment and laboratory overlooking Washington Square and he's working on a cure for the " cure . " Joined by Alce Braga and her son , who have heard his voice on AM radio , he finally discovers the antivenin and sacrifices his life so that Braga and son can escape to an upstate colony of normal survivors , bringing a vial of the serum with her . It's a brutal , suspenseful , violent , and ultimately depressing movie despite the uplifting ending . All by itself , the thought of monsters hanging around The White Horse Tavern is heart breaking . But , man , these monsters are really something . Some of their humanity may have been lost along with their hair , but they zip around like nobody's business and can fling a grown man across a room with one hand . They make a lot of noise too . And they have no respect for furniture . Alice Braga is a sympatico young woman who tends never to blink , but the movie belongs to Will Smith . It requires a strong performance and I'm not sure Smith is up to the job . He tries hard but the effort shows . And his appearance doesn't help - - those outlandish ears . He can be quite good in thrillers that have a comedic component , as in that one with Gene Hackman , " State Secret ? " Something like that . The monsters attack so relentlessly , so careless of their own welfare , that they butt their skulls against steel and bullet proof glass . They can be stopped by light , by bullets , or by fire , but apparently by nothing else . And it's no use talking to them either . The most wrenching scene in the movie is not when the monsters are attacking but when Smith must strangle the infected Sam , the dog he loves and who has been his only companion and helpmate . The director wisely keeps the camera on Smith's face during this ordeal . In the first half of the film , Smith does a lot of talking to Sam and that's good because it allows for exposition . But it does raise questions . When is it alright for a grown man to talk to an animal when the two are otherwise alone ? Okay , dogs , anytime . They understand simple commands . They really do . I tried it with a non-English speaking dog in Samoa , switching from English to Samoan , and in each language using a different tone of voice - - angry or friendly . The dog responded to Samoan , regardless of tone . In English , he hadn't a clue . It's kind of okay to talk to cats too . Talking to your plants is supposed to make them flourish but I doubt it . One night , making clam chowder , I found myself apologizing to each living bivalve as I dropped it into the boiling broth . That's when I decided I'd better get a dog . Anyway , I was sorry to see Sam go , but I wasn't really sad when the movie ended . It's long , fast , and expensive , and a bit tiring . It keeps your interest , no doubt about it , and isn't lacking in intelligence . ( The events of the past are revealed gradually in small increments . ) But , all in all , not worth a second viewing .
A Keeper Without a Lighthouse	I can't remember seeing many movies that were more beautifully shot than this one . It doesn't hit you over the head like one of David Lean's colossal spectacular stupendous architectiptoptoloftical magnificences but it is quietly effective . Faded when it needs to be , dark and moody when required . It's not just the pretty setting . The interiors are as well done as the undulating sea grass . And the performances are equally accomplished . The plot , though . Well - - the plot . It's as if the people behind the movie had gorged themselves on Finnegans Wake and Borges to the point of bursting and then had sat down and storyboarded the whole movie on a major binge . ( And I thought only the French could outfox me . ) There are some notions - - I hesitate to call them " themes " - - that run through the movie . There is the sea , of course , and the island , and the moon ( " Luna " ) , and sex , telling stories , and conception and birth , and reproduction . I'm being kind of loose with some of those definitions so that " reproduction " , for instance , includes writing novels , as does " telling stories " to children . I'm on kind of shaky ground with most of those ideas so let's stick to sex , which I more or less understand . There's all sorts of hetero - and autosexual stuff in it , maybe even a hint of bestiality , but you get used to it . I went through the Human Sexuality Training Program at Berkeley along with a couple of hundred other professional types , many of them elderly ladies . The first thing the organizers did was have everyone sit down in an amphitheater and watch one full hour of pornographic movies , homosexuals at work , old folks , elephants . Satiated , the participants were no longer shockable and were ready to deal frankly with sex . This movie has a similar effect . One erect penis may be worth a gasp but by the time the second rolls around you're wondering what it has to do with the plot . And , I'm sorry but I still can't get over the plot . This guy Lorenzo is evidently trying to write a novel , see , and this girl , Paz Vega , a total stranger , approaches him in a bar and suggests they live together . And at the end they ARE living happily together . It's everything in between that stumps me . I could ask a dozen questions about the plot but will just give one example . What happened to the little girl , Luna ? I could make as good a guess as anyone else but it would still be just that , a guess . Anyway , I won't list them all because you'll be asking yourselves the same questions after you see this film . Not that I want to bash it . As I said , the actors are uniformly good . I especially liked the novelist , Lorenzo , who has a face that is sympatico without being the least bit handsome . And it's a movie for grownups , which nowadays is a novelty . There isn't the slightest nod to raw adolescent sensibilities . Phrases pop up from time to time that raise those little flags you see when you've marked an email message in your inbox as worthy of more attention . " A lighthouse without a keeper . " The plot may be a lot more murky than the Mediterranean Sea in this film but I sat through it all with interest , waiting to see how or if they could pull it all together .
Nobody Wins .	Basically the story of a duel of wits between a German submarine captain ( Helmut Griem ) , ranking officer in a Scottish POW camp , and an Irish captain in the British army ( Brian Keith ) who is sent to administer the camp and investigate the reasons for the POWs riotous behavior . It develops that Griem is organizing the escape of 28 submariners because Germany needs experienced crewmen . The escape is successful . It leaves poor Brian Keith behind . Until the very end , that is , when the escapees are discovered boarding a U-boat off the Scottish coast and , alerted by Keith , a British patrol boat interferes with the escape . The U-boat submerges with most of the escapees aboard already , but it leaves Griem and a few others behind in their rubber boats . Keith , watching the events from atop a cliff , is given the last words . " Well , Willi , it looks like both you and I are in the house . " Interesting film in which nobody really wins . One or two dozen German sailors manage to get away , but to what ? Another U-boat patrol ? After May , 1943 , those patrols were suicide missions . And it's unusual to see Brian Keith , as a genial , quiet , thoughtful Irishman outwitted by a ruthless German like Griem . And he IS ruthless . Unnecessarily ruthless . One of those dedicated Nazis who kills his comrades without compunction in order to ensure the success of his mission . The role is really pretty retrograde , harking back as it does to the Gestapo spies of the 1940s . Other than his tendency to humiliate and kill such skanks as homosexuals , Griem , with his handsomeness and overall Aryan quality , exudes a good deal of charm . He and Keith listen to a recording of Beethoven's third symphony . " Toscanini ? " asks Griem . Keith nods and comments with a smile , " Furtwangler did it better . " ( Furtwangler was not only a German conductor , but a German conductor who played footsies with the Nazis . ) The thrust and parry extends to prison yard scenes as well . There's quite a bit of action . It must have been filmed in Scotland . I don't blame Griem and the rest for wanting to escape from there . Whew . What dreary weather - - clouds , rain , constant dampness and chill . Not to blame the DP . The atmosphere is perfectly captured in the photography . Anyway , is this story " based on fact , " as they say ? If so , it leaves a couple of questions unanswered that wouldn't otherwise be necessary to ask . Eg . , where did they get the truck for hauling " explosives " ?
All This Commotion Over a Nasty Pawnbroker .	What a curious film . Peter Lorre is Roderick Raskolnikov , an impoverished writer of magazine articles in what appears to be 1930s Russia . His whole family is in financial trouble . His sister Antonya is about to marry a pompous blowhard for his money . Lorre can't pay his meager rent . He's already pawned the watch passed on to him by his father . What to do , what to do ? Then it comes to him . Simply murder the old lady pawnbroker . Nobody likes her anyway , stingy old crow . And , after all , Lorre is an intellectual who has written a theory of crime resembling Nietzsche's . There are ordinary men who must play by the rules , and there are extraordinary men who can't be judged by the usual standards . Guess which kind Lorre considers himself . His heroes are Napolean and Beethoven . So Lorre visits the old lady at night and whacks her over the head with a poker , steals her stash and hides it under a small boulder . Nothing to it . On top of that , his editor gives him a promotion and a considerable raise and Lorre begins to get cocky , what with his new suit and all that . He liberates his family from poverty and throws the churlish old suitor out of the apartment , allowing his sister Antonya to link up with her true love . And he himself meets a young and beautiful whore and begins to slip her cash as well as other gifts . But then Lorre is called in to Police Headquarters to meet Inspector Porfiry , Edward Arnold . Arnold finds Lorre waiting for him in the anteroom , shivering with fear . But Arnold isn't interested in Lorre because of the murder . Not at all . He wants a friendly chat with Lorre because of Lorre's recent article on criminality . Lorre is at first wary , then superior , then sweaty with guilt , giving himself away in iotas of implications . Examples : ( 1 ) When Lorre first meets Arnold , they are interrupted when a suspect of the murder is brought it and accused . At the mention of " murder " Lorre faints . Arnold begins circling his prey , all the while denying he has any interest in Lorre as a suspect . Example : Arnold visits Lorre in his flat and , chatting jovially , lights up a cigarette , goes to the iron stove , bends over and flicks the match inside . " Yes , " Arnold announces . " I'm as certain that you're innocent as I am that THERE IS NO POKER IN THIS ROOM . " This sort of insinuation , this cat-and-mouse game , is in some ways the most interesting part of the plot . It's like Lieutenant Columbo , except that here the murderer is plagued by a guilty conscience . Lorre becomes obsessed with the crime he's committed . He can't seem to get it out of his head . He begins to misinterpret the innocent remarks of others . When his girl friend , the hapless hooker , Marian Marsh , begins to read the Bible story of Lazarus coming back from the dead , he hears the line about " the rising of the stone " and becomes enraged because it seems to hint that the hiding place of his loot will be discovered . He's forgotten all about " Lazarus come forth , " which is just as well because Lazarus came fifth and lost the job . I can't remember the details of the novel all that well , nor all the characters and their characteristics . I DO remember that Antonya was Dunya in the translation I read . I also remember that the murder weapon was not a poker but an ax . ( Yuck . ) And that Roskolnikov killed not just the mean pawnbroker but another woman who appeared on the scene , though I might be wrong about that . And in the novel , or rather in my memory of the novel , Inspector Porfiry doesn't just come out and nail Roskolnikov with , " You murdered her and you're going to pay for it . " Instead , Porfiry gently prods Roskolnikov into asking , " Well , who murdered her ? " This allows Porfiry to gape in amazement and reply , " Why YOU did , Roskolnikov . " I'm not sure why this movie isn't more gripping than it is . Directed by the famous von Sternberg . Maybe it's the casting . Roskolnikov is a young , starving student , thin and ragged , not the chubby little Peter Lorre . Lorre had been so successful as the murderer in " M " that maybe someone thought he would be good for a second go at a similar role . And Edward Arnold is not the Inspector Porfiry who edges crablike into Roskolnikov's life . Arnold is an intimidating and domineering blowhard . The confusion and puzzlement that came so easily to Lieutenant Columbo is not Arnold's strong suit .
Culture Conflict in the Mojave .	Conrad Hall's photography turns the harsh , hostile Mojave Desert into the kind of place in which some entrepreneur might build a high-end spa , or a " land developer " might set up a nice , gated community for retirees , with streets that have names like Happy Trail and No Problem Drive and Party Time Cove . Or , come to think of it , a nice strip mall with tony shops like Vuitton and Starbucks and Banana Republic would do nicely . Sadly , that's what's been happening since the events described here took place in 1909 . Dusty little towns like Banning and Lancaster are now sprawling environment engulfers but I digress . Robert Blake is the Paiute Indian , Willie Boy , who kills the white father of his girl friend , Katherine Ross , and takes off with her into the desert , which Hall captures as a rather benign place with towering Washingtonian palms creating a shady oasis , the breeze whooshing gently through the fronds . There is an abundance of springs and other sources of water . I guess I'm dwelling on the environment because it's just so damned pretty , while the people in the story are all kind of crass . Robert Redford is Sheriff Cooper ( " Coop " ) who pursues Blake and Ross from one picturesque place to another . Redford's posse is made up of diverse types , as posses tend to be in such movies . One is a hardbitten old Indian killer , Barry Sullivan , who joins the posse because he " enjoys " it . It's just like the old days , fightin ' the Comanche . Redford himself is taciturn , sympathetic to Blake , and a reluctant hunter . But when Katherine Ross's body is found with a bullet through her heart , he's compelled to track down the worn-out horseless Blake and , finally , shoot him in an act of suicide by Sheriff . This was directed by Abraham Polonsky , one of the famous blacklisted writers who returned from exile . Having been persecuted doesn't automatically turn you into a genius but in this case it's not badly done . Nice shots of Robert Blake running full tilt across the sand , rifle in hand , leaping creosote bushes as if they were hurdles on a college track . Polonsky's loyalties are clear enough . " What did I do to them ? " asks Blake , referring to the white folks . " What did any of us do ? " Well , the Paiute were never particularly brutal , not like the Mojave Indians . They didn't have to be . There was enough water around the Colorado River that they could afford to be farmers rather than warriors . Ira Hayes , one of the heroes who raised the flag on Iwo Jima , was a member of the neighboring Pima tribe . Polonsky , thank God , doesn't revel in White Guilt . The audience is made to feel sympathy with Blake and Ross , if only because these are two lovers on foot being chased by a horde of horsemen who don't understand them and don't want to understand . But that , and a few remarks here and there , are about as far as it goes . If you didn't know Polonsky had been blacklisted , you'd classify this as a more or less typical example of 1960s antinomian values . It's no more propagandistic than dozens of other films that came out of the same period . And what it finally boils down to is an exciting and ultimately tragic chase movie . The covert message will be happily unnoticed by most younger viewers , and easily ignored by the more sophisticated . See Willie Boy run . See handsome Coop , the epitome of handsomeness , dodge bullets among the stucco-textured rocks . Look at the enthralling beauty of the natural landscape , free of giant tarantulas and mutated ants .
Tough and Tender Minded	On a tour of America , Charles Dickens met Edgar Allan Poe . It couldn't have been much of a conversation . One writer was maybe the most effective speller of psychological nightmares who ever lived , and the other was an advocate of the poor and a fighter against social inequity . The psychologist and the sociologist . I never read Dickens ' novel which , if this movie is at all faithful , follows Davie Copperfield from his infancy through his young manhood . There are romantic mismatches and tragedies and a bit of comedy along the way . ( But the film , out of necessity , omits the most famous line from the novel . If I remember it correctly , it's , " If that is the law , sir , then the law is a ass . " ) That line comes from Mr . Bumble . But maybe the most memorable character is Mr . Micawber , on whom a few comments may be lavished . First of all , what a great name , especially for a clown . Micawber is haunted by debt and is constantly on the run from his creditors while trying to support a large family . W . C . Field , dressed in formal clothes several sizes too small for him , is perfect in the part . " Godfrey Daniels ! " , he exclaims in one of his other films . Is that very far removed from , " Shades of Nicodemus ! " in this film ? When we are introduced to Micawber we see him returning home . He spots his doorway clogged with creditors and makes an abrupt about face , sneaking around until he is able to climb through a window into his flat . His family crowd around him and applaud his entry . " I have avoided the scurrilous machinations of our enemies ! " he announces . " In short - - I have arrived . " The line doth roll trippingly from his tongue . His casting as Micawber was stroke of genius on somebody's part , but then all the casting is fine . The actors , the characters , and the names all suit one another . Edna May Oliver as Aunt Bitsy , sensible and no nonsense , and with that strangest of long prim faces . Basil Rathbone as Mr . Murdstone ( pronounced " Murd-stun " ) , the cold-hearted sadistic stepfather . Mr . Dick looks right but is more daft than amusing . Uriah Heap ( great name ! ) , the fawning and evil hypocrite , played by Roland Young . Perhaps only the people who play Davie himself , at whatever age , are a bit bland . The story contrasts two personality types that William James called the tough minded and the tender minded . Mr . Murdstone represents the tough minded - - discipline , authoritarianism , punishment . ( How his eyes gleam as he swats his palm with the switch that is about to be applied to Davie's bottom . ) Peggotty represents the opposite , the always nurturing , always loving maid who , in the end , is as helpless to change things as Mr . Murdstone . The real heroin is Aunt Bitsy , who is tough on the outside and tender on the inside , like a breaded veal cutlet . A lot of subplots crop up . Maureen O'Sullivan , Tarzan's succulent and uninhibited mate of a few years earlier , is a dotty but loving wife who dies at a convenient time . ( There are a couple of other deaths , all tragic because the deceased were fundamentally good people . ) The clever and aristocratic Steerforth breaks up a happy engagement and runs away with a young working girl and ruins her . Those subplots are part of what is maybe an unavoidable problem . They're squeezed into the plot so that the movie must rush along and spell things out like a Classic Comic version of Dickens ' novel . Even the music supports the hasty narrative . The score is what used to be called " mickey mouse " music because it resembles that of a cartoon . If somebody drinks out of a mug , the score matches the tempo of his Adam's apple - - glug glug glug . A shot of a cute little doggie is accompanied by a dozen sobbing violins . I can't imagine how this problem could be overcome , giving the main plot and each subplot its due attention . Maybe it can't be done . The best compromise between the demands of the two-hour movie and the prolix Dickens ' novel may be Lean's " Great Expectations , " although I always enjoy " A Christmas Carol " too . The problem is a real one . Just look at the whole title of this novel . " The Personal History , Adventures , Experience , and Observation of David Copperfield the Younger . " And is this the same novel that opens with the line - - " Chapter One . I am born . " ? I mean , you can see the difficulty . That being said , the movie does run its course cleanly and Cukor the director doesn't linger over any scenes to the point of pain . It's a bit too much like a soap opera in some respects but I was caught up in it this time and rather enjoyed it .
Commercial , slow , professional .	The first third of the movie is pretty exciting , loaded with dramatic special effects - - a storm at sea , stroboscopic lightning , butcher with a cutlass . The second act is interesting too and competently done . The 40-some captured Mende are introduced to New England culture , such as it was in 1839 , and Spielberg does a nice job with language problems , misunderstandings , and the clash between the outraged and murderous big black guys on the one hand , and the psalm-singing shrunken white moralists on the other . The third act kind of loses steam and ultimately peters out in a series of trials - - three actually - - in which the blacks ultimately gain the freedom they'd lost in Sierra Leone . I'll give one example each of the movie's strong points and weaknesses . Djimon Hounsou is terrific as the lead would-be slave . He's an impressive physical presence , tall , muscular , brooding . When he's angry he booms and shouts and his eyes bulge slightly . He is every intimidated white person's nightmare come true . But that's his character . As an actor he's far more sly , and this is no one-note performance . He rarely smiles but when he is obviously pleased he looks out of the corners of his eyes , shyly , almost furtively , and it's touching . His Mende-ness , his " other " - ness , is suggested just enough . He stands a little too close to the people he's dealing with , the way Mediterranean people do . And if it makes US a little uncomfortable just watching it , we can only imagine how the descendants of the Mayflower felt about this whole business . Close enough to smell each other ! The Africans are treated as ordinary folks , which is pretty much what they are , allowing for cultural differences , and we get to see enough of the inhuman way they were treated by slavers to know the suffering they've been through . And that's about where the movie drops the ball . Spielberg and his writers don't really trust the audience enough to allow them understanding to this extent . The Africans , if not exactly ennobled by their horrors , are given dramatic scenes which are too many in quantity and too bald in their intent . Hounsou - - in the middle of a trial in which his fate is being decided , carried on in a language he does not understand - - has to stand up in the docks raise his manacled fists and repeatedly shout , " Give us FREE . Give us FREE ! " And in the denouement , when they are freed for the last time to return to Africa , Hounsou goes from white savior to white savior , eyes brimming with tears , while soupy music swells in the background , and clasps hands with each of them - - at length . ( That last handclasp almost turns shockingly into a high-five . ) It's not only unnecessary , it goes on way too long . Well , I'll throw in another observation . Anthony Hopkins is John Quincy Adama , former President , by this time in his life course a curmudgeonly old geezer with a lot still on the ball . He only has two scenes - - an early introduction in which we see him perfunctorily giving orders to people trying to help him walk . ( " Gimme a hand . " " Leggo my arm . " ) And a later summary given to the court that once and for all ends the legal baloney . The speech isn't really well written . It doesn't say much , and what it says is not particularly gripping . But Hopkins ' performance could not be improved upon . He's got the role down pat , even to the suggestion of a Boston accent . Not MUCH of a Boston accent , but no more than is necessary because , after all , in 1839 Bostonians may have sounded as much like their Brit ancestors as like Barney Frank . The photography is great . The location shooting is good - - those dreary New England winters . Well worth seeing , despite the overdone moralizing .
Captivating Murder Story	This plot-driven story is better than I'd expected it to be . The story is this . An efficient , highly respected cop , Chris Reeves , must cover for his inept younger brother on the same police force . While doing so on one occasion , he is shot by the perp and paralyzed from the waist down . He's retired from the force and is cared for at home by his wife . Reeves passes through various stages of depression and becomes suicidal . He calls his wife ( Cattrall ) and his brother Nick ( Kerr ) together for a talk and tells them that he's concocted a plan to fake his own murder . He's taken out mucho life insurance with his wife , his brother , and his son as beneficiaries . He wants them to establish an alibi , then break into his house as if they were burglars , and shoot him in the head . Double indemnity will then apply and his family will be well off , and he'll avoid the shame of having killed himself . Now - - watch it here , because there be spoilers ahead , important ones . Kerr and Cattrall are not what they seem . Kerr is a shallow guy , a total failure at everything he's tried , despite his brother's help - - self absorbed and naive , and he's been boffing Reeve's wife for some time . Cattrall is the meaner of the two , self pitying , horny , and greedy enough to agree without reservations to Reeve's suicid-by-burglar scheme . The thing is , Reeves KNOWS all this and has set them up . The guns they've been instructed to use are unloaded , whereas Reeves ' pistol is ready to go . Furthermore - - look , mein Fuhrer , he can WALK . Clumsy but ambulatory . So instead of their shooting him , he kills them and claims self defense . Everyone believes him except another cop , Joe Montegna , who can't quite shake the suspicion that Reeves has done exactly what he has in fact done . He comes in for a lot of dish from the rest of the force because they all hold Reeves in esteem . Montegna sticks on the case even though his superiors order him not to . His final attempt to prove Reeves is lying fails and he winds up in the slams and then dismissed from the force . Reeves and his son end up playing baseball together and living happily ever after . Reeves presumably will later learn to walk again in public . And there is that pretty next-door neighbor . It's a pretty good movie . I'll try to make my explanation for that statement brief . As in actual life , nobody is either entirely good or bad . They are all ambiguous characters . Reeve's younger brother may be weak , but he's unable to shoot his brother when he tries . Reeve's wife may be unfaithful to him , but she has a decent job , does what she can to help him , and apparently loves their son . Reeves ' motives are understandable , but excessive by any measure . And the movie itself ends with a murderer getting away with it . Not only that , but Montegna , the only detective who sees through Reeves , must leave in disgrace . Some effort has gone into the plot , and into the dialog as well . When Montegna begins pushing recklessly into Reeves ' status as suspect , the other cops deride him . A fellow officer sarcastically tells him , " You know , you're an obsessive compulsive . You got this obsessive thing . My wife always said you were compulsive . No wonder your wife left you . But the good news is - - you can get help . " The photography and score aren't very impressive . The acting is good on everyone's part . The movie breaks the usual mold from which such movies are cast . Of course it's painful to see Reeves playing a paraplegic . His Superman movies were funny , but only because they were jokes . He was able to put in a good dramatic turn from time to time , as in this movie or in " Street Smarts . " And makeup has given him an unfashionable haircut , the kind a cop might have rather than a movie star . Well worth catching .
Stick to the scenario .	There's no reason to have more sympathy for Koresh and the Branch Davidians than for any other sect - - or any less , for that matter . Koresh seems to have done what so many charismatic leaders have done before and after him . He speaks smoothly , he reasons intuitively , he flatters his flock , and somehow or other he emerges as the guy who can have sex with anybody he wants , just like Father Divine , Jim Jones , or hundreds of others . Not to say that he's a fraud . He may very well genuinely believe in what he preaches . He may really think that he is a conduit for God's messages and that he will live forever . All it takes is a slightly imbalanced mind . It's a pretty good documentary and gives us the view from both sides of this preposterous conflict . Actors " reenact " the events in Waco , although there are interviews and inserts of the " real people " involved . ( These reenactments are becoming so common that they may be our new version of the inexpensive B feature . ) Even taking into account the sincerity of the Davidians ' religious beliefs , the sect doesn't come across as looking in any way particularly admirable . Koresh is boffing everybody's wife and an underage girl or two and getting them proudly pregnant . Sounds bad , but so what ? The human family is a malleable thing and until the globalization of Western values polygyny ( multiple wives ) was more common than monogamy . We can disapprove if we like but the sect was hardly a danger to society . Unlike its fearful collection of guns , its social structure deserves a collective shrug . Instead the might of the federal government was brought down on the sect members and resulted in several deaths on the side of law enforcement and many deaths , including children , on the part of the sect members . Armored vehicles rolled around the compound . Annoying music was blasted towards them . Koresh agreed to surrender , then backed down , then released some of the children , and no one seemed to know how the scenario would play out . A team of negotiators were making some progress in dividing the group but another FBI team , trained to attack , interrupted the negotiations and did what they were trained to do and the results brought the stand-off to a satisfying climax on TV . Indeed , there were times when the incident seemed to be largely media driven . Reneging on a promise is anticlimactic . It ruins the dramatic scenario we think real events should adhere to . If the other side doesn't come across , you force them to . ( This is known as " first-order change " in counseling circles . ) Janet Reno's comment on the conflict was , " We couldn't wait forever . " Why not ? Why not deescalate , remove the tanks , isolate the compound , leave behind a working team of FBI negotiators and an armed emergency force , and just wait ? Because the media would stop covering it ? Because the public would be disappointed at the lack of closure ? That seems to have been part of the motive for the attack . People who don't think " the cult brought it on themselves and deserved what they got " are liable to think " Janet Reno mismanaged the affair . " But the problems illustrated in this documentary don't belong to just Koresh or Reno or the federal government . They are part of American national character . We are a " can do " nation , much more than a " can think " nation . Talking to an adversary is a sign of weakness . We " negotiate from strength . " Or , as John Wayne might have put it , " Talkin ' words is fer wimmin . " We can see this psychological dynamic at work on the world stage today as we demolish other cultures in order to democratize them . As it turned out , the initial problem was to separate the sect members from their gun collection . And we good people certainly managed to do that .
Pathography of American Nazi .	It's 1942 . Sidney Poitier is a psychiatrist at a federal prison who takes on Bobby Darin as a patient . Darrin , a racist and a member of the German-American Bund , is in the slams for advocating the overthrow of the government . Darrin , however , has no interest in having his head shrunk . It's just that he can't sleep and wants some pills to help him out . No dice , though . Poitier elicits from Darrin the personal history of a " psychopath , " raised by a sadistic father and a clinging , seductive mother . These scenes are shown in flashbacks in which Darrin is played by another actor , a boy of about ten or eleven . ( Man , is that kid ugly . ) The child soon sees that the only road to satisfaction and self esteem lies in having the kind of power that derives from a charismatic leader . The leader that Darrin chooses is you-know-who . The power is exercised over minorities like Jews and Negroes . It doesn't end happily . Darrin is released over Poitier's objections and later gets into terminal trouble . Robert Lindner was a psychiatrist who wrote the best-selling " The Fifty-Minute Hour " about a dozen or so of his cases , and this story is based on one of them . Lindner's approach was typical of the times . A patient's problems were rooted in childhood experiences and exacerbated by adult experiences . The drive for power was only compensating for internal feelings of weakness , the subconscious dread had to be brought to light , and so forth and so on . I won't criticize this psychoanalytic approach but it's pretty much discredited today . Bobby Darrin does a decent job as the patient . He's far from stereotypically stupid , a bright guy in fact , if uneducated . He'd been a psychiatric patient before , in " Captain Newman , M . D . " , and gave a shattering performance in at least one scene . And he may be just about right for this part - - small , a little chubby , and repugnant . ( He may have been plumped out because of congestive heart failure . ) Poitier is the soul of reason and restraint . He looks right and he never steps wrong . He can make even the most stilted lines of dialog sing . He was probably one of the best dramatic actors of his time in Hollywood . Comedy was outside his range . I felt - - seeing this for only the second time since its original release - - that there were four weaknesses undermining the film's strengths . One was the direction . Too many close ups , for one thing , of Poitier's sweating face and Darrin's over-sized schnozzola . And the constant switching around of identities during Darrin's tale telling was confusing . Sometimes it's not Darrin in Poitier's office . It's that ugly kid . And sometimes the kid's voice issues from Darrin's mouth , or his MOTHER's voice . Good scene , though , when Dad , James Anderson , shoves a piece of liver in the boy's horrified face . Didn't care for the musical score either . Weird and intrusive . Art direction looked as if it had been executed on an almost infinitesimally tiny budget , almost at the level of my annual income . The city , the store fronts , the brownstone apartments , looked like cheap outdoor sets . The interiors were spare boxes , mostly empty . Nothing seemed cluttered or lived in . And when Darrin is selling apples on a street corner during the depression , it's supposed to be mid-winter and he doesn't look cold - - and he's just had a nice close shave . The fourth , somewhat bothersome element was the script itself . I understand that what has appeared in print needs some cosmetic surgery before it can be presented on screen . Events must be squashed together , or excised , or rearranged , or simplified . But simplification shades into oversimplification . Example : Darrin has had only one " meaningful relationship " with a girl . She's pretty too . She buys all his apples and then invites him into her home . It's a nice home , everything Darrin yearns for , but the girl's father throws him out as an unworthy suitor , and the family is Jewish . Thereafter , Bobby Darrin hates Jews . Well , I mean - - really . He's been a little slow on the uptake all along , having failed to notice the mezuzzah on the door jamb or the mogen David around her neck . I'd like to be able to say that the film's message - - and , boy , is there a message - - is out dated because you have to look under boards to find anti-Semites today , but I can't . Oh , we don't have the German-American Bund or Father Coughlin anymore , and the KKK seems dormant for the moment . The voices of the right are more political than racist , but we still have Evangelicals who believe only they will be saved when The Rapture arrives , while Jews and Muslims and everybody else will go straight to hell . And every once in a while there is an outbreak of anti-Semitic vandalism , not just here but around the world , even in places we prefer to think of as enlightened . It's an interesting story but it's also a misleading story . I don't want to get technical but a major effort was made sixty years ago to find proto-Fascists in California ( Adorno et al , if you want to look it up ) and the high-scoring subjects weren't psychopaths at all but little old ladies and retired dock workers . A similar study in a Texas city found that authoritarian personalities were affable community leaders who had risen to the top by conforming to the values of the people they grew up with . In other words , Fascism doesn't come only from psychopathology . It comes from some as-yet-unidentified social wellspring .
Too Much of a Good Thing	This time around , Sir Percy Blakeney ( Barry K . Barnes ) , aka the Scarlet Pimpernel , has left off rescuing the French nobility from the guillotine , having promised his wife never to return to Paris . But the villainous Robespierre and his henchman are determined to get hold of Blakeney any way they can and lop off his head from crimes against France . They lure him to France by kidnapping his wife , a French aristocrat , and sentencing her to death , knowing that Blakeney and his gang will be forced to come to her rescue . He does . And he succeeds too , not only in rescuing his wife but , with the help of an honest citizen , Tallion ( James Mason ) , he manages to bring down Robespierre and seemingly end the Reign of Terror . Well , Barry K . Barnes isn't Leslie Howard , the original Scarlet Pimpernel , and this is , after all , a sequel , so many of the incidents we see have a familiar ring . Most missed - - the " latent status " of Sir Percy Blakeney as the intriguing master of disguise , the brave and adventurous hero . Barnes still has his disguises , by Guy " Frankenstein " Pearce , and he's still stalwart and noble , but he no longer has any reason to play the effete pouf . Everyone in both England and France knows that Blakeney is the Scarlet Pimpernel . I missed that effete poser . Only for a few minutes , and for no discernible reason , does Blakeney hold that triangular lorgnette up to his nose and exclaim , " Sink me ! " , in the sort of inflection that would feel entirely at home in Julius's in Greenwich Village . Part of the thrill of these masquerades is knowing that the harmless fop is actually a deadly swordsman like Zorro , or in this case a clever manipulator of circumstance . Still , if you liked " The Scarlet Pimpernel " , you'll certainly like this one because of its close family resemblance to the original . I only wish that there were more of Howard's pouf persona present , and that it had an enjoyable and witty set piece like Howard's snoozing on the library couch and putting one over on Raymond Massey's Chauvelin . Sir Percy is a fictional character , of course , and no one actually ended the Reign of Terror , a case of yet another revolution bringing about too much of a good thing . Robespierre , the rabid revolutionary , was himself beheaded . Even M . Guillotine , who invented the demonic machine , met Mme . Guillotine . The result was chaos until order was restored by Napolean , who didn't take long to proclaim himself Emporer .
Schematic Conversion	In all but two respects this is a typical Republic Studios Western . There is little doubt about who is good and who is bad . No sympathy is wasted on anybody . The story begins with a shoot out and takes Wayne , the gunslinger , mumbingly half-conscious , to the house of some Quaker family , who nurse him back to health , introduce him to the purity of their daughter , Gail Russel , and finally convert him from his heathen ways . Wayne by this time was a propulsive force at Republic and this is " A John Wayne Production . " Wayne was in a position to hire James Edward Grant as the writer , and Grant in fact does a journeyman job on the script . He gives some decent lines to the characters , especially the Doc , Tom Powers . In the long run , though , it was probably a mistake to hire Grant . Wayne was so pleased with the dialog that he used Grant repeatedly for the rest of his career because , as Wayne once said , " he knows how to write for me . " Therein lies the problem . Grant kept writing the same laconic , masculine , flawless character for Wayne , long after movie goers had become more sophisticated . Typical Grant-written exchange . Sheriff : " You're a right tall man who looks like he could take care of his self . " Wayne : ( Stand mute , expectant but expressionless . ) Wayne would ride this character well into the 1970s with only minor variations , seemingly oblivious to the fact that his best roles tended towards ambiguity and complexity and challenge , as in " Red River " , " She Wore a Yellow Ribbon , " and " True Grit . " Well , anyhoo . I said there were two exceptions to the generalization that this was just another routine Western . One exception is the fact that Wayne begins as a gun man and ends as a pacifist married to a Quaker . The usual trajectory goes in the other direction . The gun slinger tries to hang up his guns and become a farmer but instead is drawn back into mano a mano combat , as in " Shane . " True enough , there is the final shoot out that the audience is craving and the bad guys die by natural causes ( bullets ) but Wayne doesn't do the shooting . A Deus ex Machina does . The second exception is Gail Russel . She's the Quaker daughter who realizes , after watching the wounded Wayne toss around in bed and mutter about other girls , that she loves him . She does more than simply love him . She throws herself at his feet , even after she's learned that he rode into Rimrock and had a fling with the hoorah gals in the whorehouse there . Gail Russell , not much of an actress , is a porcelain doll , her pale selenian beauty combining vulnerability and sex appeal . ( That vulnerability was all too real . She was found dead in her mid-30s surrounded by bottles of booze . ) But - - never mind that . Okay , she's thoroughly neurotic and insecure . But , as Wayne might have said , I kinda LIKE that in a WUMMIN . Instead of throwing herself at the feet of somebody like Wayne , why couldn't she have thrown herself at the feet of somebody like me ? Granted , I was never much with a gun but I can wield a pencil with the best of them . You should see my fast draw . ( " Fast draw " with a pencil . Pun , execrable . ) The DVD on which I watched this was plain awful . The images were blurred and the dialog indistinct . I was momentarily startled when somebody says the line : " And he had the GALL to ride to this house ? " Wayne doesn't really put much effort into the movie . Grant's lines come easily to him , as does his riding , after all those years in B Westerns . But it's a more complex story than most of his earlier and later ones . It stands up well next to , say , " The Man From Monterey " or " The Train Robbers . "
Delicate French Sex Comedy	I can't remember the name of those French pastries that are about the size and shape of an irregular softball . They look rich and filling but when you poke them with a fork - - poof . They deflate into insubstantiality . And I can't remember . Je suis desolee . And the Mexicans have a similar dessert dripping with honey and I can't remember what they're called either ! Anyway , this movie is like that dessert . It's fragile , delicate , drifting from one absurd situation to another without much holding it together . It's amusing enough if you're in the mood for this sort of thing . Well , I'll give two examples of what I mean . Raoul ( Depardieu ) and his wife ( Laure ) are in a restaurant . He's very intense as he tells her that something is missing from her character , maybe she needs a lover or something , because to him she always seems bored . All she does is clean up the house and knit distinctively ugly sweaters , one of which Raoul is wearing . Laure eats her sauerkraut , looking bored . Raoul has noticed another man , Stephane ( Dewaere ) , giving Solange the eye , so he goes over and invites the stranger to take his wife home and make love to her . There follow some moments of confusion . A passerby is brought into the scene as a consultant . But Stephane winds up at the table with Raoul and Solange and the proposal is made to her . She says nothing , just looks bored . Stephane is insulted that she's not interested . He's not just another GUY , you know ? Raoul argues with him , and the two trade insults in this improbably situation , perfectly serious , like Hope and Crosby arguing about who's going to fight the gorilla in one of the Road pictures . The three of them eventually establish an uncomfortable menage a trois . Not uncomfortable because the two men are jealous of one another , but uncomfortable because Solange clearly doesn't give a damn which one she sleeps with - - or whether she sleeps with any of them at all . Stephane is soon seen wearing an ugly sweater identical to Raoul's . When she doesn't perk up , the men try to get her pregnant , without success . " WHY ! " Raoul asks desperately . " Why does she do nothing but knit and wash laundry ? She never reads a book or listens to Mozart . " Stephane thinks for a moment and asks , " Is it possible she's just dumb ? " Raoul is outraged . As if HE would ever marry a dumb woman ! It goes on like this , while we smile and chuckle once in a while , then it gets derailed . Some thirteen-year-old genius kid is introduced into the film and Solange responds warmly to him , both as a child and a lover . ( He winds up wearing her sweater . ) Solange becomes the maid in the wealthy household of this kid and is made pregnant by him . Raoul and Stephane peek at the windows of the huge house through a locked gate , exchange one or two more quizzical comments , then walk away into the night . The end . It is in no way a sexploitation film , although there's a bit of nudity . Carole Laure is made up and wardrobed in the dumpiest fashion imaginable , her hair a helmet left over from some production of Henry V , gowned in floppy granny dresses , often wearing what looks like a GI-issue watch cap . It would have been easy - - trust me - - to turn her into a sexpot . Check her out in the exercise class in " Heartbreakers . " Gerard Depardieu is here big-boned but not beefy , and handsome in an easy-going way with his constantly unenlightened expression . Dewaere is suitably bookish . The smooth-talking sad-looking genius of a kid who finally rings Laure's chimes should be beaten to a pulp . What does he have that the rest of us didn't have at thirteen ? I mean , aside from an IQ of 158 . Well , you might drift occasionally , and the second half is a little on the heavy side , like so many desserts , but you'll probably enjoy it in its uncloying sweetness and understated humor .
Sins of the Fathers .	This is by any measure a superior movie , yet it's hard to form any global judgment on it because there are several ways of looking at it . The story involves a small-town New England police official , Nick Nolte , who is plagued by personal problems . He's about to engage in a custody battle with the wife who has left him . He's trying as delicately as possible to handle his new romance with Sissy Spacek . His estranged daughter doesn't really like him much . He doesn't get along with his boss , not only the head of law enforcement but a Selectman ( whatever that is ) who is buying up local real estate in anticipation of building a world-class ski resort . Nolte's younger sibling ( Willem Dafoe ) is a professor in Boston and has little contact with him . His mother dies . His father , James Coburn , is a wretched and abusive alcoholic , the kind of guy who has never made a mistake in his life . And on top of that , a Boston power broker is killed during a deer hunt , the killing is classified as an accident , only Nolte believes he has reasons to put quotation marks around the word accident . Worse than anything else perhaps is the toothache that fills his day with pain . ( I think it's a symbol . ) He winds up yanking the offensive bicuspid with a pair of pliers . All of this tsuris drives Nolte up the wall and he begins to act half crazed - - thumping his little girl away when she knocks him down , destroying half his boss's office before being fired , boozing it up , driving Spacek away , ranting on about how he's going to crack the murder mystery that has been simmering in the background , yanking open kitchen drawers aimlessly then slamming them shut . When his drunken dad hits him over the head with a bottle , he retaliates by whacking the old man across the head with the butt of a rifle , as a consequence of which the old fellow dies on the spot . It seems ( it's not really clear ) that he shoots and kills the suspect and then takes off for parts unknown . The end . The acting is close to being splendid . Nolte has never been better and Coburn deserved all the praise he garnered for his performance . Sissy Spacek's role is relatively small and not nearly as flashy as the others ' but I think she turns in the best job . Example . In the drab farm house kitchen , Nolte is shouting and slamming things around while Spacek sits at the table . Standard reaction shot : Spacek staring in horror at the exploding Nolte , shrinking away from his wrath , her fists curled against her cheeks , protesting , perhaps screaming . But no . She doesn't even look at him . Her chin in cupped in her hand and her big blue eyes stare thoughtfully into empty space . You can practically hear the wheels clicking . It's the story of a fundamentally decent and entirely ordinary man who is undone by childhood demons , a tragedy of almost Shakespearean dimensions . That's one way of looking at it . Another way of looking at it is that it is a simple fairy tale about child and spousal abuse by redneck men , and that abused children grow into abusive adults . We are periodically pointed towards this heuristic by the super-literary and overly sanctimonious narration by Nolte's distant and unhelpful brother , the big professor at Boston University . The murder conspiracy , the narration tells us , was all a delusion . The professor ought to know because he's the one who reinforced Nolte's conviction that the conspiracy was real . And - - if one were to stand back and objectively look at the way Nolte is treated in his social world - - really , some of his anger would be perfectly understandable . Spacek leaves him not because he has abused her in any way but because she seems tired of living with his drunken , lecherous old man , and because she has second sight and anticipates what Nolte is liable to become . Like the absent brother , she doesn't really offer much in the way of understanding or help , though of course she's only human . Nolte's boss comes across as generous but unpleasant , a mean and vengeful anti-smoker . And Nolte's little girl , the one he wants custody of ? What an intolerant little snot ! He takes her for a drive and offers to buy her a hamburger . She reproaches him for the offer . Fast food is no good for you . Mommy says so . She wants to go home . The benumbed Nolte offers another suggestion : " How about the Pizza House ? " Abusive fathers are one thing , but who put all that power in the hands of a ten-year-old kid ? Does anyone want to live in a world in which little kids set the rules ? Or overprotective mothers or people offended by a whiff of smoke and use it as a justification for demeaning others and demonstrating their own moral purity ? Where does all that leave Nolte ? It also seems unfair to the child , to burden her with that much responsibility . If one can get past the cumulative stupidity of that oppressive morality , it's a well-executed picture . I've seen it twice and enjoyed it , but I have to shut down half my left hemisphere to do it .
Profoundly Deep .	I kind of enjoy seeing this movie every few years , for a number of reasons . The first reason is Jacqueline Bisset , She is stunning , all sun tan , big blue eyes that look in slightly different direction , impressively bebosomed , nice legs - - and we are introduced to her while she's scuba diving at Bermuda with her boyfriend Nick Nolte . She wears only her soaking wet T-shirt and a teeny bikini bottom . Later we are treated to her being felt up and undressed by bad guy Louis Gosset , Jr . , and his gang of black thugs . Still later , a bunch of hoodoo priests hold her down on a bed , cut open her nightie , and paint her belly button with a severed chicken foot dipped in fresh blood . The thrills never end . The second reason is the colorful and evocative location photography . Bermuda looks terribly appealing here . The palms , the brushy cliffs , the finely grained sand of the beaches , the salt-encrusted cottages , the eternal sunshine , the soaking T-shirts . After they find a bit of treasure and a bit of morphine in the rotting iron hulk of a sunken warship , Nolte and Bisset consult the local know-it-all and sociometric hub , Robert Shaw for advice . He lives in a cozy two-story white lighthouse atop a hill . The lovely couple also rent a pair of the motor scooters that are ubiquitous on Bermuda and are forced off the road in an arousing chase . The underwater photography is strikingly convincing , though much of it was shot in a tank . The Caribbean has never been so aquamarine . It's like reading Shakespeare's song from " The Tempest " - - " Full fathom five thy father lies " - - only on mescaline . I guess the third is my admiration for the writer , Peter Benchley . This was his follow-up to the blockbusting " Jaws " a year earlier . Benchley takes these vacations , you see , to Martha's Vineyard or , as here , Bermuda or , as later , elsewhere around the Caribbean , learns a little bit about some features of the local culture , builds a commercial story around it , and then gets to deduct all his vacations from his income taxes . ( Research . ) There must have been a fourth reason too , but I'm getting a little foggy . Maybe it's the bends ! Oh , no . I know what it was - - the story . It's - - well , it's FAST . And violently expectable . There are three or four dives to the old shipwreck in the movie and there's not a one of them that doesn't involve multiple hazards . On the very first , mainly recreational dive , Jacqueline Bisset , who can be identified because she's the one wearing the soaking wet T-shirt , is poking her stick around in a hole in the rocks and the stick is grabbed by some unseen varmit that yanks her repeatedly against the hole , leaving her positively breathless although not at all breastless . I mean it . You just KNOW that in the course of these dives a crate of ammunition is going to be shaken loose by a quivering of the feckless wreck and dumped down on Nolte , trapping him in a compartment below . You know this just as you know that sharks will appear at some point and do something that endangers the lives of the divers . For bonus points , a vicious moray eel appears suddenly , its many-toothed mouth wide enough to encompass a human head ( which it does ) . There will be spear guns too , and they will be used in the course of an underwater fight in which dark gurgling figures tumble slowly around one another while grappling - - and simultaneously a fuze sputters nearer to the dynamite planted beneath them . And knives , naturally . Oh , and an exploding fireball above that lighthouse , and another under the hulk . Then there are scenes in which we find out about treasure , establishing provenance ( meaning authenticating the treasure ) , and things like that . Very educational . Should you watch it ? Why not ? We all need a vacation of the mind .
Entertaining Eastwood Thriller .	Eastwood , nobody's fool , seems to alternate between quiet , almost arty films , and commercial thrillers or comedies . This is probably an above-average example of one of his thrillers . The plot - - in brief - - Eastwood is a highly skilled thief and in the process of burglarizing a rich old man's house he witnesses the murder of the owner's wife by the President of the United States ( Gene Hackman ) and two of his Secret Service agents . Clint manages to get away , carrying some damaging evidence with him . The police narrow down the list of suspects until only Clint is left plausible . Thereafter he is hunted by the police ( Ed Harris ) , a hit man hired by the tycoon ( E . G . Marshall ) , and the Secret Service ( Judy Davis and Scott Glen ) . There is a subplot involving Clint's estranged daughter ( Laura Linney ) who gets together with Ed Harris in the film's course . In the end , through Clint's deft weaseling about , justice is done . I had a bit of a problem with the film's moral calculus . E . G . Marshall , one of the world's richest men , is a good guy . We are told this repeatedly and he's shown a good deal of respect by people who should know . But then why did he " give the presidency " to a murdering , philandering fool like Hackman ? And SHOULD he have ? He loses our sympathy when he hires a hit man to kill Eastwood . Evidently , somehow , he manages to stab the president to death . The script seems to want us to applaud him for dealing out power and justice as he sees fit , and to respect him even after he kills Hackman and lies about it on TV , using the pat phrase , " He was like a son to me . " " Good man , " my foot . It's rather a gutsy movie . In most of them , when a " high government official " is involved in some really nefarious business like murder , it's usually someone of lesser status than the President himself . ( Cf . , " No Way Out , " in which , in a similar role , Hackman is Secretary of Defense or something . ) In all of its aspects - - its photography , location shooting , musical score , and performances - - it's professionally competent . If it doesn't probe anyone's psych , it doesn't matter because it's easy to be swept up in the events and the clarity of the characterization . It even rises above that level in its dialog . The plot may be no more imaginative than is called for , but the writers have thrown in some sparkling bon mots . Harris and Glenn are talking in a parking lot and introduce each other . Harris remarks that Glenn is famous as a state trooper for his heroism . Glenn : " I was younger and dumber then . " Harris : " Yeah , I was younger then but I think I'm dumber now . " When E . G . Marshall is negotiating with the hit man , he offers him three million dollars to kill Eastwood , who he believes murdered his wife . Hit man : " You're a good salesman . " Marshall : " Selling sin is easy . " And when Harris first finishes interrogating Clint , Harris says , " I'll see you tomorrow . " Clint smiles gaily and replies : " Tomorrow is promised to no one . " Now - - I'm not claiming that these are Shakespearean flights of poetry , but they're at least as good as a lot of well-known lines from B movies like " Detour . " ( " What is money ? Just a piece of paper crawling with germs . " ) At least after hearing them you don't want to take a can of scouring powder to your auditory canals and clean out the accumulated garbage . Whoever is responsible for lines like that HAD to think beyond the merely utilitarian . Nice journeyman job .
Beguiling Comedy .	Ten-year-old Tatum O'Neal is no Shirley Temple in this tale of a Midwestern miscreant ( Ryan O'Neal , her dad ) who adopts her while scamming bereaved widows into buying his phony , inscribed Bibles . The two O'Neals scrap constantly as they meander from town to town and misadventure to misadventure . Tatum quickly proves as adept at conning people as her dad does and they form quite a team , despite the spats . It's an enjoyable film , a comedy with slightly darker undertones . Ryan's affair with Miss Trixie Delight ( Madeline Kahn ) is emblematic . Ryan picks up Kahn , a cootch dancer and sometime hooker , at a carnival and she and her young , black servant join the O'Neals on their trip through Kansas . Kahn is pretty shallow , though , even compared to the two O'Neals . Ryan spends lavishly on her and presumably is comforted in return by whatever it is that she has and he wants . ( This is the 1930s and " times are hard . " ) Tatum is resentful of Kahn , not only because she sees through her but because Kahn is preempting Tatum's place in the car's front seat . So Tatum becomes jealous and angry and at one point refuses to get into the car with the rest . Kahn tries to talk some sense into her and lays the whole thing out in plain language . Kahn gets something , Ryan gets something , and the two kids get something , and everything will end sooner or later with everybody a little happier . Tatum simply scowls back . " You're going to spoil everything , aren't you ? " , Kahn says , genuinely rueful . Tatum is manipulative enough to arrange for Ryan to barge into Kahn's hotel room while Kahn is picking up a few extra dollars from the hotel clerk . I guess we're supposed to be happy to see Madeline Kahn thrown out of the party , so the O'Neals can go on their happy way unencumbered . After all , Kahn is sickeningly elegant ( " I have to go winkie-tinkie again " ) , while Tatum is plumb forthright ( " I have to go to the house " ) . And Kahn sells her body , too . I must be perverse because I didn't find the outcome satisfying . Sure , Kahn is a liar and exploiter . And the O'Neals ? As the Good Book says , " Let him who is without sin cast the first stone . " Ryan winds up getting clobbered by some crooks he stole money from ( John Hillerman - - great ) . And the two continue their merry journey together , broke but happy . The film does its best to evoke the 1930s , for the most part successfully . A movie marquee advertises John Ford's " Steamboat Round the Bend . " The O'Neals call their hot dogs " coney islands " . There always seems to be a radio playing contemporary pop songs like " Keep Your Sunny Side Up . " It's nicely photographed and captures the area around Hays , Kansas , pretty well , though color wouldn't have spoiled the production . The overall tone is comic and heartwarming and written and edited in a way to sound outrageous - - Tatum smokes cigarettes and knows all about sex - - though I suspect the only people who might titter at her faux sophistication would be elderly people living in towns smaller than Hays , Kansas . No masterpiece , but it's so good-natured that you'll probably like it as much as I did .
Is Newark Worth Saving ?	A few questions . Compared to the original " War of the Worlds , " would you guess the monsters in this modern remake are ( 1 ) smaller than the originals , ( 2 ) about the same size , or ( 3 ) bigger ? How about this ? In the original we never got to see more of the monsters than a single drooping dying spidery hand . Would you guess that in this modern remake you see ( 1 ) less of the monsters , ( 2 ) about the same amount , or ( 3 ) a lot more of the Martians and man are they ugly as sin . Okay , okay . Just one more . A simple true or false questions . The machines not only crash wildly into buildings at the climax but they open a metal maw and disject some disgusting gloppy orange mucous when they give up the ghost . True or False . There are a couple of other differences not worth going on about . This version sticks closer to H . G . Wells ' original ( although , to be sure , not very close ) in retaining the tripods instead of turning them into flying saucers . And this version has less in the way of initial puzzles about the spacecraft and all that bunkum and a lot more emphasis on destruction and special effects . And instead of a girl friend the hero is given a wide-eyed young girl who is already a scream queen . Both version keep the ending from the book , about how God put those little creatures on earth to save humans from aliens from outer space . It ends with a paean to humankind which ought to have been rethought , our chief enemies at the moment , after all , not being aliens from outer space but Homo sapiens that look a hell of a lot like us , if a bit more rabid . This version is better directed that George Pal's too . Nobody knows how to grip an audience better than Steven Spielberg . The acting is an improvement too . Not bad , overall , but predictable in it colossal stupendiferous dimensionality .
Find the Gold in this Picture .	This would be a rather standard heist / double cross movie if it weren't for the fact that the dialog has Mamet's ink spilled all over it . I mean , look at this plot . A tired old gunslinger , I mean thief , wants to get enough money to retire to South America and get a sun tan with his girl friend ( Hackman and Pigeon , respectively ) . To do it , he's forced to cooperate with a bunch of hoods ( DeVito , Lindo , Rockwell , and Jay ) and pull off one last spectacular heist of a gold shipment from Switzerland . The heist itself is complicated and exciting . The double crosses start immediately afterward and , this having been written by Mamet , the double crosses lead to triple and quadruple crosses . Maybe quintuple , I lost count . It ends up with one of the good guy dead , and two of them surviving and securing the gold . Gene Hackman is always reliable , and Ricky Jay with that big porous nose is like somebody we all know and like . Rockwell is suitably slimy . Danny DeVito I prefer to see in comic roles . Delroy Lindo has a face that belongs on Mount Rushmore and an acting style to match . Rebecca Pigeon is not given much to do except walk around and look sexy , which is just fine . The conventions are surprisingly conventional here . A bop on the head with a gun puts a character out for just exactly as long as the plot requires . A real bop would be more likely to stun the victim for a few seconds or put him in the hospital with a concussion . And there is a wild shootout at the end . Mamet's direction is functional and straightforward . He saves all his razzle dazzle for the dialog which varies from the elliptical to the inane . " She's cute , isn't she ? " " As a Chinese baby . " It's a well organized film , though it has holes in the plot . Some of the situations I still haven't figured out . But it's engaging and keeps a viewer involved , and the locations in Montreal and Vermont and Cape Ann are marvelously evoked . In those latitudes there is a refreshing omnipresent crispness in the air even at mid day and the sun is so near the horizon that it seems to turn the sea and everything else silver rather than gold . I recall waking up in the back seat of my car , near Sault Ste . Marie , after midnight hearing all the dogs of nearby farms howling and the sky ablaze with Northern Lights . In the middle of July . Spooky stuff , but there's none of that in this film , which focuses on the much spookier subject of human ethics .
Effective , spooky , Victorian murder mystery .	Dorothy McGuire plays Helen , a mute maid in the Victorian mansion owned by the ailing , bed-bound Ethel Barrymore . It's never a good time to be mute , but this is a particularly bad period because someone is going around in the nearby town and killing young women with imperfections . The constable comes around to warn that the clues seem to point to Barrymore's mansion , so look out . There are plenty of people in the mansion to look out for . There are Barrymore's two sons - - the older professor , George Brent , and the young cocky womanizer , Gordon Oliver . There's the ravishing Rhonda Fleming , of whom Oliver remarks , " I never realized your hands were so strong . " There's the hefty , bitter nurse , Sara Allgood , who never has a good word for anybody . There's Elsa Lanchester as a charwoman who spends most of her time dead drunk or planning to get so . There's her husband , Rhys Williams , uncouth , unkempt , menacing . And then there's Barrymore's doctor , Kent Smith , who falls in love with McGuire , while she reciprocates . Yes , plenty to go around . This is a big mansion . It's a NEAT mansion too , come to think of it . Daryll Silvera was the set dresser and he seems to have gotten everything just right - - the ugly portraits on the walls , the overstuffed furniture , the kerosene lamps , the ugly kitchens , the cobweb-ridden cellar , the potted palms , the elaborately curved dark wood of the paneling and the artfully gnarled staircase . It's even better when there's an electrical storm raging outside and the wind blows out the candles . We soon conclude that someone in the house is doing all these murders - - but which one of them ? Certainly not McGuire . She's the requisite woman-in-jeopardy . Ethel Barrymore is glum and seems to be hiding something , but she's bed-bound . ( Or is she ? ) The professor ? He's aloof , true , but he reacts with sensible concern to portentous news . There's the vain and imperious Rhonda Fleming , but she's eliminated as a suspect simply by means of transition to victimhood . The arrogant younger son , then ? Much too obvious . Ditto for Rhys Williams and , unless she's faking it , the bibulous Elsa Lanchester . Well , how about Kent Smith , as Dr . Parry ? Oh , he LOOKS benign enough , placid of countenance , pacific of demeanor , soothing of voice . But at one point , he tells the younger brother that he'd like to break his neck . Is that a hint of suppressed violence ? Probably not . Kent Smith is the long-suffering husband of Simone Simon in " The Cat People . " His specialty is passivity . He could never kill anybody . Besides , he's a Harvard man and it would be rude . When this film was released , it was accompanied in advertisements by a warning that young people shouldn't attend . They might be too frightened . Today , that should give us quite a laugh . It's a dark and brooding murder mystery set in an old house and although there's a good deal of suspense , there is no violence to speak of . Nicely atmospheric film , though I don't know that that would appeal to some in today's audience who would be impatiently waiting for the ax to appear .
Fish or Fowl ?	One of the reasons it's so difficult to evaluate this movie is that it's hard to tell exactly how much of herself Lili Taylor is putting into the role of Valerie Solanas , the author of S . C . U . M . Manifesto and some kind of play called Up Your . I haven't seen much of Taylor's other work , only ' The Haunting , ' in which she was overwhelmed by banal lines and overbracketed by too much morphing Victorian woodwork and clanging iron . Here , her performance is outstanding but the part is again limited by the fact that , when you come right down to it , Valerie Solanas is not a particularly likable person , despite occasional flashes of wit , perhaps uninentional on her part , written into the script . She's self obsessed , narcissistic , really truly paranoid , all engulfing , uninterested in others except insofar as she can use them , grating in every way , and ultimately she does what so many other persons dissatisfied with what God has given them do : she shoots somebody famous . Her psychiatrist tells us that she was born in Atlantic City and was abused as a child . Well , enough is enough , when it comes to abuse . We have only the writers ' word for that , by way of Valerie's psychiatrist , by way of Valerie , one presumes , without being able to know the actual source of the allegation , let alone its truth . If anyone claimed that they had had an encounter with a UFO during childhood , they'd be ridiculed . But all one has to do is make the claim that he or she was abused , and they get sympathy . Sometimes the claim , no matter how tenuous , can even help keep you from being convicted of a murder you admit you committed , as happened in the case of the Menendez brothers . Everyone seems to claim they were abused as children , from Marilyn Monroe to Roseanne Barre . Maybe the time has come to get rid of the left-over Freudianism that argues that such a tragic event has life-long consequences and helps us understand why the abusee's life now resembles a fouled anchor . Do you know what happens in Samoa when a man or an older boy molests a young girl ? The girl's family come over and beat hell out of the man . Eventually the bruises heal , the incident slips insensibly into the past and is forgotten by all concerned parties , and life gets on with itself . Valerie is an abrasive person . But her grating personality serves a purpose . People notice you when you're a pain in the neck , even if you're homely , disorganized , and not especially intellectually distinguished . It can give you a nice warm glow to have people pay attention . And if your ranting demands don't succeed , you can always shoot someone well known . Then you can go immediately to the police and stake your claim before someone else jumps it . The film contributes to our understanding of how such a mind works , though the producers and writers may not have intended that , but it doesn't add an iota of sympathy to my feelings about Valerie . I worked as a research scientist around the fringes of the artistic / drug subculture of New York during the late 1960s and met a lot of people whose company I enjoyed , and whom I respected and admired , even losers . I wouldn't have wanted to be in her presence for five minutes . She did get one thing right , though . Males may not be ' biological accidents , ' as Valerie puts it , but at conception we all do start off as females , and we stay that way unless we get a shot of androgens during our embryonic development . Those of us who do , become males . So Genesis is wrong : ontogenetically , Eve precedes Adam . But then , so what ? There are entire species of whiptails lizards in the Southwest whose populations consist entirely of parthenogenic females ; now if life were only that simple for humans , but of course it's not , and Valerie got that wrong . Wrong too are the arguments that Valerie was a proto-feminist . Betty Friedan was way ahead of her , and before Betty Friedan there was the anthropologist M . F . Ashley-Montague , author of a well-regarded book entitled " The Natural Superiority of Women . " Ashley-Montague's first name was Montague . As a man , of course , he doesn't get much play in Friedan , let alone The SCUM Manifesto .
Fugu : Hazardous to Your Health .	Don't get this one mixed up with the episode in which Martin Landau plays twins , one of them a TV chef . This is the one in which Louis Jourdan is the TV chef and restaurant critic who is extorting three high-end restaurateurs . They pay him a quarter of their profits . He prints laudatory reviews . This is known as " pay for play . " One of the owners , the estimable Michael V . Gazzo , of Hillside , New Jersey , finally balks at the exorbitant nut and he invites Jourdan to a final meal at his restaurant to tell him he's backing out . Jourdan has anticipated this and has rigged a new fangled corkscrew with some potent poison derived from the liver of the Fugu , or Japanese blowfish . Jourdan shows up at Gazzo's restaurant just long enough to substitute the poisoned bottle opener for an innocuous one , so that Gazzo opens the bottle himself , drinks the wine , and drops dead . Enter Columbo . Not the Columbo of the earliest episodes though . This was late in the series and although the plot is pretty decent , Falk's character seems to have evolved . His head no longer darts about . He no longer seems so ignorant . His movements are more expansive and he speaks more slowly , as if to an audience of unusually mature celery stalks . He squints knowingly and smiles almost constantly . The episode lacks the humor his fans were accustomed to . Maybe it would be more accurate to say the character has devolved . It's more enjoyable when Columbo stumbles into a milieu that is completely alien to him - - fine art , computer geniuses , that sort of thing . Here , though , he invites Jourdan to a final meal over which he will explain to the murderer how the scheme was unraveled . And , lo , Columbo knows how to cook ! " My fodder used to cook for us kids when my mudder was in da hospital having a baby , which was about once a year . " But did Dad REALLY have the time , inclination , and skill to prepare meals of escallop de veau with finely chopped shallots and white pepper ? Jourdan makes a fine villain . He'd been in American movies for almost thirty years by this time and still looked disgustingly handsome and dapper , a kind of Gallic Cary Grant . He's a food expert , of course , but the script fails to turn him into one of those entertainingly snobbish and demanding villains who looks with disdain at anyone in an old raincoat . He's charming throughout and never is impatient . The episode was directed by Jonathan Demme , who went on to considerable commercial and some critical success , but you might not know it . I enjoyed the episode but it was increasingly clear that the time for the series to end was almost here . How many experts can there be for Columbo to outwit ? An anthropologist would call this " pattern exhaustion . " Egyptian hieroglyphics contained a picture of a reasonably well-drawn hand that stood for a syllable . After a while , scribes got tired of drawing the hand with any precision . They became careless and sloppy and oversimple , until , over the course of multiple borrowings , that finely drawn hand with its extended fingers became our letter " D " . Something similar happened to Columbo over the years .
The Doctor is Out .	Part of the fun of the original series , lo those many years ago , was watching Doctor Richard Kimble get turned into Doctor Richard Humble . I mean , here he is in the person of David Jansen , and we know he's got a sconce full of medical knowledge and everything , yet he's running from town to town being a gardener or a pool guy or something , never able to show off his skills until the end of the program when he's called on to reveal his identity by saving someone's life . It was like watching Jimmy Stewart in " Destry Rides Again , " the newly arrived sheriff acting like a bumbling inarticulate naive idiot until half-way through he unlimbers his guns and leaves the town goggle eyed . The movie lacks the tension associated with that kind of status discrepancy . It doesn't really matter much that Harrison Ford is a doctor . He's only called on to exercise his skills once . And he never is hired as a handy man or chimney sweep so there's no real mystery about his true occupation to be unraveled . I'm pretty much skipping the plot of the movie because it must be pretty well known by now . But I will say that the episodic semi-mystery of the original , with Kimball getting involved in the lives of various locals , has been dropped in favor of a standard chase / action movie , and not a bad one if you disregard certain facts . One of the facts to be disregarded , common to action movies of this caliber , is that the human body is destructible . Instance : Dr . Kimball does this Brody out of a sewer outlet and falls down the greatest biggest most horrifyingly tiptoptoloftical cascade of water you ever saw . The scene reminded me of an old Tarzan movie in which Tarzan dives off one of the towers of the Brooklyn Bridge . Like Tarzan , Harrison Ford , emerges from the midwinter water , shakes himself off like a dog , and makes off through the woods with only a look of irritation to show for the experience . The solution to the murder mystery , when it comes , arrives rather suddenly and without earlier hints . All of a sudden there is something to do with falsified results of liver damage . I don't know what's the big deal about Provasic . I once asked a doctor to give me something for my liver . He gave me a bag of onions and that was that . The ending involves more human indestructibility , multiple shootouts , a helicopter with one of those bright spotlights , a chase across a roof , a fist fight in which middle-aged doctors throw punches that would stun a rhinoceros , and so forth . Harrison Ford is okay . We don't get to see nearly enough of Julianne Moore . She exudes intelligence as well as a peculiar beauty . Tommy Lee Jones is outstanding . He brings something unique to each role . And Joe Pantoliano is as good as always , which is to say pretty good . Joeren Krabbe is a smooth villain . Well , with a name like that , could it be otherwise ? Come to think of it , we should have seen more of Sela Ward too , a Southern black-eyed susan if there ever was one . It's easy to understand why , after she was murdered , Ford carried a grudge against the perpetrators . Well , see it if it's on TV sometime . Or rent it if you want action . And if you want action , the first bang-up bus-train collision should keep you happy for a while .
Fast Comedy of Dextrous Sisters .	It's hard to watch this without comparing it to the 1955 musical directed by Richard Quine ( who happens to play Frank in this version ) and starring Janet Leigh , Betty Garret , Bob Fosse , and Tommy Rall . The stories are fundamentally similar - - two cheerful and ambitious sisters from Columbus , Ohio , the level-headed Ruth ( here , Rosalind Russell ) and the gorgeous blond Eileen ( here , Janet Blair ) come to New York to seek careers . They rent a preposterous basement apartment in Greenwich Village where they are constantly finagled with by a sly landlord ( here , George Tobias ) who is an artist manque . Their days are punctuated by occasional blasts from the subway that is being built beneath the building . There are an abundance of kooky characters . Their upstairs neighbor is a dopey , unemployed football player supported by his wife . All the men fall under the spell of the would-be actress , Eileen . The less flamboyantly sugary Ruth , who is an aspiring writer , is disregarded by men until one of her editors learns to appreciate her . The story ( or stories ) must have great appeal . They first appeared in The New Yorker , I think . Then they were assembled into the play on which this film is based . Then there appeared the Leonard Bernstein musical , under a different name ( " Wonderful Town " ) , then the 1955 musical . There have been several revivals . Compared to the 1955 musical version , this seems more stage bound , which is not necessarily bad . And without the musical numbers , there's more room for various gags , some funnier than others . This version is so OVERFLOWING with characters that must have seemed colorful to the folks back in Columbus , Ohio , that at times it's crowded with them , all doing and saying kooky things . A hooker or , pardon me , a young woman ( June Havoc ) who used to " hold séances " and " read fortunes " in the apartment drops in to leave a stack of her new business cards for any former clients who happen to stop by - - and stop , they do . The door lock is broken so people can come and go without warning . There are myriad incidents involving misunderstandings , situationally based wisecracks , mixed identities , drunks , cops , pratfalls , explosions , congas , and dogs chasing cats through the barred window of the basement . This film is amusing in its own right . It's as if the whole insane cast of " You Can't Take It With You " had been shoved into this little basement apartment . With the jokes abounding , they can't all miss . Yet , for a couple of reasons , I prefer the 1955 musical , the only other version of this story that I've seen . For one thing , the 1955 plot is less confused . Bob Fosse and Tommy Rall are both ga-ga over Eileen . ( In fact , Janet Leigh looks a lot like Janet Blair . ) Both Fosse and Rall get more screen time than the same two characters here - - plus , they performances have more charm . Fosse is not the ridiculous goof that his character is in this earlier version . And Tommy Rall gives a better performance as his rival , Chick Clark . Rall was nobody's idea of a great actor but he's splendid as the fast-talking , underhanded suitor . Here , Allyn Joslin seems fagged out and not particularly interested in Eileen . And that's not to mention the hilarious " Give Me a Band " number or a synapse-fusing , blistering " Competition Ballet " between Fosse and Rall . The 1955 version is also more carefully paced , less forced and frenetic . The romance angle is taken a bit more seriously . One has a chance to breathe between manic episodes . Not that this isn't very amusing , just that it was probably more so in 1942 than it might be today . We're less easily shocked . Odd characters living in Greenwich Village ? Oh , yes - - much less easily shocked .
The Guns of Germany .	The two Allied impostors , Richard ( " I've been through hell " ) Burton , and Ciint ( " My Mule Don't Like You Laughin ' at Him " ) Eastwood , have infiltrated a German fortress high atop a craggy mountain , accessible only by cable car . Their mission : discover the identity of a cabal of Nazi spies operating out of London . The two of them , along with three other British agents , are parachuted into the area at night and things , both little and big , begin to go wrong immediately . See " The Bridge on the River Kwai " for another example . Or - - better yet - - " The Guns of Navarrone . " Burton is the leader , savvy and quick witted . Clint Eastwood is already a nascent Dirty Harry , the man who kills without passion . I'm trying not to give away too much of the plot because there are several unexpectable twists in it . First , though , the photography and setting are truly impressive . Gloomy , filled with foreboding , snow bound . Second , there can be few less likely American killers seconded to a British mission than Clint Eastwood . A Wehrmacht cap simply does not sit well on him . And his acting was to improve over the years . There is a scene in which Burton and Eastwood are frantically trying to escape from the aerie and find themselves trapped in a radio room with alarm bells clanging all over the place as the German soldiers search for them . Burton is doing all he can to reach his base on the radio . Eastwood is keeping a lookout down the hall . Eastwood looks through the doorway and announces , " We've got company . " His tone is that of a man who's dinner has been interrupted by the doorbell . And the " company " is about three dozen machine-pistol wielding avid Nazis - - just about all of whom get slaughtered . In fact there is a lot of slaughtering in this movie - - all of it suffered by the bad guys . I mean , this is one brutal movie when you come right down to it . Nobody hesitates to shoot a fleeing German woman in the back . And there is a terrific fight on top of the tram that is twirling wildly in mid-air . A boot-in-the-face kind of fight . The deaths of most of the victims is not at all bothersome , since most are as faceless as Dirty Harry's victims . But one handsome young soldier is listening to a sentimental tune on the radio while Eastwood creeps up behind him to slit his throat , and the scene raises hairs on the back of your neck . And when a bad guy takes a half-mile nose dive off the tram , his scream is as agonizing as those of the sailors that King Kong shakes off the tree trunk . The movie was probably done as it was to satisfy the audience's thirst for a bloody but victorious Allied enterprise , but it is SO realistically violent that it winds up being insinuating . What if the Allies has lost the war ? We would all be sitting around watching German or Japanese agents slaughter an equal number of dim-witted Americans and Brits . However , if your search is for war-time action , this is it . But it's only enjoyable if you keep in mind that it's all a fantasy , like the Rambo movies . Otherwise , you might contract a case of the creeps . Behind the gunsmoke , the movie is a shiver looking for a spine to run up .
An Old Man in a Dry Month .	Michael Caine plays a pathetic wretch who , 40 years ago , participated in the murder of seven Jews in France . Certain rogue elements within the Catholic Church have been hiding him , shuffling him from place to place , and another organization has been sending him money from time to time . I'm a little confused about the other organization . I think it may have been founded by his fellow executioners , also war criminals , but it wasn't easy to follow . Caine is a marvelous actor , but this thoroughly dramatic role of a devout Frenchman , suffering from heart failure , tortured by guilt and constantly praying , is almost beyond him . He is forced to shoot two assassins sent after him by his fellow war criminals , and at those points the movie comes to life , so to speak . So there are two conflicting interests in pursuit of him - - the police who want to put him in jail , and the assassins who want to kill him before he is caught and makes a deal with the gendarmes . The assassins get there first . Caine is such a pitiful figure , stumbling about and asking for help when cornered , that one is reminded at times of much better films like " Odd Man Out " and " M " . We more or less know from the beginning that no Vichy war criminal is going to escape and live happily ever after , so watching Caine huffing and puffing around on rooftops and constantly asking priests for absolution is painful . And repetitive too . Halfway through I began wishing the cops would get him - - or the assassins for that matter - - or that he would expire from an acute infraction of the myoculinary - - just to get it over with . The Catholic church comes off pretty badly . The Vatican wants nothing to do with him . The monks who are his old friends are told to stop helping him . Except for his demons , no one is interested in him . His patron saint , he claims , is St . Christopher , whom I thought had been kicked out of the Pantheon years ago . If I'm right , then he's praying to a discredited saint . ( Is this supposed to be symbolism ? ) It would have been spot on if he'd chosen St . Jude , the patron saint of lost causes , whose medallion I have so aptly clipped to the visor of my Ford . At any rate , we don't see him do anything that could be construed as a reflection of his Nazi-tainted past . He's weak , old , and scared to death . ( Come to think of it , he looks a little like Max von Sydow with his gray hair . ) It's true that he threatens to kill his wife's dog if she doesn't put him up . And it's true that he offhandedly boots the dog out of the way when he gets underfoot . I hope that's not a crime worth being executed for . Caine's performance is so weary and ridden with Angst that I kind of wished he'd get away to Quebec or somewhere . He was involved in those seven murders and should pay for it . At the same time his soul has been in jail for more than 40 years . His best bet , of course , would have been to give himself up to the police , confess openly to his crimes , and spend the rest of his life in jail . It's too easy for a priest to listen to him and say " Ego te absolvo , now go away . " You commit a sin , you do penance for it . I don't want to get into the moral implications any further because they're pretty muddled . I'm not really sure what the film's point of view is . Is it that the Catholic church is corrupt and anti-Semitic ? Is it that repentant sinners deserve to be shot to death by criminals ? It's one of the lesser works by director Jewison , Michael Caine , and most of the other involved . The photography , of Provence , is nice . And the shrike-like woman detective is good too , all angular and sharp eyes . But it's a slow slog overall .
Decent history lesson .	This brand new documentary on The History Channel isn't bad at all , though it seems to carry with it a certain limited view of its own demographics . It's historically accurate , at least as far as I can tell , and has reasonably good production values . When I say that it has a limited view of its demographics , what I mean is that it is designed as if its intentions were to draw in the lowbrows and pubescent kids in the audience and have them cheering at the violence and villainy . It reads rather like a tabloid news article and begins by telling us right off the bat that William Tecumsah Sherman is still thought of in many circles as a bloodthirsty and ravenous pillager . Fortunately , by the end , the myth of Sherman's march has been corrected and that , maybe , is the most important feature of the film . There are quite a few quotes from letters , diaries , and official records . They tend to keep the dialog stilted but thoroughly believable . The actors don't help . Whoever plays Sherman LOOKS enough like Sherman . The poor guy who plays Grant looks like he was chosen because he happened to look more like Grant than any of the other non-actors available . Under that kempt beard he seems Hollywood handsome . Maybe I'm asking too much of the film to address itself to an adult audience . Maybe there should be a bit of the tabloid style in it . It was only a few years ago that a national survey revealed that more than half of high-school seniors couldn't place the American Civil War in its proper half century . ( It was 1861 to 1865 , kids . PS : the North won . ) Sherman's mythos has grown glorious over the years . Every Southerner's great-great-grandfather seems to have had his barn burned by Sherman , even if he was nowhere near it . Northerners tend not to know or care about Sherman because their great-great-grandfathers lived in Lithuania at the time and their families didn't come to these shores until 1902 . I'm only kidding , but I'm doing it in order to emphasize the fact that Sherman is a much more important figure in Southern folk history than he is in the North . Hitler's " popularity " will probably also outlive that of the men who won the war . For all our faith in angels , we really seem to NEED the devil . Some tidbits are left out . After first Bull Run , says a talking head , Sherman was " unjustly accused of being crazy , " whereas he sounds like a pretty good example of a bipolar to me . And Sherman didn't simply " hate the South , " as the film says . He actually had many Southern friends . He was not only the " failed businessman " of the film ; he'd been a professor for some years at an institution that was to become Louisiana State University . It would be nice to believe that this program will be seen by all school kids . Maybe we can bump up the percentage who have heard of the Civil War . Adults will find it interesting as well . It's colorful , full of action , and presented in a way that doesn't make the issues difficult to grasp .
Relaxed spoof with charm .	Something about an aging hippie called " The Dude " who is hired to find a woman who's kidnapping was faked and who was supposed to be ransomed with fake money , but none of that has anything to do with the film , which makes fun of just about everything , fake or genuine . Among the targets of the Coen brothers ' jibes , I was able to identify political correctness , movies about private investigators , Busby Berkley , Njinsky , the psychedelic subculture , pornography , celebrity , the ritual solemnity of funerals , sage old Westerners ( cf . , Curly in " City Slickers " ) , the military mentality , the violent gangs of terrorists with German accents that insist on turning up in action movies , hippies , and Malibu . The acting is just good enough , with Jeff Bridges and John Goodman fitting nicely into their roles . Here's an example of some wit from the dialog . Bridges is a private investigator . He finds his car being broken into by a stranger , pulls the man out , and threatens him . Wait ! the other guy shouts . He's a private investigator too , just like Bridges , " a brother Shamus . " " Brother Seamus ? Like an Irish Monk ? " There's a lot of malice in this film but it's undercut by a gentle , easy-going presentation that embodies a certain off-kilter charm and is more likely to lead to smiles than either outright laughter or self-righteous resentment . I forgive it its occasional misdirection . It's not a masterpiece but it's certainly an original piece of work , and it probably ought to be seen for that reason alone , if not for any other . The MBA committees that are currently grinding out the Supersonicburgers in Hollywood should be the first in line . They need the lesson .
Labyrinthine plot , slightly smutty .	Money , mayhem , and sex . How can you go wrong ? Meg Tilly , unglamorized , is a naive teen-aged graduate of a Catholic school . She makes her other-worldly way back to her REALLY dysfunctional , rambling mansion in Easthampton , where her villainous stepfather ( John Glover , hammy but great ! ) is staggering around , usually three sheets to the wind , and entertaining his girl friend , Dana Delaney ( Miss Briscoe , Lenny's sister-in-law ) . The script has given Tilly's mother the deep six before the movie starts . Also present , the multi-talented Rob Lowe who , were he any worse an actor , could sink this vessel faster than a horde of mutant torpedo worms . As it is , he's a " superb captain " , as someone calls him . His job seems to be skippering the racing sloops of very rich people so skillfully that they beat the racing sloops of other very rich people . Lowe has assignations with the slutty Kim Cattrall , somebody else's wife . Very racy dialog . Lowe gives Cattrall a birthday present , a pair of skimpy black panties . Cattrall : " You want me to wear these ? " Lowe : " I can't bite them off you if you don't . " Avast there . Here comes a spoiler that may take the wind out of your sails . Lowe is not what he seems . Actually , he's in cahoots with Tilly's step-father and the town cop . The three of them decide that Meg Tilly's several hundreds of millions of dollars is too burdensome for one young woman , so they are going to have Lowe seduce her , marry her , and eliminate her - - in that order - - so that they can split up her assets three ways . The plan goes awry . Lowe begins to feel affectionate towards Tilly , especially after they are as married as matched pelican hooks and she becomes pregnant . He shoots and kills Glover . Dana Delaney , Glover's squeeze , gets suspicious and is found hanging by a belt . The corrupt cop notices these little incidents and tries to blow up Tilly by tinkering with the gas line aboard her sloop , the Obsession . In a frantic attempt to save Tilly , Lowe is hoist by the cop's petard . In the cop's office , Tilly comes to grasp nature of the plan by an act of spiritually inspired intuition , just from glimpsing a photo of the three conspirators pinned to the cop's wall . ( An old snapshot of three smiling men holding up a fish , and she twigs . ) The cop attacks her with a lug wrench or a marlinspike or something and tries to stove in her head . And he's a big , burly guy too . But those nuns turn out tough little babes and he can't do more than rip her shirt a bit before she propels him through the window to his death below . John Williams ' lush score practically swoons at the end as Tilly stands bravely alone , knowing that Lowe , though now in Davey Jones ' locker , REALLY loved her . This ending prompts a question , though . She now has all those millions and that huge beachfront mansion to herself now , doesn't she ? So what is her phone number ? Not much acting is really required in a piece like this . But John Glover is sublime as the villain . He always is . Rob Lowe , blandly handsome , like a department store mannequin , should be relieved of his watch and sent below . Meg Tilly is more complicated . She has a voice that's at once diminutive and husky . She seems to have been given a minimum of makeup , so her blemishes and pimples show on her pale face and shoulders . And that haircut ! Blackbeard the Pirate looked more glamorous , even with the smoking gunpowder fuzes tied in his tresses . I suppose many eyes seem to tilt from inner canthus upward , but Tilly's are alarming . Kim Cattrall is a snoot but has some of the best lines . " While you were plugging your stepfather , your husband was plugging me - - and he was great ! " Well , it's not really a dirty movie though . Two scenes of Cattrall topless and one of simulated sex between Lowe and Tilly . Oh , and a shot of Lowe's buns , which reminded me that on a ship you should always spit to leeward . There's another thing . I don't know if I should bother mentioning it because I'm not sure it's there , although there's a place for it in the plot . Still , I want to stay in the channel here . Red , right , returning , y'know . There's a bit of a homoerotic element in the relationship between Lowe and the conspiratorial cop . Lowe visits the cop at home . The cop is in bed and gets out to have a serious engagement with Lowe . He's all muscles , his head included , and he's wearing only a pair of skivvies , and when he threatens Lowe , he thrusts his face almost against Lowe's , takes Lowe's cheeks and squeezes them together so that Lowe's lips are pursed , and I'm thinking two more inches and this is a gay scene . This romantic thriller isn't for everyone's tastes , I would guess , but I kind of enjoyed it , partly because I like the Hamptons and spent a lot of summers there as a youth . Well - - Sag Harbor , actually , in the modest house of some friends , acquired years before the area became uninhabitable for anyone except cosmetic surgeons , when the community was so compact and unprepossesing that , in a sandy wood just past the edge of town , you could sit and watch the foxes stare back at you , sometimes scratching their pointed black ears with their tiny and precise black paws . Red foxes . Auburn foxes . Unquestionably extinguished by development . Now we have this movie about people fighting over hundreds of millions of dollars , none of whom has had a selfless thought in their entire lives .
Disjointed , atmospheric Monaco caper flick .	Never having seen the original " Bob le Flambeur " I can't compare it to this remake . On its own , this one isn't bad as remakes go . It's juiced up , confusing , and noisy but it's engaging too . The first thing one notices is that Nick Nolte as Bob is pretty good . He's older now and a little puffy . His voice is a barely interpretable hoarse whispery croak . If he used to stride a little much , he now shambles . It fits the part of a recovering junky who lives a squirming kind of life among the seedier folk of the French Riviera . And his performance is better than it sometimes has been . Watch him shiver in the back seat of a speeding convertible when he begins his withdrawal . The second most noticeable thing is Nutsa Kukhianidze as Anne . We first meet her when she's in her underwear and she's thoroughly unforgettable . First of all , she has this slinky French walk , her narrow shoulders held back , her hips a little forward , her steps tiny , and her slender arms and dainty hands swinging gracefully . She has the figure of a gazelle , a little sinew here , a little avoirdupois where it counts . When she smiles her lips curl in on themselves like Dana Delaney's . She has a boyish haircut , a fluffy Medieval warrior's helmet . ( There's undoubtedly a name for this genre , a French name , but I have no idea what it is . ) Her slightly crossed eyes have pronounced epicanthic folds suggesting that if you shook her family tree a Khalka Mongol might fall out . What I'm trying to say is that she's tiny and scrumptious . The direction is functional . Bodies are efficiently moved about . I missed the first twenty minutes and found the story confusing because that's probably where all the planning for this complicated robbery took place . Anyway , there are no directorial fireworks , except that on occasion a freeze of a fraction of a second is appended to a shot before the cut is made . The device calls attention to itself and adds nothing to the film . It's even used during fast-paced scenes . There's a good deal of slightly bent humor in the script and some good lines of dialog . The twins who are part of the gang simultaneously say , " Two heads are better than one , " and they sleep in twin beds . In another scene , Ralph Feinnes is a fence for stolen art who has been ripped off . He and his burly henchman corner Nolte and Nutsa . Feinnes is enraged that Nolte has given him a fake and claimed it was a genuine Picasso . The dialog is something like this . Nolte : " Sure it's a fake but it's a very good fake . It was painted by Chester C . Smith , a great artist . " Feinnes : " Well , Kandinsky here ( his henchman with the knife ) is going to give you a lesson , and what I'm going to do to BOTH your faces will definitely be CUBISTIC . " I wonder how closely this remake follows the original , because some of its elements have been used elsewhere to comic effect . The burrowing upward from the underground tunnel goes awry and a gas pipe blows up , so the plan seems to fail . Meanwhile , Nolte and Nutsa are upstairs in the casino supposedly distracting the police while gambling . The upstairs feint makes the fortune , while the original plan collapses in a farcical scene . I'm thinking of " Big Deal on Madonna Street " and Woody Allen's " Small Time Crooks . " In the end everyone is happy except for the owners of the Casino . Oh , and one bad guy who winds up dead . It's enjoyable in its own slight way .
Tortuous Story of Three Miscreants .	Geraldine Fitzgerald recruits two strangers - - Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet - - from the foggy streets of Victorian London and asks them to her flat . She asks them to chip in for a sweepstakes ticket and sign a document that they are equal contributors and none will sell his third of the payoff to anyone else . Maybe I should explain because this confused me . The sweepstakes isn't a random drawing of a number . It's horse race . The favorite horse is announced just before the race , so suddenly anyone who happens to own a ticket with the name of the favorite on it - - in this case " Corn Cracker " - - finds himself with a bird in the hand . He can sell his ticket ( or his share in the ticket ) to someone else at a higher price than what he paid . But the document with three signatures forbids this . So we already know this is a set up for later conflict . As a matter of fact , the three signators are all up to illegal or unethical doings . Geraldine Fitzgerald is a wife whose impulsiveness has alienated her husband , a Member of Parliament who is now in love and in bed with a Canadian woman . A scandal would be calamitous to his career . She squeals on him out of spite . The bibulous Peter Lorre has been involved in a stick up in which a bobby was killed by his partner . He barely escapes hanging . Greenstreet , a Mount Everest of blubber , has been embezzling funds from the trust fund of one of his agreeable but ditzy elderly female clients . When she insists on an imediate audit just before the race , Greenstreet becomes desperate and needs to sell his share of the ticket in order to make up the loss . He rushes to Fitzgerald's flat where he finds her and Lorre . Conflict ensues . All the way through , I wondered how the screenwriter , John Huston , was going to pull these three disparate narrative threads together because , after that first adventitious meeting , they never meet again until the resolution . Well , he does a pretty good job , and the director , Jean Negulesco , doesn't let the script down . Both the writer and director add something to what otherwise might have been a pedestrian story of suspense and murder and intrigue . The sets help too . Who can not be enthralled by the foggy streets of London where each shadow might hide a mysterious figure - - perhaps with a RAZOR ? I kind of like it , especially the mountainous Sydney Greenstreet with his quivering lips and darting eyes . Great heavy .
Slow but atmospheric .	Written and directed by Leslie McCleave , this is a deliberately paced story of ex-lovers united for a trip to Canada's worst toxic pollution sites . The young woman ( Catherine Kellner ) is a low-level bureaucrat whose intention is to photograph the sites with an odd-looking camera that evidently turns toxic objects red and renders those with only normal amounts of pollution a cool green . The technology isn't gone into , however , and unlike some such films , " Erin Brokovitch , " say , we're not even sure what kind of contaminants we're dealing with . It doesn't matter much to McCleave . It would be nice to say that McCleave is more interested in the two characters , but that doesn't seem to be the case either . If we weren't told at the outset that they were ex lovers there'd be no way of telling , because in the rest of the film they get along quite well . There are spats , sure . But these spats aren't any worse than the spats you and I have had with OUR ex lovers and multiple spouses . The thematic structure seems to be organized around an eerie feeling of disquiet , of technical and human anomalies , that become more apparent as the film unfolds . The car is an old beat-up Dodge or something and the radio goes out . Then that toxin-detecting camera registers the correct images in the view finder but can't upload them , so they can't be saved . The car's odometer begins to go backwards . A stop at a diner leads to a tableau of local residents , all taciturn , all somehow queer . They stop for gas after 300 miles and find the tank is still full . The boy friend ( Ebon Moss-Bachrach ) is generally good-natured and less intense than Kellner , but he finally gets fed up and leaves her at a gas station , instructing her to phone somebody to come and get her . ( The phone doesn't work . ) Alone , the boy friend drives some distance and reaches a crossroads where a prominent sign tell hims " Boone " to his right and " U . S . Border " is to his left . He turns left , drives through the empty countryside , and finds himself back at the same sign . Another crack at the border yields the same results , so it's back to the girl friend and the gas station out of " Twilight Zone " again . The film isn't exactly over-plotted . None of the unexpected developments is more puzzling or threatening than the ones that have come before it . The impression the viewer is left with is an uneasy feeling that whatever kind of pollution these people are dealing with has some exceedingly mysterious effects on events and things , but it's all pretty murky . We've got one foot in the supernatural . The two principles are decent actors . And one of the support players , a relatively normal kind of guy with whom they abscond , asks to be let out of the car after a while . Why ? I mean , they've just kidnapped him and taken him away from a place that was turning him radioactive . " Ah figure , " he explains , " that the farther away I git from one place , the closer Ah'm getting ' to the next . " ( Who can argue with that ? ) The imagery , the photography and location shooting , however , are out of the ordinary , and the score is fine . It's essentially a trip movie through lovely and deserted temperate forests in mid-summer . The story takes us all through these woodlands on blue highways where the pavement is old and cracked and there's hardly another vehicle . A slight mist seems to rise from the fields and lends the visuals an oneiristic quality that most such productions wouldn't think of trying for . ( The writers would be thinking about the next car chase , and about the truck rolling off a curve at high speed and exploding in a fireball . ) This film , presumably because of budget limitations , is forced to look for something else , and for that alone deserves bonus points .
A golden age .	This is one of the better episodes of the series , though it's no more than a variation on a common theme of Serling . ( The best example is called something like " A Short Walk to Town , " with Gig Young . ) Here , J . D . Cannon is Serling's alter ego , a business executive constantly being shouted at and told to " Push ! Push ! Push ! " He commutes to his home in Connecticut by train , falls asleep , and is awakened by a conductor who tells him that this stop is Willoughby . As he looks out he finds everything to be a golden age of good nature and innocence , everything the world he lives in is not . But he doesn't leave the train and when he wakes up next he is back home , facing his irritable wife . At the next confrontation with his boss he walks out , takes the train , falls asleep , and awakes again at the Willoughby stop , which he has learned doesn't exist . He gets off the train and joins the Tom-Sawyerish kids and listens to the town band , while the train departs . Fade : A hearse is picking up Cannon's body from the tracks after he jumped off the train . The hearse is from the Willoughby Funeral Home . Willoughby , for whatever weight of significance it may hold , is a small town in Ohio near Yellow Springs , where Antioch College is located . Heaven lies in the past . Anyone who argues otherwise is under twenty-one and is right . Serling led a constructive and turbulent life - - wounded in the paratroops - - a nice Jewish kid who went to Antioch on the GI Bill . He seems never to have forgotten his boyhood in Binghamton , New York , a small unattractive town at the time , with slate sidewalks . But to him - - well , he died in his 50s of endocarditis . One hopes heaven is like Willoughby .
Lively Adventure .	There isn't too much of Homer left in this comic book adventure detailing the voyage of Ulysses ( Kirk Douglas ) from the shores of Troy to his home in Ithaca . It's all pretty much boiled down . Gone are such distractions as Scylla and Charybdis and the naughty Calypso . But we still have an extended stay with Circe the witch ( Sylvana Mangano ) , in which Douglas excels at comic self justification . He spends a comfortable night in Circe's bed and the next day presents himself and tells her he and his men are leaving on their ship . Circe slyly informs him that the wind doesn't pick up on this island until sundown . " Well , " Douglas muses , " no point in leaving early . The men would break their backs on the oars . And they're all good men . They deserve a rest . " So he spends the next five years eating lotus blossoms , drinking wine , and sleeping with Circe until his men go half nuts with waiting and leave him behind . If it resembles a typical sword and sandal epic from the 1950s starring one or another muscle man it's probably because it was made at Cinecitta and used many of the same cast and crew . And , of course , at feature-film length it had to be compressed - - Procrusteanized , so to speak - - in order to fit in as many episodes as it now contains . The scenes back on Ithaca , with Penelope ( also Sylvana Mangano ) weaving her tapestry and unweaving it at night to keep the blood-sucking suitors at bay , are retained , and they're not as bad as they might be . Anthony Quinn is Antinuous , chief of the suitors , and he comes across not as a greasy freeloader but as a masculine , common-sense kind of guy who just about convinces Penelope that his feelings for her are genuine and that Ulysses , gone lo these ten years , is dead . ( It's only just before the bloody climax that he reveals his truer nature . ) Some scenes are still fairly powerful , given the cheap special effects . Ulysses ' visit to Hades and his encounter with the dead , who try to convince him that ANY kind of life is better than being dead . And Polyphemus is pretty horrible too . And there is a bit of wit built into the script . When they first notice Polyphemus ' huge footprint , the men quail and start muttering about " giants . " " Probably just a man with big feet , " comments the phlegmatic Douglas , the man who does not believe in isomorphism . Alas , the gods are left out of the story , which detracts from our understanding of what's going on and is a betrayal of the movie's Homeric source . I guess if you want gods and goddesses , you have to go to Homer or Thorne Smith . Douglas is an adequate Ulysses . He's pretty sneaky . ( The film leaves out the " no-man " ruse he used with the cyclops but includes the Trojan horse . ) And he looks right . Except for Quinn , the rest of the cast doesn't really contribute much , though Rossana Podesta as Nausicaa looks cute , in a Cynthia Gibb way . Entertaining version of an epic tale .
You're Only as Old as You Are .	Generally entertaining tale of aging astronauts in space . It seems this obsolete Soviet satellite is decaying in its orbit and may crash into earth somewhere and a team is needed to stabilize it . The problem is that the engineering is so obsolete that nobody knows exactly how to do it except the people who designed it thirty or more years ago . These include Clint Eastwood , David Sutherland , James Garner , and Tommy Lee Jones . Eastwood was chief engineer and is chosen to lead the others on a mission to fix the blasted thing . How - - you might ask - - did secret American plans wind up in the hands of the USSR ? They were stolen from John Cromwell's files . He was head of the program and is the closest thing the movie has to a villain . Except for the Russian general who keeps urging us to fix the satellite in orbit because now all Russian communications depend on it . He's lying , of course . It turns out that this " communications satellite " is really a missile-launching platform with six nukes aboard . If this beast enters the atmosphere it automatically triggers a launch so there's much more at stake than making a phone call from Omsk to Kursk . The film embodies some obsolete Cold War sentiments as well . The American space shuttle that is sent to the rescue is immaculately white and brightly lighted . The Soviet satellite , Icon , is dark , ugly , forbidding , and - - without the Russian general's having bothered to inform our astronauts - - is designed to deploy its missiles and read itself for launch if anyone dares tinker with it . Eastwood's productions have a tendency to skimp on extras . They sometimes look kind of cheap . But in this case the effects are reasonably convincing and , if I , for one , didn't understand precisely what was going on at every moment , it's still a stimulating and sometimes gripping story with occasional touches of humor . And if it carries the burden of some clichés , it manages to avoid others . None of the aging astronauts leaves a copiously weeping family back home . It's a decent movie with a lot of action , much of it implausible . The last space shuttle fell apart while sailing over Texas because of some slight damage to heat-resistance tiles caused by a falling piece of Styrofoam . This one has been banged around by several tons of steel in outer space but contrives to enter the atmosphere without disintegrating . The title of the movie is admittedly pretty dumb . " Space Cowboys . " I can't imagine why someone would dream up such a drive-in oriented title . What kind of audience are they aiming for ? " John Wayne and the Cowboys " was another instance of a fundamentally interesting late film from the Duke , but with a title that suggests not a film that would interest adults but rather fans of Abbott and Costello or The Three Stooges or , at best , Roy Rogers . There are a few other things that are slightly irritating . The humor is mostly verbal - - insults of the kind we've come to expect from male bonding . That's okay . But they lead to one of those pointless fist fights between Eastwood and Jones outside a bar with each winding up with a comical black eye . Best leave funny fist fights to John Ford .
Dramatic and Episodic Sea Tale .	Maybe one of the reasons this is less successful than most of the other movies John Ford was directing about this time is that the other productions were so darned good . " The Long Voyage Home " isn't without interest but it doesn't measure up to the rest of Ford's work . Based on a couple of Eugene O'Neill's short plays , it gives us four patched-together stories : a drunken brawl aboard a small freighter in a Caribbean port , the death of a crew member ( Yank , Ward Bond ) and his funeral , the heroic redemption of Smitty the suspected spy , and the heroic struggle of a handful of inebriated men to get Ole ( John Wayne ) aboard a ship for home in the face of temptation . I haven't read that much of Eugene O'Neill's work and seen little of it performed but I get the impression his plays are , by necessity , largely literary works involving a kind of pointillism in which secrets and character traits are revealed little by little , mostly through dialog about psychology . " Strange Interlude " had characters breaking the fourth wall and addressing the audience directly , explaining their REAL thoughts . This is hardly Ford territory . Not that Ford and O'Neill held each other in low esteem . They were two driven Irish-Americans and shared the occasional drunken crying jag . Dudley Nichols wrote the script and seems to have preserved the parts of the four stories that would most appeal to Ford - - funerals , comic fist fights , camaraderie , and booze . Ford directed it all with aplomb and to the extent that the stories hang together it's because we follow the same characters through all of them , so we get to know the men and their quirks . The acting , alas , is not all it could be . Some of the more seasoned are fine - - Barry Fitzgerald , John Qualen , Thomas Mitchell , J . M . Kerrigan . But others - - . John Wayne should never appear in a role requiring any kind of accent . He sounds about as Swedish as moo goo gai pan and he seems self-aware enough to be embarrassed about it . And Ward Bond should stick with his sidekick roles and never again assay a dramatic part . He's much better at imitating a whinnying horse than a dying and hallucinating sailor . Ian Hunter as Smitty , the suspected spy , is not bad in an important role - - just bland . The scene in which his shipmates find a stack of letters supposed to be in code and read them aloud , only to realize that they are love letters from his wife , must have been borrowed and revamped for " Destination Tokyo " . That pretty much gets any weaknesses out of the way . James Basevi's set decoration is splendid and Gregg Toland's photography can't be beat for indirect lighting and long shadows on wet decks and cobblestone streets . Ford handles the direction as well as he ever has , which is to say with efficiency and sometimes even poetry . Still , overall , it's a gloomy film with little comedy and Ford probably had trouble with the simple fact that these sailors actually hate the vocation they're hopelessly bound to . None has a family . None has any aspirations beyond further drudgery leading to the next paycheck . And the loyalty they feel is only to their mates , not to their calling . Worth seeing if only for the great visuals .
I'll Have the Sturm , Please , With a Little Drang on the Side .	A story of a teen ager edging into maturity . Laura Dern is idiosyncratically beautiful as the 15-year old . She's long legged , deeply tanned , has flowing blond hair that sets off her dark brows and lashes . The problem is that she IS only fifteen . Another year , one way or the other , would be a misjudgment for the writers of this film . Fifteen is just right , half way between ten and twenty , a liminal age . She's uncertain about how to behave . The Generalized Other keeps telling her that she looks as good as she in fact does , but like most adolescents she's absorbed by the issue . She smiles into the mirror and asks , " How do I look ? " a dozen times . Her days consist of fibbing to her parents ( Levon Helm and Mary Kay Place in one of her best performances ) - - portrayed as fairly reasonable folk here . Dern hasn't been at the movies as she claims . Instead she's been hanging around the mall , squealing with delight and disturbing the shops with her two or three girl friends . There are times when , gulp , she hangs at a HAMBURGER JOINT and gossips . She's wary with the several boys who come on to her . " Just not used to being excited , " she tells one of them after a bout of necking . At home , things are also at a tipping point . Her sister isn't nearly as glamorous and is jealous , though not bitter . Her Dad is marginal to the family , a nice guy with a vapid smile . Her Mom , Mary Kay Place , is an ordinary mother trying to keep house and trying to enlist Dern's help in household chores such as painting the house and doing the dishes , but Dern is snotty and defiant . About two thirds of the way through I was about to offer my assistance as a family counselor . I know nothing about the subject , but like everyone else I've been through the Sturm und Drang of adolescence while trying to establish an identity outside the family . But then a queer thing happens . A convertible pulls up in front of the family farm house while Laura Dern is alone . She's dressed in a sexy but chaste white outfit . The young man behind the wheel , Treat Williams , looks like a parody of dangerous youth left over from the 1950s . He wears aviator shades , his tight , already short-sleeved shirt has its sleeves rolled up to his triceps , exposing half a tattoo . The shirt is unbuttoned to his sternum . His dungarees are dusty and so are his boots . This is a smooth-talking guy . He is a stranger to her but knows everything about Dern , her family , and her friends . I can't tell whether he's seductive or not . He didn't turn me on . But I can tell that his character is SUPPOSED to be . He's mysterious and a little dangerous . His technique is the same as Charlie Manson's - - I KNOW what you're feeling . He tempts Dern , talks her into taking a drive in his long , shiny , phallic beast . She goes reluctantly . There is a pan of the empty convertible parked in the mountains , leaving the viewer with no more than a suspicion of where the pair are or what they're up to . When they pull back into Dern's driveway , she tells him , with genuine determination , that she doesn't want to see him around here - - ever again . He smiles , says , " Hey , nothing happened " , and the mean machine scootches off . Dern walks into the house where she finds her family just returned from the picnic . Now she's polite and forgiving to all of them . In the last scene , Dern dances with her homely sister and they chuckle together . It was during that last scene when I noticed that Dern's bedroom wall was decorated with a rather sizable poster of James Dean . This raises a host of questions , which can be boiled down to just one . Was this episode with the mysterious Treat real or fantasized ? Answer : I don't know . Obviously the Treat character serves a symbolic purpose . Her family nudges her towards ordinary respectability , but Treat demonstrates the joys of misbehavior . She faced with a choice . And in the end , she chooses her family and accepts responsibility . It's easy to visualize Dern's future . She grows up to be a stewardess with hopes of marrying an airline pilot . What luscious photography . What apple orchards . What a neat farm house with a sloppily lived-in appearance . It's hard to imagine how the performances could be improved upon , except for Levon Helm who smiles all the time as if playing a " nice guy " for an audience . And , as I say , I couldn't get with Treat Williams as a character and so only barely with his acting . Maybe it's not his problem . How do you play a stereotype convincingly ? Overall , though , this is a smooth-flowing movie that doesn't pound its audience over the head with anything . And though it's definitely a portrait of a young woman's life , it's not a teen movie . I don't know that kids of fifteen would not be bored by the sometimes oblique dialog , the lack of action , and the near absence of sex . The film requires the kind of patience that I'm not sure mall rats have any longer . Paradoxically , this is a story about youth that adults might appreciate more than the subjects of the story themselves . I understand that the film is based on a rather darker and more ambiguous story by Joyce Carole Oates who , in turn , was inspired by some Southwestern psychopath , but I can only assess what's been put on the screen .
The Purloined Will .	Joseph Cotton is Dupin , the hard-drinking literary guy in a black cloak . He becomes acquainted with M . Thevernet ( Louis Calhern ) in New York City in 1848 . Calhern is a sick old man who drinks too much and is being watched night and day by his wife , Barbara Stanwyck , and his butler , Joe DeSantis , both of whom are just waiting for Calhern to kick the bucket so they can inherit his money . However , Leslie Caron shows up , a young French woman begging for some of Calhern's loot to aid her brother who is involved in a revolution in France . Calhern writes a new will , leaving Caron a generous portion of his estate , but hides it and there follows a final ironic resolution in which people get their just deserts . At first , I thought the writer , Frank Fenton , adopting a John Dickson Carr story , might have OD'd during a binge on the collected works of Edgar Allen Poe . Too many coincidental things going on . Cotton's character is " Dupin , " as in August Dupin , the detective in two of Poe's short stories ? And Dupin quotes aloud from " The Raven " without having to read it ? Okay - - but before Poe even WROTE it ? And that Raven , Villon , who perches at the foot of the dying man's bed . All these literary intrusions began ringing bells - - bells , bells , bells , bells , bells , bells , and more bells - - until they began tintinabulating . I don't know why the story was set in New York , which never had much of a French presence - - mainly Dutch , English , and a little Swedish . New Orleans would have been more apt , since it had been French for a long time and was to remain culturally French for another century or more . But then , of course , as we discover at the end , New Orleans happens to be a city in which the man in the cloak never set foot . The dialog is highly stylized . People say things like , " Perhaps you would like another drink before you go . " " You would " - - not " you'd . " And " perhaps " , rather than " maybe . " This technique induces a proper amount of estrangement - - in the sense of distance , not animosity - - and is useful in suggesting that a foreign language is being spoken . It's less successful in suggesting 1848 in New York , as Martin Scorsese realized . And it simply doesn't seem natural coming from a miscast Barbara Stanwyck , who really belongs in movies like " Double Indemnity " and " Clash by Night . " Stanwyck is a tough broad , not a poseur . I don't know why some people have squeezed this into the noir genre because all it really is , is a drama with some mystery and character exploration in it . I found it pretty entertaining despite the stilted dialog and the occasional clumsily directed scene . ( Two obvious stunt doubles in a fist fight . ) Joe De Santis is no more than adequate as the villainous butler . Leslie Caron is hardly present . But Margaret Wycherly as the housekeeper is pretty good . So is Jim Backus as Flaherty , the friendly bartender . And Joseph Cotton is refined and effective , even if he doesn't display the simmering anger and racism of his historical forbear . Diverting show . Not bad .
A celebration of testosterone .	A story of the kidnapping of a young woman ( Candace Bergen ) and her two children by Morrocan brigand Raisuli ( Sean Connery ) and his band of warriors . The episode begins with Bergen having tea in her garden with her elderly British guest . The sudden quiet is broken by Berber horsemen crashing through the lattice work . They slice down the Brit with their sword , then go on to vandalize the place , chopping up unarmed servants as well , before tying up Bergen and her kids and putting them on horses to be taken away . Before they leave , though , Connery's robe flies up , covering his face , and his horse whirls through some trees and bushes until he is de-horsed and falls flat . Bergen has been watching this , and when Connery does a pratfall she laughs at him . Why is this woman laughing ? Well , it shows she has character . And it gives Connery a reason to slap her and re-furbish the masculinity he'd lost , at the expense of a subordinate . But does it make sense ? Let me put it this way - - if you had just seen your house destroyed and your friends get their heads lopped off , and you were a woman who had no idea where she and her kids would be taken or what would be done to them , would you have laughed under those circumstances ? The same disjointedness shows up elsewhere in the film , as people do improbable things . The ugly German cavalry officer - - the others look plump , like Bismarck , but this guy is just ugly and never laughs - - is in the middle of a battle with Connery and his men . He has Connery in the sights of his Mauser . Connery , smiling and unafraid , raises his sword in salute and challenges the German officer to mano a mano combat with swords . The German puts away his pistol , draws his sword , and accepts Connery's offer as asked . ( He's not only ugly . He's stupid too . ) There are a lot of battle scenes in this , and they're well handled . There are also two important relationships that we follow . There is Connery and Bergen , and Connery and President Teddy Roosevelt ( Brian Keith ) who are in a kind of long-distance duel . Plenty of intrigue too , including an incident in which the U . S . Marines attack the palace of the Morrocan Hefe at Fez . It's neatly directed . The Marines , backed up by armed sailors , double time it to the palace entrance . The Captain is shouting orders , and the Marines precisely follow them , left face , hostiles to the left , aim , and fire . There are a dozen or so palace guards standing on the steps watching all these goings on . They are armed but nonplussed . They take no steps to defend the palace or themselves . They just glance at one another , hoping for an explanation . Ka-BOOM , and they are all dead . The problem I have with this sort of thing is that I have a feeling the writer / director , John Milius , approved of it and got a kick out of directing it . ( The innocent palace guards may deserve to have been slaughtered because they weren't ready enough to kill the Marines . ) He's a genuine gun freak , and in a recent TV movie about Teddy Roosevelt , he has the men in the middle of battle inspiring each other and themselves by shouting passages from Shakespeare's Henry V , about having " fought on St . Crispan's Day " . I get the feeling that the people behind the story didn't really mind scenes in which men killed one another . We always know who to root for . Men have notions of honor , and women can have spunk , and Milius finds that inspiring . Before the takeover , an American consular official asks the Marine captain what they're next movie might be . The camera moves in for a big close up of the captain's grinning face as he says , about to pop with anticipatory excitement , " Military intervention . " The Vietnam war was on everyone's mind while this was shot and released and , by God , maybe we didn't get what we wanted in Southeast Asia but we got it in this fictional intervention in North Africa . This film may have been America's first attempt at a virtual victory in Vietnam . It was to be followed by innumerable Rambos and Chuck Norrises and many others . We managed to win in Vietnam a dozen times over . The general attitude is conveyed in some dialog given to Roosevelt , just after he's shot and killed a huge grizzly bear near Yellowstone . " The world will never love us . They may fear us . Respect us . But they'll never love us . " It's too bad that sociology had not yet developed the concept of the self-fulfilling prophecy . If they had , someone might have pointed out this statement as a good example of it . Or , as in the sociologist W . I . Thomas put it , " If men define situations as real , they are real in their consequences . " You think someone doesn't like you ? That absence of affection is easily arranged . Just treat him the way you'd treat someone who doesn't like you . I enjoy this film once in a while . The direction is efficient , the battles exciting , the photography and location splendid , and the acting is quite good by almost everyone - - particularly Sean Connery and Brian Keith . Everybody seems to make fun of Candace Bergen's acting efforts but I don't know why . She does pretty well in the role of the unflappable victim who is constantly surprising Connery by her defiant attitude . And the film has its amusing moments .
Clash of the Titans - - Tense and Polished .	It covers a lot of territory and , frankly , I got a little lost from time to time but it's still tightly woven , driven by character , and likable . The production design , wardrobe , and makeup are distinctive . None of this grimy , cowboys-on-the-trail , unshaven , spitoon-abusing nonsense . These guys , even the Clantons , who are ranchers , are sleek and relatively formally groomed . Silky vests , neat hats , string ties , and color-coordinated ensembles abound . The word " gentleman " crops up repeatedly in the dialog . No big ugly guns . Lee Van Cleef carries a derringer in his boot . Doc Holliday carries what looks like a . 32 caliber popgun . On the other hand , Lee Van Cleef is a drunken , treacherous bad guy . So is Jack Elam . Lyle Bettger , as the head of the Clanton clan , is a cattle thief , liar , and bushwhacker . Does that give you any hints about stereotypical casting ? No ? How about Burt Lancaster as Wyatt Earp and Kirk Douglas as the morally ambiguous but highly honorable Doc Holliday ? And Dennis Hopper as the weakling Billy Clanton ? John Ireland playing Johnny Ringo - - yet again ? Ted DeCorsia - - he of the pebbled voice - - as a rude , drunken coward ? It's difficult to confuse the heroes and the heavies because they look as if they'd come from different universes . Maybe that's one reason why , despite its length and territorial peregrinations , the plot never really confuses you too much . One look at a character and right away you've got his number . It doesn't matter too much where you are or what motives drive anyone . One bad guy is pretty much interchangeable with the others . Admirable though are the edgy and sometimes uncomfortable relationships that Holliday has with Wyatt Earp and girl friend Kate , played by Jo Van Fleet . In a way it's really Kirk Douglas's picture . He's by far the most complex character in it . Lancaster's Wyatt Earp and his brothers are dull straight-shooters , but Douglas drinks too much , gambles constantly , kills men in duels , is jealous of women even after he throws them away , and is coughing himself to death . How come ? We don't have to ask why Wyatt is the way he is . He's the hero in a Western . Candidate for next most complicated : Dennis Hopper's young , misguided Billy Clanton . The script even gives him a loving mother , and not just ANY mother but Olive Carey to boot . What are these " affairs of honor " anyway ? The code duello was real enough , brought to the ante-bellum South by the cavaliers who settled the region , and then spread westward into Texas and the Southwest . Someone insults someone else and the two men kill one another . And it still exists , if only in fantasy . There are quick-draw contests held at regional and state fairs in which grown men assume odd positions and see who can draw and pull the trigger faster while being automatically timed . Do any of the contestants secretly wish that THEY could have lived in the Old West and outdrawn everyone who insulted them ? Compared to figuring out a fantasy like that , understanding Doc Holliday is like two plus two . At the end of the shootout at the O . K . Corral , bad Johnny Ringo , pursued by Kirk Douglas's Holliday , stumbles into an adobe hut , pistol pointed at the door he just slammed . But Douglas appears suddenly in the open window and plugs him to death . In the Mad Magazine parody , " O . K . , Gunfight at the Corral , " Ringo stumbles into the hut , slams the door , and thinks to himself , " I guess I'm okay for now . There's nothing in this room . It's empty except for that picture of Van Gogh on the wall . " But it's not a self portrait of Vincent Van Gogh . It's Kirk Douglas with a little beard and a straw hat - - and he plugs Ringo anyway . Overall , nicely staged , preened and pruned , Hollywood professionalism near the top of its game .
Thrills and romance on the China Sea .	This film has some good things going for it . First , a cast of MGM's finest - - Clark Gable , Jean Harlow , Wallace Beery , Rosalind Russel , Robert Benchley , among others . Gable is the skipper of a somewhat battered passenger liner in Asiatic waters . Harlow is the girl he's been associated with , so to speak , a little " tainted " , as Gable puts it . But who the hell is HE to talk ? He comes aboard just before sailing , filthy and unshaven , hung over . He barks out orders to the crew and to just about everyone else . Rosalind Russel is an old flame from London and her husband has died so she is now " available . " Wallace Beery is a likable big lug who gambles and drinks but is in cahoots with some pirates who take over the ship , just after the big hurricane hits . Benchley is thrown in as a harmless drunk given to wisecracks and non sequiturs , only one of which ( about his being a chess master ) is truly funny . Second , there is the set dressing by Cedric Gibbons . Love it . Everything is painted white . The crummy little ship has a saloon the size of Madison Square Garden . This is one of those films in which all the men dress in white suits and wear pith helmets . The women's garb is more nearly traditional . Rosalind Russell has an English accent and an equally hoity-toity wardrobe . Harlow is dressed in slinky gowns that seem to glow in the dark and she eschews brassieres . There are some slam-bang special effects during the hurricane . And a great scene in which the Malay pirates take over the ship and torture Gable to get him to squeal about where the gold is hidden . " Oh , NO ! Not the Malay BOOT ! Tell them where the gold is . I can't stand to witness this ! " ( That's Wallace Beery , who hasn't been outed as a traitor yet , in mock anguish over the torture Gable is about to undergo . ) It seems that we're all set up for another rousing , funny , exotic adventure movie along the lines of " Gunga Din , " except that the script keeps undercutting the light-heartedness with serious , sometimes rather insightful dialog . Example : Harlow is jealous of Russell and , at the captain's dinner table , she has a couple of drinks and starts shouting lewd and suggestive remarks . Russell : " You must be very fond of him . " Harlow : " Whaddaya mean ? " Russell : " To humiliate yourself like this . " There are a lot of ways Russell's punch line could have been delivered - - angrily , with bitchiness , for instance , but Russell's tone and expression convey empathy and sadness . Gable too is given some sober , thoughtful exchanges but acts as if he can't quite bring himself to believe what he's saying , as if he'd prefer the careless , rough-hewn character that first appeared on the screen , kind of like his character in " Red Dust . " It's an above average flick for its genre though . All that whiteness is almost blinding .
On the Border	Charlton Heston , a Mexican-American lawyer , and his new wife , Janet Leigh , get mixed up in a gang murder in a border town . The chief detective is Orson Welles , full of his splendid self , excessively corpulent , and sporting a hawkish putty nose . He eats candy . ( " It's either that or the booze , " he rumbles in his commanding bass voice . ) He dresses worse than Lieutenant Columbo . Oh , Heston may dash around a lot , seeking justice , and his wife may be threatened by pachucos and hypodermic-wielding lesbians , and there may be multiple uncredited cameos , and Dennis Weaver may turn in the performance of his life as an inn keeper with the animation of a jack-in-the-box but it's Welles ' porcine presence that dominates in the film . It's hard to know what to make of it . It's inexpensively made and , according to Heston , Welles could simply not bring himself to edit and put an end to it . The cinematic conventions of the 1950s were being deep sixed . The Nouvelle Vague was establishing itself in France . Welles ' film , too , discards many of the triter movie conventions - - good hero , bad villain , coherent plot - - but it doesn't belong to any school of film , or even any genre . It's Welles ' own . There is a justifiably famous opening shot that shows us a bomb placed in car trunk . The camera then follows the car as it's driven around town , across the border , through crowded streets , until - - boom . The shot is a lengthy one and the camera rises up over rooftops and swoops slowly down for details . Heston's alien lawyer is mostly ineffective . The law is in Welles ' hands and he's an ambiguous figure . He's straight enough , for a small-town cop , but given to planting evidence without a qualm , and not above strangling a gangster who threatens to expose him . Welles ' " Citizen Kane " of seventeen years earlier was an undisputed masterpiece . How good is " Touch of Evil " ? It's fascinating without being perfectly executed . It's the story of the downfall of a man who is gross and generally unpleasant , but whom we've come to know and even pity a little . It meanders all over the place and is often confusing as hell . Sometimes I didn't know which side of the border we were on . The dialog is functional but little of it is memorable . Welles grins slyly at Marlene Dietrich , an ex girl friend , and hints he might come back to " sample some more of her chili " sometime . ( " You a mess , honey , " she tells him . ) Welles tells a suspect that after the explosion , " We found a shoe in the road . There was a foot in that shoe . We're going to make you pay for that , boy . " If it had been made by someone else , a brand new director , it might have been hailed as an innovative first feature . Knowing it was made by Welles , who had so many tricks up his sleeve , it's a bit of a disappointment , despite its eccentricities and because of its longueurs . I always enjoy watching it when it shows up on cable TV but I wouldn't enjoy multiple viewings too often . Compared to " Citizen Kane , " which was prepared with infinite care , this looks like a pretty sloppy lash up . Maybe Orson Welles would have been better off if he hadn't made " Citizen Kane . " Everything that came afterward seems a let down . And Welles , his apologists notwithstanding , didn't help matters much himself .
If God had meant man to fly . . . .	Ernest K . Gann has an idiosyncratic prose style , precious and precise at the same time . He tends to use a lot of interior monologue and description and he throws in little unexpected tidbits - - " And where , pray tell , is home ? " Reading his work is a little like flying an airplane . Nothing much happens , but when it happens , it happens fast . " The High and the Mighty " , a novel , has just enough dialog and action to make a conventional movie . His meandering memoir , " Fate is the Hunter , " has mostly a few clipped exchanges of dialog , which I guess made it next to impossible to film . In making the movie of " Fate is the Hunter , " all they kept was the title , which was nice and commercial . I haven't read Gann's " Island in the Sky " , but there are enough flashbacks and narrations in the movie ( by actors and by an omniscient observer who is allowed to voice Gann's finely phrased expressions ) that the book must have been full of the author's reflections and the action was sparse . The story is simple . Dooley ( Wayne ) is piloting a DC-3 over Canada when it ices up and he must land on a frozen lake in an unexplored woodland . His buddies get together and fly around looking for him , sometimes just barely missing him . Just as the crew's supplies are about to run out , they find him and drop supplies and note his position for a rescue team . One of the crew has frozen to death . I saw the movie when I was a kid and thought it was great . It was shown on TV recently and it now strikes me as good rather than great because I think I have a better handle on the meaning of the word " great . " Really , the movie grabs you . Very suspenseful stuff , done in a craftsmanlike manner . Will they ever find Dooley and his crew ? You don't really know until the climax , although , knowing Wayne's image at the time , it would be hard to imagine that he would appear in a film that closed on a shot of him frozen stiff like the Reclining Buddha . ( I mean , the guy hesitated before admitting he had lung cancer because it might damage his public image ! ) The location shooting around Truckee in the Sierras is nice - - black figures scuttling around on blazing white snow - - but the picture cries out for color . The crisp beauty of the setting would have contrasted with the nearly doomed situation of the crew . It's an enjoyable movie partly because so many of the faces in it are familiar ones - - I won't bother to list them . And the performances are all pretty good , except , I suppose , we could have done without Dooley's navigator breaking into tears at his failure to specify their exact location . The scene is overacted , as are some others , and the director should have reined in the excess of statement . There are some other signs of directorial laxity . We can hear the wind whistling loudly but the branches aren't moving . Only rarely does an actor's breath turn to steam - - and it's 40 below . The scene in which the copilot freezes to death , only a few feet from the airplane , is in its own crude way heartbreaking . The weaknesses I've mentioned probably won't bother kids any more than they bothered me when I was a kid . Good suspense , good atmosphere , decent acting , magnificent shots of airplanes over the unexplored woods of northern Canada , desperation and relief , add up to a watchable film . Worth catching .
Speechless Love .	A worthy movie for adults . The plot is a bit like " Last Tango in Paris , " with a man and woman accidentally meeting , then showing up one afternoon a week for some rabid sex , neither telling the other anything about themselves . The guy ( Mark Rylance ) decides to follow the woman ( Kerry Fox ) , discovers she's married and works in a shabby theater , and is married to a not-overly-bright man who has too many chins and a puffy lower lip like Alfred Hitchcock's . Both of the men want her and she decides to stay with her husband and children . End of plot . This is about as deglamorized a movie as has recently appeared . At first , both Rylance and Fox look like the kind of people who are right up there in the first rank of the third rate . He runs a bar . He's balding , skinny , always needs a shave , and lives alone in some seedy dump that looks like a Soviet-era zheloy dom . She first appears with her hair up , working-class style , glumly groomed . And the two of them are photographed - - dressed or otherwise - - in a way that makes their skin seem to emit a pale sickly blue . Your first thought is liable to be a red flag : This is going to be one depressing flick . Then as the plot develops - - hard as it is to follow in its details - - we come to know them surprisingly well , the two of them . Rylance takes on a certain pathetic charm with his scarred eyebrow and occasional stutter . And Kerry Fox lets her hair down , literally , and we can see the self-knowledge and the desire in her big blue New Zealand eyes . They become likable . In many ways the most admirable person important to the story is Timothy Spall as Kerry's husband , the Hitchcockian cab driver . He's not particularly bright and he trusts people a bit too much . And , man , he looks unprepossessing . But he's gregarious , generous , good-natured , and as harmless as a child . When he discovers that Rylance and Fox have been boffing each other , what does he do ? Does he pick up a gun and spray lead . Does he do a plastic-surgery number on Rylance's face ? Nope . He goes round to Rylance's bar , has a beer , and tells Rylance that he loves his wife . And that every day he loves her more . Later , when Fox prompts him to ventilate his anger over her affair , all he can come up with is something like , " I don't care about that s ! What really bothers me is that you're a lousy actress and will never be anything else ! " When he's done shouting , she replies , " You don't even know how to hurt me . " There are other characters in the story too - - children , an ex-wife , somebody named Victor with a Scots accent , and a gay French bartender who philosophizes a lot . ( I wonder if the writers had a particular model in mind . ) Next to Kerry's husband , the French guy is about the most articulate of the bunch . But that's the problem with the movie . I was frankly lost at times . I honestly don't know how Spall's character found out about his wife's affair . Evidently she confirmed suspicions he already had , but since the scene doesn't appear on screen we have to guess . In fact , if the love scenes are speechless , the rest of the script isn't much better . More than once a character says to another , " I can't understand a word you're saying . " Sometimes I couldn't either . " We shouldn't be gay because someone died . " " Nobody died . " " I died once . It was the only day I could tell the whole truth . " I think we're in " Last Year at Marienbad " territory here . A shouting match between Rylance and Kerry in the basement theater made no sense to me at all . It reminded me of my marriage . I recommend it though . It's a rare movie made for adults . It's a challenging drama about lives that are either half empty or half full , depending on how you look at them . The ending is sad , but we are at least left with the hope that these characters can mend their tattered lives and get on with things .
Morts pour le pays .	An above average , if inexpensive , Warner Brothers war-time movie about the Free French in England . Five French convicts manage to escape from Devil's Island with the help of Grandpere , a patriotic ex-convict who has managed to save enough money to buy the escapees a canoe . He makes them promise that when they escape they will fight the Germans who have occupied France . All but Bogart take the oath . What a bunch of Frenchmen they are too . Grandpere is a Russian . The rest of the group include a New York Episcopalian , one Slovakian Jew , one Jew from New York , a Dutchman , and an Austrian anti-Nazi . That's Warners for you . As long as they had an accent they could be anything . George Tobias does decently by his French accent . Bogart isn't required to try . It's a decent movie - - full of propaganda of course , but well acted and thoroughly dramatic , written by Nordoff and Hall ( " Mutiny on the Bounty " ) and directed by craftsman Michael Curtiz . The picture is deadly serious . When a German aircraft attacks the freighter the convicts are on , Bogart not only helps shoot it down but then machine guns the helpless German crew as they climb onto the wings of the wrecked plane . It's a brutal scene today , and probably was at the time . The structure is a little complicated . There is a flashback within a flashback , for instance . ( I think one of the narrators is named Marlow . Is this an echo of Conrad ? ) But we never get lost . There is an action scene near the beginning , in which Free French flying fortresses bomb occupied France and fight off German planes , but most of the film is taken up with the journey made by the convicts from Cayenne to the French airfield in the English countryside . The film is studio bound and the maritime scenes are tank bound , but art direction is up to Warners ' standards and sometimes looks better than the real thing . Makeup did a fine job too . A bitter and efficient movie . Worth catching .
Effective comic Western .	This movie was both original and successful on its release . You can easily tell it made money because of the number of sequels it spawned - - " Support Your Local Sheriff , " " Waterhole Number 3 , " - - and the many others it undoubtedly influenced . There had been comic Westerns before , but few major productions ever took the conventions and deliberately stood them on their heads just for laughs . Lee Marvin certainly earned his Academy Award . It's easy to play a stumbling drunk , but Marvin did it most creatively . He doesn't only fumble around and bang into objects and knock things over - - he kind of begins a movement and then stops in the middle of it , like a statue or a tableau , his arms and legs at odd angles , staring in some completely irrelevant direction , a flashbulb photo of someone caught in the throes of Paul Taylor's choreography . Wardrobe and makeup outdid themselves . Marvin isn't simply disheveled . He's filthy , a tattered rag upon a stick . The director doesn't seem to have realized what a treasure he had in Lee Marvin's performance and in the value of the dialog Marvin is given ( " I'll drink to THAT ! " ) . Unnecessary slapstick crops up from time to time . A stunt man rides a horse pretending to be drunk , half falling off , whirling in circles . So what ? It's the WAY Marvin puts his character across that works , not scenes that could have been shot 50 years earlier . Actually , Lee Marvin isn't alone in hefting this slight story over the bar . Jane Fonda helps . Yes , okay , she sounds like she just left Vassar - - but , wow , the abundance of her pulchritude . I don't care if she sounds like Queen Elizabeth as long as she looks and acts like the 27-year-old Jane Fonda that she in fact was . The rest of the cast varies from professionally competent to barely passable . Stubby Kaye and Nat " King " Cole provide a kind of Greek chorus that's playful but sad too , reminding a viewer of Cole's uniquely satisfying vernacular singing voice . And , in truth , the dialog doesn't really sparkle . But it hardly matters when Marvin in a gunfighter so dissolute that when he shoots at a target tacked on the barn wall , he misses the broad side of the barn .
Too Little , Too Late .	Five members of Black September take a dozen or so Israeli athletes hostage at the Munich Olympics in 1972 , killing two others . Led by Franco Nero , they demand the release of more than two hundred Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails . Israel refuses to agree and the German authorities ( William Holden as Schreiber , Chief of the Munich Police ; Shirley Knight as head of Women's Olympic Security ; Richard Basehart as Willie Brandt ) are stuck with the nasty task of trying to resolve the problem themselves . They botch the job . There is a shootout at the airport and all the hostages are killed , along with some of the terrorists . The surviving killers are released from jail later , when other terrorists hijack an airliner and hold seventeen passengers hostage . This is a linear narrative . It illustrates the sorts of glitches that authorities run into when faced with an unanticipated problem . Unanticipated ? Hell , inconceivable . No one could any more imagine hostages being taken at the 1972 Olympics than the simultaneous hijacking of four American airliners by terrorists intent to flying them into buildings . The first German to talk to the terrorists , played by Shirley Knight , walked up to the captors and angrily demanded to know , " What IS this rubbish ? " ( The encounter is shown a little differently in the film . ) Until the dimensions of the situation were clarified - - the dead bodies , the impossible demands - - it was treated as a breach of etiquette . No one in a position of power had any idea of the correct course . Nothing like this had ever happened before . Happily the film shows all the points of view , without slipping into pathos . It doesn't have to be sentimentalized . A mature audience must already be aware of the emotions involved . Yet the documentary approach robs the film of some of its dramatic impact . It isn't helped by the acting . The performances are , with a few exceptions , below the expectable par . Richard Basehart , whose work I've admired elsewhere , has the elan of an animatronic figure in Disneyland . Still it's good to see the events laid out evenly and schematically . Anthony Quayle is on the spot as an Israeli security adviser . And several Moslems , including an Egyptian and a representative of the Arab League , are brought in to try talking the terrorists out of their plan . The simpler , and more devious approach is to treat the Israelis as humans , demonize the murderers , and show the rest of the world as indifferent , with the Germans perhaps even complicit . This is more or less what " One Day in Munich " does . Spielberg's " Munich " is slanted in the same direction , although it's a mature film . The accidental killing of an innocent Arab waiter in Lillihammer , Norway , is omitted , and so are the death and wounding of several German police officers at the climactic shootout . In a way , Spielberg's movie is an apologia for Mossad , as " The Godfather " was an apologia for the Mafia . ( I'm comparing the structure of the movies , not the organizations . ) The annoying little things are left out . And one can't help wondering about that " no negotiating for hostages " axiom either . Why not ? If they give in , every Israeli everywhere will become a target . Well , a rat in a Skinner box will certainly repeat activities for which he's rewarded , and he'll avoid those for which he's punished . Some of the rules obviously apply to humans as well . ( The slot machines in Vegas put the player on a fractional reenforcement schedule designed to maximize the response - - feeding the machine coins - - while minimizing the payoff . ) But in a complex condundrum like this ? The Arabs take hostages at Munich and lose . Later , they take hostages on an airliner and win . Punishment in one case , reward in the other . Did the difference in outcome lead to differences in later behavior ? Nobody knows . A few focus groups would help , if you can get terrorists to agree to participate in them . The script presents some interesting ideas . Shirley Knight and Franco Nero have gotten to know one another a bit towards the end . By this time it's clear that Israel will not negotiate and Nero's plan is shot . Knight tells him , reasonably and not ungently , that the entire world is watching to see what he will do next . Wouldn't it be a good idea , she insinuates , if Nero showed the world the more favorable profile of his movement and released the remaining hostages and put an end to the killing ? " What ? " , Nero bristles , " and have people think I am a coward ? " And Knight replies , " So these people must die for your vanity ? " It's a provocative question - - how many innocent people must die to preserve one man's self image ? If the movie doesn't exactly reach out and grab you by the lapels and shake you back and forth , I'm still glad it was made .
Getting a bit fagged out .	One of the better Christie adaptations . Enjoyable but still getting noticeably tired . The performances are fine . Ustinov's Hercule Poirot is the equal of both David Suchet and Albert Finney , fine Poirots in their own right . Roddy MacDowell plays a snoopy gay journalist to just the right level - - see him perching on the steps with his hips cocked to one side , his elbow extended and his hand resting on his waist , a cigarette held so daintily in the other hand . At the top , but not over it . ( " This may not be cherchez la femme but it is definitely cherchez la fruit , " says Maggie Smith offering him up as a suspect . ) Ditto for Diana Rigg as the bitchy actress entering the decline of her career . The most amusing part of the movie is when Rigg exchanges catty insults with Maggie Smith as the prim proprietor of the hotel . " We all admired you when you were in the chorus line and kicked your legs up higher than anyone else - - and wider . " Poor Rigg's husband stands between the two as they diss one another , a slightly puzzled look on his face because - - well , let's face facts - - women are so much better at this sort of thing than men . Rigg , nota bene , has one powerful knockout of a figure . Whew . Her male counterpart , Nicholas Clay , swaggers smugly around in a pair of tight black drawers that threaten to reveal his shortcomings at any moment , but it's just not the same as Diana Rigg and those endlessly long suntanned legs . Sylvia Miles is outrageous as a garishly made-up obstreperous American lady , croaking out vulgarisms like , " They had to stash her away in the BOOBY HATCH . " And James Mason ( underused ) has a splendid scene in which he is queried by Poirot and delights in explaining why he has no alibi . " No , not like the detective novels . No one saw me . No caretaker coming along , gallantly touching his forelock in greeting . " For a few moments the dialog seemed to come out of Vladimir Nabokov . The lines were good , but I guess the fact that Mason had once been a splendid Humbert Humbert had something to do with the impression . I suppose the exclusive use of Cole Porter's music ( splashy , fully orchestrated , fully blown , with 1930ish arrangements ) was supposed to add some additional interest to the story but I'm not sure it was much of an improvement over the original scores for " Murder on the Orient Express " and " Death on the Nile . " Okay , " Get Out of Town " and " I've Got My Eye on You " were apt enough titles but the music seemed self conscious , as if the score meant to draw attention to its own wit . The wardrobe in both of the recent earlier Poirots was good . Sometimes , as in the case of Angela Lansbury in " Death on the Nile , " it was great ! Here , the period is the 1930s rather than the 1920s , and the wardrobe , like the score , seems to be trying too hard . The costumes are flashy without being at all attractive . Did women have those broad built-in shoulders like Arnold Schwarzenegger back then ? Or hats like paellerias with feathers ? It all seems overdone . The plot is good Christie and the locations , while not exactly majestic , are attractive and used to their fullest extent . Yet this doesn't quite measure up to the preceding two Poirots . It reminds me of the slow deflation in Universal's Sherlock Holmes series , the ones with Rathbone and Nigel Bruce . There's an increased sense of going through the motions . Subsequent episodes with Ustinov were to become cheaper and more slapdash . I don't mean to say that it's a crummy movie , because it's not . It's pretty good , especially if you haven't seen the earlier entries . An interesting , genteel Whodunit , with not a drop of blood to be seen .
See LA and Die .	Jane Fonda is Viveca , a faded actress and major drunk of this or any other generation , who wakes up in bed with a strange man next to her who happens to have a knife sticking out of his chest . She draws a blank . Did she kill him or not ? She cleans the guy's apartment of any trace of herself before leaving and gets home by hitching a ride with a retired policeman , Jeff Bridges . She gets drunk again , wakes up in the morning and tries to take a shower but finds the same dead body propped up in the shower stall . Her estranged husband , Raoul Julia , does what he can to help but he's involved with his tony hair dressing business and Fonda winds up turning to Bridges for safety , succor , and sex . Then the plot gets a little twisted . I think Sidney Lumet must have gotten lost during a binge in New York night spots and woke up in Los Angeles . But he gets it just about right . When Fonda first leaves the corpse's apartment she finds herself on an unfamiliar street , the kind that characterizes LA perfectly . The opening sequence shows us blank warehouse walls on empty industrial boulevards and the avenues of pastel , middle-class apartments are equally devoid of pedestrians . That's the difference between LA and New York . In Los Angeles nobody walks . In New York if you step out your door you are mugged by the crowd . Fonda is a professional actress undone by age but the role is played with craggy inconsistency . She's pretty tough . She makes wisecracks to the cadaver while she's scrubbing his apartment . She's aggressive and manipulative at LAX . On the other hand , she plays Viveca as a shrill , nervous wreck with a semiquaver in her voice , even when she's supposed to be mellowed out on Thunderbird , a cheap wine . However , Fonda looks just fine considering that she's no longer the teenager of her earlier movies . She's just my age . I saw a recent photo of her and she still looks stunningly beautiful , as do I . I've always like Raoul Julia's performances . He's reliable , reassuring , good in almost everything he does . Too bad he wasn't around longer . Jeff Bridges usually brings something unique to each of his roles but he's hobbled here by the limitations written into this stereotype of stability . He's a handyman , the eternal fixer-upper , a guy who takes old busted things and refurbishes them , every wife's dream of a man who is good with a wrench and knows how to reintroduce the sputtering home computer to the concept of reliability . He's a man of nature , comfortable enough in his own skin to use ethnic epithets like " beaner " and " spade " good naturedly and without self consciousness , a Mellors the grounds keeper for our time . The script has little hackneyed touches that I find hard to believe originated with such a seasoned and talented director as Sidney Lumet . Fonda is backing out of the dead man's apartment , bumps into someone , there is a sting in the score , and it's merely Jeff Bridges who has followed her without Fonda or the audience knowing it . It's done twice , and it's pretty cheap . And when Fonda changes her hair from phony blond to natural chestnut or burnt sienna or whatever it is , a grand dramatic display is made of it . The viewer is supposed to applaud because , now , THAT'S the iconic Jane Fonda we know and love . No phoniness here . ( She smokes and drinks during the first half of the movie , but not the last half . ) The score is by Paul Chihara and the main theme is carried by a soprano saxophone . This might have been a novelty in 1986 but now , after ten years of Kenny G , it's enough to induce thyrotoxic storm . On the admirable side , she simply stops drinking for a couple of days and is determined never to get drunk again . We are spared the tears and anguish we might experience if she went through withdrawal - - the bottle looming in the foreground , the trembling hand , the half-full glass poured back into the bottle . Still , I have to say that the ending of Lumet's " Verdict " was more realistic . There , Paul Newman's drunk has found himself at the end but it doesn't stop him from drinking . Also on the good side of the ledger , some snappy lines in the dialog . Viveca's real name is Alexandra Sternbergen . Bridges prefers her real name and so does she - - " In arguments , it's harder to yell ' Alexandra ' . " It's got a bit of spark .
There is no such thing as being TOO paranoid .	The film traces the military and romantic careers of Colonel Alfred Redl from his humble beginnings , through a military academy , into the Austro-Hungarian army , to the guileful environment of high political intrigue , to his ultimate altruistic suicide in 1913 . It's supposedly based on a true story but since so little seems to be known about the true story , the epistemology of the plot is questionable . Nobody really knows what happened . Brandauer delivers a remarkable performance , displaying great range , especially for a man with a face of such ordinariness . He looks like a guy who should be managing the produce section of a supermarket . Yet for all the talent of Brandauer and director Szabo , we don't get to know too much about what's going on inside Colonel Redl's head . The role doesn't give him a chance to pour out his soul to anyone , and , indeed , it's improbably that the real Redl would have done any such thing . His marriage , to a good-looking babe who loved him , was a matter of convenience . His friendships with his colleagues was constrained out of necessity because of Redl's latent homosexuality and because , after all , real men don't talk about their feelings - - they blow their brains out , but they don't talk about their feelings . Example : How does Redl feel about his early youth in the provinces ? Well , while passing through his home town , he instructs the driver to pass the old house in which he spent his childhood , and he rubs a vacancy in the frosted window so that he can stare at it without expression for about five seconds . What's going on ? What wheels and gears are turning in his memory , if any ? It's anyone's guess . Nice score . Nice period decor and wardrobe . Nice performances from the other players , especially Armin Mueller-Stahl as ruthless Archduke Franz Ferdinand . He has such handsomely clear blue eyes , and he's soft spoken , reasonable , and as treacherous as a rattlesnake . Not that it does him much good , if you remember what started World War I . Elegant music - - Strauss and Chopin . Great marches , full of traps and whistling piccolos and irony . Makes you want to become an officer in the army in 1913 so you can shoot yourself . The film is paced kind of slowly and the intrigue is never overstated , so a certain amount of patience and attention is required . If anyone has a mind adjusted to the lightning-fast editing of a modern action movie , he's unlikely to find this film satisfying . The rest of us will find it interesting and , in the end , rather tragic .
More Undocumented Aliens .	Does every SF movie made in the 1950s have to be an analog of McCarthyism ? This is nothing more than a good SF movie made with a certain elan by Jack Arnold on a low budget . The desert , alas , is supposed to be in Arizona , which means that it should be Sonoran , with saguaro cacti . Instead it is clearly Mohave desert with its signature plant , the Joshua tree . The lizard at the beginning is right , though , a desert night lizard that looks like Xanthusia arizonae . Everyone plays his or her part with competence . There is no way in such a movie that any performance could be anything more than that . Now and again a car or truck pulls off the road and parks in an empty spot in the desert . Appealing images . The empty spaces are rapidly being filled with condominiums that use water taken from neighboring farmers . Joe McCarthy isn't looking over our shoulders . Some real estate developer is . Enough preaching . This is one of the better low-budget SF films to appear in the 1950s , oddly similar to , but far less complex than , " Invasion of the Body Snatchers . " Universal Studios ground out a number of these profitable little enterprises and Richard Carlson was in several of them . That's as it should be , because Richard Carlson has the blandly believable face of Everyman , a kind of Humphrey C . Earwicker of B films . In this particular movie , Barbara Rush is a magnetic presence . Her performance may be limited to worried frowns and frightened screams but she looks perfectly consumable with her tight skirts and impudent bosom . It's understandable that the aliens should want to engulf her in jelly and smoke . Charles Drake is the irritable , unbelieving sheriff , jealous of Carlson's bond with Rush . Less use is made of Dr . Snell , the professional astronomer , who is seen only once as another doubting Thomas . The scientific expert who is called in to consult on the case is a stock figure in these scenarios . So is the Army general who wants to bomb everything into submission , but his place is taken here by Drake's sheriff who organizes an armed mob to exterminate the undocumented aliens . Ray Bradbury's dialog has some musings on the mysteries of that rapidly disappearing desert . The dialog during the " wind in the wires " scene is his . ( The music is by Henry Mancini . ) So is some of the dialog by the two miners who compare the aging tunnel to an old man - - both need propping up . These add to the eerie sense of the unknown . That , it appears , was the central moral message of the film . What we don't understand , we fear . And what we fear , we kill . Does the movie have a message ? I guess so . It's that , when you're faced with something that seems preposterous , why don't we try understanding what's going on before we try to destroy it ? Is anybody listening ? Good , typical , 1950s fare .
Well-done B Western drama .	I saw this as a kid and was impressed by it . Seeing it for only the second time , six-hundred and twelve months later , it STILL seems pretty good . Ordinarily , one judges a film chiefly by the story , direction , and acting , but this is different because so much of whatever qualities it has comes from the talents of such neglected offices as Art Direction ( Dave Milton ) , Set Decoration ( Ben Bone ) , Makeup ( Ted Larson ) , and Wardrobe . The acting is okay - - no more than that , but no less . As the lead , the eponymous Slade , Mark Stevens looks the part . He's slim , dressed in dark clothes and a man-with-no-name kind of black hat . His eyes are rather large and overbeetled by a single line of extremely dark brows . As his wife , Dorothy Malone also looks good , as good as she ever has . Neither is an outstanding performer . Stevens isn't particularly expressive . He glares more than usual when he's supposed to be aroused in some way , but his style is cautious , akin to that of David Janssen , and seems more suited to a cool medium like television than to feature films . I could never understand Dorothy Malone's appeal , nor her long career . She's never embarrassingly bad . It's just that it seems that she and the viewer are both very aware of the fact that she's acting in a movie . Barton McClane is the main heavy and he does a schtick that was already old twenty years earlier . All the usual conventions are followed in the dialog . ( " Go ahead - - reach for it . " ) But the visuals are impressive in their shabby way . The bar , for instance . It's not one of those fancy bars with a stage and a band , or a big mirror on the wall , and a bartender wearing a ruffled white shirt with sleeve garters and a vest . It's a crummy joint . It looks real . The bar itself is no more than a couple of planks laid across a row of barrels . Everyone looks properly dusty , if not outright filthy . The men's shirts are sweated through and grimy , and their faces are dark with a patina of soil . ( Even the hero's . ) The story isn't easy to dismiss either . A boy sees his father killed and decides to rid society of its bad people . A stint in the Civil War army gives him his first taste of killing , an act that disquiets him but seems to draw him . His next job is that of law keeper in a small western town . He kills when necessary - - strictly in accordance with cheap movie formulae . ( Two men stalk towards one another on an empty street . ) But as the number of killings mount , they take their toll on his character , so that he begins to drink and abuses innocent people . He becomes a human wreck , ridden by a self-loathing he can't seem to understand . By the end he's killed an innocent man and is himself shot down by a friend . It's a rather touching story , like watching a Greek tragedy played out on the screen , in the form of a second-feature Western with over-the-hill actors .
The Game is Afoot	An unusual flick , divided into two parts , the first part taking up most of the screen time and being the more involving . William of Baskerville - - a name to conjure with - - and his sidekick Adzo arrive at a medieval monastery run by Dominican monks , rather like Monte Cassino . The Dominicans were never known for their sense of humor . Baskerville and friend are Franciscans , a different order of monk , characterized more by a sort of mystic love of things human and animal . Since Baskerville is a Franciscan , there is immediate conflict between him and his hosts , one which , in the end , turns out to underlie in a complicated way the entire mystery with which the film starts , turning on the apparent murders of several of the Dominicans . It's this mystery story which intrigues the viewer . Who dunnit ? Baskerville , aided ( and sometimes hindered ) by his pal , young Dr . Watson , I mean young Adzo , exercises all of his ratiocinative powers to solve the case , using a magnifying glass , examining footprints for their unique points , figuring out ways to solve directions to the Musgrave cellar , I mean a labyrinthine library . It's all rather neatly done . Sean Connery is utterly charming . Christian Slater is under more control than usual . The monastery's inhabitants are right out of a Charles Addams cartoon . Man , do they have odd haircuts . And bad teeth . And opaque eyes . And some are obese and pale and given to homoerotic escapades . In fact it could be argued that Baskerville and Adzo are the only two " normal " - looking folks in the crowd . The mystery has something to do with a horde of forbidden books , including the second book of Aristotle's " Poetics , " hidden in a secret library . Then Professor Moriarty arrives and the whole structure weakens and shivers like one of Aquinas's arguments that prove the existence of God . F . Murray Abraham plays it straight . He's genuinely evil , and does a splendid job as Bernardo Gui . Bernardo finds three people - - ranging from the misguided communist to the frankly psychotic - - guilty of conspiring with the devil and consigns them to the flames . The burning is pretty gruesome too . The agony isn't as prolonged as Dryer's Joan of Arc , but it's pretty horrifying . But really . Everything seems to go awry during the last third of the picture . Adzo escapes the burning library but Baskerville is trapped in the holocaust . The director cross-cuts between scenes of Baskerville having a philosophical conversation with the chief villain - - " You can't expect to deny laughter is a human characteristic " - - and scenes of people getting roasted outside . Then Baskerville emerges from the holocaust that is the monastery with a handful of precious books from what has been described as " the finest library in all Christendom , " and this is treated as some sort of victory . It was during this period when Western civilization didn't have much going for it , except what literature had been salvaged from the ancient Greeks , and that was in the hands of the church . The crusades were to bring us into contact with the Saracens who reintroduced the rest of us to additional Greek and Roman literature and science . Algebra was their own contribution . ( I don't think I'll ever forgive them . ) The Christian church was one potent sociopolitical force . Did Lord Acton really says , " Power corrupts ; absolute power corrupts absolutely " ? It's been quoted so many times I'm not sure I believe it anymore . But the church then wasn't the church we know today . You could be absolved of a sin you committed by confessing it to a representative of the church and then doing penance , which often involved a financial contribution to the church . After a while , it became possible to be absolved of sins you had not yet committed by paying for an indulgence . You could then sell the indulgence to someone else , possibly at a profit . Eventually there came to be a futures market in indulgences , with priests and monks hawking them like peddlers in the town square . So crooked they remind one of today's inside traders and the CEOs at Enron . Compared to them , these monks are pretty benign . The movie ends on a wistful note , but not a happy one .
The Evil Twin	If I didn't know this was written by a man I'd swear it was written by a woman because it's got the female interactional style down pat . Don't blame me for this observation . It's straight out of Deborah Tannen , your major feminist . We have a friendship between two women , one very plain ( Jennifer Jason Lee ) with an ugly name , Hedra , and the other glamorous ( Bridget Fonda ) and with a suitably post-modern name , Allyson ( " Ally " ) . ( The plain one is nurturing and definitely non-threatening to the glamorous one . ) They eat ice cream cones together , like the same movies . They swap presents . When one is upset , the other offers to make tea . And not just tea . CHAMOMILE TEA . Can you imagine John Wayne delivering Fonda's line - - " I'll make some tea . Chamomile . And then we can TALK . " No , you can't imagine John Wayne ever uttering such a suggestion . Don't kid yourself . " Talkin ' words is fer wimmin . " Then the relationship begins to get a little twisted . Lee begins to delete phone messages from Fonda's estranged boyfriend , Sam . They begin going through each others ' closets , drawers , secret shoeboxes , and other forbidden information preserves . There are intrigues , sexual and otherwise . Lee adopts Fonda's style of grooming and actually looks like her , which displeases Fonda and fools Fonda's boyfriend Sam . Lee murders a puppy . Then she evidently kills Graham , the gay upstairs neighbor , gives Sam an intraorbital prefrontal lobotomy with a stiletto heel , and puts two or three holes through the face of Fonda's libidinous scuzzbag of a boss . Lee , a complete fruitcake by now , ties Fonda to a chair with duct tape from which Fonda tries desperately to escape , only to find , when successful , that she is pursued by a deranged Lee down to the basement of the huge apartment building . It is all supposed to have something to do with Lee's twin sister who died at nine , but that's psychobabble . I want to get back to Graham , the gay upstairs neighbor . He has a habit of listening to the conversations downstairs through the grating of a heater . ( Cf . , the same device in " The Horse Soldiers . " ) This prompted me to wonder what the hell kind heaters they have in this apartment building . But that's not what I wanted to get back to Graham for . I wanted to get back to him because of what happens to him about two-thirds of the way through . He's discovered something about Lee and when he confronts her in his apartment , she loses it , jabs him in the stomach with the iron prop bar from the door , then bashes his head in - - twice . The end of Graham , right ? He is incommunicado and unable to help Fonda when things get bad for her because , after all , he's somewhat dead and must by now have assumed room temperature . Well , not exactly , because near the end we see that Lee has stashed his body under water in his own bathtub , his dead cat perched placidly on his chest . Graham has been feeling like this for hours . And yet , when Fonda is really IN EXTREMIS , and Lee is about to plug her with an automatic , Graham , ever the unflappable , ever the Mad Monk , springs to life , jumps out of the bathtub and temporarily disables Lee . And he's not even DRIPPING . The first two thirds of the movie are pretty well done . ( I bought the DVD . ) Nice photography and good performances from the two leads . The men are incompetent nincompoops , never there when you need them , and are easily forgotten . But the intricacy of the relationship between Fonda and Lee is nicely rendered . Lee has the splashier role and makes the most of it . She is thoroughly deglamorized to emphasize the contrast between her and Fonda , although to be sure Fonda can be made to look a little crummy too if the role calls for it . Barbet Schroeder , the director , certainly knows where the put the camera . Alas , he shrugs and throws away the story at the slasher climax . Just when someone is doing something a bit naughty , a figure appears in the background and looks over her shoulder . Fonda is hiding in an air vent from Lee , who is pursuing her with one of those lethal stevedore cargo-lifting hooks . Nevertheless , Fonda is so frightened of a mouse that she betrays her location . The film does have a good deal of redeeming social value though , in that it contains ample nudity and sex in various forms that should be familiar to any cultivated viewer . It's all quite impossible to take seriously but it is engaging .
Dysfunctional Family .	Pretty interesting story , and adult too . Robinson is Pa Minetti , an Italian immigrant , formerly a penurious barber , now the prosperous president of his own bank . He has three older sons - - Luther Adler , Valentine , and Zimbalist . And he favors his youngest son , Max ( Richard Conte ) , who is a lawyer and has his office in Pa's bank . All kind of cozy , like the warm Italian family in The Godfather . But there's a problem . Robinson has brought his old-world ways to the new world . He's not only the president of the bank , but president of the family too , and nobody elected him . Someone calls him " Il Duce . " ( Kids , that was the title of Benito Mussolini , the Italian dictator in the 1930s and the early 1940s , when his subjects hung him out to dry . ) But Pa has , in fact , absorbed some of the ways of the new world , only it's the wrong philosophy . The philosophy can be summarily described as , " Dog Eat Dog . " Boy , does Pa browbeat his three older sons , both at work and at home . He has Luther Adler , his first born , working in a teller's cage . Efram Zimbalist , Jr . , has some menial position too . And the biggest and strongest , Paul Valentine as Pietro , wears a guard's uniform . He's constantly ordering them to get back to work . And he refers to Valentine as " dumbhead " repeatedly . Even at the weekly family dinners , when the sons bring their families over for Ma's spaghetti dinners , he plays opera on the phonograph - - and LOUD , so nobody can hear anybody else . And Pa makes everyone wait at the table until Conte arrives . " Nobody's eat untilla Max gets ahere . " The three elder sons don't care much for the kind of humiliation that Pa is dishing out , though he's rarely mean about it . He just takes it for granted that they know they'll inherit the bank one day when he's gone , and meantime they'll have some notion of what he himself went through , as they crawl on their bellies like dogs and can't afford decent apartments for their wives and kids . How does Conte treat all this ? With aplomb . He speaks up for his brothers when they ask him to but he doesn't take it all too seriously . I mean , what the hell , he's a lawyer and Pa's favorite son . A run on the bank ( this is 1932 ) exposes a few weaknesses in Pa's book keeping . He doesn't know the meaning of the word " collateral . " He lends money based on his reckoning of whether he'll get it back , accompanied by usurious interest . He keeps money stashed in a cigar box and writes his records on napkins , things like that . So he's brought to trial and is about to be convicted . The older brothers don't care . Pa's just getting what he deserves . But Conte is representing him in court and , seeing the guillotine blade about to fall , interferes with a juror and is sent to prison for seven years . The cops were tipped off by the other brothers , which annoys Conte no end . So when Conte is finally released from jail he intends to take care of them but , due to the seasonal interposition of an adventitious girl friend , Susan Hayward , he decides not to because that would have represented the worst of Pa's desires . A free man , he leaves with Hayward for San Francisco and the brothers get the bank . So long , Pa . Joseph L . Mankievicz directed it efficiently and the script is occasionally very keen . An example of what I mean . Susan Hayward calls Conte and tells him to come to her place ; it's a legal emergency . Well , it isn't . She just wants to have some fun with him . He turns her offer down but she says , " Let's go to dinner . I'll get my wrap . " Conte walks to the door and opens it , then looks back at her . She drops the wrap on the couch and they stand there silently . Fade out . There's a marvelous scene in a seedy bar . Mankievicz's camera glides along from booth to booth , passing one in which a fat , older man with a cigar is sitting next to a frozen young lady . Neither says a word . A few minutes later , Conte and Hayward look up from their drinks when they hear a slight sob , and there is a cut to the other couple . The girl has covered her face with her hands and the fat man is looking around self consciously . A vignette whose character we can fill in with our imaginations . I said it was an adult movie but that hint of premarital intercourse isn't why . The characters are ambiguous , as people in real life would be . In some ways , for instance , Pa is a lovable old patriarch , but he's also monstrously insensitive to the feelings of others . And the murderous resentment of the older kids is made understandable too . And Richard Conte's character is aggressive and domineering at the beginning , just as a spoiled youngster might be , but he develops into a Mensch by the end of the tale . Hayward develops too , from a whimsical high-end nympho to a woman mature enough to settle for one man , even if he's broke . I don't know why this had to be an Italian family , though . The Italianate elements seem superimposed on the family dynamics , like one of those nude celebrity photos in which the face of the actress or model has been placed on a fake body . Sure , they eat spaghetti and Pa listens to The Barber of Seville . So what ? The writers have resorted to stereotypes . I hate stereotypes . Furthermore , no Italian boy has ever been named " Max " . They are all named " Tony " and when born are not wrapped in swaddling clothes but dressed in iddy biddy suits of rubbed silk . But that's a small thing in this big , complicated , and largely successful tale of power and jealousy .
Overall fine ; in detail flawed .	There were complaints that Mathew Broderick was too short and unimposing to play Robert Gould Shaw , the Colonel who led the 54th Massachussetts into battle and dismemberment . I don't think I agree . Why should a courageous and even heroic man be made to look like Michelangelo's sculpture of Moses ? Weren't there ever any SHORT heroes ? As far as I can discern , from what little grasp of historical events I have , the general outline of the plot sticks pretty close to the facts . I don't know that Frederick Douglass was still as prominent in 1863 as he had been earlier . Maybe he was . As the events unfold , though , they ring fairly true . The narration by Broderick is lifted directly from Shaw's letters to his family and they reveal a self-doubt , a contrarian conviction , a dignity , an objectivity , and a humility that all the rest of us must envy . His role in the film is similar to that of Liam Neeson's in " Schindler's List " or Richard Harris's in " A Man Called Horse " or Kevin Costner's in " Dances With Wolves . " He is " our " liaison to " them " . Shaw was educated , white , and socially prominent so we get to know a lot about him and the milieu in which he was raised . The Colored Troops , as they were called at the time , are only sketched in by the writers , and only sketchily sketched . There is the angry ex-slave , the wise old man , the good-natured but dumb squirrel shooter , and the poetry-reading New Englander who gets the crap beaten out of him by a racist Mick Sergeant - - for a lofty cause , naturally , as all sadistic drill sergeants are quick to point out . They look a little too much like the crew of the original Memphis Belle . If they were white , there would be a street-wise tough guy from Brooklyn and a braggart farm boy from Texas . The stereotypes are functional , though . Most stereotypes are . The structure shows us that not all " blacks " were the same . Nor were all " Northern whites " the same . Cliff DeYoung is a Jayhawker , an ex-slave owner , now an abolitionist , who believes his men must be treated like children . There was a lot of that going around . Darwinism was still a radical idea , less than ten years old . Nobody had the slightest idea of how humans had evolved and in the absence of DNA and other biological evidence of racial relationships , judgments were made on the basis of traits that have been shown to be superficial - - hair texture , skin color , the shape of the soft parts of the face . African-Americans were easy targets for displaced aggression just because they looked so different and there were so many of them around . Irishmen stepping off the boats were faced with being drafted into what was thought ( wrongly ) to be a rich man's war and a poor man's fight . The draft riots of New York City killed more than a hundred people , most of them black , including some in an orphanage . There were some monumental historical dynamics at work at the time , but no space to go into them , and they're most irrelevant to the movie anyway . ( May I suggest reading Bruce Catton's books on the Civil War ? Or MacPherson's Pulitzer-Prize-winning " The Battle Cry of Freedom " ? ) Broderick does pretty well by his role . He toughens up as he goes along . Cary Elwes looks handsome and acts as a humanistic counterbalance . Among the troops , Morgan Freeman is excellent , as usual , though his part doesn't offer him that much to do . What a fine actor he is . And Andre Braugher as the educated New Englander who is a poor soldier is outstanding as well . Denzel Washington was adequate without bringing much else to the party . The score is so bloated with " glory " that it really belongs to some epic about The Second Coming . Perhaps the scene I found most amusing involved Braugher and the rest debarking in South Carolina and bumping into some local ex-slaves . Braugher is unable to understand them because they're speaking in Gullah dialect , in which a " buckra man " is a boss or , by extension , any white person . The most disturbing scene involved my watching this in a theater in which the audience was largely black and being almost deafened by screams of exhortation as the Colored Troops shot and bayoneted whites . I wonder if Gunnar Myrdal may have been right about race in this country .
Good first-season Colombo	This one has Roddy MacDowell as the chief villain , a conniving and brilliant member of a family that owns some kind of gigantic chemical plant , only two victims away from the presidency . Good support too , from James Gregory ( huffing and puffing ) , Anne Francis , Ida Lupino , and William Windom . In order to eliminate the two obstacles to his career path , MacDowell blows one of them up with an exploding cigar and frames the other one for fornication and first-degree mopery . Comic moments include Colombo being forced by circumstances to take a 15-minute ride on a tram suspended from cables , at times half a mile above the earth . Steve Bochco was the story supervisor and he knows his character . Colombo is frozen with fear but never speaks a word , perhaps unable to . He just stands there like a statue , avoiding the windows , while his guide points out all the scenic features . The climax is good too , however implausible . MacDowell is led to believe that the exploding cigar is now aboard the tram , along with him , Wisdom , and Colombo . As the time passes and the moment of destruction ticks nearer , he becomes more nervous , finally betraying himself by becoming hysterical and ripping the box of cigars out of Colombo's hands . It's lots of fun . Curious note : Both Falk and Anne Francis were raised in Ossining , New York , the site of Singsing Prison , born only a few years apart . Falk visited his home town recently on a kind of nostalgic tour . Arriving , he was greeted by an enthusiastic , cheering crowd , raised his hands , smiled gratefully , and announced , " I gotta take a leak . "
Who's Double Crossing Whom Around Here ?	Ray Milland is the orchid-fancying heavy in this story of a faked kidnapping . He has a lot of chutzpah , bluffing the police , planting false leads , all driven by his pitiless , gonadal desire to get his hands on the trust fund of the nephew whom he double crosses and murders . Raymond Gland , the orchideous monster . I'd better leave that kind of word play to Joyce . It begins promisingly enough . Milland is a wealthy flower enthusiast who connives with his spendthrift nephew ( Bradford Dillman ) to fake a kidnapping and break his nephew's otherwise untouchable trust fund . The ransom demand draws in Lieutenant Columbo inexplicably from homicide . It goes off well enough , but Milland deliberately plugs his nephew in order to keep all the money for himself . An ancillary goal is to prevent his nephew from giving his share of the loot to his , Dillman's , unfaithful but candid and unsentimental wife . A couple of small things bother Columbo from the start . You know , the " loose ends " ? When Dillman's Jag was supposedly forced off the road during the kidnapping , the gear shift was in neutral . ( So what ? ) And the bullet that was fired through the Jag's window supposedly to scare Dillman into stopping had a trajectory that would have gone right through Dillman if he'd been sitting upright in the driver's seat . ( Maybe he ducked . ) And the heavier car that the supposed kidnapper ( ie . , Milland ) was driving couldn't have caught up with Dillman's speedier Jag ? ( Maybe Dillman was too frightened or too inept to drive the Jag at speed , and the Jag itself was symptomatic of an advanced case of conspicuous consumption . ) What should have bothered Columbo at the scene - - what bothered ME - - was that Dillman was either in the Jag when it went over the steep hill and crashed at the bottom , or he was out of the car and it was pushed over to get it out of sight . The Jag was really a wreck . If Dillman had been in it , why no blood ? But if it had been pushed over after Dillman was out of it , then why is it suspicious that the gear was in neutral ? But the plot is heavily burdened with such inconsistencies . Even with the help of a metal detector , could Columbo really be expected to find a months-old . 32 bullet in a crate full of dirt in a greenhouse cluttered with plants growing in dirt ? The crate in question was , I would guess , about 3 feet by 5 feet by 3 feet , which comes to 45 square feet of dirt . But that's not too bothersome , really . We don't expect realism in Columbo's method . We expect him to be humble , shambling , a sartorial mess , apologetic , and gauche . We expect him to come to the owner of " one of the world's finest " orchid collections and ask for advice on his wife's dilapidated African violet . And he does . He's pretty funny . Ray Milland , alas , isn't funny , and he plays the heavy in a lazy , one-dimensional style , always irritable and unpleasant . He never even smiles over Columbo's clumsiness . He never smiles at all . Maybe by this time in his career he was no longer given to trying very hard or was just collecting his paycheck . And he was so enthralling as the suave , charming , unflappable villain in Hitchcock's " Dial M For Murder . " The other characters are competent , no more than that . There have been better Columbos than this episode , and worse ones too .
Think Before You Attack .	There aren't any big stars in this movie but many fine and reliable actors . It's competently directed . A monumental amount of money was spent on it . It's as historically accurate as the limits of commercial film making allowed . It's about an event of great magnitude . The director considers it one of his best films . So why does it fall short of expectations ? Maybe because the expectations are too high , given the effort that went into the production . After all is said and done , it's an attempt to recreate the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and make a movie out of it . It's not the attack itself . We all realize that great care and lots of dough were lavished on the sets but they look cheesy nevertheless . The models are identifiably models . And historical errors abound , due to simple carelessness . The bombers and torpedo planes can pass , but the AT-6 Texan trainers do not look or fly like Zeros . ( This is one instance in which CGI would have been a genuine help if used - - properly , not in the zany way of " Pearl Harbor . " ) There's nothing wrong with most of the performances . The tension associated with the raid is forcefully conveyed . And there is one scene , in which the commander of the Japanese Air Group wordlessly shakes Fuchida's hand and Fuchida pauses for a moment , then smiles glowingly before mounting his airplane , that is thrilling . In small parts , Richard Anderson is a little too obvious , and poor Neville Brand is unbelievable as anything more than a flabby ex-actor . Jason Robards , by the way , who plays General Short , was a third-class radioman in the Navy at Pearl Harbor during the attack and actually copied the transmitted message , " Air Raid Pearl Harbor . This is no drill . " Soh Yamamura , as Admiral Yamamoto , is given a great line at the end of the film . " I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve . " The line is so good , so portentous , so apt , that I've seen it attributed to Yamamoto as a direct quote , when in fact it was written expressly for the movie . It may become one of those factoids that , having been invented for fiction , are passed on as fact . The " thumbs up " and " thumbs down " gestures after gladiator brawls are in the same factoidal territory , having been invented on the spot for a silent film . It's not a bad movie , not poorly done , and it's light years ahead of " Pearl Harbor . " But there are enough errors of judgment in the direction , and a few in the script , to render it disappointing . Richard Fleischer actually believed that if you captured a P-40 careering out of control from five different angles and exploding spectacularly , scattering debris everywhere , the viewer would not realize it was the same incident being filmed from different angles and so could be used repeatedly . The viewer realizes and even feels a little cheated and condescended to .
Hold on to your hats , boys and girls !	The movie falls completely apart at the end , but before the last ten minutes we have a rootin ' , tootin ' action movie full of technological wizards , chases , shootouts , a hero climbing the face of a hotel in his underwear , a couple of murders , voyeurism , the loner hero's pet cat , and two mismatched protagonists against the National Security Agency , with the FBI as the unwitting good guys this time around . It's the kind of movie in which every vehicle seems sooner or later to explode in a fireball . Now , we have to ask right off the bat about verisimilitude here . The NSA ( or , pardon me , what appears to be a " rogue group " within the NSA ) murders a senator ( Jason Robards ) who opposes their plan to surveille everyone in search of terrorists - - or whatever . They have satellites at their disposal that can read your credit card number from 150 miles in space . If they want to know something about you , they don't just plant a bug in your phone . They plant a dozen bugs in your home and one or two tiny cameras as well . They ransack your place and plant transponders in your shoes , your pen , your pants , your belt , and - - well , I lost count . The reason I raise the question of exactly how realistic all this wizardry and chicanery is , is because , as you might know , as this is being written the Executive Branch of the government , it turns out , has been using the super-secret NSA and Special Ops to surveille its own citizens as well as anyone else on the planet , and without resorting to any of that tedious " getting a warrant " business . The Executive Branch has assured us that only " terrorists , terrorist supporters , terrorist groups or similar groups " are targets , and of course we believe it , although I must say I'm awfully glad I'm not Barbra Streisand anyway . The movie was released in 1998 before the attacks and , boy , have things changed . The acting is pretty good . Gene Hackman is finally beginning to look his age , and it's about time . Will Smith I didn't find a convincing actor but he certainly looks the part . He seems handsome , energetic , and has ears the size of radar antennae that contribute to the film's considerable comedic element . Jon Voight is good too , as the Congressman who wants to impose surveillance on the country . The movie doesn't treat him cheaply either . He's given a home and a family whose respect and warmth he enjoys . The Special Ops guys working for the NSA aren't your usual ugly pock-faced heavies either . They all look no more than thirty . They're pale , fresh faced , and they dress not in black suits but in sweatshirts , watch caps , and Reeboks . They're physically empowered but they're also able to instigate all kind of high-tech chicanery . And they can trace a phone call from a pay phone in less than a minute . The story isn't very complicated . The MacGuffin is a videotape recording of Robard's murder , which comes into Will Smith's hands . He links up with Hackman and the two of them are on the run for the rest of the movie . I really don't know how accurate the technology is . Maybe it's just somebody's patched-together fantasy . The NSA spy satellite that tracks pedestrians on earth just sends out nothing but a signal in Morse code - - " CQ " - - repeatedly , which only translates as something like , " Is anybody listening " ? I doubt that there are any credit card numbers buried in that . I hope the rest of the technology is equally unrealistic , otherwise this movie is much more spooky now than its makers ever intended it to be .
Is this London that I see before me ?	A pretty good entry in the early series , this episode takes Columbo to London where he more or less guides a dilatory Scotland Yard through a maze of clues to the solution of a murder . The murder has to do with the social world of British theater and the culprits are a pair of Shakespearean actors ( Richard Basehart and Honor Blackman ) . There's nothing particularly innovative or amusing about it except the locale . Columbo loses track of his wife , as usual on his trips . And there are some scenes in which an audience might properly be feel it's being talked down to , with Columbo running around ( followed closely by the camera ) and taking pictures of the changing of the guard as if the pageantry hadn't appeared in a dozen other movies . " Is that BIG BEN ? " , Columbo asks his guide at one point . Yes , Leftenant , it's Big Ben . " Waddaya know - - hundreds of years old and it's not off by more than a minute . " I mean , fumbling around and being gauche is one thing , but has he been raised in some cave ? However , that silliness aside , the writers have folded Columbo's usual tactics neatly into the British mix . And it has Wilfred Hyde-White as an unctuous blackmailing butler and he's peerless . And it has John Williams , too , who has played more British detectives , inspectors , and lawyers than you can count . Alas , he's bumped off early - - by a cold cream jar Honor Blackman throws his way . ( People die so easily in Columbo's environs ; his presence is hazardous to your health . ) Basehart and Blackman seem to be having a good time and they're a jovial couple of murderers , chuckling and making wisecracks about their own duplicity , a regular pair of Richard IIIs . Enjoyable - - AND you get to see Tower Bridge ! From a boat on the Thames !
Susan Clark , Fratricide .	Susan Clark is this rich , mousy woman who is dominated by her brother , Richard Anderson . They dwell in this mansion in which Anderson runs everything . He also runs the family's advertising corporation which is making megabucks . Clark is seeing a lawyer who serves on the Board of Directors , Leslie Nielsen , younger than we're used to seeing him in the recent spoofs , more distinguished , more handsome and virile , but just as bulb-nosed . Anderson disapproves of Nielsen , whom he considers nothing more than an upwardly mobile con man . ( Forgive all this exposition . I'm trying to hurry through it , honest . ) As is pro forma in the series , Clark sets up an elaborate scheme to get Anderson to enter through her bedroom window when he returns late at night from a trip . It works - - well , almost - - and she shoots him , claiming it was an accident , that she thought he was a burglar . This far into the movie , she's been so thoroughly demeaned by Anderson that we feel sorry for her , though not sorry enough to see Anderson die . He's overbearing but not a villain , and his motives seem clean . Enter Columbo , dressed in his usual clown outfit , smoking the good five-cent cigar that Will Rogers pined for , and in the first shot of him , he's already gotten his hands on the clue that will undo Susan Clark . Also starring is Jesse Royce Landis in her last film , old enough now to actually BE Cary Grant's mother , her dental plate slipping - - " You mush be insane . " But the movie is Susan Clark's and she does a marvelous and thought-provoking job . The thought she provokes is : " What is it that makes a person beautiful ? " At first , with her black hair tied back and her face plain , she looks quite ordinary - - eyes close together , upper and lower lips identical twins , an unexceptional nose , and a strong jaw . Once Anderson - - that nuisance - - is out of the way she takes over the company and transforms both it and herself . Her hair is dyed red and let down , and it's really fluffy , and nice to look at too . Any normal man would want to run his toes through it . Her face , properly prepared , is glorious . And she sheds her ordinary , drab outfit and wears these mind-boggling ensembles that must have driven the designer , Burton Miller , mad with ecstasy . She now flounces confidently around , taller than we'd thought , announcing her engagement to Nielsen without bothering to announce it to him first and , when he balks , she discards him as an unworthy mate after all . Who let this woman loose ? Well , this is no place for a discourse on aesthetics , I guess , so let's just say it's surprising what a bit of make up and grooming can do . I can't say the plot is entirely plausible . It suggests that the only thing standing in the way of happiness for us mousy people is one or two murders . Just bump off your brother and you're mistress of the universe - - only you have to be very careful and more thorough than Susan Clark was . She never should have left that late-edition newspaper next to the doorway where it would be the first thing that Columbo sees upon entering the house . I don't want to spoil the movie , but Columbo unravels the scheme and solves the case .
Undemanding Biography	I find it kind of enjoyable in a smooth , Hollywood kind of way . Billy Mitchell did go through the various experiences we see on screen , only not in the particular details shown . The deck is stacked in favor of Gary Cooper as the hero , Billy Mitchell . I read a reasonably balanced biography of Mitchell some years ago and he didn't come across as the idealistic firebrand we see on screen . Rather , as I remember it , he had married well and was something of a social aristocrat , which isn't bad in itself . The story's probably familiar . Mitchell is an advocate of air power and , against orders , blows a test battleship out of the water with out-sized 2 , 000 pound bombs . For this he's sent to Siberia in Texas . When his friend in killed in an airship accident and other friends expire in a cross-country flight , he makes a public announcement accusing the War Department of being " criminally negligent " and " almost treasonable . " For this he gets a court martial , found guilty , and is cashiered . He was evidently correct about a number of things . The day of the battleship was limited . The majority lost by all sides in World War II were sunk by airplanes . No air force ever used 2 , 000 pound bombs though , with one exception ( the Tirpitz ) to sink them . Nor did air supremacy ever win a war by itself . Not in World War II - - and not since then . The best scene - - both the most dramatic and the most unintentionally comic - - is the court martial scene . Every participant in the trial has a single dimension . There are the good guys and the bad guys . The bad guys are winning at the start but the tide turns and they lose . The last witness is Mitchell himself . He not only has to undergo the agonizing ordeal of being cross-examined by a particularly slimy and sarcastic Rod Steiger but he must be suffering from an attack of malaria at the same time . Man , does he suffer . He keeps a handkerchief to his face , patting away the sweat . I don't recall from his biography whether Mitchell actually made the predictions attributed to him by the film . They include a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor by planes from aircraft carriers 150 miles off the Hawaiian coast . The enemy will be the Japanese . He also calls for the Air Force as an independent branch of the armed forces . This is , like , 1927 , mind you . Steiger keeps making snotty references to Mitchell's " crystal ball . " A friend and I made up outrageous Mitchell predictions that might have been cut from the script . The Finns will build an undersea tunnel and fly airplanes that will come out of a Washington sewer and bomb the White House , and so forth . Well - - who knows ? Anyway I get a kick out of it . Worth catching if you don't care much about historical accuracy . Oh - - and Kids , in 1941 the Japanese actually DID do what Billy Mitchell said they would . It began what we call " World War II . " PS : We won .
Hollywood's Foreign Legion vs . the Ay-rabs .	I tried to count the number of times George Raft , Cavalry Captain in the French Foreign Legion in Morocco , in the early years of the 20th century , blinked , but I didn't see any blinks at all . I wouldn't advance the proposition that George Raft never blinks in this movie . That's not it at all . It's just that I never caught him at it . Possibly because I blinked myself . Why , man , he doth bestride this narrow movie like s Colossus astride Rhodes . He wears the same expression , whether making love or shooting rebels . He looks grim always . He moves purposefully . Everything he is involved in generates the same contour of his facial muscles and , as in a Kuleshov experiment , we interpret it according to context . Excuse me for making a little fun of George Raft . He actually suits the role and the movie pretty well . It's an unpretentious and action-filled , mostly studio-bound , story of proud French soldiers opposing a conflicted culture of Islamic colonials . A leader of one tribe , Eduard Franz , is pretty hostile to the French presence . So much so that he wipes out one of their outposts , despite some friendly gestures on the part of the French . At the same time , Eduard Franz has a very pretty and sensual daughter , Marie Windsor , she of the large and doe-like eyes and a mouth that bespeaks passion . Raft has delivered her from the city to her father's oasis and they have fallen in love with each other . ( Over an enormous bowl of rice . ) The two of them are torn between their conflicting allegiances . Windsor has been to some extent Westernized . She's been away from the tribe long enough to have acquired one of those pointed brassieres that were to become so common in 1950s movies . Not that she needs it . She's superbly feminine and nubile beyond measure . Raft too is torn between his love for her - - his enemy's daughter - - and his commitment to La France , though he never seriously wavers . I don't want to spell out the end , but it really is a little confusing . Eduard Franz's cavalry make a suicidal line-abreast charge against a fortified position that has automatic weapons . Somehow , Marie Windsor gets mixed up in the ruckus and the conflict between enlightened Westerners and benighted tribesmen is resolved . Without being sure why , I can say that I quite enjoyed it - - the stereotypes , the shootings , the battles , the galloping horses , the eyeballs of Marie Windsor , the Russian slurring of English by Akim Tamirov . I think maybe I had OD'd on political arguments and the economic calamity that happened on the day I watched this , but - - whatever - - I loved the action and the mindlessness . All in all , a splendid way to take your mind off things .
Dame Agatha , Smooth as Silk .	This was a super novel . I don't mean a work of art , I mean super in the sense that a crossword puzzle is superior . How did she work it out ? What went on in that mind of hers ? Why did she disappear so abruptly and where did she go during her absence ? This is her most popular story , judging from the number of movies and TV shows that have been based on it , but frankly it's not as good as it's 1940s predecessor despite a generally fine cast . Each filmed version seemed to grow more corrupt , more distant from Christie's novel . They began to borrow characteristics from previous versions , names , motives , lines of dialog . And each succeeding version reflected its own cultural context . The 1940s film had a superb cast , a cheap set of production values , and good oblique direction by Rene Claire . There were two on screen deaths , both decorous , one even comic . Now , twenty years later , more commercial plug-ins have been activated . Miss Brent's cold spinster has been replaced by the succulent Dahlia Lavi , no longer a teacher but a movie star . The exotic and winsome June Duprez has become Shirley Eaton , the Goldfinger Girl , who oozes oestrus . Both have to contend with bouffant dos that , if they were any more elaborate , would resemble fire hydrants . At least we get to see Eaton in some underwear , which is okay , although in a still later version as I recall we got to see Elke Sommer bareback . The rest of the cast does fine - - what with the ever-ironic Dennis Price , the gentlemanly and vaguely comic Wilfred Hyde-White , and the multi-talented Stanley Holloway , whom you ought to hear spout Shakespeare's dialog as the gravedigger in " Hamlet . " There are two exceptions , alas , and both Americans too . Hugh O'Brian has never uttered a believable line on the screen . He smirks constantly and strides around with his hips thrust forward . And Fabian . How did he ever achieve celebrity ? I guess he's chubbily cute and that's enough if you are the Brittany Spears of the early 1960s . If the 1940s film was bloodless , this one isn't quite . We see the agonized faces of the doomed , the thrusting knife , the plunging cable car , the - - ugh . And this film has more easy cheap shots that Clair's film dispensed with . Here , a door slowly creaks open , the girl gasps and puts her hand over her mouth - - and it's just friendly Hugh O'Brian , doing what he's been told to do , opening a door slowly and trying to smile at the same time . A black cat sneaks around and screeches at the wrong times . That sort of thing . Clichés . Well , I don't mean to put this down all together . The story itself , even with Agatha Christie's fine , bleak ending wrecked , is sufficient unto itself . I don't think there's much question about the earlier version being better than this , but this one isn't that bad and is worth seeing just for the climactic Big Reveal .
Enjoyable	The print I always manage to catch is tinted a gloomy blue but that's okay . The movie is worth watching anyway . The story line is familiar enough that I won't bother going over it much . The notion that the thieves should name themselves after colors - - Mr . Brown , Mr . Green - - was adopted by Tarantino for " Reservoir Dogs , " of course , as every Turturro addict knows . I should point out that the novel is at least as good as the film because the author occasionally uses an omniscient point of view and we get some better notion of what the participants in this caper are feeling . The confrontation between the African-American kid and Robert Shaw on the subway platform is more amusing , for instance . In the film , the kid glares at Shaw , and Shaw can only smile back . In the novel we are taken inside the kid's head and invited to play with him the game that he plays with people like Shaw . He has this idea , you see , that if he stares at some stranger with this particularly menacing expression , " he HYPMOTIZE him ! " As it turns out , Shaw is nobody to play games with . In deciding whom to execute , Shaw looks around the car and thinks about the flat-out drunken woman . She'd be the least missed . But on the other hand , " who am I to play God . " The exposition in the novel is clumsy but adds to our understanding of what's going on . We get more information about how many cars there are on a subway train , how long the train is , how many transit cops are around , and how they relate to the NYPD . Kind of interesting , in a touristy way . The Japanese " monkeys " in the movie serve their comedic purpose . Anyone who has seen footage of the real Tokyo subway system in operation must suspect that they view the New York City subway system as a paragon of order and good taste . ( In Tokyo , they use " pushers " to squeeze as many innocent passengers as possible into each car ; what happens if one of them wants to release some Sirin gas ? ) Walter Mathau is at his slouching New-Yorkese best , grumbling , kwetching , outfitted in a droopy suit with a startling canary yellow tie . And - - well , look at the movie . Here we are given a story about the hijacking of a subway train - - and there is not a single exploding fireball . There is some shooting with automatic weapons and pistols , but not much of that , and nobody wields two Uzzis at once . Nobody's head balloons into jelly . There is no blood , and no final shoot out in an unused deadend tunnel or empty warehouse . Mathau doesn't even carry a gun . The movie ends with a sneeze and an ironically polite German blessing . The acting is up to snuff , the narrative easy enough to follow , and exciting , if not entirely believable . The villains are neatly differentiated . The low-brow greedy ex-motorman of Martin Balsam , who practically embodies New York City in its grittier aspects ; Shaw's icy disdain ; Elizondo's angry psychopathy . It's an enjoyable movie , all around . The fact that it was made when it was , in 1974 , helps in understanding why the story and characters weren't overwhelmed by special effects . Cf . , Stallone's movie about the Holland Tunnel . ( Everyone in that movie should have been drowned ; who would want to go to New Jersey anyway ? The state smells like somebody's old sweatshirt . ) It ought to be mentioned that despite the tension and occasional violence this is a pretty funny movie . Much of the humor grows out of urban , ethnic cynicism and vulgarity . Yiddish is flung around profligately - - " Mishigas , " " putz . " The transit supervisor , a Polish-American , is accosted by a released hostage who shouts , " I'm gonna SUE you ! Hear me ? I'm gonna SUE your a . " Cas Dolowitz bellows back an obscene Italian expression that can be roughly rendered as " fanablagotz ! " It would be nice to turn back the clock and be able to watch a film like " The Taking of Pelham One Two Three " on a regular basis . It engages your interest with no pretensions at attempting to do anything else . It leaves your eardrums intact . Did you realize that one of the membranes in your inner ear is so sensitive that it transmits sound by vibrating only the diameter of a hydrogen atom ? If you want to treat your ears like a temple instead of a pool room , see this movie and avoid " action-movie gap . " Do it now . Offer ends at midnight . Not sold in stores .
Glory .	Perversely , the thing reminds me of " Glory , " without the taken-for-granteds . I mean , now we take for granted that African-Americans are as good in the military as anyone else . ( God knows , they were the tidiest sailors on my ship . ) But at the time this film was released the accomplishments of the 442nd were still news to most people . Japanese ? Fighting on OUR side ? Gosh . Alas , the performances leave a lot to be desire . Van Johnson does no more than a workmanlike job , and the Japanese soldiers are hard to distinguish . It isn't that they all look alike so much as that so many are given similar motivations . Only two of the enlisted men are really outstanding - - the bitter guy ( the equivalent of the Denzel Washington figure in " Glory " ) and the educated guy ( the Andre Braugher character in " Glory " ) . It's a good move though , and the action scenes are right up there among the better ones . Particularly good is the wounded guy wielding the mortar all by himself . Mortars don't ordinarily loom large in combat movies , although read Sledge's " With the Old Breed . " Weaknesses ? Not too many . One outstanding is that Van Johnson's racism is not made more explicit . Throughout , he objects to his assignment because , mainly , he wants to stay with his Texas division . His racism is sort of , well , masked . Good movie though . Stay way from the only available DVD , which is junk .
Fast , Corny , Fun .	Cagney is often an Irish-American on screen but in his personal life he was proud of his Norwegian grandfather ( " Nelson " ) . The problem with casting him was that he LOOKED and ACTED so Irish . He was so often a cocky bantamweight , as he is in this movie . He had a unique style . A bouncy half-psychotic body language , the kind that befits an ex-dancer . In this movie , watch him literally bounce from foxhole to foxhole . And his working-class New York accent was always singularly clipped and informed by some inner characterological melody . The style , unmistakable , was adapted to different genres - - to comedy ( " One , Two , Three " ) and with a complete absence of success to Westerns . My God , " The Oklahoma Kid " in painful to watch . That's the Cagney we think of when we think of " Cagney , " and yet the guy may have been under-rated as an actor . For instance , I can't really imagine another actor doing Cagney's breakdown scene in the big house in " White Heat . " And whatever one might think of " The Gallant Hours " as a film , Cagney cannot be blamed for anything that's wrong with it . The same can be said for " Come Fill the Cup . " Cagney's performance here is pretty much his street-wise tough guy character transported to France by the U . S . Army , shows his cowardice , and then is redeemed by some kind of epiphany known only to Hollywood screenwriters . During those few scenes when he's not making wisecracks in Yiddish or insulting priests ( " Oh , Hi , St . Francis . How's all ' em monks ? " ) he does a decent job , even an engaging one . His terror during combat , his remorse before he dies , is as convincing as his bravado on the sidewalks . But this movie is a product of its times and a viewer has to go with the flow . Mischa Moskovitz , for instance , assumes the alias of Mike Murphy in order to go overseas with the 69th . He's a flat-out stereotype , a clever guy with a Semitic face . In one of his earlier movies his character was called something like Freddy Bignose . And yet he dies honorably and is prayed over in Hebrew by Father Duffy in a moving scene . The action scenes look stage bound and of course the effects are primitive by today's standards , but the movie plunges along at such a pace that a viewer is likely to be drawn into it . The only slow scenes are those that drag in religion more or less by the heels . Kind of like Padre Alan Hale talking to Dennis Morgan while both fly through a thunderstorm . Of course anyone might think religious thoughts during extreme stress , but this movie makes it so relentlessly obvious . Those dull moment aren't enough to make it unwatchable . It's kind of fun . You just need to work a little harder to get past some of the more dated stuff .
Entertaining , offbeat mystery from Preminger .	Carol Lynley joins her brother Keir Dullea in England , bringing her daughter Bunny . On her first day Lynley drops Bunny off at a day school , whence Bunny disappears . It seems that no one at the school or anywhere else remembers meeting Bunny . The police , in the form of Superintendent Lawrence Olivier , are brought in on the case and eventually suspect that Bunny may be imaginary . Is she ? Well , we can be sure of one thing . Carol Lynley's landlord , Horatio Wilson ( Noel Coward ) doesn't care . He's the most entertaining character in the film , a seedy , egomaniacal alcoholic poet and BBC person who collects artifacts associated with the Marquis DeSade , such as his whips and his skull - - " At least they told me it was his in Caledonia . " He sounds as if he'd written his own dialog . His voice is appallingly plummy as he tells the succulent Lynley how , at the BBC , there are " persons who bear , like medals , bruises signifying the love of Horatio Wilson . " He's designed to be a chief suspect , I suppose , what with his greasy self display , and since nobody else around seems to be sufficiently crazy to kidnap a kid , if indeed there was a kid to be napped . But there the casting stumbles , because to whom could Noel Coward be a threat except himself ? Carol Lynley and Keir Dullea , on the other hand , are ideally matched . They look in their bland beauty as if they really MIGHT be brother and sister , smiling mannequins in the window of some boutique clothing shop . And they act within the same strictures too . The sing-along quality of their voices are similar . Dullea in particular speaks oddly . If he asks a simple question - - " Did you search the place ? " - - each syllable is pitched slightly higher than the preceding one , so there is a monotonic ascending scale , and the terminal contours of " place " reach for the ionosphere . Yet none of this comes across as amateurish . Instead it sounds deliberately stylized , as if Lynley and Dullea had been instructed to sound somewhat artificial . That sense of pretense casts further doubt on the truth of Lynley's story about a missing daughter , and as it turns out , Dullea has every right to sound like a child reading lies from off-stage cue cards . Lawrence Olivier is hardly short of amazing in what he does with an almost stereotyped character that John Williams could have walked through without leaving a footprint - - the calm , logical , not insensitive police detective who unravels the case . What a magnetic actor . The score is based on a simple , nearly infantile melody , and handled nicely , featuring flutes and at one particularly apt point a harpsichord in counterpoint . At its best it reminds one of Elmer Bernstein's pretty tune in " To Catch a Mockingbird . " But it's all over the movie , whether it's needed or not . And sometimes the score lapses into jarring dissonant chords and bonking xylophones that distract the viewer . The last fifteen minutes or so are tense but idiotic .
Being and Nothingness .	This is , I think , what they called a " high concept " film . Let's have a young man climb out on the ledge of a New York hotel and build up a back story about his tsuris and at the same time tell small tales of the diverse witnesses to the guy's dilemma . That precisely how the movie moves along from point to point , a little mechanically , but suspenseful and engaging . It's professionally handled by Henry Hathaway , a director who probably had little sympathy for a temperamentally unstable fellow who couldn't handle his hysterical and self-indulgent Mamma , Agnes Moorehead . The goods are delivered . Most of the work is done by Richard Basehart as the would-be suicide and Paul Douglas as the traffic cop who befriends him and alternately wheedles and lambastes him . Movies mavens will be left agog after they see the list of supporting and bit players , many uncredited , who were to go on to climb to dazzling heights in Hollywood , either as stars or as indispensable supports - - Grace Kelly , Jeffrey Hunter , Jeff Corey , Brian Keith , Richard Beymer , and John Cassavetes among them . The movie doesn't wallow in easy sentiment . It's pretty tough-minded . But a modern treatment , if it had any pretense to realism , would be far more cynical . The only characters here who exploit Basehart's impending self destruction are a nutty preacher who naturally belongs to no recognized church , a cabbie who organizes a pool to bet on when Basehart jumps , and of course the press . But nobody in the streets complains that a weakling like Basehart , who is probably a sissy just out for attention , deserves to die . And if any of the bystanders jumps up and down yelling , " Jump ! Jump ! " , it must have been while I was in a period of microsleep . In 1951 , it's my impression , Americans in general weren't so anxious to see a sensational splash on Broadway , not even New Yorkers . Worth catching .
Tidy FBI vs . Serial Killer Story .	William Peterson is a traumatized FBI agent drawn back to duty by his colleague , Dennis Farina , to track down a serial killer , named " the tooth fairy " for his habit of removing his victims ' teeth , played by William Noonan . Brian Cox is Hannibal Lecktor , who remains safely locked away and plays a minor part in the hunt . Joan Allen is a blind woman taken captive by Noonan and saved from slashing at the last moment . It precedes " The Silence of the Lambs , " by the same author , William Harris , but is independent and not quite so commercial . I GUESS it wasn't as commercial anyway , since it didn't receive nearly the media attention that " Silence of the Lambs " did . I'm not sure why . Maybe because it didn't have Jody Foster in the lead , and lacked Anthony Hopkins ' touches as Horrible Hannibal . But William Noonan brings his own kind of menace to the role of the tooth fairy . Noonan is a strange-looking guy . The character is supposed to be seven feet tall and he's shot in such a way as to make the claim convincing . He's balding and dolichocephalic and always speaks in a direct , matter-of-fact mid-American voice . He's far more ambiguous a character than Hopkins , to whom I'm comparing him because he and Hopkins are the chief villains in each film . Noonan can feel human emotions . He sensitive . He meets the blind photographer , Joan Allen , and is attracted to her , so he takes her to a veterinarian friend and lets her feel the fur and the fangs of a giant narcotized tiger . Well , that's quite a thrill for her , so she seduces him . Can you imagine Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lector being seduced ? It's only later , when Noonan comes to believe that Allen has betrayed him , that his cool rage emerges . Tightly directed , except for a couple of action-scene clichés that appear in slow motion . The image of a red dragon has cropped up now and again during the film , and when Noonan's bullet-riddled body is spread eagled on the floor , the blood spreads out from his torso like dragon wings . The photography is uninviting - - not that it's inappropriate - - with all the lights apparently being fluorescent . Or , if they happen to be blue or pink , they seem to be coming from neon signs . It's summer but the entire film seems to be filled with chill . There are some gruesome scenes that might disturb some people , though maybe not much more exuberantly horrifying than some of those in " Silence of the Lambs . " Okay , so there's a man strapped in a wheel chair , set on fire , and rolled down the ramp of a parking lot into the camera with flame streaming behind him . True , it's worse than what my dentist does to me , but it's no more shocking than what Richard Widmark did with a wheelchair in " Kiss of Death . "
Atmospheric comic-strip adventure story .	John Wayne is an American sea captain imprisoned by the Chinese Commies for Impure Thoughts and Eating With Forks . He is sprung by Lauren Bacall , an American doctor's daughter who is also the leader of a nearby village . His Mission : To shepherd the entire village of 180 people on a stern-wheeled ferryboat down the Chinest coast to sanctuary in Hong Kong where a man can breathe free and wear something other than ballet slippers on his big Caucasian feet . Of course there is a large family of communists in the village and they must be taken aboard too , to save them from reprisals . They don't seem to appreciate this gesture because they poison the food supply aboard the boat and stage a mutiny during a terrific storm . Well , it's okay , though because they all convert in the end except the pompous , bloated family head who moans his humiliation out loud just before being blown to bits by a shell from a Chinese destroyer . The Chinese villagers are a zany laff riot . They include such dyed-in-the-wool Asians as Paul Fix ( Dobbs Ferry , NY ) , Paul Mazurki ( Ukraine ) , Berry Kroger ( Texas ) , and Anita Ekberg ( Sweden ) . Anita EKBERG ? There's also one of those cigar-smoking Oriental wise guys who serves as chief engineer , a pregnant woman , lots of children and old people , and all that . Wayne took over as the star when the director , William Wellman , fired Robert Mitchum for pushing the Transportation Director into San Francisco Bay , claiming it was just " a practical joke . " And Wayne hefts his bulk around effectively enough . The visuals are pretty good . The film was shot around San Francisco and Suisun Bay and on the Sacramento River but the production design gives a pretty good imitation of what we imagine the coast of China to look like . Lots of fog . The old paddle-wheeler skulks among the reeds . There is a " graveyard of ships " , old hulks piled alongside one another , drying and rotting , where wood for the boiler is gathered . A kid would have a heck of a good time crawling in and out of those skeletal remains . And it's exciting too , though we don't doubt for a moment that the ship and the majority of its crew and passengers will make it to Hong Kong . Wittingly or otherwise the writers have caught some of the features of East Asian culture . When the food is poisoned and must be dumped overboard , the passengers crawl around on the floor picking up individual grains of rice . And the grand ballroom or whatever the compartment is called , serves as a giant bedroom at night with sleeping bodies all over the deck . In the morning , the mats are rolled up , stacked tidily against the bulkheads , and , lo , the bedroom is now the grand ballroom again . I lived with Koreans of modest income for a while and that's kind of how it's done . Every scrap of nutrients is made use of . When they boil rice in a pot of water , the cooking water is served as a beverage along with the rice . And the bedroom cum living room was a simple fact of life . The dialog has nothing much to recommend it . When Wayne is faced with the difficult task of telling Bacall that her father has been stoned to death by the Commies , he slaps her across the jaw and tells her , " That's right . Get mad . Get GOOD and mad . Then ya'll be ready for what I have ta tell ya . " Wayne also gives the speech that converts the Commie villagers to capitalism or democracy or whatever they're converted to . " Your old China is dead ! " he announces . Actually , we can't be sure he's right . China has a long long history of being conquered by internal or external agencies and it has usually taken them about 500 years to shake off the yokes . The Commies still have 442 years to be gotten rid of . You know what would have given this movie a good kick in the pants ? Not that it needs one . But - - okay , Lauren Bacall is good enough in an inessential role . But imagine Gong Li as the doctor's daughter ! Whew .
There are cat people and then there are dog people .	This comment may contain spoilers There are two pretty extraordinary shots in this film . In the first , Nastassja Kinski is sitting with her head back on the seat rest . She's traveling in a train . She stares into the camera . And the background changes into a busy railway station where she opens a door and walks into an oneiristic room of tangerine and black leopards and all is explained to her by the image of her brother , Malcom MacDowell . The second is the last shot in the film . We see a screen full of the panther's face . The panther roars open mouthed , then closes its jaws and the frame freezes on the gigantic cat staring into the camera with its hypnotic green eyes and vertical irises . The shot lasts for many seconds . There seems to be no one else in the world but the viewer and that panther , staring at each other . By this time we know pretty much what the panther is feeling . And , our gaze locked on the frozen image , we can easily imagine that the cat's stare is a knowing one , that she knows what we feel too . We seem to be at one with the beast . It's like Rilke on mushrooms . But , apropos , maybe we'd better not make too much of that shot . Many years ago I used to feel the same way after a refreshing dose of herbal tea , staring at the four Beatles staring back at me from the open cover of the Sergeant Pepper album . And besides , when you come right down to it , I'm not sure it's a good idea to have a man-eating carnivore reading your mind . Anyway the director , Paul Schrader , should have his hand shaken for those two scenes . His work throughout is professionally competent . He has a tendency to see the world in terms of good and evil - - usually with someone caught between - - and the results aren't always pretty . " The Cat People " isn't too different in that regard . Alas , though , the thing is another remake . The original was done by Val Lewton at RKO on a budget that was probably one nanobillionth of what was spent on this one , and the earlier version is at least as good , and better in some respects . We must at least give the first version bonus points for originality . I don't want to get into the story because it's either simple enough to have been adequately described elsewhere or so complicated that it would take too much space . Essentially it's about a brother and sister - - MacDowell and Kinski - - who inhabit a world between black panthers and human beings . MacDowell and Kinski seem to be the only specimens around , although the legend suggests they ought to form a community through chain migration . They remain human as long as they mate with their own kind . ( MacDowell wants to put a little something in the kitty . A frisson of incest here . ) If they mate with humans they turn into killer panthers and in order to get well again they must kill . But how can they pass on this catabolic capacity without belonging to a community of cat people ? Right away there's a problem with the plot , similar to the one in the original . Simone Simon in the original was apparently human UNLESS she mated with a human . ( Her long-suffering husband was Kent Smith . ) She morphs into a panther when her psychiatrist puts some moves on her and she tears him to shreds . It took me many years to realize that he must have raped her before this happened , but it couldn't be shown on screen . The problem is that Simone Simon morphs at will twice earlier in the movie , in two truly spooky scenes involving a bus and a swimming pool . Kinski , virgo intacta , also apparently morphs in order to kill a rabbit . The acting is pretty good . John Heard comes across as a likable kind of guy . Annette O'Toole , as the colleague who loves him , is too good to be true . In real life , she'd be a woman who disarticulates her rival Kinski from top to bottom . Now there's an idea . How many more magnetic actresses have there been than Nastassja Kinski ? Not too many . She seems so innocent , with her softly modulated infantile voice . Her lips are askew . Her right eye is open and clear , her left is heavily lidded . She seems rarely to look straight at someone else , so the other person can't know whether Kinski is being shy or sly . She glows with an inner heat , a human Franklin stove with trim legs and a saucy rear . Madre de Dios , that crabbing scene with Heard , when she bends over in her shorts and waders ! The original is the better movie , I think , partly because it was a true original and partly because of the producer's good taste and imagination . You only saw the cat for a few seconds . Here , the animal should get second billing . And in the original too , one had a sense of everyone's leading an ongoing unhurried happy life until Simone brought her sad , diseased nature into it . In this one everything seems at least slightly deranged from the outset .
Smile , boys , we're almost home .	This is a good role for Gary Cooper . He's tall , sun-tanned , speaks with what is supposed to be an Arkansas accent although it doesn't approach the saturation level of his Sergeant York , and is a humanitarian doctor with an inventive streak . He's also nattily dressed , but that's hardly worth mentioning since just about everyone in the movie is dressed in clean , pressed clothes . Combat has no effect on their grooming . Basically , Dr . Wassell , formerly an investigator of snail-vectored diseases in China , joins the Navy and is voluntarily left behind with a few nurses and a dozen or so patients too disabled to walk about the last ship departing the island of Java , threatened by the Japanese in 1941 . The wounded are all sailors from the USS Marblehead and Houston , which were sunk in the battle of the Java Sea . The Japanese blew the American - British - Dutch - Australian force out of the water . That is to say , we lost , which is to say you will see multiple movies about the battle of Midway ( we won ) but absolutely none about the battle of the Java Sea . There are two scenes of violence . In the first , the hospital housing the wounded is bombed by Japanese planes . It's quite well handled . The ordinary war flick of the time would have multiple bombs falling at once , lots of outdoor models with paper-machie palms trees doing flips , and heroic Allies pumping machine guns up in the air . But DeMille doesn't do it that way . Everything is seen from inside a single hospital ward , the men and staff hiding under mattresses . There are only three or four bombs , with intervals between them , and they're nothing more than a long and eerie whistle before they hit . The first lands far away . The second and third are more of a jolt , and the last one blows in the windows , upends some of the hospital beds , and kills a patient . Instead of mindless action we get a scene full of suspense . The middle part of the movie involves a long and painful journey by trucks and other British vehicles across Java to another port . One man - - and his devoted native girlfriend - - run off the road in their jeep and find themselves surrounded by Japanese soldiers . " They no take prisoners - - in jungle . " " I got an idea . Hand me that Tommy gun , " he tells her , eyes blazing , and there is a fade out on Hoppy spraying lead around in the general direction of the camera . Sure , it's a cliché , but again DeMille spares us the shots of a thousand barbaric monkeys tumbling over as they charge the doomed couple . Gary Cooper , as I say , is neat . He manages to save the remaining wounded and link up again with his lost love , Lorraine Day . He's awarded the Navy Cross ( I think ) for his efforts . A long movie , but not a bad one for its time .
Routine romantic intrigue , interestingly played out .	There isn't much new in the idea . Two women , both hungry , living alone . A handyman comes in . He does both of them . One , in the course of an unrelated subplot , knifes a man to death and is sent to jail , carrying the handyman's baby . After a year or so , she gets out and is reunited with the handyman , her baby , and the other woman - - happily , it seems . What I kind of like about it is mostly the acting . Barbara Hershey is glamorized and stunning . And Debra Winger gives her character a real life of her own . Man , is she homely . She wears thick glasses , has her hair tied back like the head of a mop , wears no makeup , and pinches her lips together and twitches from time to time . It's the kind of performance - - playing an inadequate socially challenged semi-loony - - that wins Academy Awards . And I appreciated Gabriel Byrne's character and performance too . A by-the-numbers route here would have brought in a ruggedly handsome , perfectly gorgeous , virile , flawless guy , brimming with danger and testosterone . Instead the movie gives us Gabe Byrne . Yes , he's a kind of ne'er do well and a rogue but he's not Vigo Mortenson or Brad Pitt . His face looks as if it's been molded out of candle wax that has begun to melt . He gets drunk just about every night and can't hold a job . He admits he's a lying thief . And - - for this I was particularly grateful - - he never ONCE takes off his shirt and shows us his sweaty chest while splitting logs or , er , plowing a field . One night , drunk , he stumbles into Winger's little bungalow . He's filled with remorse , poses her as a priest in a confessional , asks her , " Are you Catholic ? Ah , never mind , you don't know what the I'm talking about anyway . " Then he begs this rudely shaped lump of clay for absolution and weeps in her lap before kissing her . ( Her first time , we don't doubt . ) She's alternately charmed and horrified . The language and the sex are fairly explicit . The sex includes masturbation , defloration , and - - well , normal intercourse , I guess , if the definition is extended to include coupling on a floor full of broken crockery with one of the partners so deliriously drunk that she believes the man is someone else . It's nicely directed too . No razzle-dazzle . No , " Hey , Ma , look at me ! I got a camera ! " Just one or two shots involving a pair of eyeglasses draw attention to themselves . The rest is very efficiently done . When Strathairn dies , he does so in a most unexpected way , stabbed multiple times , and whining about , " Hey , what did you do to me . " There's blood all over the place , as there should be when someone is bleeding to death , but not a single shot of a knife piercing flesh . And his killer reassuring him as he expires , " It's okay . It's okay . " She can't dial 911 because she can't find her glasses . The end is a little disturbing if you bother to think about it . After all , Debra Winger has stabbed a guy to death over some squabble at her workplace . " A Dangerous Woman " is right . And it appears that Byrne is finally going to make an honest woman out of her . I hope she never gets mad at HIM . The photography is very nicely done . I don't know where it was shot but it looks a bit like the Coachella Valley in California . Nice ranch house . Nice lines of fruit-bearing trees in the orchards . Mountains all around . Fan palms . The Garden of Eden with humans in it .
Poisoned Wells	SPOILERS . Actually this is a pretty well-done movie about environmental law . There have been quite a few of them around over the last decade or so but this is one of the better ones . It follows the usual configuration - - the lone hero beginning as a materialist and contracting a bad case of ideals , making sacrifices , risking everything . But in this case it's an entire law firm instead of just one guy , and basically they lose the case . John Travolta , ably supported by Bill Macy and others , is Jan Schlichtmann , a " personal injury lawyer " ( we know what that means ) is approached by a woman who , along with eight others in Woburn , have lost children because the drinking water was polluted with toxic waste . He is sympathetic but he demurs , seeing an expensive case from which he will profit only if he wins , and no money in the pockets of the guy who owns the polluting tannery . Then he discovers that the land is owned by W . R . Grace and Beatrice , two mega giant corporations . Between them they own every brand name you can think of . They own Heinz ketchup . Travolta can think of 57 different ways of squeezing $150 million out of them . But , as they say , pride goeth before a fall . The salivating Travolta brings suit and is opposed by Robert Duvall , playing Jerry Facher . ( All of these are real people with real names . ) The movie doesn't give Travolta an obvious flaw like Paul Newman's disillusioned alcoholism in " The Verdict , " but it doesn't hagiographize him either . He has more guts than brains . He gets caught with his pants down a few times when he makes courtroom errors that Facher is teaching his Harvard law students are elementary . ( " Never ask a witness why , unless you already know the answer . " You can learn that from watching Perry Mason . ) This Facher is pretty quick on his feet and he clobbers Travolta's character , all the while smiling politely , seemingly distracted , fiddling with pens , wrapping a string absent-minded around the fraying handle of his ancient briefcase . It's a very good performance . Travolta is good too . We never know how serious he is about his motives , or whether he has any idea what they are . He stares ahead and speaks sternly of " eight dead children " and " looking for justice " , but at a formal meeting with the two mega giant's lawyers he makes such impossible financial demands that they walk out on him - - and he never discussed his plans with his partners . While the jury is out , Duvall offers him TWENTY million bucks to settle and Travolta oozes dignity as he rips up the offer and tosses it in the trash , to Duvall's amusement . Well , he may seem like Gary Cooper in " High Noon , " but when you come right down to it he , like Cooper , is playacting . What happened to the interests of his clients ? Heroic gestures in the pursuit of self-aggrandizement aren't going to help the families of those " dead children " living up there in Nowheresville . Stripped of the frame the film tries to give him - - a selfish man who discovers he has ideals - - Schlichtmann becomes not just an ambulance chaser but an ambulance chaser who overreached . In the end Travolta's firm , largely because of his own intransigence , sees the suit against Beatrice thrown out and has to settle for eight million from W . R . Grace . The meeting between Travolta and Sidney Pollack , playing Grace's representative , is hilarious . Travolta walks into the Harvard Club to meet Pollack , carrying a bundle of facts , all business and formality . But Pollack , like Duval , is way ahead of him in every regard . Man , has Pollack got " condescension " down pat . Pollack : " What kind of Harvard man are you ? " Travolta : " The Cornell kind . " Pollack : " You didn't go to Harvard ? Somebody told me you went to Harvard . Don't get me wrong , Cornell's a fine school . ( Pause ) A damned good school . " In the end , Travolta goes back to personal injury cases , his partners split , and he declares bankruptcy ( after a two-year vacation - - in Hawaii , which the movie omits ) . He devotes a lot of personal time to digging up new evidence but has no resources to pursue leads , so he turns the case over to the Environmental Protection Agency , which finds merit in it , convicts the corporations ' lawyers of various offenses , and levies fines against them . That was in , what , 1988 ? I wonder if the EPA would be so zealous today . Here's an assessment of the present administrator from the organization Earthjustice , a prominent , respectable legal organization . " Governor Leavitt's appointment to head the EPA puts an anti-environmental politician in charge of regulating industries that pollute the nation's air and water , " said Earthjustice Denver attorney Jim Angell . " We know from his history on environmental issues in Utah that his preferred method is to exclude the broader public from the process when he wants to make decisions that could harm the environment . " Of course it's good that the corporate giants were made to pay , even if the amount was the equivalent of a licensure fee . And no need to feel too sorry for Jan Schlichtmann . A book about the case made him famous , and this movie made him even MORE famous - - and rich too . He now lives in the exclusive mansion-besotted suburb of Beverly , Mass . It's quite a good movie . Yes , there's a lot of ambiguity to be found in it , if you don't simply accept it as a Manichaean struggle between black and white , but in that respect it resembles real life , which is rarely anything other than fuzzy .
You Are What You Eat .	Saw this movie twice . The first time I thought it was tasteless and boring , except for Bridget Fonda's bathtub scene . I recently saw it again after several years and it didn't seem nearly so bad . Maybe I was able to get past the initial feeling that the writers and the director thought that gags about enemas and the like were themselves laugh-worthy . It now seems that the folks behind this production were trying something a little more ambitious than " Porky Goes to a Health Club . " Maybe it's really meant as a seriocomic Martian's eye view of the current bizarre goings on regarding our own health . A few years ago we were told to avoid butter ( high in calories and cholesterol ) . So we switched to margarine . Oops . The health police have now thrown up their hands and pointed to the trans-fatty acids ( " partially hydrogenated vegetable oil " ) which knocks your internal cholesterol-producing apparatus into a cocked hat . When I was a kid we were admonished to consume the health foods du jour - - whole milk and liver . ( Liver was supposed to supply the body with abundant iron but I really think it was recommended so highly because nobody liked it , therefor it must be good for you . ) Of course that's all history , right ? We now know so much better , which is exactly what Dr . Kellog and his colleagues thought in 1895 . Each generation believes it stands on the pinnacle of knowledge and science has nothing left to do but fill in a few missing dots . What colossal arrogance . I suspect that a hundred years from now our current hysteria will seem as deranged to scientists as Kellog's theories seem to us now . If the movie is seen from this perspective , it's a lot funnier than if you look at it simply as a series of jokes about sex and excretion . The score is enjoyable too . The composer has matched her talents to the visuals with a deftness that's hard to describe . The performances are good , as you might expect from such a cast . But Sir Anthony ( " call me Tony " ) Hopkins is more than merely good . He's been kind of careless in his choice of roles and one might think he's an actor of little range , his métier being the thoughtful , sensitive , quiet , quietly suffering man of reticence . But here he's great . He's got a set of false buck teeth on him that turn his every utterance into a comic statement . Not that he relies entirely on such props . Notice the scene in which he informs Mathew Broderick that his wife , Bridget Fonda , is being regularly masturbated by Dr . Spitsvogel . " It's her womb , " he says confidentially , " it's being ma-NIP-ulated ! " And some of the scenes , regardless of any resonance they may have with the present concern with health , are funny in themselves . The scene in which Dr . Kellog's children are all singing Christmas carols in what appears to be a church - - all except one dopey looking kid ( who grows up to be Dana Carvey ) . The kid stands there in the line of singers , sullenly silent , except for the occasional but highly audible rectal zephyr . It seems the perfect response to the health police who have forced Olestra from the store shelves because it causes " anal leakage . " I worked in this scene as an extra in the audience . It was filmed in the attic of one of Wilmington , North Carolina's old mansions and it was a rather spooky experience . The floor was clearly not designed to hold dozens of people and several long tons of cinematic hardware . It was like walking on a trampoline . The director kept pausing and trying to redistribute the weight but it was no use . All I could think of was the scene in Nathaniel West's " Day of the Locus " in which Napolean's army or something crashes through the fake mountain and tumbles to its death . PS : It didn't happen here .
Slam Bang Pseudo History .	For history buffs this must be more of a Santa Fe trial . Here is John Brown ( a real historical figure played by Raymond Massey ) demanding money from Boston abolitionists ( also real ) just before the Civil War . Give me the money , he shouts , and I'll start a slave revolution in the upland South . He knows that country . It's filled with hiding places for guerrilla warriors . So he and his handful devoted followers take over the federal arsenal and settle down in Harper's Ferry , Virginia . The tiny town was , and is , a sinkhole at the confluence of two rivers . If you stand in the main street of Harper's Ferry and look in any direction , all you see are tall wooded hills looming over you . It's about the least defensible place on the planet . There are a few African-Americans in the movie . The script has one of them say something like : " Mistuh Brown , he promised us da freedom . But if dis here Kansis is freedom , I wants to go back to Texas where Ah kin live mah lahf in PEACE . " You bet . However , let us skip over the anachronisms - - the absence of muskets , the presence of generic Colt pistols , the fact that Jeb Stuart ( Errol Flynn ) , George Armstrong Custer ( Ronald Reagan ) , Bell , Sheridan , Longstreet , Hood , and Pickett didn't graduate from West Point in the same year - - and examine the movie as a Ding an Sich . The errors of time are lost in the headlong pace of this Western . And it IS a Western , though some scenes are set in the East . There is never any doubt who the good guys are . They're the ones who shoot their pistols jauntily , without aiming , and hit their targets . John Brown and his followers are bad guys , yes , but with mitigation , your Honor . His passion to free the slaves was all right , but his violent methods were all wrong . Every Western , though , must have a genuinely evil guy and in this case it's Van Heflin . His character seems lashed together in haste . At West Point , before he's thrown out , he reads treasonous literature to the other cadets and gets into fist fights ( with Flynn ! ) over the issue of slavery . By the end , he's revealed as a craven money-grabber who only joined Brown's movement for the moolah , and when it's denied him he squeals on Brown to the government . That's known as discontinuity . I speak here not of historical inaccuracy but of dramatic clumsiness . God help me , my phraseology has been contaminated by listening to John Brown's dialog . You ought to see this movie if only for Raymond Massey's overblown portrait of John Brown . He never blinks . His eyes bulge - - and I swear I'm not making this up - - his eyes bulge until the dark irises are completely surrounded by white . I just tried it in the mirror and I can't even come close . There is an attempt at comedy . Its instruments are Alan Hale and Guinn " Big Boy " Williams . It fails dismally . Nothing they say or do would be funny to anyone with a sensibility quotient higher than that of a head of broccoli . The delightful Olivia de Havilland plays " Kit Carson " Halliday , the girl Flynn marries while rival Reagan stands by , shrugs good-naturedly , and smiles . The real Custer later married a smashing brunette named Libby , almost as attractive as de Havilland . It's a straightforward Warners production with Flynn , Reagan , Michael Curtiz , Max Steiner , Perc Westmore , and Sol Polito all hard at work in the factory , turning out their fast , unpretentious , actioners and dramas in their classic style .
Eerie and engaging	What an odd film . The first ten minutes or so establish the ethos concisely . An Oriental woman enters Bill Pulman's office for a job interview . He asks , " Didn't Laura tell you I was busy and ask you to wait outside ? Either she did or she didn't . If she didn't , I call down and fire Laura . If she did , you close the door and wait outside until I'm finished . Which is it ? " When he's finished with his business ( which is twitting his boss over the results of a football game ) he asks the woman in and scans her resume . " So , Monica , you'd like to work here . " " Michelle , " she corrects him . " Hmm . So you're Chinese . " " My grandparents were from Japan , " she says . Pullman then draws out his denial of her application , relishing every moment of her humiliation , telling her , " I won't hire anyone who sits there and corrects me all the time just because I didn't memorize every goddam item on her resume . " There is another terrific scene in those first few minutes , when Pullman visits the office of his Big Boss , Duke . ( Everybody seems to be named Duke or Rick or Buck or Nick . ) Pullman teases Duke about having lost the bet on the game and the two of them start playing grabass in this masculine way that high school kids do , ragging one another and calling names and jabbing each other in the ribs , chuckling all the while . However , after 30 or 40 seconds of this rough house we realize that the razzing is becoming more one sided . Duke - - Pullman's superior - - is now shouting all the insults while Pullman is groaning with mock pain . " I'm gonna kill your family and you , then I'm gonna take a red hot poker and shove it up your a and cut off your b and set ' em on fire . " Pullman ( doing a splendid job ) shields himself with his hands , says , " No , no - - not THAT ! " , and crawls under the desk while Duke follows him , still shouting threats . It's an extremely funny scene but there's an element of sadism in it too , a kind of Schadenfreude , since the main reason it's funny is that it's happening to someone else . It's the same reason we might laugh at some poor guy who realizes in a public place that his fly is open and quickly zips up . We wouldn't want to trade places with him . It's all the more humiliating for Pullman because his boss looks about 10 or 20 years younger than he is . Man , is that a degrading position to be in . I once applied for a job at a pizza place and was interviewed by a kid less than half my age . " Ever had any delivery experience - - sir ? " , he inquired . The movie follows a not uncommon trajectory , from whimsically amusing through seriousness to tragedy . I kind of wish it had stayed funny , because the tragic part doesn't really tell us much . We don't emerge from the experience epiphanied or anything . Basically , Pullman hates his boss so much , particularly after finding that his boss has been diddling Pullman's daughter , that he hires somebody to kill Duke . There is a mistake in identity and the wrong person is killed . Hello ? The performances are all good , especially Pullman . I'm coming to respect him as an actor more and more because he can accomplish so much while seeming to do so little . ( Listen to his phony groans through clenched teeth when Duke is tormenting him during that first scene . A perfect blend of pretending and feeling . ) The dialog scintillates when it sticks to arrogance and humiliation . In the second half it turns rather pedestrian , but still - - that first half is very nicely done . The direction is efficient without being flamboyant . The score is unique . Without really paying much attention , I was able to identify only four instruments - - base , drums , guitar , and accordion . Not a quartet though . They don't play at the same time , and rarely in any combination at all . One rather lengthy scene is scored using only up-tempo solo drums . The only tunes I could discern were Christmas songs or variations on them . The movie has its weaknesses but it's an original effort . It imitates nothing that's gone before . The people involved should get a pat on the back , even if some viewers might find it a little simple in its message . If you are too greedy for material things , you will regret it later . I think the Greeks may have called this sin " pleonaxis . " In this case the punishment seems to have been brought on by the Jade Emporer through a Chinese curse .
How do you like them Golden Apples ?	The movie is colossal , spectacular , stupendous , gongoristic , monumental , and secular . What happened to the GODS ? I mean the whole thing started with Eris and that damme golden apple and vain Aprhodite - - whom I would not want backing me in a war , I'll tell you . Yes . It's a godless movie , no doubt propagated by some leftist Commies in Hollywood . Oh , sure . Lots of people entreat the gods , or propitiate them , or insult them , but does anything happen as a result ? They don't . No , they don't . You may call it secular humanism but I call it hubris . The best thing about the movie is Peter O'Toole . He practically gives acting lessons to the leads . Brad Pitt I feel kind of mixed about . He's not bad actually - - humorless , narcissistic , and relentless except when he's in a snit . By the way , didn't Achilles hide in drag among the women in order to avoid being drafted ? Maybe not . My memory is a little rusty after all these years . I didn't have a problem with Brad Pitt , the actor , but rather with his role as written and directed . We already know that Achilles is full of love for himself , but must we be too ? Pitt is all pumped up and musclebound and the camera gives us more than one shot of his bare behind . That's okay as far as it goes because the Greeks were pretty casual about nudity ( " gymnasium " , etc . ) but then , well - - why not a bit more of Helen too ? Or Briseis ? What's the matter with their behinds ? Speaking of Briseis , the erstwhile temple virgin with whom Achilles falls in love , brings up a couple of creaky places in the construction of the story . Alright , they don't have to hew too closely to Homer's original . He probably didn't hew very closely either . After all it was an oral tradition and there wasn't too much to hew to . But the introduction of the romance between Achilles and Briseis , which I don't remember being in The Iliad , almost turns the movie into a Harlequin romance punctuated by scenes of battle and intrigue . In fact all the romances are handled through dialog that is positively an embarrassment . Near the beginning Paris sneaks into Helen's room and she says , " You shouldn't be here . " Paris : " That's what you said last night . " Helen : " Last night was a mistake . " I kept waiting for one of the lovers to turn to the other and say , " We have to talk . " At least the Helen / Paris romance was required . Her sleek Teutonic beauty is what launched those thousand ships . But Achilles and Briseis is off track . It's the story of a man who " found himself " through the love of a good woman . ( Ho hum . ) It turns out , according to this version of the story , that Paris didn't shoot Achilles with an arrow before the walls of Troy after all . Instead Achilles is killed because he foolishly rushes around the burning palace searching for Briseis , his missing love . When Briseis yields to him and agrees to leave , he sweeps her up in his brawny arms and Paris , mistaking this for a coerced abduction , plugs him in the heel . There follow the few last words to his lost love , from a man who died tragically just as he found the true meaning of life . The real Achilles must be begging the boatman to take him back across the Styx so he can strangle the writers . Visually of course the movie is overwhelming . Maybe too much so . We see a horde of about two thousand Greeks in dark armor plodding relentlessly towards Troy , while ominous music throbs in the background . It owes something to the score for Alexander Nevsky , but if you're going to rip somebody off it might as well be Prokoviev . The fact is , there are too many guys . In The Iliad Homer gives us two lines of warriors - - the Greeks and Trojans - - shouting insults and shaking spears at one another until some of them rush out of line to do battle . This puts the spotlight on individual mano a mano combat , like that between Hector and Patroclus . But when you have a myriad of men hacking away at each other , who's to notice , and stop to watch , when two heroes swear off against one another ? It's not a bad movie at all . Rarely does one's mind drift . But why did the writers try to hammer that round peg of a romance into the square hole of the narrative itself ? Is Brad Pitt such a bustier-melting hunk that someone thought the audience wanted to see his tender side ? And his backside as well ? Was he so expensive that somebody figured he ought to be given more lines of dialog ? And get that stupid helmet off so we can all see how handsome he is ? I was reassured to see that the guys I enjoyed and admired most in the original - - the morally upright Hector and the clever , ironic Odysseus - - receive fair treatment here . I never liked Paris much . I always thought of him as a handsome namby-pamby and an idiot to boot . Happily he doesn't get much better play in the movie .
Rambling , ambiguous , and funny .	All the critics have called John Ford's humor " broad " and I guess this is a pretty good example of what they mean . The opening scenes involve ancient float planes , a Stutz Bearcat , people falling into water , and a crash into the swimming pool at the Admiral's tea party . ( Tea party ! ) Subsequent scenes involve gala fist fights between matched hordes of Army and Navy pilots , led by Kenneth Toby and Wayne respectively . There are cakes smashed into faces . The whole thing could have been a silent comedy . And yet the humor , by no means ever sophisticated , is pretty funny at times , and not always slapstick either . A good example is the scene in Spig Wead's ( John Wayne's ) office , with Pincus ( Tige Andrews ) and Carson ( Dan Dailey ) . Dailey is having difficulty trying to make a long-distance call . Andrews is sitting with his shoe off . Wayne asks what's wrong , did he stub his toe ? " Ah , no , " says Andrews , " ya see , I keep my money in my shoe and every time I step on it - - " and he's interrupted when Admiral Moffat enters the room . Wayne , Dailey , and Andrews snap to attention and listen to the Admiral's speech . There is a brief pause after Dailey suddenly shouts into the phone , " Why don't you GET OFF THE PHONE , you dumb head ! " In the sudden silence everyone stares at Dailey who then looks embarrassed and apologizes to the Admiral . When the Admiral has finished his speech to his respectful listeners he turns to leave the room and notices Pincus , a mere enlisted man , goes over to him and greets Pincus warmly . Pincus smiles easily , shakes the Admiral's hand , and inquires after his family . " How's da wife , sir ? And dem lovely kiddies ? " " Fine , fine . Good to see you , Pincus , " says the Admiral and exits . Wayne and Dailey gape speechless at Pincus before getting back to business . I've described this scene in extenso because it could NOT have come from a silent comedy . None of the humor is physical . It's what might be called interactional humor . And Ford explains absolutely none of it . We have no idea why Dailey began shouting into the phone during the Admiral's speech , or what the hell kind of background the Admiral and the lowly Pincus share . There is no set-up for the gags whatever . They come as a shocking surprise and that's what makes them funny . There's a similar unstated quality at the climax of the film . Dailey has saved Wayne's life by taking the bullets himself . He winds up in sick bay playing poker with the other patients . Wayne visits him to thank him . The two have been lifelong friends . Ordinarily , under these conditions , a viewer expects to see a lot of sentiment , even between two plain-speaking macho loudmouths . Instead , Dailey brushes off Wayne's thanks brusquely . And later the two don't get together for Wayne's retirement from the ship and from the Navy after a heart attack , as if Wayne were leaving a drinking party for a few minutes to visit the bathroom . The sense of loss - - of almost tragic finality - - is underscored by the absence of any emotional display . And it is left unexplained by Ford , just as Dailey's phone call and Pincus's friendship with the Admiral was . This is anything but a routine scene . It's not among Ford's best films . He wanted to call it , " The Spig Wead Story , " but the studio objected that no one would want to see it and they were right . Spig Wead sounds like a quarterback for Notre Dame . And the script , following Wead's real life meandering , is all over the place , switching in the middle from a service comedy to a complicated and unfocused story about a screen writer . And it doesn't tell us much about Wead's second career . " I didn't want to make it , " said Ford about the movie , " but I didn't want anybody else to make it . " Probably no one else would have made it . The romance between Wayne and O'Hara is handled clumsily . They're forever breaking up and getting together again - - or almost getting together . O'Hara is , as always , drop-dead gorgeous in Technicolor . And I doubt that anyone but Ford could have forced John Wayne to doff his toupee . Yet the acting itself is schematic , partly because the dialog is so burdensome . Who could possibly have made believable Wayne's lines after he has fallen down the stairs and broken his back ? " Don't move me . My back . Can't feel anything . Call . . . hospital . Navy . . . hospital . " Sounds like . . . comic book . At one point in the film , Ford ridicules himself ( " John Dodge " ) instead of someone in his cast . The director was beginning to run out of steam by this time . He was over 60 and had a lot of scar tissue . Still , the movie is worth watching .
Fairly familiar but exciting story .	Based on letter written home by English , Canadian , American , and German soldiers , this is a mixture in roughly equal proportions of newsreel footage , reenactments , and shots of the sites of battle as they stand today . It's good to see a docudrama about the Normany landings from the UK . So many of them have come from America , so that other countries seem like supporting players . At that , though , I must say that the handsome young German doesn't have much to say to his folks except that everything is going swimmingly . Interesting , too , to see how the mistakes and the gratuities of fate are handled . Treatments in other sources range from the outright propagandistic ( we did everything right , and they were stupid ) to apparently objective analyses of what went on , with judgments left suspended . ( The British series , " Battle Order " , is about as good as it gets . ) Propaganda is understandable in wartime . But now , sixty years after the fact , it seems like political spin to gloss over our own failures . For instance , the amphibious rehearsals at Slapton , on the Channel , are mentioned and even described as " tragic " but we're not given any reasons . The fleet of Allied landing craft was intercepted at night by German E-boats and several were sunk . The men were wearing inflated life preservers shaped like inner tubes but had not been instructed in their proper use . Most of the men wore them like belts around their waists , rather than up under their arms . If you wear the preserver like a belt when you jump into the water , you will become an inverted pendulum , turned upside down and drowned . The disastrous raid on Dieppe is described in a bit more detail . Well , not every incident can be covered in two hours , and there is some new material here . The new information isn't at the high-echelon level . We already know that Eisenhower and Churchill agonized over triggering the landings during uncertain weather . Instead , the new information is at a rather touching anecdotal level . A young French boy living in St . Mere Eglise visits his sister , a nurse at the local hospital . The hospital has just been damaged by Allied bombs . So he and his sister gather together blood-soaked sheets , take them out into the open , and form a sanguinary red cross on the pavement . At that moment an Allied reconnaissance plane flies over and , spotting the cross , rocks its wings in recognition . Three British soldiers are killed by shelling while investigating a church . The French villagers come and place flowers on the bodies . And the chaplain takes a snippet of the French tricolor used to hold one of the bouquets together and sends it to the dead soldiers family , along with a moving , yet dignified , letter of explanation and condolence . It's very much worth seeing . Particularly as the reenacted events recede into the past and those who carry the memories with them disappear .
Only the Names are Retained .	It's kind of like " Sex and the Single Girl " or " What You've Always Wanted to Know About Sex . " The titles are familiar or engaging enough to justify building a complete story from scratch . ( See also , " The Best of Sex and Violence , " which is the greatest title ever dreamed up , far superior to , say , " Henry IV , Part Two . " ) The novel opens and closes with slam bang action scenes and there isn't much in between to draw us to the characters . One-armed guys can be good heroes or villains , but not heroes who lose . The story is that Howard Hawks and Hemingway were having drinks and that Hawks claimed he could take even Hemingway's lousiest novel and make a successful movie out of it . They agreed that " To Have And Have Not " was about the lousiest and the bet was made . Evidently Furthman threw the contents of the novel out of the window except for the general Caribbean setting , Harry Morgan's occupation as skipper , and the names of some of the characters . It's doubtful that Hawks truly enjoyed himself during the shooting . He had a habit of hiring delicious young women for his movies and then , well , then bonding with them . In this case , he had his eye on Bacall , who was 18 years old , but she bonded with Bogart instead . Hawks also had a habit of avoiding actors who stole his women and punishing the women too , so it was Bogart's next-to-last film with Hawks . It wasn't the first time . In Kirk Douglas's movie with Hawks , the actor stole Elizabeth Threatt , a major masochist , who came like water and like the wind she went . And it was good-bye to both John Ireland and Joanne Dru after " Red River . " Poor Hawks . The writers , which evidently included Jules Furthman and William Faulkner , built up a story that sizzled with sexuality at the time of its release but seems like of loose-limbed , gangly , and amusing today . ( The oft-parodied scene in which Bacall tells Bogart how to whistle - - " You just put your lips together - - and blow . " ) Hawks had an affinity for boy's adventure book values . You know , a man rediscovers his pride or sobriety and overcomes his demons and whatnot . It's pretty lowbrow stuff unless you want to get into conjectural homoerotic themes . But Hawks had a solid sense of humor too . He had a tendency to rework scenes so that they had gag lines in them or amusing bits of business . This one has its funny moments too , as well as a bit of action . None of it is either gripping or believable but it's fun to watch . Bogart and Bacall really hit it off on screen . Her movements are so languorous . She hunches over a bit when she walks , like some tall women do . And her voice - - it's down there in the subwoofer range . At the end , when she and Bogie and Walter Brennan walk out of the bar , Hoagy Carmichael plays a lively little tune and Bacall does a sort of shimmy that must have sent shivers up the male spines of 1944 . While I think of it , I'll give an example of what I meant by " amusing bits of business . " The scene - - a French patriot must have a bullet extracted from his shoulder by Bogart . Several people stand around watching tensely . As Bogart probes the bullet hole , another beautiful woman , who Bacall is jealous of , faints to the floor . Bacall is administering ether from a spray can and Bogart tells her to fan the fumes away from the bed or they'll all be out . When Bacall notices that no one is watching her , she hastily fans the gas down towards the body of her unconscious rival . It isn't much , just a second or two , but it adds to our understanding of what's going on and is meanly funny . Not Hawks ' best but enjoyable viewing .
The Stalls Identity .	I was interrupted after about two-thirds of the movie and could only listen to the last part , but the film seemed interesting enough to warrant a few notes . First of all , for Cronenberg , this is a linear narrative . Basically , Tom Stalls ( Vigo Mortensen ) is an ex-hood who has begun a new life as the owner of a small café in Indiana . He becomes a hero by overcoming two really nasty armed robbers , his face appears in the news , and his former associates in Philadelphia seek him out to settle a few old scores . The associates include Ed Harris and William Hurt in relatively small roles . Cronenberg invests the story with none of his usual grotesqueries . That is to say , nobody rots on screen . Nobody's head explodes . Nobody has a sexual thing for overripe pumpkins or anything . The first half hour is finely done . Ordinary people doing ordinary things , until Mortensen unexpectedly does something quite extraordinary . There is a subplot involving his teen aged son who goes through something of the same personal revolution regarding the bullies at his high school . Nice picture of peaceful , rather dull small-town life at first . But when Stall's true identity becomes apparent , the story weakens and turns into a more nearly traditional action / crime flick . And it becomes less believable . When Mortensen's wife finds out who he has been she runs to the bathroom and vomits . The incident makes the point dramatically , but would it really happen ? She's lived with this peace-loving gentle , caring guy now for years but in a few seconds the love is turned to revulsion . There's another angry exchange later that ends with an animal-like coupling on a staircase . Both Mortensen and his wife ( Maria Bello ) turn from fury into lust in the blink of an eye . Would you want to make love to someone who has just cursed you and slapped your face ? Well , maybe you would . The vagaries of your erotic life are certainly none of MY business . Personally I would prefer to be the slapper than the slappee , but only if it were consensual and deeply caring . Where was I ? Oh , yes . And Mortensen's kid . When the boy finds out his father has a " history of violence " he too gets irritated - - whining and demeaning his Dad . But , again , why ? It has been estimated that every cell in the human body dies and is replaced every seven years . Don't we ALL deserve another chance ? Especially when , as in this instance , it is never clear exactly what Mortensen ever did that was so damned bad ? I kind of like Vigo Mortensen . He's handsome without being conspicuously so . And his acting style is minimalist , kind of like Robert Redford or Gary Cooper . He never really does very much with his face , but as in the Kuleshov studies his feelings are suggested by their context . He may not look disappointed , but we know he must be disappointed because these are disappointing circumstances . Ed Harris is great , with his hideous scar from the barbed wire . He uses a ripe Tenafly , New Jersey , accent in the part . Sounds great . He's turning into a very good supporting player . And William Hurt is interesting , as he invariably is .
Indolent look at a kaleidoscope of themes .	Well , just about every kind of quirk you might expect to find in a nice Jewish academic family in Berkeley is tucked away somewhere in this leisurely trip through misunderstandings . Richard Gere , gone white and looking great , does most of the talking and most of the moving . He teaches Hebrew Studies , he coaches his son on the cello , he always cooks dinner at home . ( Pretty liberated , eh ? ) Now Gere isn't frenetic as he sometimes has been , as in , say , " Power " . His buzzing activity mostly stands out because nobody else has much of it . His wife , Juliette Binoche , has lost her family and wanders around with all the substance of a wisp of smoke . It turns out she's covering up some quirky activities , even for a family like this . She has a garage full of broken trinkets she's collected from other people's properties . They hang from the ceiling in a multitude of sparkling threads , tinkling a little bit , as Gere discovers them and goggles at the sight . Then there's the son , Aaron . Gere is a devoutly religious man who would like to be a mystic but is reduced to merely studying Jewish mysticism . But the son ? Well , he's a whiz on the cello . With a father like Gere you could hardly be other than a whiz at whatever he urged you to try . And Aaron is searching for God too . But where does he find God ? In the now-defunct Hare Krishnas . Of course it could have been worse . Aaron might have dug up some suicide cult . But still , for some people it must be getting a bit tiresome to deal with people who have learned that God is communicating with them . Andy Warhol once claimed that he'd been given a dead phone but that God was supposed to be on the other end waiting for his call . Warhol never made the call because he could never think of anything to say . Doctor Fielgut's advice is this : Do find God , if you can , but then whatever he tells you keep it to yourself . Oh , yes . Then there's the little daughter , reserved , soft , vulnerable , unamazing in any way until she discovers that she has some form of synesthesia regarding words . When she hears " cotyledon " defined , she closes her eyes and is swirled about with leaves . When Gere finds this out - - WOW ! TWO geniuses in the family , not including him and Juliette Binoche who is " a scientist . " Aaron and his cello are put on the back burner while Gere hovers over his daughter and tells her emphatically that God is in the letters . In the end she teaches him a valuable lesson too , humility . There's something distasteful about judged performances like spelling bees though . I say this not only because Barbara Lukashinsky came in first , to my second , in a fifth-grade spelling bee , just because I misspelled a stupid word like " nickel " and she got it right . No , it's not that at all , even though she didn't deserve first prize . It's that like other judged performances , spelling bees are a zero-sum game . One can only " win " at the expense of someone else . It's competition in its purest form . You win the prize by beating everyone else . But who wins a prize for cooperation ? Or self sacrifice ? Roger Bannister was the first person to run a 4-minute mile . Does anyone remember who was the second runner to break four minutes ? It isn't that competition is necessarily bad per se . It can boost team solidarity and even be fun . The main problem with spelling bees is that they encourage lazy , categorical thinking about either " victory " or " defeat " , while " compromise " has no part in the contest . This is a pretty slow movie . It's almost European . It's stuffed with far too many themes , like the kaleidoscope ( did I spell that right ? ) that Binoche hands down to daughter Emily . Impossible to grasp them all . But it's a nice change to see a film that challenges us .
Power as an aphrodisiac .	The anthropologist Jules Henry once wrote that " men compete for power ; women compete for men . " Okay , it's kind of simple minded , but this movie neatly illustrates the point Henry was trying to make . Two women , Sandrine and Nathalie , meet by accident and begin an affair . Nathalie , the older and more experienced of the two , teaches Sandrine how to seduce her way up the corporate ladder , including instructions on how to improve your fake orgasms . Treat them nice and then dump them for someone better , but do it subtly . The first guy at this huge corporation is nothing more than target practice for Sandrine . She works through him to get at the next guy in the bigger office , a happily married winsome man with a face that has all the sympathetic appeal of road kill . Sandrine , following Nathalie's instructions , works overtime at the office and spurns all hits until one night she allows the 47-year-old boss in the bigger office to catch her in a do-it-yourself mode . The older man , Delacroix , whom I'd supposed to be dead since 1863 , begins a passionate affair with the delectable young Sandrine . She teases and taunts him and makes him feel vigorous again . He can't do without her . Then after tricking him into visiting her unannounced at her home , she lets him wander in on her and Nathalie while they are making love . Only in a French movie would his first question be , " Are you in love with her " ? No bothering with the fact that he's got two women humping in front of him . That is what we blue-blooded church-goers call " sang-froid . " Anyway - - skipping some additional steps - - Sandrine finally makes it into the office of the boss's son , a young rich hunk , Christophe . The real boss doesn't count because he's old and moribund . ( He's my age . ) But now our story turns a bit and begins to get REALLY creepy . It develops that Nathalie has having an affair with Christophe and has been spying for him too . And this Christophe is a match for the two plotting women , believe me . " Me , cruel ? Am I more cruel than God or creation ? " What a cold blooded cad . Or cod . Let's see . The film turns into what could have been a soft-core porn film from any country except that in France they do it to an oratorio by Handel . We have ordinary intercourse , but not much of that . Then there's the lesbian affair of course . And , let me think , oh yes , incest and orgies . Christophe winds up marrying Sandrine and as a special treat on their wedding night he has her dragged screaming down to a dungeon and gang banged by a bunch of strangers . All this to the tune of Bach's Missa Solemnis or something and the reassuring sight of softly billowing scarlet curtains . When Nathalie finally plugs Christophe ( seven times ) he begs her not to commit suicide because then she will follow him to hell and harass him for eternity . When Christophe dies on the staircase his body is enshrouded by white smoke and a hawk lands on his chest and begins tearing at the bullet holes around his heart . Don't ask . Well , Nathalie doesn't kill herself . She goes to prison for seven years , marries her prison guard , and has a family with him . Sandrine , having lost her husband , inherits everything he had , meaning their vast estate and the huge corporation . She runs the business with the now-chastened Delacroix as her loyal assistant . I'm not trying to hack the movie to pieces , although I have made fun of some of it . I found myself genuinely interested in where it was going - - in where it could POSSIBLY go next . And I was sincerely happy that both women wound up evidently satisfied with their secure circumstances . And I appreciated the way Sandrine presented herself . She's attractive without being beautiful . And she has a way of grooming herself and walking and posturing that makes the most of what the Intelligent Designer has given her , a trait more commonly found in Europeans than Americans , if I may make such an Olympian generalization . The story , and some of the scenes , are pretty erotic but they're done with style . There's little nudity and what there is of it isn't vulgar . I kind of liked the whole thing .
A runner up .	I haven't seen all of Christopher Guest's parodies , or rather the parodies of Guest and gang , which always include Eugene Levy ( he of the Groucho eyebrows ) , Catherine O'Hara , Parker Posey , Fred Willard , and other familiar faces . " Best in Show " was a real winner . This one is a runner up , close but no cigar . It's about a cheap film that comes to have critical raves . Three actors are buzzed about as Oscar Nominees , but they don't quite make the cut . An epilogue shows us the heights they went on to conquer despite their disappointment - - one teaches acting to a handful of puzzled and untalented students , another is doing a product commercial voice over , the third is an hysterical performance artist . The writers seem able to dig up some humor out of any situation . But the film has an improvisatory quality that goes beyond that of " Best in Show . " People SOUND as if they're improvising . The editor does what he can to keep the pace snappy but sometimes the scenes are more puzzling than funny . The winner , again , is Fred Willard , playing the same stoop he played in " Best in Show , " but this time with a cartoon hair do . The host of a morning TV show , he ambushes the losers at their various tasks - - trying to have breakfast alone in a diner , auditioning for a role in a commercial , or staggering drunk out of the house to empty the garbage . It doesn't hit the high spots of the earlier film but it's still pretty amusing . Nothing is sacred to these guys .
Fine acting , spectacle .	Man , this doth bestride the world of 1860s New York like a colossus . It begins with a battle on the streets of the ( now disappeared ) Five Points of New York City , between the Irish immigrants led by Liam Neeson , head of the Dead Rabbits gang , and the nativists , led by Daniel Day-Lewis , sporting the most down-home working-class New York accent you ever heard , a real phoneme-mangler , and the waxiest mustache as well , playing Bill the Butcher . Neeson is killed in battle , which stops the fight , as it did in ancient times , and Day-Lewis bellows out to the stunned mob , " The Dead Rabbits is gone forever . Let their name never be spoken from this time onward ! " Neeson's son grows up to be Leonard DeCaprio and when he returns to Five Points he his taken under the wing of Day-Lewis , until his identity is revealed . Cameron Diaz is around here somewhere , swishing through bar rooms , half-built churches , and underground caves . Another street battle is arranged . Coincidentally it takes place during the historic draft riots of the Civil War period . Day-Lewis is killed by DeCaprio , and the feud is buried . I couldn't tell one gang from another but I loved their names . They are rooted in historical reality , I think , and they include not just the Dead Rabbits but the Chichesters , the Bowery Boys , and the Plug Uglies . The Plug Uglies derive their name , I understand , from a " volunteer fireman's group . " There were thirty-seven such groups . There being no fire department to speak of at the time , volunteer groups were paid by the fire , which led to the expected results . Not only competition by rival groups to reach the fire first , but sometimes co-opting the fire by having a handful sit on the fire plugs and reserving them for their own group . ( Arson by the firemen themselves also generated profits . ) That's the kind of detail that Scorsese jimmies into this movie . We get to see some historical figures , such as Boss Tweed , and we witness their machinations . But the director's real interests lie elsewhere - - intrigues among the gang members and their molls , revenge , murders , public assassinations , things like that . I know . It sounds like the Corleone family . Unfortunately that's probably the weakest part of the film . There is usually a great sense of " place " and " tribe " in Scorsese's work . The Five-Points set is splendidly done but I couldn't get a sense of what was where . Transitions from exteriors to interiors , and the relation of community features to each other , were confusing . And although Day-Lewis's character was nicely delineated , and our attitude towards him necessarily ambivalent , I wasn't itching for DeCaprio to off him and stand victorious over his body - - which is part of the gangs ' code . ( " Ears and noses are alright , but nobody touches this body ! " That's another order from Day-Lewis about taking post-battle trophies . Another guy gets paid by the new notches he carves into his sheleghly or whatever it is . ) Nobody in the film is entirely admirable , although just about everyone is treacherous . A black orphanage is burned down during the draft riots but this eludes mention . Also , okay , this is about the poorest and most crime-ridden neighborhood in New York City . Day-Lewis is a butcher and Cameron Diaz is a hooker , but what kind of work do the others do ? We don't see anyone making a living . We don't even hear them talk about it . To whom does Day-Lewis sell his lamb chops ? None of that detracts from the power of the images we see on the screen , or from some of the superb performances , the least effective of which come from DeCaprio and Diaz . The film paints a moving portrait of near anarchy . We only get to see one or two cops and they're thoroughly corrupt . Nobody balks , no committee is formed to investigate , when a battle between street gangs leaves dozens dead . The street has its own code . Plus ca change .
Mainstream Columbo	Better than average . This episode is from the second season and Columbo was hitting its stride . The cast is excellent . Will Geer , in particular , is always outstanding . Anne Francis is beautiful and one wonders if she and Peter Falk reminisced about the old days in Ossining , New York , where both of them grew up . I especially liked Nita Talbot as Marcia . She's given the most amusing lines and the most romantically desperate of characters . Explaining to a sleep-deprived unshaven Columbo why she feels guilty : " I chose to work for a plastic surgeon in Beverley Hills , but I don't meet any single men until they're ready for face lifts . " The motivation may be a little weak . One scientist invents a new surgical technique and tries to kill another because he wants all the credit . Well , maybe the motive isn't so weak at that . I spent 30 years in research settings and am filled with resentment at the credit I should have gotten for my work , credit which was taken by rivals out to make me look small and insignificant . May their souls rot in - - well . I believe in karma and they'll get theirs alright . The plot is great though . Columbo gets to display his aversion to hospital sights , sounds , and odors , which is perfectly understandable . And we learn just enough about surgical procedures to follow the machinations of the heavy , Leonard Nimoy . This is the one in which Columbo loses his temper and slams a water pitcher down on Nimoy's desk . Excellent distraction .
Lively Romantic Musical Comedy .	June Allyson and Gloria DeHaven are two sisters who fall for the same sailor , Van Johnson , at a party for servicemen in 1944 . Johnson comes from a very wealthy family and anonymously buys the girls ( they were " girls " then , not yet " women " ) a huge warehouse where our boys ( they were " boys " , etc . ) can REALLY be entertained . Of course only one of the girls can wind up with Van Johnson but , not to worry , Sergeant Tom Drake is always hanging around in the background and he gets the other . More MGM stars than you can shake a baton at - - Harry James , Xavier Cugat , Gracie Allen , Jimmy Durante , Jose Iturbi , everybody . Most of the names will not be familiar to people who weren't around at the time but they were big ones in 1944 . Every girl had a crush on Van Johnson . All of the musical numbers are pleasant in their own quiet way but none are outstanding although they were popular at the time . Never entered the Great American Songbook . Sic transit gloria mundi . Exception : Harry James gets to play " Estrellita " , a sentimental love song written around 1912 by the Mexican composer Manuel Ponce , which was immensely popular and never aspired to membership in the Great Songbook . You will probably recognize it . June Allyson , in her first major role , already looks and sounds like the steadfast , loyal wife she would become in later movie . Gloria DeHaven , on the other hand , had a relatively short career and wound up hosting a TV program in New York . Don't know why her impact was so ephemeral . She has long , fluffy hair , the eyes of a gazelle , and a lower lip that droops sensually , invitingly . She should have gone on to erotic thrillers , the kind in which the babe is rescued from the murderer with her dress half ripped off and some of her underwear showing . What a waste . Nothing much to the plot - - a series of coincidences and pedestrian interludes between musical numbers . But what a time capsule this is .
Good Early Columbo	You can't help wondering what Lieutenant Columbo's first name was , but maybe it's better that we don't know . Suppose it had turned out to be something like " Jason " or " Brad " . In this entry the epic bumbler is thrust into the world of championship-level chess , more specifically the professional enmity that Lawrence Harvey , the reigning champ , feels towards his good-natured challenger , the older Jack Kruschen , playing an obvious Russian . It's an interesting story , a little complicated , there being not just one secret but several of them , involving shoves into giant garbage disposals , tricking the victim into writing a suicide note , switching medicines , setting up a red herring about a flight to Mexico . I suppose all that is to be expected in a story about chess . It's a complicated game . I should know . I was a child genius at chess and once played ten games simultaneously while blindfolded , losing every one . Something I didn't get comes at the end , though , the climactic reveal . That giant garbage grinder into which Harvey has shoved his opponent shuts off automatically but Harvey doesn't realize it because his hearing aid battery is shot , and he doesn't know the chopper has stopped . Columbo tricks Harvey into demonstrating that , in the absence of his hearing aid , he can't tell the blasted machinery has stopped . And a glow of satisfaction spreads across Columbo's face . But , when you think about it - - so what ? Aside from that , plenty of interesting stuff going on . Escargot with garlic in what passes for a French restaurant in L . A . Made me kind of hungry , watching Kruschen stuff himself . Harvey taking a glance at one of those indecipherable doctor's scrips for four or five medicines and immediately memorizing the whole list . Hart Bochner speaking Russian with a gloopy accent . Kruschen flat-lining with a satisfying stomach full of snails with garlic sauce .
Right Up There on the Plus Side .	This is the one in which Vera Miles , as the head honcho of a tony cosmetics corporation , bashes in the head of subordinate Michael Sheen who has falsified the results of an experiment in such a way that he now has sole possession of the secret formula of a skin cream that will remove wrinkles . Enter Columbo , the paragon of sartoriality , into the women's world of haute couture and tony fat farms where they practice " body realization " and nude sunbathing . He stumbles around and catches poison ivy before unraveling the case with an intuition that is supernatural in its magnitude . I don't know why , when Vera Miles discovered that Sheen had cooked the books and was going to blackmail her into making him a partner in the firm , she just didn't go to the cops instead of braining him . After all , stealing a secret wrinkle remover while in the employ of the corporation is stealing property that is rightly theirs , not to mention the blackmail that is extortion , a felony . There's some comedy , but not that much , and not that much teasing repartee between Miles and Peter Falk . Sheen isn't around long . Sian Barbara Allen has more screen time and she uses it pretty well , even adding a suggestion of the kind of love that dare not speak its name in her devotion to Miles . Allen has a most idiosyncratic face . Not unattractive in any way , but slightly askew . Vincent Price is always good to see on the screen . He doesn't get to use his considerable flair for comedy in this relatively straight part of Miles ' competitor in the cosmetics business . If you like this sort of thing , as I do , you probably should catch it . It's up there with the other mainstream entries .
Great Garner	This movie has been kicking around on cable TV lately and I've put off watching it because I expected it to be another very stretched version of a buddy cop movie . The story seems made for it . Experienced old real-life marshal Wyatt Earp teaches callus young phony cowboy Tom Mix how to solve a crime . " Dragnet " on a 1920s back lot . But it wasn't that way at all . It's true enough that Earp ( Garner ) hung around Hollywood at the time , or maybe a bit earlier . We don't really get to know much about his past . But although Mix ( Willis ) drove expensive cars and wore flashy suits and big hats , he wasn't a phony . He'd been a real cowboy too , was a great rider , fought in the Spanish-American war , and could take care of himself . Instead of the expected clash between the master and the tyro , we get two guys who pretty much hit it off with one another right away , and show mutual respect . It's an interesting friendship . But then the movie turns darker . A murder takes place . There are fist fights ( mostly comic ) and several shootouts ( done seriously ) . Willis is kind of cocky . Garner displays the laconic off-hand dignity he showed in " Murphy's Romance , " or whatever it was . He's an icon here , with that black outfit and mustache . He's never been a flashy actor , but invariably a competent one . Off-screen he's come up with some dandy spontaneous comments about how the social world of Hollywood and the rest of the country is structured . He's got my vote . Willis isn't bad either . The rest of the cast does yeoman work but no one has roles that are as interesting as those of the two leads . And the murder story fails to grip the viewer , at least this viewer . I didn't really find myself caring who did it , although it was clear from the beginning who the villains were . There was an exception , though , the British actress playing Garner's former lover . She's simply outstanding in a supporting part , and provides a great example of how to be beautiful without being " beautiful . " I wish the film didn't seem kind of - - I suppose lost is the word . It meanders between comedy , drama , and warmth , without seeming to know just what it wants to do . This isn't a total failure on Edwards ' part . It holds together as a story but the characters bounce off one another . Henry Mancini , who wrote many scores for Edwards ' films , shows his versatility here . The score is quiet and unobtrusive ( except for one or two brass bands that seem to follow Tom Mix around ) and is punctuated by contemporary recordings , including one by Duke Ellington . The photography is first rate . It must be getting hard to find locations that look like Southern California looked in the 1920s before the irruption of humans and their artifacts . It's worth watching . But I don't know where that title came from . " Sunset . " What is the sun setting on ? Not Earp . He's old but not doddering , and he can shoot and make love even at the " risk of permanent damage . " It's not setting on Hollywood , which would continue to book for another two generations or so . I suppose we'll settle for its being one of those generic titles that could mean anything . " Another Dawn . " " Guns of Darkness . " " On the Edge . " " Sunset . " " The Muppets Conquer the Mustang Ranch . "
Should be better .	Bob Hope's comedies could be hilarious , but this one isn't . He plays his usual character , a coward who imitates his private-eye neighbor and gets into all kinds of hot water with Dorothy Lamour while searching for a map that will break up a ring of international gangsters who want to locate a uranium mine that " some other country " is interested in . ( This is 1947 . ) There were a plenitude of mock private-eye movies that came out about this time , generated by the popularity of the 1940s noir films and , later , given a second-stage rocket boost by the Mike Hammer novels . The climactic ballet of " The Bandwagon " is another example , from a musical yet . But I don't care about that . Well-done parodies can stand on their own , even if the target becomes a bit dated . The problem here is that the wisecracks and gags , though delivered by Hope with his usual élan , just aren't funny enough . Hope's dithering cowardice is amusing , but the rest of the film is below par for him . I'm trying to think of a gag that I can use as an example of mediocrity , but although I just finished watching the movie on DVD , none of them comes to mind . That's symptomatic . Good cast too . Lon Chaney , Jr . , Peter Lorre , other good supporting players , cameos by Alan Ladd and Bing Crosby . And nice location shooting in San Francisco and on the Monterey Peninsula . The mansion that's the principal setting is still there , and visible from the nearby drive . The movie isn't an insult to the audience and not exactly a blot on the record of the participants . It has its comedic qualities . Kids might get a big kick out of it , especially if they're not acquainted with Hope's work elsewhere . If you want to join in the laughter , rent one of Hope and Crosby's better " On the Road " movies .
Efficient update	You can't help comparing this 1973 TV version to the 1940s original directed by Billy Wilder and starring Fred MacMurray , Barbara Stanwyck , and Edward G . Robinson . As expected , the original comes out light years ahead , a classic of genuine film noir . The story line is still here . The skull shows through the skin . An insurance salesman connives with a manipulative seductress to murder her husband and collect double indemnity on the insurance policy they've just taken out on him . The claims manager , Lee J . Cobb here , unravels the plot . The criminal couple shoot and kill one another . That much is the same . So what's the problem ? Well , there are a couple of problems , and some other changes that aren't necessarily problems but don't add anything to the experience of viewing the film . The story belongs in the 1940s . When Wilder and Raymond Chandler ( in his sober period ) put the thing together it had a good , old-fashioned black-and-white pizazz in its dialog and setting that just doesn't fit well into the 1970s . Phyllis Dietrichson belongs in a slightly cramped but very comfortable old house , a slightly dated mission-style multi-story dwelling with honeysuckle around it and windows that can be closed and shuttered . People in this film live in comparative luxury . The plush carpets are the color of rust . Phyllis ( Samantha Eggar ) lives in a modern house that resembles a cement box on the outside . No honeysuckle vine would dream of trying to creep up the walls because the Mexican gardener would snip it off in a jiffy . Walter Neff ( Richard Crenna ) lives in a pad in Marina del Ray with a view of the yacht moorings , instead of the somewhat seedy hotel flat in the original . In Crenna's apartment , you'd probably have to use coasters . Everyone here seems too - - comfortable . When Eggar complains of her husband that he has no money it's impossible to believe her . The wardrobe too is updated , of course , or rather it WAS up to date in 1973 . Never saw so many turtlenecks . And such fashionably long hair on the men . And 1973 was part of an era - - let's call it pre-Godfather - - when you still had to watch it in using ethnic names . So Lola's no-good boyfriend ( a med-school dropout in the original , a law student here ) is no longer Nino Sachetti but somebody with a barbaric and WASPy name like Don Franklin . That's not a name for a resentful , misguided kid . That's the name of a TV game show host . " Chris Martin Productions presents RING MY BELL - - with your host , Don FRANKlin ! " Incidents , themes almost , are elided . Not much goes on in the way of affection between Neff and his boss . In the original it's symbolized by Neff's always having to provide Keyes with a match to light his cigar and Keyes ' growling thanks . The match business is simply left out of this version . So is the witness's ( John Fiedler ) trying to pry some extra money out of the Insurance company to cover his overnight visit to LA from Medford , Oregon . " There's a chiropractor I need to see , " Porter Hall wheedles in the original . " Just don't put her on the expense account , " snarls Keyes . It's one of the few humorous moments in the story . What's gained by leaving it out ? Left out too is what is surely the funniest incident in the original , when Keyes gives his boss a big speech spelling out in humiliating detail precisely how dumb his boss is , then grabs a glass of water out of his boss's hand , asks , " Mind if I have this ? " , and nervously gulps it down . Otherwise the dialog is almost identical to the original , except for the addition of a wisecrack near the beginning , when Neff tells Phyllis , " I gave up a Rhodes scholarship to peddle insurance door to door . " Performances . Crenna is probably as good as MacMurray was in the original . And although Lee J . Cobb as Keyes isn't the human buzz saw that Edward G . Robinson was in the original , he carries the part in his own exasperated way . Samantha Eggar , alas , is no Barbara Stanwyck . Stanwyck was pretty in a sluttish way , with that fake blonde wig , and a better actress too . Watch Stanwyck's face when the camera focuses on it and her husband is getting his neck broken in the seat next to her . There's a slight smile curling up the edges of her lips . And that nasal Brooklyn voice helps . Eggar with her fresh modelesque beauty , deep red fluffy hair , freckled face , Brit accent , and big green eyes is all innocence . When HER husband is killed , she simply stares into the camera when the shot is duplicated . Most shots , however , are not duplicated . Not that it matters much because the director , Jack Smight , who has done interesting work elsewhere ( " No Way to Treat a Lady " , eg . ) , seems to have approached this project the way we might approach commuting to work in the morning . Nothing much goes on . The wheels aren't turning . Oh , well . You may appreciate this more if you've never seen the original . At that , I'm surprised that there hasn't been another remake yet . It's been thirty years and more since this copy . And there must be a nickel left in the story yet , especially if it has much more blood and explicit sex in it , and something on the sound track other than , " I'll Remember April . "
Comedy has charm , humor , and is a commercial product .	We are introduced to the Hoover family : the mother ( Toni Collette ) , the achievement-obsessed father ( Greg Kinnear ) , the vulgar grandfather ( Alan Arkin ) , the depressed teen-aged son suffering from elective mutism ( Paul Dano ) , the scholarly , gay uncle who is recovering from a suicide attempt ( Steve Carrell ) , and the cutely plain little girl who wants to be a candidate for Little Miss Sunshine ( Abigail Breslin ) . " A family of losers , " someone calls them . ( Well , they are , after all , the Hoovers . ) Actually , once we get the introductions over with , it isn't a promising picture . This is the way TV situation comedies are planned - - throw together a group of dissimilar nuts into one house and have them stumble all over each other while making wisecracks . If you try to stretch it out to feature length you're liable to wind up with Chevy Chase in a Griswold family vacation movie , with a dead body strapped to the roof . ( This one has a dead body in the back of the VW microbus . ) The little girl , Olive , wins a crack at the title of Little Miss Sunshine in Redondo Beach , California , an apt location , but the whole family must pile into the VW and drive the 800 miles from Albuquerque and must arrive the day after tomorrow by 3PM to register . All sorts of things go wrong that cause delays - - surprise ! Not only does gramps die in his sleep , but the local hospital's " bereavement counselor , " after offering them her condolences in a practiced voice , begins handing them thousands of pages of forms that have to be filled out . What's more , they can't just transport gramp's remains across the state line because that involves the personal endorsement of the Federal Trade Commission and would be a violation of the Mann Act . I just made that up , but I want to suggest that if the Hoover family follows the rules , Olive's entry in the contest is forfeit . So , the Little Miss Sunshine contest being of paramount importance , they don't follow the rules . Instead , they smuggle the remains out of a hospital window and stuff it into the back of the bus in a scene that lacks the laughs that the smuggling of a dead body ought to have . Actually , there aren't many laughs in the film , although it is replete with incidents that generate smiles . As in any successful sitcom , the characters ' quirks are milked for all the laughs that can be gotten from them . At breakfast in a café , for instance , Olive orders waffles a la mode . Kinnear , his eye ever on the game , explains to her that ice cream is made from cream and that it has a lot of fat and that beauty contest winners are - - well , would you call them fat or skinny ? Olive replies doubtfully , " Skinny ? " Kinnear smiles down at her . Smart kid . The beauty contest must have provided the writers with a challenge . The other contestants look like porcelain dolls . They are of various races but share bulbous foreheads , bouffant hair styles , lots of make up , great big false lashes , pasted-on smiles full of capped teeth , flashy outfits of sequins and bangles , and a way of prancing around on stage while shaking their little tushies , to the delight of a burly , bearded guy smothered in tattoos who appears to represent the pedophiles in our midst . Well , Olive is a nice kid , but she's no beauty and her talent is modest compared to the yodelers and the gymnasts . Does Olive win ? It would defy our suspension of disbelief . Does she lose ? What kind of happy ending would that be ? So the writers plump for having her get on the stage in front of these professional stage mothers and do a kind of raucous strip tease , using some lascivious steps taught to her by her degraded grandfather . Some members of the audience get up and leave in disgust . They prefer a more disguised pornography . The bailiffs , or the guards , or the corrections officers , or the civilian contractors rush to remove Olive from the stage . BUT - - the whole family runs on the stage , beats off the agents of social control , and JOINS IN OLIVE'S DANCE ! Not only do the concepts of " winning " and " losing " become irrelevant , but Olive has brought the whole family together again ! Let's hear it for Olive ! The movie has its moments of desperation . At one point , the horn of the VW begins bleating by itself . But on the whole there are enough laughs to keep a family entertained . The kids aren't likely to get the mostly unsuccessful gags about homosexuality ( or maybe they will ) and they'll surely miss the references to Proust and Nietzsche , but they'll appreciate gramp's filthy mouth and the sillier jokes . It ends on a warm , up-lifting note . I wish it had ended with a capper of a comedy caper .
Not bad for a TV movie .	Gary Lewis and the Playboys , Buddy Holly and the Crickets , Jason and the Argonauts . Sounds like a 1950s rock band but this outfit has legs , the story being at least 2300 years old - - and an oral tradition before that . It's a complicated narrative too . In order to save his mother's hide , Jason is forced by the king ( Dennis Hopper ) to undertake a dangerous sea voyage with two-dozen crew to a distant island and bring back the golden fleece , which is a sheepskin made of golden wool . The crew is full of familiar names . There are Castor and Pollux ( who speak with Slavic accents ) , Hercules , Orpheus , Atalanta , and some others . Well , they're not household worlds exactly , but famous nonetheless . Along the way they encounter dragons , clashing rocks , harpies who are half-bird and half-women and resemble my second-grade teacher , an army of women led by Natasha Henstridge , an angry Poseidon , clashing rocks , armed skeletons born of dragon's teeth , the witch Medea ( Jolene Blalock ) , the jealous king who wants to keep the golden fleece for himself ( Frank Langella ) , and various other dilatory things and events that happen to ordinary people who are in a hurry to get someplace . This movie , splendidly photographed , comes to us from Hallmark , along with their superior production of The Odyssey . There have been a couple of other retellings of the Greek myths lately and I think I know why . It's a chance for a special effects extravaganza . Willis O'Brian of " King Kong " fame was replaced by the more sophisticated effects of Ray Harryhausen , and now it's time for computer-generated images . They're pretty good too . The argonauts land on a rocky island and plant a spear and a giant eyeball appears nearby - - it's not an island at all , but the barnacle bedecked Poseidon taking a snooze , and , man , is he cranky when he wakes up . The weakest part of the film is in the performances . Jolene Blalock , who looks like Hilary Swank , is the image of a beautiful model - - and she acts like one . Adrian Lester , the African-American yuppie in " Primary Colors " , still looks like a yuppie . Olivia Williams as Hera isn't bad at all , but most of the gods and goddesses are no more than competent . For a great Zeus , a Zeus who has a touchy relationship with Hera because she knows he's been getting it on with mortal women , posing as a shower of coins or a swan or something , watch Lawrence Olivier in " Clash of the Titans . " The central figure of Jason is given to Jason London . Now , he may be a great guy in real life for all we know . He probably loves his dog . But he's gotten the pretty boy treatment in this movie . His hair looks done by a fashionable salon on Rodeo Drive . Every female in the film falls in love with him . They fawn over him , give him presents , happily rub oil or wine on his body ( twice ) . It's disgusting . And as if that weren't enough , London's acting is as flat as a pancake , perfectly suitable for a high-school play . Dennis Hopper is a great maniac , but he has to be seen ( and heard ) as a murderous Greek king to be believed . The best performance , surprisingly , is by Brian Thompson as Hercules . You'll recognize him when you see him . He's been an alien on the X-Files and a lank-haired greaseball of a heavy in some features . Still , this would make a good movie for the family . I suppose there are a few semi-nude scenes involving Natasha Henstridge - - not enough to suit me , but not enough to make any 10-year-old's eyes goggle either . The kids will probably treat it as nothing more than another action flick with plenty of CGI , but if they remember it at all , they'll be remembering a Greek myth . It might get them a bonus point on an IQ test sometime later in life .
Neat Courtroom / Romance Drama	The plot's probably familiar . Man seems falsely accused of killing his wife . Hires attractive woman as his defense counsel . They seem to fall in love . She discovers he's guilty . Justice is served . What separates this from a Lifetime Movie Network flick is that it's actually pretty well thought out and splendidly acted . Glenn Close is fine as the defense attorney . Watch her expression as the early victim from Santa Cruz describes her ordeal in the witness chair . She's a good actress . She has a nice figure too , although wardrobe seems to have cinched her waist so that her rump seems too pronounced . Jeff Bridges always brings something interesting to the party . Here he plays it relatively straight as the accused husband , relying on a relaxed sort of charm that is appropriate to the character . Pete Coyote as the villainous but clever prosecutor is surprisingly good . John Dehner is as reliable as a war horse as the judge . I can't think of a role that he hasn't invested with a certain dignity . Leigh Taylor-Young has only a single scene but she's devastating . It isn't simply that she has aged a bit and yet looks fine . The delivery of her lines is splendidly matched with her body language . The director is a big help with her scene but elsewhere seems to condescend to the audience . A woman testifies to being trapped by a masked stranger at her home , tied up , and having he breasts carved . It's a horrifying story . Being that , it can carry its own weight but the director has the witness sobbing from the beginning instead of showing the gradual rise in the trajectory of her emotions . And when Glenn Close , watching her , projects that exquisite empathy , the camera slowly dollies in closer so that we don't miss it . We wouldn't have missed it anyway , even without the director's hitting us over the head with it . There isn't much of a score and what there is of it is effectively programmatic , kind of like an updated version of Max Steiner's " Mickey Mouse " score for King Kong , in which the music imitates the events and situations we're watching on screen . ( During the requisite silent wait for the jury to come back with a verdict we don't actually hear a clock ticking . Instead , the music imitates the ticking of a clock . ) I wonder if this isn't the kind of movie that will be seen differently by different audiences . For men it might be a story about conflict in the courtroom with a romance thrown in . For women , on the other hand , it might more likely be seen as a story of the emotional relationship between Bridges and Close that is tested in a courtroom . I'm not at all sure that men would read it the way women would . Close's attraction to Bridges would seem - - not exactly inexplicable but rather taken for granted . Women might be able to tap into Bridges ' appeal more effectively . They're better at reading these kinds of situations than men are . ( I am speaking to you as your psychologist . That will be fifteen cents . ) Look at Jeff Bridges from a woman's point of view . He has all the qualities it takes to attract an unattached young woman . He is - - in no particular order - - rich , powerful , handsome , casual and unpretentious , polite , athletic ( plays racquetball , which replaced tennis as the game de jour of the aristos ) , sensitive ( he weeps when he enters the room where his wife was killed ) , intelligent ( she quotes Oliver Wendell Holmes and he identifies the source ) , doesn't smoke tobacco , and he's misunderstood by everyone else . Oh - - and he LOVES horses , which women also love . What more could you ask for in an alpha male - - pheromones ? Well , he's probably got them too , with more flavors than Baskin-Robbins . After the verdict is in , the movie kind of collapses in upon itself . Close finds irrefutable evidence that Bridges is the murder and rushes home with it . She tells Bridges on the phone that she has it . Of course this puts her in immediate danger of being slaughtered by him . Then she calls her friend and investigator , the vulgar but empathic Robert Loggia , and hysterically tells him , " Sam ! I need to talk to you ! I need you right away ! " He asks her what it is , but she abruptly falls silent . Loggia urges her to tell him what it is , but she smiles and replies , " It's nothing , Sam . I just wanted to thank you . " It's a cheap , old way of getting the audience to squirm and urge her to TELL HIM for Bog's sake ! Nobody can get through a scene like that and make it believable yet again . Still , nicely done . Well worth watching .
Okay , Clancy-Type International Action Thriller	Set between the end of the Cold War and the beginning of the global war on terrorism , the films settles on Colombian cocaine cartels for a convenient set of villains . At that , however , it's a bit unusual for Tom Clancy , presuming the movie incorporates details from his novel . For one thing , the story allows at least one of the real murdering heavies to have a couple of kids that he delights in . And , BANG , the American Navy blows up a house full of drug lords and children . Unwittingly , to be sure , but still - - Secondly , the bad-guys-in-chief are not the Colombian drug lords . Their evil is taken for granted . Instead , the worst people are American politicians who undertake to do " the Potomac two-step " by engaging in illegal operations in a foreign country while preserving " plausible deniability " for the slyly knowing President . The PRESIDENT , mind you ! What we seem to have here is not exactly a film a clef , but at least an approximation of the Iran / Contra affair under President Reagan , in which Admiral Poindexter , F . B . I . head Casey , and Col . Oliver North did some sub rosa trading , which Reagan had no knowledge of . But those real-life events only provide a framework for a fantasy in which sneaky Washington politicians agree to help a drug lord put a lock on cocaine shipments in return for his guarantee that he'll turn over all the information he gains on his rivals , which will double our drug arrests and boost the president's popularity . The price to be paid for this agreement is that the slimy pols immediately shut down a Special Ops mission involving a dozen of our armed forces ' picked men . They do so , betraying the mission in the process . This leads to a couple of American deaths and the capture of the rest of the unit . A fierce fire fight at the end results in their extraction by helicopter , led by the stalwart Jack Ryan ( Harrison Ford ) and the better trained Willem DaFoe . I hope that some of us , those who paste bumper stickers on their cars that say things like , " Surrender is Not an Option , " will note that the Special Ops guys here , hopelessly outnumbered and surrounded , not only sensibly surrendered but lived to fight another day . In case you might miss the irony , the director cross cuts between the pious pompous platitudes given by the president at a state funeral , and the terrifying hell our doomed men in Colombia find themselves trapped in . It worked better during the baptism / slaughter at the climax of " The Godfather " but it's still effective . The film is pretty well done and must have been expensive to shoot . Lots of action scenes and an entire hacienda is blown to bits by a laser-guided bomb in a most spectacular boom . ( Actually several spectacular booms as the special effects detonations went off in different places at slightly different times . ) The technical stuff about paper-made bombs is pretty interesting . What a techie Clancy must be . In one earlier boom , Jack Ryan tumbles forward toward the camera while a slow-motion fireball explodes behind him . If I see this unbelievably hoary cliché one more time , I'm going to call the police , the FCC , the Environmental Protection Agency , and the Holy Name Society . What happens in franchises like the Jack Ryan saga is that as time goes by , as the characters become familiar , as the story lines coalesce insensibly into one another , the writers start killing off some of the people we've gotten used to seeing . Children , of course , are always at risk , but usually one of the first guys to go is a mentor . It took Rocky Balboa three cracks to kill Burgess Meredith . I think it's taken the same amount of time for Jack Ryan to lose Greer ( James Earl Jones ) , the admirable Admiral . Situation report . If you liked the earlier Jack Ryan stories , you'll like this one too . It's a little more disjointed in its plot , but has just as much in the way of intrigue and action , and Ryan remains the same boy scout he's always been .
The weed of crime bears bitter fruit .	The story is pretty threadbare . Three roommates or flatmates ( Eccleston , MacGregor , and Fox ) find their fourth roommate or flatmate dead , evidently a suicide . They're pretty nonchalant about the naked dead body in bed . They go through his drawers and his luggage and find thousands of pounds sterling , which gives them ideas about disposing of the body and keeping the cash . They matter-of-factly saw the body into parts , disposing of the hands and feet in acid , bashing in the face , and bury it in a shallow grave in the kind of densely wooded area where all dead bodies are found , as this one soon enough is . One of the three conspirators , Eccleston , a creepy guy with glasses to begin with , starts acting - - well , a little twisted . He sequesters himself in the attic and drills holes through the floor so that he can peek down on the other two . Two business-like goons looking for the missing cash show up and are killed by Eccleston , and disposed of in the same way as their erstwhile roommate or flatmate . The police find their remains as well . The police investigate . Things get a little more tense . Eccleston takes up with Fox and they are about to leave for Rio together , but it develops that there have been one or two , or maybe three , double crosses concerning the lolly . Everybody winds up dead . What this film has going for it are a number of things . For one , the performances are uniformly splendid . The principles and subordinates do a fine job . And Kerry Fox is attractive in a non-conventional way , slightly plump , but with magnetic eyelids . MacGregor looks as if he stopped having zits the day before yesterday . The direction is more than just functional . I think we notice it mainly when the film deals with the two detectives . There is one shot of these two goofy looking characters - - one who looks like Happy of the Seven Dwarfs and the other like a scarecrow - - seated next to one another on a sofa . They are silent . The shot lasts so long that the image itself turns slightly grotesque . But then these two detectives are really Doozies . Their dialog is almost surreal at times . " Only three people in the flat , not four , " says the senior detective to the other , " Write that down , would you ? ( Long pause ) You can use either letters or numbers . ( Long pause ) Which did you use ? " Answer : " Both . " It's quite stylishly done , especially given the budget , and worth catching .
Dementia Praewax .	A fast-paced , enjoyable thriller , directed by Michael Curtiz , anticipating the 1953 " House of Wax " . That's the one with Phyllis Thaxter and Vincent Price . This one has the cast you'd associate with a 1933 production - - Fay Wray , Frank McHugh , Lionel Atill , Glenda Farrell as a snippy reporter , and others . The stories are similar . A deranged sculptor , unable to use his burned hands any longer , begins to kill people and kidnap their bodies , coating them in wax for his museum display . An inquisitive young lady discovers the truth . A girl is captured and stripped and bound under a spigot which will soon spout boiling wax . The cops interrupt the proceedings . Ordinarily , compared to their originals , remakes are odious . In this case , I don't know . Actually , both are pretty good . The chief difference is that this was shot in two-strip Technicolor , which gives the viewer not only black and white , but a choice of two designer colors - - albino pink and ghoul green . The photography in the 1953 version is not only more sophisticated and colorful but was 3-D when it was shot . ( Watch out for that bouncing paddle ball ! ) The photography aside , this one has hammier acting , a slightly different plot , and was clearly written before the deranged minds of the censors tried to encase wholesomeness in a waxen shell . Everyone here seems to rush around throwing wisecracks at each other . " He's in the hoosegow . " " How's your sex life ? " " Everyone knew they were living together . " A female figure in the wax museum is , as they used to say , undraped . In the 1953 version the police withhold a drink from an alcoholic until he breaks and spills the beans . Here , it's a " junkie " . There are times when this one is pretty funny , which the later version never was . There's a scene in which Glenda Farrell , the reporter , tries to convince her boss , Frank McHugh , that something is wrong at the museum . Joan of Arc looks too much like a recently disappeared corpse . Farrell : " You ever hear of a death mask ? " McHugh : " I sure have . I was married to one for years . " Farrell : " I know . Then she came to life and divorced you . " The slam-bang quality of the direction and the snappy script cut a bit into the terror of the story , which the later version preserves intact . There's nothing here as scary as the scene in 1953 in which the helpless Phyllis Kirk is being chased through the stylized , deserted New York streets by the hideously disfigured artist . Both are kind of enjoyable in their slightly different ways , though . I always wonder what happens when , not the wax , but the too too solid flesh under it should melt . You ever hear of " the lost wax method " ?
Shall we dance ?	The usual capricious nonsense , this time about a school of ballroom dancing that recruits lonely bachelors as students and then bumps them off at graduation and replaces each with a foreign agent . Steed enrolls as a client . Mrs . Peel gets a job as instructor . Clues include a rose tattoo and a garlic sausage . Bizarre , yes . This episode has two things going for it , in addition to its intrinsic appeal . One is that Emma Peel's bare foot is cast in plaster in order to create a pair of hand-made dancing pumps . The man at the shoe shop casts Mrs . Peel's foot but not before examining it with a fetishist's fascination . He speaks in a fey continental accent to the foot as he caresses it , scolding the toes for speaking to him , " Naughty chatterboxes . " The second is the studio's alcoholic band leader . There are few people who can play drunks on the screen while making them both funny and believable but this guy is one of them - - maybe his name is Larry Cross . In the neighborhood of roles like this , Lee Marvin is his only neighbor that I'm aware of . He stumbles precariously around . He smiles but in a way that signals confusion . His every word must be completed by someone else . It's all pretty amusing .
All over the court but sometimes compelling .	The director , Spike Lee , has got talent . No question about it . He stylizes the film with momentary flashbacks and slow motion - - but just enough . Not so much as to interfere with the narrative or attract attention to the director . And the photography , as is usual in his films , is truly splendid . Coney Island never looked quite so inviting , at least not for the last fifty years or so . The story - - the best high school basketball player being tempted with all sorts of material benefits to sign up for prestigious schools - - gives Lee a chance to indulge his fascination with basketball . I must admit that basketball never fascinated me . When I was a kid there was nothing but baseball . But , now , it seems that instant gratification trumps patience . Who wants to wait for the pitcher to dig his cleated shoe into the mound , remove his hat and wipe the sweat from his brow , acknowledge signals from the catcher , glance at first base , the wind up , the pitch , the call - - yawn . Basketball is all motion by regulation . Still , " White Men Can't Jump " was a pretty good movie about basketball . And " He Got Game " doesn't have that much basketball in it , and nothing at all that's technical . It's chiefly a story of Ray Allen , who must choose a lesser school or see his father ( Denzel Washington ) go back to Attica . And it's the story of the relationship between Washington , who accidentally offed his wife , and Allen , who despises his father . There isn't really a boring moment in it , although , to be sure , it wanders all over the place and explores , however briefly and unsatisfactorily , a number of issues and the conflicts they generate . Lee has chosen to use Aaron Copeland's music to provide a symphonic score that is curiously at odds with the lives we're watching . The visuals get down on their knees and sob for hip hop . Yet the score is appropriate because it helps to universalize a story that otherwise might seem locked into too narrow a cultural setting . Ray Allen , sports figure , can't act very well . He's an object of envy anyway . Full of principle , for one thing . Old Denzel's future would have been lost the moment that Italian salesman offered me the two-million dollar platinum watch . Also , is there a greater imaginable thrill on Planet Earth than getting it on with Rosario Dawson while in the cage of one of those giant swings in the amusement park ? Denzel Washington gives one of his best performances and the others are easily up to par , especially Bill Nunn as Allen's new Dad who is unable to see any future that doesn't include diamond pinkie rings and a new Lexus . He's hilarious . I've always been chary of Spike Lee since " Do the Right Thing , " which closes with admonishments from Martin Luther King , Jr . , and Malcom X - - in that climactic order . The last words were " by any means necessary . " When the goal to be achieved is something as vague and general as " freedom " or " democracy " , using any means you consider necessary can get you into trouble . Instead of achieving freedom you're liable to achieve jail , and instead of achieving democracy you're liable to achieve a somebody else's civil war . There are sentiments that belong on bumper stickers and nowhere else . However , Lee's films generally have been far from rabble rousers , and " He Got Game " is no exception . It's a well-done drama with a couple of clunkers in it . ( A magic basketball sails all the way from Attica's exercise yard to the court at Big State University . ) The whole thing , weaknesses notwithstanding , is odd but gripping . We really DO want to see how it turns out .
Miami Bitch	Anyone seeing this will recognize it as a variation on " Body Heat . " In some ways it's better , but in most it's not as good . " Body Heat " had several things going for it that " China Moon " does not . Its sultry score was distinctive . This score is generically blue . So's the photography . In " Body Heat , " the images actually looked hot . In the café scenes you could almost smell the humidity and the fat molecules hanging in the air , although in fact they were probably shot through a Vaseline-coated lens . Here , instead of heat , we get a harsh icy blue tint to many of the scenes . When we are out of doors , in the rain and mud , under the blue lights , it seems positively chilly . ( And the director was a photographer himself ! ) The acting in both films is mixed . Kathleen Turner sounds breathless but doesn't exude a particularly high level of heat energy , whereas Bill Hurt is excellent as a dumb lawyer . Ed Harris here is less inventive that Hurt but does a solid job . As for Madeleine Stowe . It isn't easy to measure physical beauty accurately . Lately psychologists have been fiddling around with various mathematical ratios based on the idea that facial symmetry per se is attractive , but the results so far have been mostly good for laughs . A more reliable , if rougher , way to get at it is to filter one person's appearance through someone else's perception of it . Build an ordinal scale of ranks . You can get a pretty good idea of how attractive a face looks if you ask 100 members of the opposite sex to rank it from one to ten , ten being highest . Stowe , I should think , would come out pretty high on such a scale , although symmetry would have absolutely nothing to do with it , anymore than it would with Nastassja Kinsky or Gwyneth Paltrow . Not a bit of it . Stowe's anthracite irises are slightly crossed under their long black lashes , and her lips are appealingly askew . She may not be symmetrical , but man she could play a Franklin stove and get away with it . The plot , such as it is , isn't as filled with the kind of intrigue and uncertainties of the original model . It has a certain familiar mechanical quality to it . Much more stuff about switched and hidden guns . And it ends in a kind of tragic shootout , instead of a full-throated blast of irony . It's also a bit hard to follow , in a way the original was not . Until the shooting of Stowe's husband , I could understand all of it . Stowe genuinely loved Harris . After that , when the frame begins to take shape , I became confused about when the sinister plot was planned and hatched . And why and when did Stowe's emotion toggle from love to exploitation ? The story no longer made sense , having lost its continuity with the first half . And , surprisingly , it lacks evocative touches and local color . No tinkling wind chimes . No humor to speak of . And Florida ? It could as easily have been Nebraska .
A puzzling puzzle .	I guess I get the general idea . There is this ultra-secret organization , The Parallax Corporation , that specializes in - - what ? - - assassinations ? And Warren Beatty is a reporter who gets suspicious after the public killing of a politician and begins to investigate . He assumes an undercover identity and manages to have himself hired by Parallax . He thinks he is being hired as an assassin but it turns out he's being set up for the fall after the next political assassination . Jim Davis is knocked off and Beatty , mistaken for a " lone gunman " , is shot down . I also get the general sense of paranoia , of preposterous conspiracies , of unfathomable power , of utter ruthlessness , that permeates the air . And I can understand it . There was a wave of assassinations in the 1960s and this is a gut response to the improbability of it all . Yet this story is as unbelievable as the assassinations themselves . The Parallax Corporation is a paranoid's fantasy . How do they recruit members ? By having them fill out and mail in printed application forms , as if for a credit card ? And the recruit is simply hired ? There is no training program ? And the assassination business is so lucrative that a monumental enterprise like Parallax can sustain itself and make a profit on its fees ? And despite the recruitment of psychopaths and assembled nuts of loose virtue and looser lips , nobody has ever been able to blab to the New York Times or Rolling Stone or Tim Russert ? Bill McKinney is the chief hands-on assassin . Disguised as a waiter or somebody he shoots people in public , plants bombs on airplanes , and carries out , presumably , other dastardly deeds . But he should be EASY to spot and catch . One All Points Bulletin from one honest police department - - just pick up everyone who looks like Bill McKinney , the sodomite in " Deliverance . " That man has no future as an assassin . I can't just dump this movie , though , because conspiracies do exist in real life , though not to this grand and immaculate an extent . The film is beautifully shot and well edited . Gordon Willis's photography is glossy and dark and draws its images in primary colors , almost like a TV movie . There's nothing wrong with Warren Beatty's performance and he has exceptional support from people like Hume Cronyn , Paula Prentiss , and William Daniels . And the casting is nicely done . The recruiter for Parallax , the man who first contacts Beatty , is not at all slimy or threatening . He's short , unprepossessing , polite , sympathetic , believable . When Beatty is posing as a troubled , violent liar , and the recruiter tells him , " I like you . I want to be your friend , " we can almost trust him . It's exciting too . There is both action and suspense . Beatty is almost swept away in a flood , which makes sense in the context of the story . And he is taunted for his long hair in a redneck saloon and gets into a fight and proves his manliness , which is nothing more than a sop to the more tolerant among us . And when Beatty is on an airliner and discovers there is a bomb aboard , how does he warn the cadre without getting nailed himself for having planted it ? ( Otherwise , how would he know ? ) Allen J . Pakula was a talented director , as we know from his other work , and drawn to bureaucratic conspiracies . It's well worth seeing but I don't enjoy watching it often . It's pretty depressing when you come right down to it .
Down these mean streets . . . . .	A minor film about Jack the Ripper who , in this instance , is named Slade and played with unrelenting intensity by Jack Palance . It's not bad . The two Jacks are a little more sympathetic here than usual , though no less suspicious . It's essentially a remake of Laird Cregar's " The Lodger " and , if I remember , Alfred Hitchcock's silent movie . Since much of the film's impact depends on our not knowing for certain whether Palance is the Ripper , we can't see him committing any crimes . That's just as well , considering the nature of the crimes . The near absence of violence leaves the weight of the movie on the increasing number of incidents suggesting that Palance is in fact the man that his landlady suspects him of being . ( And the husband , Rhys Williams , does not . ) But what a clumsy Jack he is . If the Ripper was seen carrying a brown bag , Palance must burn his in his attic and stink up the place . If the Ripper was seen wearing a certain kind of coat , Palance must sneak down to the kitchen in the middle of the night and stuff his into the kitchen stove . And he gets caught every time ! Palance , possibly as the result of an airplane accident during WWII , has a face that looks chiseled out of marble . It's spooky as hell without being ugly . So , while Laird Cregar might not have elicited any interest from his hosts ' niece , a " showgirl " , Palance conceivably could , and does . The saucy babe is played by a pretty young woman decked out in period clothes , period grooming , singing period songs . The period is the early 1950s . " Ohh la la ! " she chirps while attempting a chaste cancan at the local club . Well , she may be attracted a little to Palance , but her true love is some blandly handsome greasy detective who could benefit from a bit of Jack the Ripper's attention without doing irreparable damage to the movie . A couple of botched nips and tucks might have made him more engaging . Alas , the course of true love never does run smooth . The attraction is asymmetrical . Palance may love her but she's frightened to death when he hits on her too forcefully . There is a chase and Palance is sent up the river . ( " So cool , so clean , " he says earlier about the Thames . In 1875 you could get cholera just by looking cross-eyed at it . ) I enjoyed it , and you might too . Slickly done .
Age regression .	This episode conforms to the usual template . Someone is killing off a couple of aristocrats who head a hush-hush missile program . The secret is that when these Lords and Viscounts and Honorables pick up a toddler's bouncing ball , a psychedelic drug enters their bodies through their fingertips ( cf . , Woody Allen's sphere in Sleeper ) . The substance regresses them to the age of toddlers and then , under the influence of a phony nanny , they either spill the beans or are shot . It's kind of amusing to see the contrast between the impeccably mannered noblemen and the near-infants they become under the influence . The performers do a fine job of being childishly enthusiastic or passively petulant if scolded . Mrs . Peel doesn't have much to do , but Steed infiltrates the nanny school that is the organization's headquarters .
A Pleasant Surprise	I wasn't expecting much from the movie - - another audience-specific story of high school intrigue and bitchiness and comic one liners , along the lines of " Clueless " and what seems to be an interminable string of others . The setting is a high school in Omaha , and the focal point the election for the president of the Student Government Association . Not too promising , is it ? But it's a surprisingly engaging tale of morality - - not just among teen agers but adults as well . Nothing spectacular in the direction or the acting . Mathew Broderick is fine as the geometry teacher at Carver High School . Reese Witherspoon does nicely in the part of the tight-lipped , friendless , ambitious bitch , and the rest of the cast is at least up to professional standards . It's the writing that lifts this story out of the ordinary . The machinations of the high school students ( whose characters vary from smart and selfish to too dumb to be anything other than generous ) are paralleled by the sins of the adults , the chief one of which is Broderick having a fling with a colleague's wife . Not that there are a lot of cute zingers in the dialog , as there are in " Pretty Persuasion " . The comedy is distributed in dribbles throughout the development of the plot . And if the comedy is figure , the ground is always moral drama . A slight adjustment of the viewer's perception and what we're watching isn't really so funny . There are lines in the dialog that embody a piquant irony . The night before the SGA election , the three most prominent candidates get down on their knees and pray to God . The fustian Witherspoon's prayer runs along the lines of , " You know I hardly ever ask You for anything , God , but in this case I must insist . " The angry lesbian's prayer goes something like , " I don't often pray to You , but that's only because I don't believe in You . Can you punish my enemies ? " The rich , stupid , gangling skiier says , " I want to thank you for all my blessings . I have a new car for my 16th birthday and a new watch and , I've been told , a big penis . " I won't go on , I guess . Things turn out more or less as they might in real life . People pay for their inadequacies and live with the consequences . Except I have some doubts that a teacher fired from an Omaha high school for moral terpitude would find a lucrative job as a guide at the American Museum of Natural History . That aside , it's not a bad movie , all sugary-looking on the surface but unleavened bread underneath .
Money is the Root of All .	Ed Harris , freshly out of the slams , hires a bunch of telemarketers to make cold calls and sell a gold mine . Julia Ormond , his girl friend , is his right-hand woman . Vince Vaughn is the most hard-headed and cynical of the hired salesmen . Harris tells Vaughn and the rest that this is not a scam . That he truly believes in this venture , that they will all make a lot of money and will do good while amassing their fortunes . As in much of life , these windy promises with their pellucid purity , turn out to be part of a mega-scam and everyone winds up sucking wind except Harris and Ormond . Vaughn winds up sadder - - and certainly broker - - but not necessarily wiser . This conspectus , I realize , makes the film sound like a poor man's independent production of " Glenngary Glenn Ross , " and it is . It could have been written by David Mammon himself . I mean Mamet . Actually this is a good film , nicely done in every respect . The script especially is a winner through and through . Inquiring about a new job , an applicant asks , " Are there benefits ? " " Yeah , you get to eat and pay the rent . " A caller is being turned down by a potential customer and hollers into the phone , " you , you dried-up old bag . I hope the cancer kills you ! " " GENE ! " , his boss shouts in alarm . " Okay , okay , " Gene continues reasonably into the phone , " I was just kidding . But listen , suppose the cancer does spread and kill you , and you've never been to Hawaii . How's THAT going to make you feel ? " The boss advises another recruit , " It's a bad idea to greet your customer by asking , ' Are you high ? ' " When Vaughn quizzes Harris about the job , he demands daily cash payments . " Okay , " says Harris , " you got it , but instead of 20 percent it's 17 percent because it's a pain in the ass for book keeping . " A less thoughtful and realistic script , sticking to the bare conventions , would not have added that final fillip . All the characters are surprisingly well fleshed out , and the direction is functional without being in any way splashy or full of self display . There is no Big Message behind the film , unless you want to get into something too chiliastic for human consumption , but it's well worth watching , amusing and instructive .
I Love Lucy Writ Large .	We've come to take for granted that successful TV series will be made into full-length feature films . Even those that are extraordinarily dumb make it onto the big screen . But transferring " I Love Lucy " to the screen was an unusual move in the early 1950s . For one thing , the movies hadn't needed to adapt series from television since they had their own - - Charlie Chan , Abbott and Costello , Mr . Moto , Joe Palooka , Nancy Drew . Tarzan . For another , there was some question of whether people who could watch " I Love Lucy " at home for nothing would pay to see her and her husband , Desi Arnaz , in the theater . Well , they paid and the movie was a commercial success leading to a sequel , " Forever Darling , " which was not . Lucy and Ricky , here trying to slip past us under the noms de film of Tacy and Nicky , get married and go on their honeymoon out West in a new trailer and car they can't afford . " I Love Lucy " was sometimes pretty funny in its own silly way and the humor stays at about the same level , but the larger budget allows the writers to open the story up and show us more expensive and exotic gags . One of them has Lucy trying to prepare an elaborate dinner while alone in the jouncing trailer . The huge bowl of Caesar salad winds up on her head and she's covered with flour from head to foot , right out of " Sullivan's Travels , " but still amusing . You wouldn't know this was directed by Vincent Minelli if you didn't already know it . The acting must have come easily to the two stars since they'd been playing the same characters on TV for a couple of years . Lucy does bring a bit more drama to a scene at the end , but it's misplaced and unexpected . I've always found Dezi Arnaz to be engaging . Not his acting , but his accent . At the trailer park , " I'm goeen to talk to the manayer . " Where ? " At the garotch . " On the show , " Fred Mertz " always came out as " Frat Murse " , and " recognize talent " became " recognize Stalin . " We've certainly progressed from trailers since 1950 . Big ones , like that shown here , were novelties . As late as 1959 , John Steinbeck had to have a pick up truck customized to provide a built-in bunk . Now , of course , we have recreational vehicles of various sizes and classes - - A , B , C , and Elephantine . RV parks provide the traveler with water and power and landscaped terrain and TV cables and internet plug-ins . Question : Why leave home ?
Stylized study of murder and character .	Everybody likes to ride around on a motorcycle in the sunshine , and , what with the desert climate of southern Arizona , you get not only the wind in your hair and the scent of sagebrush but a rosy tan as well . Unfortunately , Robert Blake and his partner , Zipper ( Billy Green Bush ) , are constrained by their police uniforms and what they call proper police procedure , or PPP . The movie is essentially about how closely the police force follows that procedure when murder is involved . Two old weirdos live in a desert trailer and when one is found murdered the other ( Elisha Cook , Jr . , more flamboozled than ever ) is arrested . But did he do it ? And , if so , why ? The written story is dated . The affable and sympathetic Blake is taken under the wing of his superior , Mitch Ryan , a big blustering detective who beats up hippie informants while Blake must stand silently by . Yes , this is a movie which pits the ugly cops against the far-from-innocent but still human hippies . The hippies dress in rags , do dope , and - - hold on - - they have long hair . All they want is to be left unhassled , but Ryan is intent on cementing community relations by beating them to a pulp . Mitchell is not only a bully but , even worse , his drunken girl friend explains to Blake that he is also impotent , causing Mitchell to almost pop his cork and hate Blake , finally demoting him and putting him back in uniform on his hated police motorcycle . ( He'd love to have a more colorful machine with Electraglide transmission . ) I think Blake's motorcycle represents the police force , which in turn represents the society which the hippies must live in and which hates them for reasons that are " accidental " rather than " essential . " Mainly , they look funny . ( None of them can act , either . ) In fact , I think Robert Blake's character must illustrate Edmund Burke's dictum , " All that is necessary for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing . " How else can we explain this good man's assassination by previously harassed hippies at the end ? Why else does Blake suffer ? He's guilty of no wrong doing , intelligent enough to solve a rather complicated homicide , and in the end courageous enough to tell his sadistic boss that the boss is full of horse hockey . The dialog is kind of stylized , especially Mitch Ryan's . He carries on with his rodomontade as if speaking to Jesus . It isn't exactly realistic . That's okay because at least it's an attempt to be original . The narrative , though , sometimes falls flat . After being promoted to detective by Ryan , Blake lovingly dresses himself in expensive new civilian clothes , if a modified cowboy outfit can be considered civilian , and strides outside only to look down and see that he's forgotten to put on his trousers . It's not really either credible or amusing , though it's supposed to be cute , I guess . The direction is okay . The camera is where it should be , and at the proper times , but - - can we have some kind of moratorium on slow-motion violence ? Sheez ! A pursued hippie on a motorcycle crashes through a cafe window and I fell asleep before he finally hit the floor . The climactic scene was shot in Monument Valley . Warning to all film makers . Lay off . That's John Ford territory .
Wartime Sabotage .	" The Adventures of Tartu . " Sounds like a children's movie , doesn't it ? Maybe about an orphan elephant or a unicorn . But it's more serious than that . Robert Donat is a British chemist sent into Rumania , through Germany , into Czechoslovakia to sabotage a huge industrial plant where the Nazis are manufacturing vast amounts of poison gas . Since he is fluent in Rumanian and German , he is able to impersonate a real Rumanian " Iron Guard " officer named Jan Tartu . In Pilsen , Czechoslovakia , whence " Pilsener " beer , he lodges with a patriotic Czech family , along with Valerie Hobson , the soul of elegance . The youngster in the family , a factory worker , is the teen-aged Glynis Johns , she of the wide brow and slanted eyelids . Donat is given one of those black Nazi uniforms with the tight boots and wide riding breeches that the movies required of the Nazis at that time , and he is appointed supervisor of the workers at the plant . He needs the help of the Czech underground but he doesn't know how to get in touch with them . Can he trust Valerie Hobson , who seems like a closet patriot under all that arrogance ? The Gestapo keep nosing around though , so he must be ever vigilant . Identities get mixed up . Mistakes are made . Glynis Johns is caught sabotaging some of the shells being manufactured in the plant and is executed . But Donat succeeds in his mission , blows the plant to smithereens , and makes a suspenseful escape with Hobson and a few other patriots in a Junkers 88 . For such a complicated yet slight tale , the story generates a good deal of suspense . And it's an appealing piece of work , due in large measure to Donat's performance as the ersatz Iron Guard officer . He overplays the womanizing trait of the character but that's a problem with the script and the direction , not Donat's performance . He's charming in the role and seems a likable kind of guy . The rest of the cast consists of seasoned players and provides good support . The story seems a little trite now . There were so many like it during the war . Errol Flynn's " Desperate Journey " was a lot more fun , and Fritz Lang's " Hangmen Also Die " did a better job of capturing the ethos of occupied Czechoslovakia . Still , this is not a bad example of the genre . It's too bad that Czechoslovakia has been split into the Czech Republic and that other independent nation whose name I can never remember . It makes one of the London Times ' crossword puzzle entries obsolete . Quick - - name a major seaport in the middle of Czechoslovakia . Oslo . CzechOSLOvakia . Get it ? What can you do with a name like The Czech Republic ? " Name a British saloon near the end of The Czech Republic " ? That's ridiculous .
Run Out Your Larboard Guns !	C . S . Forester's Captain must have been part of the global collective consciousness at one time . Lyndon Johnson's Vice President was once mistakenly introduced at a public gathering as " Hubert Horatio Hornblower . " I'm not sure anything like that could happen today since the art of reading novels has all but died and this film isn't shown so often on television . This is an above-average adventure film , a salubrious blend of sea battles , romance , politics , and history . It lies somewhere between the comic fantasy of " The Crimson Pirate " and the earnest drama of " Damn the Defiant " - - maybe in the suite next to " The Sea Hawk . " Hornblower , a stern but fair captain , somewhat stiff , takes the British frigate Lydia to the coast of central America to deliver arms to a would-be dictator whose ambitions will draw ships of Spain - - Napolean's ally - - away from Europe . Well , I'll tell you , the dictator , who calls himself El Supremo ( " The Supreme " ) is one nasty banana eater . Half mad , he crucifies dissidents , tries to order the very proper Hornblower around , and is made up to look like he just crawled out of a vat of grease . He fairly drips with it . Fortunately , Spain switches sides in the wars and Hornblower discovers that El Supremo is now an enemy , which gives Hornblower a chance to take his small frigate and blow the much larger Natividad , and her captain , El Supremo , to smithereens in a well-staged and exciting battle . Hornblower is forced by adventitious circumstance to take aboard the sweet but tangy Virginia Mayo . She's supposed to be the sister of the Duke of Wellington but she looks and speaks as if she's been raised on Midwestern corn and cream . Come to think of it , amid all the rest of the English cast , Gregory Peck as Hornblower doesn't try for an English accent , which is just as well , if his pronunciation of French is any indication of his talent with dialects . Anyway , pfui with the romance . It's just thrown in there as a sop to the women in the 1953 audience . This is an adventure movie . The Lydia arrives back in England where Hornblower is treated as a hero and given a ship of the line to command . Against orders he sails her into the harbor at Nantes or someplace , under the guns of the French fort , sinks four of Napolean's ships , which by a chain of contingencies too circuitous to detail would have supplied Napolean with the arms he needed to fight Wellington . ( In other words , Hornblower more or less saves the continent of Europe . ) He sinks his punctured ship of the line in the main channel , bottling up the entire French fleet . The French are ridiculed too , but not nearly as much as El Supremo . For his sins , he is captured and he and two subordinates are being sent to Paris for trial as pirates . They escape , disguise themselves as Dutchmen , capture another ship , and sail her out of France to England , where all is resolved , including the nascent romance with the Duke of Wellington's sister . I almost wrote Duke of Ellington . The whole thing is done breezily and with few serious moments . Peck seems to be enjoying himself during some of the action scenes but is otherwise his rather wooden professional persona . In this case , as in some of his other films , it fits the character well . Just enough attention in paid to period detail to mask any carelessness . The outdoor scenes were shot on the French Riviera ( which may in part account for Peck's seeming to enjoy himself ) and every scene , whether in Central America or England or France's Atlantic coast , is bright , sunny , and very temperate . The sailors never even have to wear coats or change their wardrobe . In the romantic scenes aboard ship - - on the weather deck , with the wind billowing the sails above - - Peck's hair is jelled to perfection with not a strand out of place . I gather that Forester's novels were more dramatic in tone and full of details about seamanship . But that doesn't matter . The movie is easily digested . Sit back and enjoy it .
Tightly written military school drama .	Ben Gazzara is Jocko de Paris , a senior cadet at a military school and a real sadistic rat . His fellow students include some familiar names including Pat Hingle and George Peppard . This is one of those military schools in which senior cadets constantly rag the plebes , making them do and say foolish things , within reason . The problem is that Gazzara doesn't seem to recognize the limits of the permissable . At the very beginning , he sets up a phony poker game in the room of two freshman , Peppard and Storch . Gazzara and pal Hingle intend to cheat a rather dull football-playing senior , James Olson , out of ninety-some dollars - - after they get Olson drunk . So far , so good , except that Hingle's reactions clue us in to the fact that two bottles of liquor in the cadets ' room is a bit much . But then we are sort of blindsided by a shift in the plot . The bilking of Olson is shunted aside as Gazzara pounds on the wall in a deliberate attempt to arouse the cadet , Geoffrey Horne , sleeping in the next room - - knowing all the while that Horne , the son of the commanding officer , is bound to report the noisy and illegal goings on . Horne duly reports the ruckus but when the guards investigate , all seems to have been restored to normal . Then some important events occur but are elided from the narrative . At the next morning's roll call , Horne is absent but is found bloody and drunk elsewhere on the campus . Subsequent dialog , which is a little fuzzy , indicates that Jocko de Paris beat Horne unconscious , then shoved a tube down into his belly and poured whiskey into it from a douche bag . Peppard , Hingle , Richards , and Olson were also involved somehow , but it's not clear how . " The room was so dark Ah didn't know whut was happenin ' , " explains Hingle . Anyhow , Horne is convicted of enough offenses to get him expelled , which happens apace , though it breaks his father's heart ( Larry Gates , not the only 50s utility player with no discernible talent ) . Does Gazzara feel any remorse ? Like heck . Then why did he do it , having nothing against Geoffrey Horne to begin with ? He did it because he enjoys seeing people in pain , a statement that reminds me a little of my marriage , so better to say Gazzara did it for reasons similar to those of the two dudes who first climbed Mount Everest . Or maybe Rhoda in " The Bad Seed . " Not only does Gazzara get another cadet kicked out , but when Hingle questions him about the ethics of the deed , Gazzara tells him that he , Hingle , will be held responsible as the ringleader . " I used to think you was a card , Jocko , and you are . You the ace of spades , boy . " Well , very briefly , the other cadets involved have a crisis of conscience , and confess to the cadets ' honor society . They kidnap Gazzara after making him sign a confession , blindfold him , tote him around while he threatens them and screams with fear , and dump him on a train that departs the town . The end . It's an interesting film for a number of reasons , if not an especially important one . The problems dealt with seem rather minor in some ways . We don't get to know Goeffrey Horne's victim at all , so his victimization is drained of some of its dramatic potential . And although we want to see Jocko punished for his misdeeds , it would be nicer if the system itself handed out justice . Instead we have to rely on a couple of dozen cadets who take matters into their own hands , coercing a confession out of Gazzara and then committing crimes in the course of getting rid of him . Gazzara aptly compares them to the Ku Kux Klan . The plot also isn't true to itself . Throughout , Gazzara has displayed cunning and self discipline , yet at the end is shrieking with horror , whining not to be hurt , babbling beggarly pleas . The climax would have been more effective had Gazzara faced his punishment bravely , if not necessarily with dignity . What's interesting about it is seeing so many familiar faces so near the beginnings of their careers . Can you imagine Pat Hingle as a young military cadet ? Or James Olson with a full head of hair ? Gazzara gives what is probably his best performance as the sinister , sadistic Jocko , although his outrageous hamminess as Al Capone later in his career , an imitation Marlon Brando , his cheeks stuffed with what appear to be rolls of toilet paper , is much funnier . There are also intimations of homosexuality on the part of two of the cadets . ( One is not very covert . ) There were to be a number of films in the two decades to follow that were set among the cadet community at The Citadel or somewhere , splashier than this one , but this was an original by Calder Willingham . The one I enjoy most , actually , is an episode in the TV series " Colombo , " called " Dawn's Early Light . " The heavy is Patrick McGoohan and in his acting he outshines anyone else in any of the military cadet movies .
Noir is unfocused .	Well , it's got all the right trimmings - - Dick Powell , Thomas Gomez , Lee J . Cobb with a cigar . Names that sound phony and semi-ethnic - - " Guido Marchettis , " " Johnny O'Clock " . Released in 1947 , black and white . High-class setting with diversions into the seedier parts of an unnamed city . Tough cop , greasy heavy , lying ex-girlfriend , innocent blond new girlfriend , treacherous jealous friend . Edgy dialogue . ( Gunshots offscreen ) " What's that noise ? " " Somebody's got a nasty cough . " " I've got a bullet in my gut and fire in my brain . " " You were in the army . What did you learn ? " " What I already knew . " " My man was killed . " " Accident ? " " Yes - - the war . " The photography is neat and crisp . Rossen's direction is efficient . He moves the bodies about with ease . But the plot is simply lacking in real drama and doesn't have much in the way of character development . There seem to be several unrelated subplots . A young woman seems to have committed suicide , but maybe it's murder . Her sister arrives in town and falls for Johnny O'Clock ( Dick Powell ) but will they marry ? A bad cop disappears . But we don't really get to know any of them to care much about them . And everything is pulled together with a few offhand words by Dick Powell just before the end . I kind of wanted to like it because I'm fond of noirs and think that Rossen's work elsewhere has sometimes been superb , but this one got by me . People walk around and talk to one another . There are card games and two shootings . Girls smile at men , who dismiss them . It's all on the surface . As the detective says in " Psycho , " " If it doesn't jell , it isn't aspic . And this isn't jelling . " It's still interesting to watch - - once .
Effective Drama	You'd never know this was directed by John Ford if his name weren't in the credits . There's not a bottle of booze in sight , no fist fights , no comedic interludes . Henrietta Crosman is a tough , domineering Arkansas mother who denies her grown son every privilege of independence . Of course , no woman is good enough for him either . And when he falls for some blond , and she for him , Crosman signs a waiver , has the boy drafted , and sent to France , leaving behind his now-pregnant girl friend . The son is killed in the Argonne . Ten years go by , during which Crosman avoids any contact with the girl , now a school teacher , and her illegitimate son . Then Crosman is approached by an organization sponsoring a pilgrimage of Gold Star Mothers to the American cemetery in France . She's a bitter old lady by now and spurns their offer but , soon enough , finds herself joining the few dozen other ladies on the trip . Aboard the ship Crosman gets to know some of the other mothers , including one from Carolina who has three sons buried in France . The two rustic Southern ladies , each pretty tough , get along well and , with the other's good-natured self confidence induced in her , Crosman begins to see that there may be a bit of warmth and amusement in life , after all , that one need not be a carbuncle on the integument of one's community . In France she accidentally runs into a young man who is having almost the identical problem with his mother that Crosman's son had with his . The authoritative mother is driving the young couple apart . Crosman visits the rich , aristocratic mother and tells the story of her own self discovery . There is a good deal of sniffling and embracing before Crosman throws herself on her son's grave and begs his forgiveness . Back home , she embraces her grandson and his mother . If it isn't mainstream Ford and it isn't a masterpiece , it's nothing to be ashamed of . It's inevitable sentiment is balanced by the gruff , no-nonsense demeanor of some of the characters . It's all helped enormously by Henrietta Crosman's appearance . ( Her acting skills are no more than modest . ) She is unable to look at anything without " glaring " at it . Her big black eyeballs in that pale face and under that white coif are overwhelming . They seem not to look at objects so much as look into them . The surprising thing is not that she has a little trouble becoming a warm and loving mother at the end , but that she can do it at all . ( I still wonder how she's going to treat her grandson if he shows signs of becoming uppity . ) Overall , it's a rather artfully done but routine drama about a person who never had any doubt whatever about what was right and what was wrong . That's an inhuman position . And by the end of the film the character has become human .
Portent of Things to Come .	A man dies in a car accident and 50 , 000 pounds worth of diamonds are found in his stomach . It's Steed's and Mrs . Peel's job to find out where they came from and where they were headed . The story involves a couple of Russian wolf hounds , a cigar-aficionado club , something about a high-end necktie shop , a financier who has been murdered and buried in a pet cemetery and assorted villains , all of them colorful . The usual sly wit is always there . When the diamonds are discovered in the dead man's gut , the radiologist remarks that the breakfast was " high in carats , low in calories . " Steed informs Mrs . Peel that the victim's father had been a sword swallower and fire eater in the circus and that " obviously he inherited the talent . " Mrs . Peel : " Perhaps he just enjoyed a rich diet . " In the tie shop , the sales girl shows Mrs . Peel about and describes the various items of neckwear . " This tie is for the Anonyon Club . " Expatiate , please ? Well , there are " old boy " ties for Etonians and Harrovians and this tie is for those who have never attended public school - - the anonymous . One of the heavies , a super-polite butler and dog-walker , is played deliciously by Cecil Parker . When his participation in the smuggling scheme is uncovered , Parker reveals that blackmail wouldn't work against him because the dead financier's will had left him eleven million pounds . An astonished Steed asks why , then , did he do it ? He did it because he wanted the power . He wanted a chance to be rude , especially to women . " In fact , sir , I expect to be RUDE to a considerable number of HANDSOME WOMEN . " If you haven't seen any episodes of the series yet , you must understand that the delivery of lines like these is entirely serious . There's no laugh track and no one chuckles at anyone else's gags . Ditto for the action sequences , which tend to be fast and animated but perfunctory . A good , solid backhand from Mrs . Peel will knock a man out . But the combat scenes aren't presented as amusing . A good deal of furniture is smashed but no one slips on a banana peel .
Bloody Hell !	Fast-paced yarn of the Royal Flying Corps in 1915 France . The crates are falling apart , the death rate grows apace , but the seasoned fliers keep a stiff upper lip and all that . Flynn and Niven are two of the aviators under Squadron Commander Basil Rathbone . Everyone seems to be having a good time , except when they're being shot to pieces , except Rathbone who has been turned into a bundle of nerves by his responsibility for sending men up to die in those fragile crates . Rathbone is promoted out , and Flynn is made commanding officer . Now the burden rests with him and he gives up his profligate ways . Niven's brother arrives fresh out of flight school and Flynn , following orders , sends him on a mission from which he doesn't return . Riddled with guilt , Flynn flies a suicide mission , blows up a huge ammunition dump , and downs a couple of enemy planes before he himself is killed by von Richter , the ace . Niven is promoted to command and the whole lousy cycle begins again . ( Kids : This story is about what we call " World War One . " That's the war that came before " World War Two . " The British were fighting against the Germans . The US entered the war late , on the side of the British . PS : We won . ) The performances are okay , but the story now seems pretty dated , what with its heavy moral message in tow - - war is hell . I suppose it's an anti-war movie . The drunken recreation between missions is desperate and frantic . And in a climactic speech after Flynn's death , Donald Crisp as the adjutant spells it all out for us . The war is savage and destructive , just as the next one will be . Crisp might have done us all a greater favor if he'd explained exactly why it is that we feel compelled to get into another Big One every twenty years or so . But never mind that . Some exciting flying scenes here - - grafted on , I gather , from the earlier version of " Dawn Patrol " , directed by Howard Hawks . Edmund Goulding's direction here is pedestrian . This territory belongs to Hawks or William Wellman or maybe Merian C . Cooper . ( Perhaps the best WWI flying film is " The Blue Max , " which is a different story , a little confused , but captures the thrill of flying exquisitely . ) The script leaves something to be desired . It now seems formulaic , though it may not have seemed so to audiences of the time . Events follow one another at a rapid and predictable tempo . No sooner is David Niven's younger brother mentioned early on , than we know he's going to show up as a novice member of the squadron . Flynn's death came as something of a surprise , though . The schematic diagram calls for his successful return to base - - wounded , and with his airplane shot to pieces , but alive . And the scenes of drunken men between missions , singing " Hurrah For The Next Man to Die , " fall flat . The drunkenness I can grasp , but the hilarity , no - - no matter how forced I understand it to be . Anyway , if you lose a young friend , you don't get happy if you drink . You get morose and have a crying jag . Freud was often wrong , but he was probably right when he said that grief work must be done . Paul Rosenblatt's content analysis of diaries shows that it doesn't disappear all at once , nor does it subside monotonically over time . The intensity of mourning does go down , but the decline is interrupted by irregular peaks , prompted by anniversaries , the discovery of a forgotten letter , or something . What we see here is the kind of grief work a screenwriter thinks up to help a story along . Not to bash the movie , though . It's enjoyable enough in its old-fashioned way , and the moral message , though trite , is sound enough .
Genial 1950s Comedy .	Cute and amusing . Cary Grant is the skipper of a submarine stuck in a remote Phillipine base at the beginning of World War II . Damaged in an air attack , the submarine barely gets under way , with Tony Curtis as a dapper last-minute replacement who shows up for duty in natty and immaculate dress whites . Curtis is a born social climber . He is also , however , a born thief and Grant appoints him Supply Officer for the boat . In some funny scenes , accompanied by some clever dialog , Curtis manages to steal enough supplies from various depots to keep the boat going . He also steals such luxuries as toilet paper and a pig for a New Year's luau . At one such wayside stop he manages to pick up five stranded Army nurses , one of them being the hypermastic Joan O'Brian . You can pretty much predict the gags that will follow - - five beautiful women aboard a submarine with a crew of horny young men . The men make a point of squeezing past O'Brian in the narrow passageways at every opportunity . The Chief Motor Mac improvises a piece of machinery out of somebody's girdle . Curtis gives up his dream of marrying his rich girl friend back in the states when he falls for the elegant , blond Dina Merril ( who , in real life , probably had a fatter portfolio than Curtis's fictional girl friend ) . Cary Grant falls for O'Brian and after the war we see both couples , now friends , with Grant an admiral and Curtis the skipper of the submarine , a dedicated navy man . Some of the jokes now seem dated , the current Zeitgeist being what it is . An officer showing the nurses around the boat is embarrassed and stutters fiercely while trying to tell them that the loo is called " the head . " On the whole , though , the film is disarming enough to be pretty funny . Grant is fine in this light comedy . He grumbles a good deal at the disorder brought to his command , as if practicing for his later " Father Goose , " but he's done this so often that he could have done it all in his sleep . Tony Curtis is often criticized for his " mannerisms " but I don't know why . He's very good indeed at this sort of thing . He knows how to deliver a gag line without dwelling on it , almost running over it , so that if it's a clunker the viewer hardly notices . He's convincing in expository dialog as well and usually brings something fresh to his lines . He could do drama too , and better than Grant . The submarine winds up being painted pink . It is attacked by an American destroyer ( DD 568 , which should be USS Wren ) and Grant desperately sends up the nurses ' underwear . The destroyer picks up some of the " debris " and the captain holds Joan O'Brian's brassiere up , staring at the capacious thing , and mutters , " The Japanese have nothing like this . " You may or may not think you'll get a kick out of it , but you probably will .
Proto-noir	Betty Grable as the heroine has that cream-fed complexion and chirrupy optimism of the American Midwest . She doesn't really belong in what purports to be a film noir . Well , it isn't a film noir anyway , exactly . It's a murder mystery set in the kind of uptrodden Manhattan milieu in which people like Alan Mowbray as an aging ham hang out , drinking champagne , smoking endless cigarettes , and making urbane wisecracks . The non-noir elements , the film blanc elements , so to speak , create the kind of environment that suits Betty Grable well . The women are in cocktail dresses and the men in tuxedos adorned with carnations , like a Fred Astaire movie , or like the one she made with Astaire years earlier , " The Gay Divorcée . " The angles are sometimes crooked and tilted , though , and the lighting does at times cast strange shadows from oddly placed lights - - chicken-wire cages , venetian blinds . But the characters , for the most part , belong to an old , familiar genre . Victor Mature is breezy in double-breasted suits and triple-breasted grins . The police who are hunting the killer of Betty Grable's sister are nasty but not rough . Mature , being grilled as a suspect in the murder , insults them and gets away with it , without his head being turned to squash . The only truly noir figure in the film is Laird Cregar , almost always shot from below , the lighting emphasizing his porcine features . He's sinister in a way no one else in the film is . And that voice ! Insinuating , soft but rapacious . Towards the end of the film , you're convinced he's going to be the murderer , but no - - the solution to the mystery is shrugged off in a few seconds and lands instead on the shoulders of poor Elisha Cook , Jr . , a creepy mouse . Not that the bulky and threatening Cregar is let off the hook entirely . He turns out to be what we would now call a fetishist . I won't describe the details but he puts an end to his self loathing in a way that turns him very neatly from uncovered villain to pathetic nobody . Summing it up , a kind of upscale murder drama shot with the noir techniques that were to become so common in films over the next fifteen years or so . This was 1941 . The unquiet lighting and camera angles are there but they hadn't found the right property yet .
Amusing farce	Whatever the setting , and there were many , Danny Kaye always played himself - - the hypochondriacal , stuttering , cowardly , nervously fiddling neurotic . That's pretty much what he is here , and if you haven't seen a Danny Kaye movie this is a pretty funny introduction . The plot violates James Thurber's short story , the point of which was that Walter Mitty daydreamed so much because his own life was so dull . It's probably Thurber's most popular story , although " If Grant Had Been Drinking at Appomatox " has more outright laughs . Here Kaye is involved in one richly comic episode after another . The famous fantasies are pretty much gotten out of the way before the movie is half over . The " real " scenes are at least as amusing . He's a copy editor at a pulp magazine in New York and Boris Karloff , he of the ominous lisp , is pitching him a story about a doctor who murders people without leaving a trace by pressing on a nerve at the base of the skull . " Oh , we've already used that in ' The Revenge of the Gland Specialist ' , " objects Kaye . The plot is a mystery about the planned theft of the Dutch Crown Jewels . Something to do with a murder Kaye witnesses ( nobody believes him ) , a black book , Kaye singing silly songs , a chief conspirator nicknamed " the Boot , " and a dazzling innocent blond - - Virginia Mayo - - who has a pretty sassy figure . Watching her and Kaye talking about corsets reminded me that when I was a teen , all women seemed to be wrapped up in inexplicable buckles , plastic straps , and clips that only a deranged mechanical engineer could design . Come to think of it , I'm still out of it . I don't know whether women leave body gel on or wash it off , or what bath beads are . And when did " lipstick " turn into " lip rouge , " and " rouge " turn into " blush , " and " mascara " into " kohl " - - or DID it ? Somebody is pulling the wool over somebody's eyes around here . You ought to see this if only for the costume design and hair styles . Wow - - what exotica ! It's impossible to believe that women ever dressed like this , or hoped to , despite Fritz Feld's glutinous paean to a hat that , although it looks like something Calder might have dreamed up during a horrible hangover , can be disassembled into three - - count ' em - - three separate parts and then be piece together into yet another arrangement . Put a tiny quail under that feathery apparatus and you're talking a two-hundred dollar entree at a four-star Parisian restaurant . There's a likable element of running gags in here too . On three occasions Kaye's blustery boss is holding important business meetings when Kaye enters unexpectedly - - once simply late , and twice more crawling backward in through the tenth floor window pursued by pigeons . Kaye's decline was sad . He wound up singing " Thumbelina " to a nearly empty night club in later years . But he's at his peak here , and his peak was pretty good .
Why , you dirty rat !	This isn't the best of the Warner Brothers ' 1930s gangster movies but it's the clearest statement of the formula . It's got everything . It's like a Romanesque mosaic . Here's Jimmy Cagney as Rocky Sullivan , the ex-choir boy gangster who hitches up his pants and greets people with , " Whaddaya hear , whaddaya say ? " His childhood pal is Pat O'Brian , now a priest living in the same neighborhood and trying to save the new generation of kids from turning into hoodlums . We have the Dead End Kids ( or whatever they're called here ) who think Cagney is a swell guy . Humphrey Bogart is Cagney's lawyer who swindles him out of his stash , then tries to have him killed when Cagney is released from jail . The familiar girl with the pig tails grows up to be Anne Sheridan , who has big , pretty eyes but no New York accent . ( Neither does Pat O'Brian , from Wisconsin , but I've given him absolution . ) After the final shoot out , with Cagney's foes dead and himself trapped in a tenement with tear gas coming through the windows , O'Brian shows up and takes the speaker . " Rocky , you've got to come out ! " " Go on back to da choitch where ya belong , Fodder ! " ( I just made that line up , but there are a couple of similar ones in the scene . ) Rocky is convicted and sentenced to death . But he's a tough guy and won't break down . The Dead End Kids mope over the headlines and promise themselves that Rocky will never turn yellow at the end . O'Brian gets word of this and tells Rocky that he holds the fate of these innocent kids in his hands . If he doesn't turn yellow as he's marched to the chair , the kids will turn into miscreants . If he shows he's frightened , his myth will die with him and the kids will all become champion polo players overnight . Does Rocky develop a social conscience in his last moments and fake hysteria as he walks the last mile ? Guess . The thing is , this isn't anybody's best performance and it is no one's idea of the tightest script , yet you can gain a rather full grasp of what these genre movies were all about by watching this single movie , and not having to sit through half a dozen others . If that's what you want . This is like reading an abstract in a professional journal , except that it's fun to see it all laid out .
Exciting action , good acting .	In the first few minutes we witness the shooting of a woman who is a stranger to us . This is followed by a car chase through the Presidio and up and down the hills of the city . One of the cars in pursuit runs off the road . The remaining car in pursuit smashes into another vehicle , twirls through the air , and explodes on impact with the pavement . The next scene involves one of those police-station encounters in which a prisoner grabs a gun from one of the cops , and is faced down by the hero while the other police offers stand nonplussed . Not a promising start , right ? We've seen it all before . More than once . Yet I kind of enjoy this movie and watch it once or twice a year if nothing else is on . The action sequences are well staged even if they're not believable . ( Sean Connery , confronted by an ornery Hells Angels type , defeats him in combat while using only one finger . ) But Connery is as good as ever , which is to say ultra-reliable and likable . Mark Harmon may not produce celluloid magic but he's likable as well , given that the role isn't especially original . He's an ex football player and it shows . He does at least some of his own physically demanding stunts while chasing a bad guy through Chinatown . He leaps nicely from roof to roof along a row of stalled cars . Meg Ryan is foxy and aggressive and there is a sexy and funny scene between her and Harmon . I've always admired Jack Warden too . Anyone who successfully leaves Newark , New Jersey , behind gets my vote . The plot . Alas . I hate seeing characters we've learned to truly like turn out in the end to be sneak thieves , even if they are reborn just before they pay their dues . Furthermore , the gospel truth is that I've seen this movie innumerable times and I still can't figure out the deal with the smuggled diamonds . Why the hell do they wind up in jugs of water ? Who's kidding whom around here ? The direction is competent and the story unfolds without complicating flashbacks or directorial razzle dazzle . The location shooting is admirable . If I were in the army I'd be happy to be stationed at the Presidio , although it IS right on the bay and therefor often foggy . My understanding is that the Presidio will be closed as a military base and made available to the public . I hope things don't change too drastically . A horde of tourists will spoil the currently empty beauty of the place with its manicured lawns and eucalyptus and Washingtonia palms . Worth seeing as a cool mystery / love / action movie , despite its weaknesses .
Zippy Crime Story	The renowned Dr . Clitterhouse ( Edward G . Robinson ) , interested in the criminal personality , joins a gang of thieves anonymously . He finds himself strangely thrilled in their presence . He carries out research , pupilary dilation and whatnot , and eventually plans their big heist . ( He gives his part of the proceeds to charity . ) Then , his work accomplished , he bids the gang adieu . Alas , one of the more obnoxious of the gangsters , Rocks ( Humphrey Bogart ) , unravels Robinson's professional identity , tracks him down in his office , and tries to blackmail him into coming up with more master plans . Robinson coolly poisons Bogart and dumps his body in the river , believing that the police will attribute the death to accidental drowning . Some doctor ! He neglects to put Bogart's body in the bathtub and fill his lungs with water , so the cops find a stomach full of paraldehyde chloride and a homicide . It doesn't take them long to find that Dr . Clitterhouse is responsible . The trial is a mockery ( co-written by John Huston ) . Robinson's lawyer put on a psychiatrist who befogs the air with psychiatric gibberish . Catch-22 applies , the jury concludes . Robinson , the defendant , has only one chance of getting off without being fried - - he must be insane . However , Robinson takes the stand and declares repeatedly and emphatically that he's perfectly sane . Therefore , if he's so convinced he's sane , he must be insane . He gets off with a trip to a psychiatric hospital . " Remarkable , " comments Robinson . Humphrey Bogart was making a slew of movies around this time , usually in the same roles - - secondary and villainous . He always made fun of his performance in this film , and of the film itself , lending its title a vulgar change . But , although Bogart's part is stereotyped , the film isn't that bad . The protagonist , Robinson , does a fine job of projecting professional cool . He's believable as a supercilious doctor . He did a much different job of showing a professional man's anxiety in Fritz Lang's superior " The Woman in the Window " . Litvak hurries the film along . The motto of the later gangster films was abbreviated to ODTAA - - one damned thing after another . Characters whiz in and out of door . When they speak on the phone , it sounds like this : " Hello , gimme Leftie - - Leftie ? Take the envelope and get rid of it - - What ? - - No , don't do that - - Yeah , just what I told you - - No , don't come here - - Right . " ( Hangs up . ) The pauses between these snapped-out comments don't last long enough for anyone on the other end of the call to take a deep breath , let alone make a comment or ask a question . Not a second is wasted . Nobody even says good-bye . I kind of like it .
Low-key , atmospheric crime drama .	David Cronenberg must be growing up . His early movies depended largely on the shock value of disgusting special effects . Watching them was like skimming through a medical text of skin diseases . Then he made " Dead Ringers , " which was vertigenously creepy without being revolting . And now " Eastern Promises , " which is a richly atmospheric story of the Russian mafia set in London . There are two or three scenes of violence , but mostly brief in their gore . The problem here is that Cronenberg has dispensed with much of the facile special effects but , unlike " Dead Ringers " , there isn't a single dramatic trajectory to replace them . The characters and the status-sphere they inhabit are confusing . Well - - the story first . Naomi Watts is a London nurse who attends a birth at which the underage mother dies and the baby girl is saved . Watts finds a diary in the girl's purse , written in Russian , and her attempts to have it translated by a local restaurateur , Armin Mueller-Stahl , leads to some sticky business with the Russian mob . It seems the diary reveals that Mueller-Stahl's reckless son is the father of the baby , and has committed some other unsavory and illegal acts . Vigo Mortenson is the Russian go-between , with Watts on one side trying to save the baby , and the mob on the other , trying to cut the throat of anyone who is in a position to endanger the mob and its activities . It's an indication of the script's confused logic that it's never made clear just what these activities are - - something about smuggling something in television sets imported from Afghanistan . It's probably heroin , though no one mentions it . Watts and her story could easily have been written out of the script , leaving us with a quasi-mafia movie . The Russian gangsters all have complicated family ties , rival mobs , and traitors . They do a lot of fulsome eating in Russian-themed restaurants . ( More Russian than the Russian Tea Room used to be . ) They have " made men , " who wear multiple tattoos . The highest ranking capos have stars of loyalty tattooed over their hearts . The favored murder technique is the slit throat . There are three killings - - the last being a thoroughly brutal one between three men in a Spritzbad . Performances are pretty good . Naomi Watts is big-eyed and beautiful . Mortenson seems made of steel and speaks slowly and sparely , the way Robert DeNiro did in " The Godfather II . " Armin Mueller-Stahl is miscast , in my expert and unimpeachable opinion . He's not a ruthless capo . He's somebody nice uncle who shows up with Christmas presents . About a third of the dialog is in Russian and the accents are passable , especially considering that none of the main players are Russian , but rather American of Danish descent , Welsh , German , French , and Polish . I don't claim this judgment is flawless but I believe my friend Julieta Vladimirovna would back me up on it . Or maybe she wouldn't . Let's not ask her . The pace of the movie is slow and deliberate , which doesn't help clear up any of the confusion . Much of the time , it rather sits there with the animation of a stuffed golupke . It's worth seeing because of the luscious texture , the settings , but probably not worth seeing twice .
Engaging Border Patrol Mystery .	I'll skip the plot except to say that two Border Patrol agents find a horde of money in the desert , have a fight with nasties in which one agent is killed , and the survivor takes off with the stash for Mexico . You can't help watching this without thinking of Jack Nicholson in " The Border . " " The Border " is far more believable . The heavy turns out to be Nicholson's best friend . And when Nicholson tries to rescue a damsel in distress in a Mexican cat house the bouncers clobber him and throw him into the street . ( There's a moral lesson there somewhere . ) And the social problem dealt with is real - - illegal immigrants . In " Flashpoint " everything is simpler . Except maybe the editing , which lost me here and there , someplace along Soledad Mountain and Thor Mountain and La Bonza Pass . Instead of commonplace human smuggling , " Flashpoint " has a Big Mystery that needs unraveling . There are James-Bond sorts of geophysical " ovulators " that are hidden in the ground and can tell when something passing is more than two feet tall . There's very little ambiguity . We know right away which of the boys is strong and which is weak . Treat Williams comes to work drunk and the taller , older , deeper-voiced Kris Kristofferson must sober him up . And we know that Williams is the more idealistic of the two because there is a scene in which Kristofferson tells his girlfriend so . There are two women involved - - Tess Harper and Jean Smart - - and I like them because neither is staggeringly beautiful , but they really add nothing to the plot except to establish the fact that Kristofferson and Williams are not lovers themselves . The women disappear when no longer needed . We know right away who the bad guys are too . Why ? Because they LOOK bad . Kurtwood Smith . There's a name to conjure with . Like Michael Ironsides the poor guy is a die-stamped heavy . He looks like the kind of guy of whom the neighbors say , " He mostly kept to himself . " He cannot speak without sneering . He's insulting when he doesn't need to be . He's cynical and vulgar . He wears street shoes instead of boots - - and a SUIT . And of course he's a remorseless killer . He represents a problem though , for those viewers given to trying to figure out just what the hell is going on . What is he actually DOING there ? At one point he deliberately foils a drug bust . Is he there because of something to do with drugs ? Evidently not , because later on he tries frantically to cover up the Big Mystery . Maybe that's his job . But in that case , why do he and his assistants show up before anyone even realizes that there is a Big Mystery to be solved ? And what agency does he represent ? Well , here's his explanation . Kristofferson : " Who are you ? " Smith : " I'm a fixer . I fix things . " Kristofferson : " What do you fix ? " Smith : " Whatever needs fixing . " The mind is inexorably whisked back to " The Border " because Harvey Keitel is in " The Border , " and those are roughly his lines in two or three movies he's made with people like Quention Tarantino . On the other hand , similar job specs crop up pretty commonly all over the place , like chicken pox among third graders . The acting is adequate . No more than that . There is a scene in " The Border " in which Nicholson and Keitel are leaving work and Keitel is rambling on thoughtfully about how little difference their work makes to anyone . The employers want the illegals , and the illegals want the work . Sometimes , Keitel muses , it almost seems like we're on the wrong side . At this point , Nicholson halts , half turns to Keitel , and asks , " What are you fishing for ? " The scene only last thirty seconds yet it illustrates the difference between ordinary actors and very talented actors indeed . There is nothing like this scene in " Flashpoint . " The lines all sound written out , and not always well . Treat Williams , who was great in " Prince of the City , " is underwhelmed by the script here . He's given a joke to tell in a bar - - something about a car full of penguins - - and everyone at his table is drinking beer and flushed with laughter - - and the joke just isn't funny . Yet the movie is engaging . Pale green Border Patrol jeeps bounce around on rough sandy desert roads . The Sonoran desert has never looked better . And Roberts Blossom as a wiry and sharp old aeronautical engineer is fun . I think the performance I most enjoyed was Rip Torn's . He's almost always good , but in the role of the sheriff he could easily pass for the home-grown Texan that he is . A real pro . Worth seeing . No messages . A little confusing , but well paced and packed with mystery and color .
Family Values .	This is a hard movie to interpret . Not the story , but the intended message , because surely there is one . The story is straightforward enough . Ruth Stoops ( Laura Dern ) is a drug-abusing , loud-mouthed , selfish girl who has had a couple of illegitimate kids and is now pregnant again . She's been in and out of jail and rehab programs so often she can't remember how many times . Now she's picked up for sniffing glue again and the court puts her back in the slams and advises her , strongly , to abort this new child . But she is bailed out by a devout working-class family ( Kurtwood Smith , Mary Kay Place ) who want to save her and her baby . They're sincere enough . They have a tough time scraping together the $400 bail . The home they take her to is a stifling nest of conventional religiosity and hypocrisy . They don't smoke , don't drink , don't swear , say grace before each meal , and their teen-age daughter sneaks out at night to get drunk and party . And hubby can't stop himself from eying Dern's nubile figure when she's careless with her garb . ( " You know , I used to be quite a sinner , " he tells her while they lie side by side in his old bed . ) The family introduce her to a " counseling agency " who do their best to talk her into saving her baby . The medical staff congratulate her on her pregnancy and show her a doll about the size of the fetus she's now carrying . ( " It's even got a little thing on it , " she says . " Sure , because it's a boy doll ! " ) They show her a movie of dead , aborted children , which compares abortion to Buchenwald and Auschwitz , and she winds up changing her mind . " Gee , I slept on dumpsters . Maybe I slept on some babies . " But she's spirited away by a pro-abortion spy ( Swoozie Kurtz ) who has been undercover in The Baby Savers movement , and she's taken home to be brainwashed by Kurtz and her girlfriend , who apparently worship Selene , the moon , because they keen a kind of folk song at the night sky . They massage the acupuncture points in her bare feet while they propagandize her and Dern loves it . " Do my spleen again . " So she decides to abort . But then The Baby Savers come up with a $15 , 000 check if she decides to save the baby . So she decides to have the baby . And then a Vietnam vet among the pro-choicers matches the reward , so she decides to abort . By this time the issue has become nation-wide and has drawn in the leader of the Baby Savers , Burt Reynolds , who ups the ante to $27 , 000 if Dern will save the baby . So she decides to save the baby . ( During all this , she's been swilling and sniffing everything in sight . ) I won't give away the ending except to say that Ruth steals some money and makes off with it before anyone notices . Final shot : Dern marching off alone into the distance , accompanied by a triumphant theme , strong-willed , street savvy , a bag full of cash slung over her determined shoulder , still lacking in the frontal lobes that might allow her to plan for a future . It's a satirical look at the abortion debate , and more black than comedic , although it has its laugh lines . Nobody comes off at all well , except maybe the Vietnam amputee who sees through Ruth and offers his $15 , 000 anyway . That is , she's been planning on how she might spend the windfall . She'll make a down payment on a new house , then buy a new car , then maybe travel to Europe . The vet listens to this then tells her it's baloney , that both of them know the $15 , 000 will last her about three days . The cast is littered with familiar names , none of whom do an outstanding job but all of whom are competent enough . As a stimulus-hungry , self-destructive , mentally challenged teen-ager , Laura Dern is an attractive and sexy young woman but not a teen-ager . Burt Reynolds brings his usual role distance to the job . He proudly introduces the first boy he ever saved by adopting , the boy who's now about fifteen , the boy who fetches the ice for Reynolds ' drinks , the boy who now massages Reynolds ' tanned and muscular shoulders on command . But where is the movie headed ? I was all in favor of the pro-abortionist lesbians but I don't think that's what was intended . Most black comedies at least give you someone to root for , even if he's not victorious . " Dr . Strangelove " was a black comedy , too , but President Merkin Muffley at least was sane and rational . Here , the Vietnam vet's role is far too minor for us to identify with him in any way . This reminds me more of Tom Wolf's " Bonfire of the Vanities . " Everybody in it is stupid and / or rotten . And the intentions of the producers is ambiguous , along the lines of one of Randy Newman's songs - - " I Love L . A . " or " Short People " . Is Newman really defiantly saying he loves Los Angeles , or is he kidding ? Maybe the message is that of the Buddha , who was a very practical man . All things in moderation . Avoid zealotry . An excess of passion always leads to disappointment and pain in one form or another .
Big Fella Along Him Speakee Plidgen Engrish .	You have to admire James Michener's resolve . He's the guy who wrote the book this screen play is based on . Michener wrote one novel or non-fiction work after another , each of them requiring an unconscionable amount of historical and geographic research . There are a couple of dozen doctoral dissertations scattered among his books - - " Centennial , " " Texas , " " Alaska , " " Poland , " " Iberia . " This is about a certain part of Hawiian history , a sprawling epic , as they say , following multiple narrative threads through three generations . The principal thread belongs to Charlton Heston , who begins as a reckless and uncaring sea captain and winds up as a cigar-puffing prosperous land owner , the evolution being the result of his willingness to take risks . The other main thread belongs to Tina Chen , who begins as an outcast young Chinese woman and becomes a socially prominent leader of the Chinese community in Honolulu . She's a minority among the Chinese in that she is Hakka , an internally marginal group in China . Her minority status isn't Michener's literary trick either . Hakka is one of half a dozen or so common dialects in Chinese and in one of my classes we had representatives of all of them lined up at the front of the room pronouncing one familiar word after another . There was an obvious family resemblance among most of them . You could " hear " the buried Cantonese word when it was spoken in Mandarin Chinese . But not Hakka . It was to the other dialects what Rumanian is to the other Romance languages . Wait a minute . Was that " off topic " ? Well , it doesn't matter much . There's no describing the plot of this movie . If anything ever happened in Hawaiian history , it happens to somebody in this movie . You want to talk leprosy ? Racism ? The switch from a monarchy to a territory of the United States ? The plague ? Let it simply be said that it's all here . Charlton Heston is his usual monolithic self and fills the character appropriately . Tina Chen is a beautiful woman who is , at best , professional . We don't get to see much of Geraldine Chaplin , who rediscovers her native Hawiian genes and appears to go nuts . John Phillip Law isn't around much either . Tina Chen's husband is Mako ( who is Japanese ) and he's quite good in what is essentially the same role he played in " The Sand Pebbles . " Some of the supporting players appear to have been chosen for their looks rather than their talent . I rather like Hawaii , at least as it was when I was last there , years ago . There's a good deal of solidarity to be found on the islands . During the turmoil of the 1960s when American cities were in the grip of violent revolutions or their simulacrums , Honolulu went quietly about its business , and that in a city more ethnically diverse than any found on the mainland . Anyway the film is worth watching . I can't say I was especially gripped by any of the incidents or characters . I'd recommend it if only for its educational properties . Michener was only rarely effective as a dramatist but all that time he put into his research certainly paid off .
Not bad noir .	This was Otto Preminger's and 20th-Century-Fox's follow-up to the highly successful " Laura " of the previous year . Many of the same personnel were involved , both on the screen and behind the camera . David Raksin , who'd written the theme song for " Laura " ( " not classical , but sweet " ) wrote " Slowly " for this one . Dana Andrews stars again . The bug-eyed maid from " Laura " - - Effie or whatever her name was - - appears here briefly as a bug-eyed neighbor . The themes have one or two isomorphisms . A cop falls in love with a girl he can't have . The girl is murdered . But that's about it . " Laura " was a one-of-a-kind achievement . This film doesn't quite cohere . The screenplay is less focused , because the murder doesn't take place at the beginning , so there is no central mystery . Instead we have Dana Andrews playing an exploitative and selfish meany , hanging around a small town with no money and no prospects , in hope of getting the local slut ( Linda Darnell ) to run off with him . Andrews , who is an advance man for a phony spiritualist , can't even afford his own hotel room so he appropriates the shabby quarters of Olin Howland . Now , you may or may not recognize the name of Olin Howland , but you will recognize the face and the voice . It will be more than usually easy if you think back to the science-fiction Big Bug thriller " Them " and imagine hearing a hospitalized dipsomaniac singing , " Make me a sergeant in charge of the booze ! " and hiding under the covers . Where was I ? Oh , yes . I was wondering where Dana Andrews was . And Linda Darnell , the sloe-eyed slut . And Alice Faye , the blond contrast to Darnell's dark beauty . Alice Faye doesn't have much money but Andrews plans , successfully , to marry her so he can have access to whatever she owns . This , you see , will give him a stake which he can then use to run off with that brunette baggage from the hamburger shop . Fortunately , before he commits any irreparable crime , Andrews comes to his senses and recognizes that there are such things in the world as truth , beauty , goodness - - and Alice Faye . Actually , Faye is rather bland compared to the dangerous and treacherous Darnell . I could have understood Andrews going through with his original plan , but then that wouldn't have been Dana Andrews with his chiseled features , up-tilted Dick Tracy chin , and heroic baritone . ( It might easily have been a whining and manipulative Kirk Douglas . ) All of these intrigues and romances take up about three quarters of the film . Once Darnell is out of the way - - her head bashed in - - a local cop ( Charles Bickford ) enters the picture , and he's pretty rough trade too . He wallops suspects around , trying to force them to confess . But it turns out that he's hiding a secret which , in the end , undoes him . A curious irony , if I remember correctly , is that Bickford himself had been involved in a homicide in his youth . At any rate , the murder is solved , and Dana Andrews ends up a wiser man for his having stuck around this small town for an extra few days . ( Also , a richer man , perhaps not as coincidentally as the rest of us would like to believe . ) I had the same uneasy feeling at the end of " Fallen Angel " that I did at the end of " Laura . " What happens after Dana Andrews marries Gene Tierney in " Laura " and , for the hundredth time , she begs him to go to a concert and he insists on a ball game ? And what happens here when the trickster Andrews realizes that the virginal teetotaler Faye is actually pretty cloying ? Still , if it's not " Laura , " it's enjoyable in its own right . The first hour or so will keep you wondering where this all can possibly be headed .
Cute film about a serious subject .	Okay , there's this weird scientist , Sean Connery , who's hidden himself away in the tropical rainforest of South America and has been incommunicado for years . A " foundation " sends down a youngish , award-winning scientist , played by Lorraine Bracco , to monitor his behavior , find out what's up , and decide whether or not to cut off his funding . Lots of barbed exchanges here between the old curmudgeon and the independent new woman . Some comedy too as he slips her a psychedelic that cures headaches . As it develops , Connery , with Bracco's help , finds the source of a cure for lymphoma in the top terrace of the rainforest . Alas , before he can harvest enough of the stuff to explore the possibility of its being synthesized , some big industrial operation plows a road through the forest and destroys the trees in which the stuff grows . Bittersweet ending . Humankind is hoist by its own petard by what some ecologists call a " progress trap . " As compensation the old fox and the young feminist become friends . It's a bad trade . Between 1960 and 1990 one fifth of the world's rainforest was lost . In Brazil , where this film is supposedly set , the Amazon rainforest between 1991 ( when the film was shot ) and the year 2000 has lost between 415 and 587 square kilometers , an area about twice the size of Portugal . The tragedy is not that the forest is gone . Who cares about wood ? It's the consequences , many of them falling into the category of " unknown unknowns " that counts . WOULD a biochemist of Sean Connery's persistence and quirkiness have found a way of combating lymphoma ( or anything else ) ? We're not going to find out now . Among the " known known " consequences , the deforestation has eliminated entire species of plants and animals at an alarming rate , including one primate . ( Humans are primates too . ) Lorraine Bracco seems a likable woman . You can tell because in all of her performances she seems to be playing herself . She can be loud and stubborn but one never senses genuine contempt behind her shouting . I wouldn't mind having an argument with her . It might be amusing . Sean Connery plays a role that must by now be familiar to him , almost shopworn , and he does his schtick well . There appears to be a lot of half-naked Guaranis running around , acting as translators and comic relief , but this is really a two-person picture . At one point Bracco is tripping on this native stuff and having a hell of a good time . She babbles on about marketing it for adults , putting sugar in it , and calling it by some pronounceable name . I wish that she'd have accomplished that because unless we recognize a progress trap when we see one coming , we may need that psychedelic elixir .
Nothing Original , But Entertaining .	This could easily have been a script leftover in some shoebox from an unmade 1949 noir . It's a complicated story of blackmail and betrayal . Burt Lancaster is an ex-cop just released from prison , given a job by an old friend ( Cameron Mitchell ) as night watchman at a college , who falls in love with his parole officer ( Susan Clark ) . A murder takes place . Several murders take place . And some of the signs seem to point to the innocent Burt . There's a blackmail plot with lots of money involved . Well , now , Burt may have just gotten out of the slams but he hasn't unlearned the investigative skills he picked up while on the job in Chicago . Fighting against the local cops every inch of the way , he cracks the case , but not to his satisfaction . He's been used and betrayed by everyone he was close to . No one looks out of place . Susan Clark actually looks pretty darned smokin ' , with her slender figure and queer beauty , a little goofy , like Nancy Travis ' . The local cops are villainous . There is a trio of redneck heavies that - - well , they shouldn't look out of place but they do . This was shot in South Carolina , but it's winter , and it doesn't look like the South , whereas these three unkempt miscreants ( including Ed Sauter with his working-class New York accent ) look like they're straight out of some Southern Gothic slasher movie - - I EAT YOUR HEAD AND SPIT DOWN YOUR NECK CAVITY ! ! ! One is fat , one is scrawny , all are dumb drunks who tote shotguns and pitchforks and allow themselves to be run over by tractors . They even have one of those mean mothers in Bibb overalls and boots who sneers at captive Burt and says , " Wait'll Lem gets back . He'll take care of you proper-like , " or something . There isn't a touch of anything original in the direction , the script , the performances , or anything else . Dave Grusin's score is loud and conventional - - lots of electric guitars and harmonicas and nerve-jangling percussion . Nobody seems to have put any effort into it , which is a little surprising , given Burt Lancaster's tendency to see to it that some social message informs his story , or at least that there is the occasional arty touch . But not here . Everything is functional . No tag lines worth remembering . Instead of Burt Lancaster it might as well have been Charles Bronson . Yet I like the thing and I look forward to seeing it on those infrequent occasions when it shows up on TV . I don't know why . I guess the location shooting captures a particular time and place rather well , though for a college in session it looks really underpopulated . I like Burt as a nobody watchman instead of an important muck-a-muck in the justice system . He looks so terribly humble in that shabby uniform . And I kind of like its lack of pretension . Better a crime thriller that knows its limits than a failed attempt at significance .
Mixed Bag of SF Conventions .	The film divides itself more or less clearly into two parts . In the first part , electronic genius and atomic power researcher , Rex Reason , is challenged by an unknown source to build an interociter . He successfully passes the test . The interociter acts like a big , triangular TV except that it has a self-destruct mechanism and can emit deadly rays that melt lead . When Reason turns it on , he is able to communicate with Exeter ( Jeff Morrow ) , who describes himself as " a scientist like yourself . " Morrow invites Reason to take a trip on a mysterious , pilot-less airplane , which he does . The plane lands at a fully equipped laboratory complex which houses a handful of the most famous scientists in the world . All of them seem to be working on the conversion of matter into energy . Morrow warns them not to discuss their work with each other and , in fact , the place is a bit like a fancy prison . Reason and another scientist , Faith Domergue , are spirited away in a space ship and the other scientists destroyed . In Part Two , we get a load of the flying saucer's innards , which have a familiar look about them . These plastic tubes come down over the occupants and rev up their ability to withstand pressure on the planet they are heading for . Similar tubes prepared the crew of the ship in " Forbidden Planet " and I don't know how many times Captain Kirk and Scotty went through them . Metaluna , the planet on which they land is in sorry straits . It's under constant attack by meteors guided by space ships from the enemy planet of Zygon . It's only defense is an ionization layer maintained by nuclear power , and Metaluna is fast running out of energy , which is why the earth expedition was mounted . It turns out to be too late to save Metaluna . Only Morrow , Reason , and Domergue are able to escape in the saucer and return to earth , where Reason and Domergue land safely and Morrow does not . Part One is the more interesting of the two . I kind of enjoyed the way Reason responded to the challenge of building an interociter from a schematic diagram the size of a football field . " Where do we start ? " asks his assistant . " Right here , " replies Reason , planting his fingertip firmly on a sketch of what looks like a power tube . And the scenes at the laboratory complex were fun , too . Morrow keeps complimenting the others on their " curiosity " but they didn't seem to have much in the way of curiosity to me . The first thing I'd have asked upon landing was how come Morrow and his henchman have such terribly big heads . The gradual realization by the earth people that not all is as it seems , is well done too , except that it's rather brief . Reason asks Morrow over dinner , " How do you like Mozart ? " " Mozart ? " , says Morrow , " I don't think I know the gentleman . Oh - - you mean your composer . " " Our composer ? " , says Reason . " I'd have thought Mozart belonged to the world . " It's a nice little touch , a snag in the texture of conventional life , like catching your coat sleeve on a nail , but it's about the only one . It needed more incidents like that , so that the suspicion would grow . As it is , it's already there , full blown . Part Two is less interesting because there are few surprises and little to wonder about . Everything seems overwhelmed by the special effects . Why do all the inhabitants of Metaluna speak English ? And why is the name of the planet in Latin . Why does Exeter have such an echt-British name ? And why is there a war between Metaluna and Zyglotz or whatever it is ? Now THAT'S an interesting question . All these eggheads on two planets who can zip between galaxies as easily as you and I take a spin in the car - - and they can't help exterminating each other ? It's so very Buck Rogers . Rex Reason is tall , masculine , and has a deep voice . Faith Domergue isn't and doesn't . Jeff Morrow isn't an especially interesting actor but he has the most complex role . He's in conflict with his boss , the " monitor " , who is concerned about nothing but saving Metaluna , even if it means the earthlings are expendable , and , on the other hand , his genuine liking for his earthly friends and his worry about their welfare . There have been better , and there have been worse .
Mystery , leisurely but intense .	This deliberate mystery about the death of a young man at an exclusive boy's school is surprisingly good . Edward Burns is a local police officer who suspects that foul play was involved . The body was found drowned in the local ice-laden river but his lungs contained traces of things found in toilet bowls . Was it a hazing accident ? Well - - close but no cigar . Burns ' investigation must struggle through a thicket of opposition . His colleagues don't want to push the matter because the Haddon School is their benefactor . The school , with its frigid headmaster , isn't interested in probing too deeply because , well , after all - - foul play at Haddon ? Burns himself is impelled mainly because he once helped his older brother commit suicide and perhaps , in solving the riddle of this case , he can partly redeem himself . Along the way , he spends a good deal of time with the dead boy's girl friend , a frizzy red head . And he meets and makes love to Jennifer Ehle , a blond photographer who is about to wed someone else . In the end , Burns , having found out the answer , decides that disclosure isn't necessary and certainly won't promote anyone's happiness , so he invents an explanation that absolves everyone of guilt . The performances are all good , mostly from unfamiliar performers . Rachel Lefevre is the dead student's girl friend , not exactly gorgeous , plump-lipped and long-haired and sturdy looking , but she's quite attractive in an everyday way . Jennifer Ehle as the slightly whimsical photographer is Meryl Streepish and her romance with Burns isn't in the least convincing . Burns is rather good . He's a fine actor , and a fine actor without the brutish charm of a Johnny Depp or a Brad Pitt . His voice is high and it cracks often . Its most important feature is that it sounds believable . If Burns himself is particularly handsome , the fact was beyond my grasp , but I hope not . If he gets the applause he deserves , it would be cheapened a little if he were a heart throb . WILL KEN DITCH JENNIFER ? I can see him in the tabloids now . But with any luck he'll be no more supermarket fodder than Anthony Hopkins or Ian McKellar . If there's a problem with the film it's that it's a little TOO deliberate . And it swings from one sub-plot to another and back again and sideways , like a simple harmonic oscillator , just passing through the central story line from time to time . There are moments when it's entirely possible to forget what the movie is about . Partly because any viewer is likely to be distracted by the gorgeous , wintry Nova Scotia settings . At time the snow is blue or yellow and seems to have leaped straight out of a post-impressionist painting . The small-town streets are choked with drifts and the village itself , which ought to be pretty dismal , looks more like a vacation snapshot . Rarely has a winter landscape had such luster . One of the qualities that makes it so easy to recommend this is that it's made for adults - - or , more precisely , for people with an attention span that hasn't been cut off at the knees by MTV and commercials and glitzy news sound bites . You have to settle back to watch it , fold your hands behind your head , relax , and sort of slit your eyes slightly .
The Mystery of the Severed Ears .	This is a fantasy , a mosaic made out of three complementary sets of tesserae . We have the " biographer " Selden ( Tim McInnerny ) whose assignment is to try to dig up any links between Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle ( Douglas Henshall ) and his fictional creation , the detective Sherlock Holmes , although it is agreed that any results will not be published . There are also contemporary episodes from which Selden is excluded , for good reason . These include a couple of women - - Doyle's own devoted wife and a knockout babe he would like to disarticulate with his tongue . And then there are flashbacks to Conan-Doyle's own earlier years , including his medical tutelage at Edinburgh under Doctor Joseph Bell ( Bryan Cox ) . The three sets of episodes are woven together in a way that is sometimes confusing , the way a dream is confusing , but gradually revealing , until , by the end , all is explained . Or almost all . I didn't get the recurring images of the severed ears crawling with maggots . Okay - - " The Cardboard Box . " But why is this image repeated ? Why is it IN there in the first place ? I missed the first few minutes and perhaps the answer lies there , though I can't imagine how . Of course I could speculate , but it is always dangerous to theorize before one is in possession of all the relevant facts . The most interesting moments - - not necessarily the most dramatic - - are when Dr . Bell pulls of one of those stunts that were later to become inferential staples of the Holmes character . Given a watch to examine , a watch that has been owned by a perfect stranger , Bell complains that the watch has recently been cleaned and this robs him of his most important clues to the owner's character , so he can only say that the man was careless , came from a good family but found his fortunes drop , punctuated by intervals of prosperity , that in later life his habits declined , probably because of drink , and that he had a penchant for 17-year-old blonds all his life . ( I made that last one up . ) Conan-Doyle must have represented one of the last twitches of the Scottish enlightenment that enthroned reason and empiricism , because when he was old , after he'd lost a son in the war , Conan-Doyle turned to mysticism and the séances that were fashionable at the time . The mystery that is investigated in some detail is the reason why Conan-Doyle decided to " kill " his creation , Sherlock Holmes , at a time when Holmes was probably the most famous fictional character in the world , much as Brittany Spears is now . I failed to catch any big reveal towards the end , but at the climax Conan-Doyle resurrects his detective and they march off together into the sunlight . If the viewer is left still a little mystified , evidently Conan-Doyle wasn't , and that's what counts . However , the detective figure that is Holmes in the last few shots on the Great Grimpen Mire is not by any definition Sherlock . It is MYCROFT Holmes that we see . Who's kidding whom around here ? It's an inexpensive production from the BBC and it's about an interesting guy , Conan-Doyle . He was at his peak during the Jack-the-Ripper murders in 1875 . Too bad he didn't tackle Saucy Jack . Of course Conan-Doyle can't be counted among the world's most graceful prose artists . On a dark and stormy night , " the wind sobbed like a child in the chimney . " ( How did the child get into the chimney ? ) And , true , our introduction to Holmes , in " A Study in Scarlet " , makes him look an awful lot like Poe's August Dupin in " The Murders in the Rue Morgue . " But what does that matter ? Conan-Doyle ground out these entertaining mysteries with sprezzatura , hiding his art by making it look so easy , and he gave us some deathless lines . " The curious incident of the dog in the night . " " She was always THE woman . " And , " Quick , Watson , the needle . " ( Well , he never said exactly that , but , again , so what ? ) You may have to be in the right mood to watch this . It's rather slow . But it's a must-see for the Irregulars .
Not bad for a makeover .	Ben Hecht's original story had enough strength to be carried over into this successful remake , aided by a strong cast . I'm not sure how much the modernization of the script adds to it , but it's worth seeing . Caruso is a con who , out of concern for his family , rats on some friends when the prosecutor promises him freedom . Things go legally awry and Caruso finds himself and his family being hunted by the chief thug ( Nicholas Cage ) while the police ( Stanley Tucci and Steven Jackson ) provide a simulacrum of protection . Finally Caruso takes matters in his own hands , confronts Cage in a night club , and is beaten like hell before the cops arrive and put things back in order . The original script depicted what now seems like an old-fashioned model of the justice system . Good cops vs . bad guys , with the good guys hampered by laws that are too lax . This is brought up to date in that EVERYBODY is corrupt in one way or another , with a few exceptions . Caruso is family-oriented , though a con , and his family and Jackson have their hearts in the right place . But the agents of social control - - both federal and state - - are petty and bickering . Tucci , the head cop , isn't really interested in bad guy Cage . He wants a federal judgeship or judgehood or judgedom . It's a much more cynical model of the justice system . The brutality quotient is cubed . Somebody's brains get shot out and splattered all over somebody . Or a suspected snitch is beaten to death with fists and his blood splashes against the wall . I think the earlier version is superior . For one thing , it was an original , not a copy . And some of the performances don't measure up to the original's . Kathryn Erbe - - great name in German , by the way - - is a pretty and talented actress but she does not exude the winsome cheerful devotion of Colleen Gray . David Caruso is a more convincing New Yorker than Louisvilleian Victor Mature was , but his performance is understated compared to Mature's nervous clumsiness . Some of the roles are just differently interpreted . Where Brian Donleavy was a stolidly ethical prosecutor , Stanley Tucci is transparently reptilian . Who would believe Tucci when he claims to be " a man of honor " ? And , of course , there is nothing in this remake that looks even vaguely like Richard Widmark's Tommy Udo , nor any scene quite as terrible as Widmark's pushing the old lady strapped in her wheelchair down the stairs . At the time THAT was more shocking a scene that all the current bloodshed and poundings put together . That's what I mean by " original . " Still , not a bad movie on its own .
Shenanigans in a Shop .	If you've seen and enjoyed any of the episodes of " The Avengers " you should find this one satisfying . One of Steed's and Mrs . Peel's agents is shot dead while visiting a London shop . The receipt in his pocket indicates that he was shopping in the Baby Department , although she has no family . Mrs . Peel signs on as a store assistant while Steed noses around , discovers an old curmudgeon ( Andre Morell ) in the Discontinued Lines Attic , wheeling himself around in a clutter of old automobiles and other artifacts of a by-gone age . Food is being pilfered from the Food Department . What's going on ? Well , for one thing , the shop is holding " the professor " prisoner while he invents things for them , and the pilfered food serves as his special treat , rather like a dog being rewarded for having learned to roll over on command . Legal considerations prevent me from revealing more of the plot - - except , I guess it's safe to say that it's all pretty whimsical . Any time one sees Mrs . Peel draping a translucent nightie around a brassier-clad mannequin , he knows he's in the realm of fantasy . ( Boy , does she look fine . ) It's a diverting series , on the whole , and amusing in a capricious way . Many of the subtle jokes - - and they're ALL subtle - - are built around men hitting on Mrs . Peel for reasons that would be unimaginable if it weren't for her wide-set eyes , her forceful yet delicately feminine stride , the big and dazzling smile that appears so unexpectedly on her tiny lips , and the skin-tight costumes that the wardrobe lady has seen fit to clothe her in . The jokes are frequently from Steed himself as the unflappable man in the bowler hat . When he asks the floor manager where Mrs . Peel is , he's told that she upstairs in lady's underwear , and rattles up the steps three at a time .
Urban tragedy	Send these kids to camp - - fast ! Or do SOMETHING . Wow , what a life . Basically this is a picture of the life kids who occupy a certain social space lead during their summer vacations . It jumps from episode to episode with a few continuing characters , including Chloe Sevigny and Rosario Dawson . To the extent that there is a story at all , it is this . The movie opens with the teen aged Leo Fitzpatrick successfully seducing the teen aged Chloe Sevigny , who is a virgin . Shortly afterward Sevigny is told she tested positive for HIV , meaning that Fitzpatrick is an asymptomatic carrier . Sevigny spends the rest of the movie looking for Fitzpatrick to tell him about it and prevent him from infecting anyone else . She is waylaid by encounters with strange teenagers , although to be sure they are all strange , and when she finally locates Fitzpatrick at a raucous party he is already putting the blocks to yet another virgin . Sevigny closes the door and staggers away to crash on the couch . Later that night , another creepy teenager wakes up , wanders about , notices the unconscious Sevigny , and does her in what appears to be two different ways . So much for AIDS . That's the thread the movie hangs on , but it serves not as a point in itself but as an illustration of the absence of any point . The kids do everything that ordinary people would consider revolting . They begin using dope the minute they wake up . They shoplift clumsily . They pee on walls in public places . They get drunk . They vomit . They fornicate at will . They don't work . They litter freely . They swear constantly . They ogle each other's mother's breasts . They get into fist fights on the slightest of pretexts . They recognize no checks on their appetites . We hardly see any adults and the ones we do see aren't necessarily much better - - an overweight and ill-groomed mother smoking while she nurses an infant . It's all distasteful but you can't really disengage yourself from what's happening on the screen . It would be like looking away from a gory traffic accident . Maybe that's a problem , too , because the film is so impregnated with debauchery that after a while it becomes frankly unbelievable . One DAY of this kind of life would stun an elephant . More than that , it's too much of a bad thing . Not a single kid we see has any redeeming qualities whatever , except for two virgins who yield readily enough to Fitzpatrick's snake oil . And for all the vulgarity and all the violence done to our ideas of good taste , I'm not sure that the film makers have really gotten it all down accurately . I'll just give two examples in which a viewer might become conscious of the effort it takes to suspend disbelief . ( 1 ) In a drug dealer's apartment ( where kids who look about nine years old are doing dope ) the music from the boombox is what sounds like John Coltrane and Sonny Rollins . I don't think so . I hate to buy into stereotypes too easily , but what I expect to hear is not demanding , classical jazz but hip hop . ( 2 ) In Central Park during a drug score , an exojuvenile intrudes on the gang and takes offense at some remark about a skateboard . The alien is a black guy . The gang of dopers who are buddies are racially mixed . They all gang up on the stranger and beat hell out of him , ending it with a possibly lethal whack full in the face with the skateboard . It doesn't jibe with experience . I have a feeling that the fist fight would gradually divide the group along racial lines . This is a heck of a movie . Man , the kids should bottle that energy . They'd be on the Big Board in no time . It could be found in cans in Quick-Stop reefers . ADENORUSH - - for that " scootch " feeling . But it's too spelled out . There isn't a moment's rest . I'm not talking about sitting down to ponder Marcus Aurelius . I mean just shutting up for a few minutes . The final shot may be symptomatic . Dawn is crashing around the sleeping , benumbed and benighted bodies the morning after a party . During the night the place has been thoroughly trashed and two girls have probably now caught HIV from our index case . One body , still holding a bottle , stirs a little and comes to life . Its eyes open . It stares blearily into the camera lens and wonders aloud , " What happened ? " In " The 400 Blows , " 45 years earlier , Truffaut made the same point simply by ending on a freeze frame of the delinquent kid caught on the run , staring fixedly and silently at the camera . " Kids " suggests that at the end the director doesn't trust us enough to have gotten the point , although we've been hit over the head with it for an hour and a half .
Inexpensive , unprepossessing thriller .	Basically it's a B movie script that is slightly elevated in significance by the fact that the intended victim is the President of the United States instead of , say , an anonymous guy with his face down on the bar of some tavern in Bloomfield , New Jersey . The fact that is stars Frank Sinatra along with Sterling Hayden and a couple of reliable utility players doesn't change things . The year before , Sinatra had won an Academy Award for his ( very good ) performance in " From Here to Eternity , " rescuing his career from its downward spiral . He wanted the role of the gun-crazy assassin in " Suddenly " because he wanted to demonstrate his range as an actor . And the director gives him every chance . In more than one scene , Sinatra begins a monologue and , turning from the others , stalks towards the camera until he delivers his punch line , his face - - distorted by the wide-angle lens - - twisted with some demonic passion . Well , he does his best but the role is so limited and the dialog so clumsy that nobody could overcome those limitations . Actually , his most effective moment - - and again , it's good - - takes place near the beginning , when Willis Bouchey , a Secret Service agent , enters the house and is introduced to Sinatra's fake FBI man . Bouchey realizes it's a set up , and Sinatra knows that he twigs it . And the camera holds on Sinatra's lunatic smile and such an exopthalmic stare as to suggest he is being taken by thyrotoxic storm , just before he pulls his pistol and plugs Bouchey . In that scene , Sinatra has no dialog at all and it's for the best . Who wrote this thing anyway ? I've seen the movie a few times before but only just now realized how utterly corny the dialog is , even for its time . " Todd , what in Hades is going on in this town anyway ? Did some galoot strike a uranium mine or something ? " " Ellen , will you please stop being such a WOMAN ? " I swear I'm not making that up - - and there's worse . Most of the characters are familiar stereotypes . Sinatra's is intended to be the most complex role , and it is complex compared to the others , but in fact isn't too complicated for a Saturday-afternoon audience to grasp in a few minutes . Sinatra was a nobody until he found his place in the infantry , killing Germans and winning a Silver Star , until he was booted out for some outrage we can only imagine . He did however learn a trade in the Army and has now set out to be all he can be . Sinatra did make a few good movies . He gave this one his best effort . " From Here to Eternity " was fine , and " The Manchurian Candidate " was quite good . In all of them he played someone other than Frank Sinatra , whereas in something like " Tony Rome " he seemed to be on vacation . But here , the script and direction make any plaudits insupportable . It would be enough to make you feel sorry for Frank Sinatra if he were anyone but Frank Sinatra . One wonders if he and Sterling Hayden , the Mount Rushmore of bulk , reminisced about the old days back in Montclair and Hoboken , where each grew up , only a few miles from one another .
Corny , enjoyable comedy	I wasn't expecting much of this movie - - another rip off of " The Odd Couple " - - but my kid insisted on watching it and I was pleasantly surprised . Matthau and Lemon have hated each other since one stole the other one's girl away . ( Both wives are gone now . ) They play nasty pranks on one another , relishing the other's frustration and anger . Meanwhile Matthau's son and Lemon's daughter are getting to know one another in a subplot . Also meanwhile a ravishing redhead from liberated California ( Anne-Margaret ) moves in across the street in this small , snow-bound , Minnesota town , and she falls for Lemon . At Lemon's insistence though she has a brief fling with Matthau before the inevitable ending . They're not really the odd couple here . They're new characters who happen to suffer adimadversions to each other . The gags are quick , fast , and sometimes pretty funny . Burgess Meredith , Lemon's Pop , declaims , " The first ninety years go by real fast ! Then one day you wake up and realize you're not eighty-one anymore ! Mount the woman ! " At one point during an argument , Matthau attacks Lemon with a frozen fish and the two old men ( 68 and 73 , I think ) go through all the motions of a carefully choreographed action-movie combat scene - - Matthau pinning down Lemon , Lemon holding the threatening fish at bay as Matthau forces it down slowly towards Lemon's chest , both men puffing and grunting . It shoulda stayed a comedy . But it's tough to make a movie about old age that's consistently funny . Death is always around the corner , and impotence and failing health and financial crises are already here . It's easy enough to make a heart-wrenching movie about it , even with an uplifting ending . ( " Umberto D . " ) This one tempers the comedy by putting all of the deficits of old age on ready display . A friend dies in his sleep . ( " Lucky bastard . " ) Anne-Margaret - - " Tell me , Gustaffson , when did you last make love ? " Lemon - - " October 19th - - 1978 . " ( First used in " Harry and Tonto . " ) Thanksgiving and Christmas are captured on screen in all their sentimentality and anguish . Lemon has a heart attack while Nat King Cole is singing " Walkin ' in a Winter Wonderland " on the soundtrack . Speaking of the soundtrack , the soapy score belongs in a Walt Disney fairy tale from the 1940s . Yes , folks , there are heart-wrenching scenes galore . Uplifting ones too . Lemon and Anne-Margaret making snow angels . All of them done is a cornball manner . " Old age isn't for sissies , " as Bette Davis is supposed to have said , but this movie is . The funny parts redeem the expectable misfortunes . Here is Burgess Meredith watching Ossie Davis visit Anne-Margaret's house on Thanksgiving - - " Looks like he's going to play pat the pony " or something like that . Stick around for the out-takes under the end credits . Looks like they had a good time making this film . It's worth watching too . Thank you , Chopsticks .
" Hired by a # $ @ $ % to find scum . "	It ought to have everything going for it . What a cast ! And they're all good - - with Paul Newman's Lou Harper at the top of his game , and , somewhere closer to her usual norm , Pamela Tiffen . Newman's performance is among his best . He's a gum-chewing cynical PI who's determined the find the truth behind the disappearance of millionaire Sampson . He has all the necessary tics , nudges , winks , and shrugs . And he registers exquisite pain when somebody clobbers him . There is , for instance , a scene in which a big thug named Puddler sucker punches Newman in a bar , then takes him out back and begins to deliver one or two heavy , deliberately placed body blows . R . J . Wagner sneaks up on Puddler , knocks him out , then gaily begins to help Newman walk back to his car . But Newman groans and leans against the wall , puffing and holding his belly , and begs Wagner , " Wait a minute . " A less imaginative actor would have had the character shake his head a few times to clear it , then stride off snapping out orders . Shelly Winters is equally good in a comic role as an overripe over-the-hill ex-movie star and alcoholic . I can't imagine anyone doing better than Winters when she's berating a hotel orchestra for not playing La Cucaracha , shouting that they can't be REAL " Mescins " or they'd have their guitars , and then stumbling off the platform . Shelly Winters is often nailed for spoiling the pictures she's in but I'm not sure why . Her whining evokes both irritation and pathos . She's brought some pizazz to some other films she's been in too . Ham should always be considered a part of any proper buffet . So why doesn't the picture come together ? Why is the sum less than its parts . Where is the subtrahend ? It has a flattish made-for-TV quality . Settings are all comfortably upscale , as in an episode of " Colombo . " The L . A . locations seem to be carefully chosen but because of the photography or Mandel's below-average score , they have little impact . Compare " Chinatown " or " Farewell My Lovely . " William Goldman's script tries for the telling wisecrack ( " Only cream and bastards rise " ) but there aren't enough of them and they're mostly cracks without wit . The best repartee is between Lauren Bacall and Pamela Tiffen , two women who hate one another and delight in mutual insults . " I love your wrinkles . I revel in them . " Still , Goldman's script does manage to hold together a plot that is bilaterally symmetrical . On the one hand , Newman is hired to rescue the kidnapped millionaire Samson and save the half million paid for his return . On the other hand Newman stumbles into an unrelated plot having to do with the smuggling of illegal aliens . The two stories have absolutely nothing to do with one another until more than halfway through the film when Newman alerts one gang to the operations of the other . It's all pretty easy to get lost in , especially when so many disparate characters are involved . The plot lacks an engine too . I didn't believe for a moment that Newman was genuinely dedicated to his craft , that it was a point of pride with him to " crack this thing , " as he puts it . Humphrey Bogart was a cynical , wisecracking PI in " The Maltese Falcon " but what was driving him , as we discover at the end of the film , was the murder of his partner , Miles Archer . Certainly , concern about the fate of the kidnapped rich guy isn't much of a motive . We never even meet him and everybody hates him anyway . What drives Newman's character ? Nothing that we can discover . His marriage is a disaster , he lives in his office , he drives a beat-up car , he has practically no friends . In fact , when you come right down to it , Newman is not a particularly admirable guy in this film . He has a nasty habit of using people . He gets Winters ' weak character drunk and then insults her as she lies passed out . He charms some information out of a good-natured barmaid with his New York accent and , when he's finished with her , blows her off by asking directly , " Where's the boss ? " , and her face falls with the realization that she's been had . He deliberately lies to his emotionally vulnerable but estranged wife , from whom he gets some sympathy and a night in bed before leaving her flat the next morning . He , in turn , has no sympathy for anyone else . And then there's the end of the film , a freeze frame that leaves us wondering whether Newman will turn his only friend Arthur Hill over to the police or whether Hill will shoot to stop him . The technique may be an integral part of the movie , as it is in " The Four Hundred Blows , " in which a delinquent child is frozen while looking at the camera , as if waiting for the audience to judge him . Or it may , as in this case , be an arbitrary gesture , a way of ending a movie that nobody could think of a good ending for . You know , though , having said that , I still prefer an ending like this to the phenomenal shootouts that have since become so commonplace . See it for the performances .
Piece Be Upon You .	Some of the names are real enough - - King Baldwin and Saladin - - but I don't know how accurate a picture this is of what looks like the Second Crusades . ( I missed the first couple of minutes . ) I vaguely remember that Tiberia was captured by Salahudin , but maybe not . Basically , Jerusalem is run by the Christians here but threatened by Moslems . There's a good deal of treachery , especially by some of the rogue Christians . Oh , and there are references to Jews being in the city too . The city winds up in the hands of a blacksmith-turned-nobleman , Orlando Bloom , who's true blue and gallant and smart and handsome . His ultimate foe , Salahudin , is played by a guy who resembles Lee Van Cleef in his villainy mode , but who is clever , determined , and honorable . ( A riveting dramatic performance by the Syrian actor . ) I would like to add " wise " to that list , because that's what the writers evidently intended , but Salahudin is only given one chance to display his smarts . " What is Jerusalem worth ? " asks the blacksmith . Salahudin shrugs , says , " Nothing , " and begins to walk away - - then stops to look back , smiles , and says , " Everything . " This prompts the viewer to wonder if he's a Moslem at all because he sounds like a closet Buddhist to at least one viewer , namely me . The climax of the movie is an epic battle at the walls of Jerusalem in which both sides suffer appalling losses , and the blacksmith finally accepts Salahudin's offer of safe passage for everyone out of the city , and the Christian surrenders Jerusalem to save lives in the face of impossible odds . The blacksmith I should add , as if it were necessary , gets the stunning widow of a nasty Christian . The movie's point of view is the sort that can be called balanced . The Crusaders were a jealous and scheming lot , when you get right down to it . ( We don't get to know so much about the Moslems . ) The Knights Templars were hanged regularly . The children's crusade ( not in the movie ) was exploited by Christian communities they passed through and resembled the rush of lemmings off a cliff . Still a Christian is a Christian . And during the climactic battle , Bloom the blacksmith organizes the most effective and deadly possible defense of his city . He sites in his artillery and blows the swarthy Wogs and their terrible siege towers apart . The movie may be balanced but we've seen this sort of thing so often before . A noble band of blooders defending a position against an overwhelming force . They hunker down and take a beating then , when the enemy is smirking and coming in for the kill , the survivors rise and clobber them with all sorts of unexpected devices and techniques . ( If you doubt it's a familiar scenario , cf . " Wake Island " or " Bataan . " ) Yes , it's a balanced movie except that the entire audience will be whistling and cheering when the Crusaders disarticulate their attackers . I hate to keep carping but if I remember , this is putting the cart before the horse . Actually , the Crusaders learned about the art of fortification from the Moslems and brought it back to Europe . There followed the Age of Great Forts . Richard the Lionheart , who is glimpsed at the end as he leads still another Crusade , built a monster of a fort in Normandy . I can see why this film was made when it was - - 2005 . The Middle East in turmoil once again . Zealots on both sides . Treachery abounding . I suppose the message is that " plus ca change , plus c'est la meme chose . " The world is full of constants , such as the speed of light and conflict in the Middle East . The movie gives us the blacksmith as hero - - but he surrenders Jerusalem , rather than fight to the death and have his women and children butchered by Saladin , as the Christians butchered everyone when THEY first took the city . Oh , it's all sugary sweet , and the city cheers when he announces that they are all safe . But it's " cut and run " nonetheless , isn't it ? We see Bloom in battle . He's heroic . But in some ways the most courageous thing he does in the entire long movie is surrender a few square miles of stones and streets in order to save a thousand innocent lives . Jerusalem itself had no value except as a symbol . Salahudin , come to think of it , is given a second wisecrack that suggests a certain perspicacity . When Bloom tells him that before he , Salahudin , takes the city , he , Bloom , will burn it to the ground and destroy every sacred stone . " Maybe that would be the best thing , " replies Salahudin .
People You Don't Want to Meet .	This is a re-telling of the story featured in Kastle's earlier and inexpensive black-and-white film . Martha Beck ( Salma Hayek ) and Ray Fernandez ( Jared Leto ) are two lovers who live in the own version of Cloud Cuckooo Land , traveling about the country in 1947 , meeting lonely widows through ads in Lonely Hearts tabloids , then emptying their bank accounts and sometimes disposing of the inconvenient women and , in one case , a child who is a few years old . They are finally caught , largely through the efforts of Nassau County detective Elmer Robinson ( the director's grandfather ) and executed at Sing Sing . Kastle's film is the better of the two , I think . It gets bonus points for having been made on a budget that would hardly accommodate a high school production of " Our Town . " And it's an original , not a remake . And , although there are no bad performances in this new version , the casting in the 1970s was more accurate . It's easy to see here why Leto might be under the spell of somebody who looks like Salma Hayek . She's a beautiful woman with a bosom that bespeaks authority . But in the original , Shirley Stoler was so obese she could be seen from outer space . In that , she resembled the historical Martha Beck . And in the original , Tony LoBianco gave a more convincing performance as the seductive sleazebag . A lot of people saw Lared Leto here as a charm boy , but his appeal slipped past my apperceptive apparatus . He doesn't exude the kind of confidence and reassuring qualities that a good con man must have . He seems uncertain and nervous much of the time , an anomalous trait in what I suppose would technically be called an anti-social personality , socialized type . Hayek at least brings a good deal of passion to her role . I can understand why John Travolta's role was written into the tale . The murderous duo travel around on their spree , from New York to Florida to Michigan , and Travolta's detective , along with his sidekick ( James Gandolfini ) provide the audience with an anchor . They sort of stand in for us . But I'm at a loss to understand why the tsuris in Travolta's family life is dragged in . The wife who was a suicide , the son he argues with , the young lady ( Laura Dern ) he's dating . They have nothing to do with the story and they don't really tell us much about the character of Elmer Robinson . He comes off as a morose cop , just a bit less cynical than his colleagues . I found the chronology a little confusing too . In some cases I lost track of how the bodies were disposed of , and how many there were , and where , and how exactly the scam worked since we never see a single example played out from beginning to end . The two victims we get to know a little about ( not very much ) are Alice Krige and Dagmara Dominczyk . They're the only ones we're allowed to pity . It isn't a poor movie . Everyone involved displays a generous amount of talent , some more than others . ( Even the little kid is pretty good , as little kids go . ) But the production is Hollywoodized in a way the original was not . Everything seems carefully planned . The 1940s cars glisten brilliantly in the sunlight . A woman fastidiously apples lipstick after oral sex . The victims we see are attractive and relatively young , not the pathetic oldsters that provided the couple with grist for their gory mill . There is a tasteless scene in which we must see Jared Leto forced into the electric chair and then watch the " fish fry " in its entirety . There is no trial , just the execution . What did the writer have in mind when he put this scene in ? Are we supposed to revel in the extinction of life , even if that life was thoroughly evil ?
Easygoing Mamet Comedy .	It's not hilarious but it's consistent in its good-natured cynicism , from which most of its amusement quotient is derived . Mamet takes us to a small town in New Hampshire where Bill Macy is trying to set up locations for a film he is directing , ( Some problems there with the old watermill , the centerpiece of the story , which doesn't exist anymore . ) Alec Baldwin is a little careless about his attraction to young girls and this adds to the difficulties when he's put upon by the authorities . He has the best line though - - the last in the film - - when he shuffles off to the set and mutters , " It beats working . " Philip Seymour Hoffman has a strange face , indeed a strange presence , and brings a good deal of talent to the role of a screenwriter with principle , probably the closest to a protagonist the movie offers us . He quits his job at one point before having an epiphany and returning to work . And he has a romance with the attractive , perceptive , flatly matter-of-fact Rebecca Pigeon , who projects an extraordinary intelligence and sexiness despite her ski boots and overgrown running shoes , which any normal viewer would love to pluck off and turn into soup . As their romance is nudged forward by events , she asks Hoffman , " How do you feel about children ? " He stares back open mouthed , his mind whirling , before he replies , " I never could see the point . " I just claimed his mind was whirling but he gives no evidence of it in his behavior . He simply stands there agog and hesitates for some seconds before speaking . But a viewer KNOWS his brain is clicking , even though it's moving in an unanticipated direction . That's acting talent , and pretty good writing too . It will probably leave you smiling , so go ahead and watch it if you can .
Very Spooky .	This ought to make your hair stand on end and there's not a special effect or a drop of blood in a cartload . Julie Harris is Nell , a complete wimp of a woman , who spends a couple of days and nights with three other folks in a supposedly haunted house . The others are Dr . Markway ( Johnson ) , and anthropologist with an interest in psychic phenomena , Theo ( Bloom ) , a lesbian with ESP , and Luke ( Tamblyn ) , the heir apparent of Hill House who is there to provide comic relief . Nell doesn't have much going for her at home . She practically has to steal her own car . She's spent eleven years taking care of her invalid mother and feels responsible for her death . She doesn't drink or smoke . She doesn't do anything . For the first time in her life she feels part of a community and loves Hill House even though it scares the hell out of her at night , what with wall poundings and automatic harps and whatnot . Robert Wise does a fine job as director . He makes good use of every unsettling knob of mahogany furniture in the place . A door knob with one of those sunny faces embossed on it takes on ominous qualities . Shirley Jackson , on whose novel this was based , was a true screwball herself but a great writer within the limits of the genre . Her approach was similar to Alfred Hitchcock's . You take some ordinary person and put him or her in a situation that rapidly escalates into the extraordinary . The novel in fact is probably better in some ways than this movie . There's an occasional narrative , and it's Nell's . Of all the characters in the film , Nell is the one we'd least like to be , and not just because of her destiny . She never has any FUN ! And the screenplay leaves out a few details that make the story more interesting . The handwriting on the wall incident , for example . In the novel it leaves behind a sulfuric stink . Oh , and that's another thing . In the movie , they read the inscription , taste the substance with which it was written , and leave Luke to erase it . No photos . No samples . No nothing . What kind of anthropologist does Markway call himself ? Okay , okay . You expect rough edges in any case study , but Markway doesn't do ANYTHING . He doesn't even have a tape recorder . I happen to be an anthropologist with an interest in anomalous phenomena too , having once pursued ghosts through a graveyard in a culture where a ghost was something to be contended with . And I always had a tape recorder . My question is : Who is funding Markway ? The standards for grants must be much more lax than they are at my sources . Well , that's a problem with Markway , not the movie . The movie is pretty good , especially in comparison to the recent remake . The remake looks like it was designed to be nothing more than a CGI extravaganza with a kind of boring story holding the phony images together . In the remake you can see the statues almost doing a tarantella . In this one , the original , you see nothing , and the film is the spookier for it .
Marginalized Persons	Jason Patric and Jennifer Jason Leigh are two undercover narcs who must be part of the drug world they inhabit and yet retain their identities as cops . In a way they're marginal people , like shop foremen - - no longer just workers , yet not part of management either . Or like cultural anthropologists , for that matter , participant observers . Two of us were studying psychedelic drug use in New York way back when and were doing on-site observation at a party where everyone else was getting stoned , me and my trusty tape recorder . The dope turned my hosts paranoid and they accused us of being narcs . My partner and I agreed that I would partake of the illicit substance - - just a hit or two to reassure our subjects - - and he would not . It reflected really poor judgment on my part . ( How long is the statue of limitations in effect , again ? ) But watching this movie , I could understand pretty much exactly where these two narcs were coming from . In their case , life and death were involved . If you don't participate , you don't do your job . If you do , you're breaking the law . If one side finds you out , your prosecuted . If the other side finds you out , you're spanked . What's important in a movie like this are the performances and they're quite good . Not just Patric and Leigh , but even the smaller parts . I was pleasantly surprised by the direction as well . Let me see . The producer is Richard Zanuck . The director is Lili Fini Zanuck . When you see a combination of names like those with statuses like those , you have to suspect nepotism . But , nepotism or no , the direction is unhurried and dark and humorless and very effective . The photography is outstanding , its colors drawn from the cool end of the spectrum . The music is by Eric Clapton and he does a great riff on Texas Rock , though we still hear his vibrating chords through the cow flops . It isn't a happy movie . But it's unusually well done .
A Desert of the Mind	In this one , Tom Cruise is a hit man who's job is to wipe out five witnesses scheduled to testify against a drug lord , and then beat it . He's a real pro . He's a steel gray inside and out , from his hair to his suit and socks . He kills ruthlessly , with no regard for whether the victim deserves it or not . " I do this for a living . " But he explains to the cab driver ( Jamie Foxx ) whom he has coerced into driving him around that he was abused as a child , so that explains everything . There are a couple of minor subplots . An LAPD detective ( Mark Ruffalo ) begins to twig to the fact that the people being murdered so quickly , one after another , seem to form a pattern among the drug community . It's the serial murderer routine . There is even a boss ( Peter Berg ) who refuses to believe Ruffalo and says , " I'm tired . I'm going home . " Then there's the woman . Jada Pinkett Smith , looking and acting pretty good . Her main function in the film is to give Jamie Foxx somebody to get hysterical about saving . There is the expectable scene in which he calls her on a cell phone and warn her that Cruise is inside her building , looking for her . " Max , " she tells him , " isn't it kind of late to be calling ? " And will his cell phone cutting out , Foxx stutters , " Anna , Anna ! Listen . You've go to listen to me ! Anna ? " Tom Cruise is a killer made of ice except that he saves Foxx's rear end in a shoot out for no discernible reason . He seems to stalk through the movie like The Terminator on meth . Jamie Foxx isn't a seasoned actor but his very tentativeness , his awkwardness , contribute to the effectiveness of his performance as the pleasant unreflective dutiful son who is satisfied with keeping the cleanest cab in town . None of the other characters registers much except for one - - the city of Los Angeles at night . You know how they say , " You're always loneliest in a crowd " ? Well , you would never be lonely in L . A . because the streets are completely deserted . A few exceptions , true , such as when the plot requires a couple of street muggers . But , otherwise , we can be sure that if we happen to glimpse a pedestrian he is only walking a short distance , from one car to another probably . There is practically no traffic on the streets . The marmorial office buildings themselves are flourescently lit and morgue-like in their carpentered right-angled purity . The director , the photographer , and the art director have this urban desert in their grasp and it makes the entire movie better than an average action flick , although the skeleton of that primitive structure still shows through what we see on the screen . But - - well , take a scene like this . Cruise is forcing Foxx to drive him to another destination along an empty thoroughfare . They stop for a red light . There is no music or other sound . The cab rolls to a halt in slow motion . Neither of the two men speak . And then , out of nowhere , trotting across the city streets in front of the car , two coyotes with gleaming eyes go about their business while the two men follow them with their gaze . The animals seem certain of being ignored , and why not ? Everybody ignores everything in L . A . It's brief but telling . Someone had to actually think about shooting that footage and editing it in . There is a final shootout on a ghostly subway train . The damsel in distress is saved . It's an ordinary action flick in its conception . No doubt about it . But its execution is more impressive than the original imitative script deserved .
New Broom Exposes Dirt .	A thoughtful film , it is also sprinkled with all sorts of features designed to increase its box-office appeal . Redford is Brubaker , the new reform warden who enters the prison in the guise of a prisoner in order to get a worm's eye view of the goings on . ( They're pretty crummy , what with patients having to pay for their own medical care from a corrupt doctor , insurance premiums paid to cover non-existent tractors but not collapsing roofs . ) After ten or fifteen minutes he reveals his true identity and begins snapping out orders and cleaning things up . At this point it's rather like Superman emerging from the phone booth that Clark Kent entered , or Destry finally picking up a gun . But Redford learns that prisons , like wars , must operate within political constraints . He is told of a field full of buried bodies and begins to dig them up , despite the entreaties of his political friends and advisers , who try to talk him out of it or buy him off with the prison improvements he's been fighting for . It's not even clear that the bodies have been illegally buried , much less murdered as he suspects . The place used to be a pauper's graveyard , he's told . But nothing will wreck a reform agenda faster than zealotry . Before you can say Reign of Terror , Redford is relieved of his job and is driven away - - to the sad but appreciative applause of the prisoners he's leaving behind . That should leave the viewer uplifted alright . What a complicated and dynamic place a prison must be to be properly run . Some of the inmates have been railroaded but most of them have been ( or have become ) the cold-blooded psychopaths they're so often labeled . A warden must walk a tightrope between seeing that the men are treated decently but not given Jacuzzis . Redford , as it turns out , has pretty good balance in this regard , but if he were really concerned about getting his job done he would have compromised and stopped digging quite so hard . Nice cast of supporting players . Jane Alexander is always good . Matt Clark is effectively devious as Redford's clerk ( he's about the only inmate who can read and write ) who participates in the murder of a helpless and naive old prisoner . Redford is about as authoritative as he can be in his minimalist way . He's not George C . Scott playing Patton . The movie rolls along smoothly and takes us with it . We WANT Redford to succeed . But the box-office stuff just doesn't ring true . The sudden emergence of Redford's latent identity as the warden , a shootout with shotguns resulting in two deaths , the inmates applauding and whistling for the disgraced warden as he leaves . It detracts from the more important story and leaves us happy but with an armful of unanswered questions . ( Just who ARE those guys buried on prison property ? ) The inmates may now " respect themselves as human beings " , as Redford claims , but how long will it take the new replacement warden to reduce them to their original rags and despondency ? I wish it had been better , though it's involving enough . It was directed by Stuart Rosenberg who injected a lot more life into Don Pearce's " Cool Hand Luke . " Pearce , by the way , like Warden Brubaker , was a true original .
Mitchum and Greer - - Together Again !	" The Big Steal " , pairing Robert Mitchum with Jane Greer again , the couple from " Out of the Past . " It sounds profoundly noir . But in fact it's not . It's more of a romantic adventure with comedic and dramatic elements sprinkled around in it . You see , Mitchum is Halliday , an Army lieutenant in charge of the payroll . While carrying the $350 , 000 he was held up by Jim Fiske , Patric Knowles . Mitchum reported the robbery to his superior , Captain Blake , William Bendix . But Bendix doesn't believe him . Knowles takes the money and flees to central Mexico where a fence , John Qualen , is waiting to launder the money in the local lavanderia or something . Knowles speeds through quaint villages and through the kinds of resorts wherein you sit next to the swimming pool and sip pink drinks with umbrellas protruding from the glasses . Mitchum is in hot pursuit of Knowles and the stash , and has picked up Jane Greer along the way , a woman that Knowles has somehow betrayed . In hot pursuit of Mitchum and Greer is William Bendix , armed and dangerous , carrying extradition papers regarding Mitchum . Mitchum and Greer had made the successful " Out of the Past " just earlier and this presumably was an attempt by RKO to cash in on their popularity . Mitchum is big and hefty and embodies momentum in his stride . I'm not so sure that this is his kind of role . It wouldn't take much to imagine Cary Grant doing a far better job . Jane Greer is an interesting woman . Her acting isn't more than professional in caliber but she LOOKS so exotically familiar . Her eyelids are like a lizard's eyelids and her irises and lips glisten sensually at times . She was in a Columbo episode when she was over fifty and still looked as good if not better . And take a dekko at " No Way Out . " John Qualen is nobody's cynical fence , though . He's a poor but honest farmer working for John Ford . Patric Knowles gets the job done . William Bendix is shown as an angry but somewhat foolish avenger . His hot pursuit is constantly frustrated by road construction or a herd of goats loose on the road . The Mexican actors , by and large , are played for laughs , except for the Inspector General , Ramon Navarro , who may be cute but who is savvy as well . Given all the light-hearted wisecracking that goes on between Mitchum and Greer , the action scenes are discordantly realistic . When Knowles gets slapped around by Mitchum , he remembers it later and takes revenge . A punch in the face leads to a bloody nose instead of a comely trickle from the corner of Mitchum's lips . The location shooting is nicely evocative . For some reason the talent are almost always shot in interiors or in isolated stopovers . The use of doubles in second-unit shooting is conspicuous . And the special effects are sometimes clumsy . Why undercrank the camera when the cars are already spinning around dangerous curves ? By 1949 the audience was wised up to such tricks . And why , when a driver is seen in a car mock up against a rear projection screen , does the car lean INTO the curve ? Yes , if you're piloting an airplane . No , if you're driving a car . The f / x guys have to bone up on " inertia " . Don Siegel directed but this was an early effort and he was yet to hit his stride . By no definition is this a film noir , but it's not bad for what it is .
Not as bad as it ought to be .	Kind of unpromising material , if you think about it . A dozen people in different vehicles thrumming through the Oklahoma night while a mad killer is offing women and leaving their corpses holding their own hearts . ( Wow . ) What an opportunity to slather Technicolor Red Number Nine all over the screen . Instead the writer and director have given us a series of character studies that , if schematic , are at least not in-your-face revolting . The violence is no more than is required and the acting is pretty good . Especially good are Robert Forster as a good-natured truck driver , Lois Red Elk as a Navaho mother who wants to see the Gulf of Mexico before she dies , and Penelope Anne Miller as a sleazy but compliant lap dancer . Complaints from others that the script is overwritten , so that the dialog sounds speechy , while understandable , should compare this attempt at naturalism with the arty " Night on Earth . " I have a complaint too , though . That damned dog ! The doomed mutt that Forster picks up at a truck stop . We already KNOW that Forster's Odell is a nice guy . We don't need his saving the dog . Makes you feel as if it weren't enough that Cardone , the writer and director , had touched our hearts - - he had to cut them out and hand them to us .
Not dead , but liminal .	This isn't Val Lewton's best , although it's by no means a failure , given the strictures of the production - - budget , schedule , and so on . The story has a handful of people quarantined on a Greek island so as not to spread the plague . Half of them die of the disease , two are murdered by a crazed woman who was prematurely buried , and one is a suicide . Only the gentlemanly host and the two young lovers survive . The acting varies in quality , with Boris Karloff being noticeably more professional than anybody else , as the stern , protective General whose skepticism about vorvolaka ( some kind of night-time demon from the grave ) is finally ground away by the stress and by the whispers of the old crone who believes in the superstition . Unfortunately , the script lets everyone down . Halfway through the film , the wind changes and the plague is forgotten . The rest of the story has to do with that escapee from the premature burial who runs around with a miniature version of Poseidon's trident , using it to the distress of the others . It wouldn't be bad if the two sources of horror were somehow fused and hinged together - - the plague and the vorvolaka - - but they're not . The superstition actually arises out of an illness that has nothing to do with plague , as the film makes clear from the start . We wind up with the impression that we're watching the same actors in the same wardrobe on the same set - - but making two different movies . The direction by Mark Robson is okay , and Lewton will have his little touches . The eeriest scene is a simple one - - a vulnerable woman in a peasant dress following the chirping of a bird through a dark and windy forest . Night . And she's all by herself . And there's a madwoman with a sharp object somewhere . Little Red Riding Hood all ready to be eaten . But that's about it . Whatever scare factor is built into the movie comes from the images on screen , not from the story . What always surprises me about Val Lewton's productions at RKO is that , even when they're no more than middling , they are B movies that manage never to insult the audience . They are never done by the number , or at any rate not by any numbers that exist outside of Val Lewton's head .
Original Sin	Daniel Day-Lewis is Gerry Conlon , a Belfast Catholic . He's a young guy who leads a reckless life , throwing rocks gleefully at British armored cars , stealing from a prostitute's apartment . But things are getting rough in Belfast . A resolution has just been passed that allows for the arrest and retention of suspected terrorists for seven days without charge . ( Seven days , nothing . How about infinity ? Betrayed by neighboring and competitive falafel-stand owner , the despicable and damned-forever Shaymala , who is forever after me . May her tribe be cursed . Signed : Abdul Abulbul Amir , Guantanamo . ) Well , Day-Lewis ships over to London where he leads a reckless , heedless , drug - and booze-besotted , frolicsome , life of hippiedom in a shoddy commune of like-minded dope-smoking friends . We don't believe in eating animals . Only love . The next thing he knows , he's in the slams with his father . He's been convicted of setting off a bomb in a pub , and his Da of running a safe house . The scene in which the explosion occurs is very well done . Here is the happy , fur-bedecked Day-Lewis in the equivalent of Central Park or Golden Gate Park , having his usual unthinking good time , when there comes to the gay group a distant but loud THUMP . They rise and look grimly in the direction of the sound . " Sounds like Belfast , " says one of them . It would have been easy to make the Crown the heavy and the poor IRA folk the awesome victims , but that's not what this is about . It's about the relationship between Day-Lewis , a delinquent , and his father , Pete Postelthwaite , who committed sins a long time ago . Inmates have an interesting subculture . And it's different , evidently , from one country to another . These inmates are almost benign compared to Americans . American inmates have ritual verbalisms that excuse their acts - - murder or whatever . " It wasn't personal . " ( Probably taken from " The Godfather . " ) Or , " He had no business being there . " American cops have the same convention : " It was just a natural act , " said when a police officer shoots or beats the crap out of a bystander . No problem . If one inmate has a fit and falls down an iron staircase , another inmate who witnesses it might - - might - - call the center and say , " Somebody just fell down , " without helping . And the slams themselves are better kept up in Britain than in all but the newest slams in America . The direction is zippy without being maddening , and the acting superb . It's well worth seeing .
Classic of the genre .	It really IS a classic of the genre , but the problem is that the genre itself is so dated as not to be taken seriously anymore . That happens to genres . Would you watch a Western in which the good guy wears a white hat and the bad guy wears a black hat and one " calls the other out " and they have a mano-a-mano shootout in the middle of the dusty street and the good guy wins and gets the girl ? I mean , that's asking a lot of a modern audience . This film was one of a series of semi-documentaries that came out with the end of the war . Often , as here , Henry Hathaway was the director and the stentorian baritone Reed Hadley was the narrator . I can't vouch for the historical accuracy of the plot , although regardless of the facts I'm sure J . Edgar Hoover was tickled pink when he saw it . Hoover , President-for-Life of the FBI , was a media savvy character . Early in his career he had a skilled partner in Melvin Purvis , the guy who tracked down Dillinger . Such rivalry was not to be tolerated . Purvis's part in the affair , in fact in the FBI , was purged like Akhenaten's until Hoover became the hero . Purvis quit in disgust . Hoover refused to cooperate with Warner's " G-Men " because Jimmy Cagney patronized a saloon , but he gave the FBI's all to this film because the FBI was morally upright and flawless . One scene was of particular interest . A real Nazi spy insists on testing the American counterspy's radio set to see if it can actually reach Hamburg . It doesn't . It transmits directly to a nearby FBI station which then relays the information to Germany , in a slightly altered form . The FBI operator hears the Nazi calling . He looks up and says , " That isn't Bill . I know his fist . " A " fist " is the particular style that an individual operator uses in sending Morse code . It's about as distinctive as his handwriting . I was a radio operator for a few years in the Coast Guard and had a great fist . Most of the other men at my station set their keys to automatic " fast " so they could sound hot . Only they overreached and wound up sending erratically and making a lot of errors . I set mine to " slow " and developed a fist that was heaven to listen to and easy to read . Two Coast Guard radiomen from a ship visited the station in dress blues one afternoon and asked who " LL " was - - those were my sign-off letters . They came over to my console and one said , " We just wanted to tell you that it's a pleasure to copy you . " The two men shook my hand , the three of us blushed , and they made a hurried exit , because real men don't say things like that to one another . Pardon me , that may have been what you call " off topic . " Oh , yes , the movie . Alas , the conventions of the genre demand that the Nazis be evil in every respect . Worse than that , they're rude . When the American counterspy is introduced to them , they don't shake his hand . They don't even greet him , they just scowl . None of them is in love , none of them has a home , none has a dog or a cat or collects stamps . They sacrifice one another for the cause at the drop of a solecism and - - well , you get the picture . The conventions doom the characters as human beings . Loyd Nolan and Signe Hasso are the most watchable , but all of the performances are colorless . Even the hero is dull , despite the danger he often finds himself in . It's still an interesting and exciting flick , once you adapt to its weaknesses . Fascinating to see the way in which two-way mirrors are presented as the high-tech novelty they were at the time . And the pre-computer FBI's fingerprint storage - - " Five THOUSAND fingerprints on file ! " , Hadley announces proudly . It's worth catching if it is convenient .
Random comments on a tragic event .	If you're going to assess the movie AS a movie , you have to try to separate it from the events it purports to describe . The events are far too horrible for us to grasp fully , but the movie is accessible to us , fully formed , financed , edited , and marketed for our enlightenment . I guess that doesn't really make it easy to make judgments about the film , because there is still so much emotional baggage in tow . If this were entirely fictional , I'd say it was about average for a TV movie , may a bit less . I expect that men and women will respond differently to it . Most of the footage seems taken up with phone calls between the victims and their families or agents on the ground . This ought to appeal disproportionately to women . Nothing sexist is meant by that . It's just a scientific observation as well as an everyday one . As an example , a few years ago a young woman was driving her car across some railroad tracks and a locomotive smashed into the car . As the monstrous engine pushed the car along the track for a quarter of a mile or so before finally coming to a stop , the woman was frantically working at her cell phone , trying to call her mother . Men will respond more to the instrumental activities on the ground and aboard the doomed flight . What did they DO ? What did they plan to do with the airplane if they succeeded ? Did any of them know anything about flying a huge aircraft ? I wouldn't argue that the instrumental concerns were more important than the expressive ones in this instance . The passengers and the hijackers were dead the moment the pilot and copilot were killed . If I had a last phone call to make , it might well be to a family member . Yet the film seems to pander to common sensibilities . Do ALL of the victim's families have to be so pure and middle class ? Were all of the loved ones really blond ? Why do we see so MANY kids ? And why are they thrust in our faces ? The first family member to receive an alarming phone call from her husband is simultaneously watching television , trying to cope with three noisy young children , and understand what her husband is trying to tell her . The kids are all cute as buttons but they keep getting underfoot and interrupting her - - " Who's dead , Mommy ? " And the movie - - understandably - - must take dramatic license . But in doing so , in fabricating conversations and events aboard the plane , in concentrating on isolated phone calls home , it loses something of real importance - - how did the passengers get to know each other well enough to bond together and combat a common enemy ? Nobody seems to discuss their takeover plans with anyone else . It seems to come out of the blue . The film raises questions about the truth value of some of the things we see on screen too . How did one of the fruitcakes manage to get on board with a simulated bomb strapped around his waist ? My impression is that the interceptors were nowhere near the hijacked airplane , so why the agonized speculation about whether they should shoot it down or just ram it ? And did anyone really say , " Let's roll " ? I know Bruce Willis would have said it , but did anyone in real life ? I don't want to carp on this any longer because the attacks are still painfully clear in our memories . But although this movie isn't actually insulting , it needs to show more respect for the victims and for the audience as well . When catastrophes are bent and reshaped into typical movie fare , the events and the victims are both cheapened . Tears are easy . Handle with care .
These Lawyers Keep Writing Novels	It used to be doctors that boasted about the literary artists that rose from their ranks - - William Carlos Williams , Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle , Michael Crighton , Frank Slaughter . ( Frank Slaughter ? ) Now it's coming to be lawyers . Back in 1959 , " Anatomy of a Murder " was a lonely best seller . Lately there has been a cascade of more or less autobiographical books about lawyers from the likes of Turow and Gresham . And the movies inevitably follow the bucks , I mean the books . I wish Turow had used a little more imagination in cooking up the names for his characters , especially since they seem designed to represent a little microcosm of ethnic identities . I guess Sabich is properly Polish , and Horgan irretrievably Irish , and lawyer Stern can be a Jewish lawyer who looks and speaks like a Puerto Rican . Polhemus may be a little unusual but not everyone can claim a hyphenized national allegiance . The attempt is weak with the Italian characters , though . Molto ? Too much for me to believe . And Della Guardia is plumb wrong . La Guardia is an occupational name , meaning " guard , " pretty much like " Steward " in English . But " de la " indicates a place name , like " von " in German or " van " in Dutch . " Della " and " Guardia " are a mismatched couple . " From the guard " ? It would be like an Italian novelist making up a character name like " Cookson " or " Bakerson . " The animal doesn't exist . Oh - - the movie ? It's okay . It rolls along in its sexy , suspenseful , stereotypical way , an efficient example of how to reconstruct in an unidentifiable manner a story already familiar from " The Big Clock " and " No Way Out " and " Where the Sidewalk Ends " and a couple of others . Harrison Ford mopes efficiently through his part . I like Brian Dennehy a lot better as a nice guy than a heavy . Raul Julia is reassuring , almost comforting , in the role of Ford's defense counsel . If I were to be tried for murder I would want him and his underplayed confidence and his big dark gentle eyes to represent me rather than the skulky guilty-looking Ford . Bonny Bedelia is okay . Greta Scacchi is a knockout , so to speak , so it's a double tragedy when she gets her head bashed in . John Spencer is always reliable - - or was . He died a month ago . Too bad , a reliable New Jerseyish everyman . It's worth catching but not worth commenting further on .
Dual Redemption .	Christina Ricci is a nymphomaniac in a small Southern town . That's a good start right there . In her previous films I found myself so wound up in her broad forehead , Walter Keane eyes , and tiny lips and mental process that I never realized she had a figure . But that she does , and it's pretty much on display here . She spends half the movie running around in the remnants of a polo shirt and a pair of tiny underpants that emphasize her pubic symphisis . A soupcon of bondage too , for those interested in such things . She's more or less engaged to Justin Timberlake who is often away on National Guard assignments , including combat in the Middle East . He's a good soldier but he gets buck fever when he has to shoot at another human being . When he's out of town she floods out with testosterone . One night her lovers take her to a woodland , beat the hell out of her , and leave her lying unconscious in the grass . Samuel L . Jackson is a blues-playing Jesus-driven guitarist who has alienated his estrange wife and now lives alone in a generic wooden shack on a dirt road . He finds Ricci , picks her up , and takes her home . So far , so formulaic . We immediately think that somehow Jackson is going to " cure " Ricci . And he DOES . But there are many twists and turns along the way . Jackson comes to realize that you can't dominate others ' lives , which is presumably what cost him his family . Ricci overcomes her nymphomania . Timberlake conquers his rage when he finds out everyone in town has been doing his girl friend when he's away , and he winds up marrying her , though still burdened by anxiety attacks . We all feel , as the couple drive away to start a new life , that she will help him find peace . I wasn't surprised at Jackson's superior performance as a rickety and crotchety old man . He's always fine . And this role is a challenge . He must project both a protective impulse towards Ricci and at the same time an uncontrollable desire to exercise power over her . He chains her to a radiator in his shack and keeps her captive - - for her own good . Well , that's the sort of thing he expect from the heavy in an ordinary slasher movie . What comes next - - the torture ? The branding with red-hot pokers ? But the writers and the actor keep it clean . It's still a tough role though . Ricci in her minimalist clothing keeps offering herself to Jackson - - " If you want me you can have me . I'll do anything you want . " Of course , he brushes off her advances , as any normal eunuch would . Ricci's performance is pretty good too and that was a bit of a surprise because I'd never seen her do much more than hit her marks before . But then she's never really had a chance to play such a flamboyant Lulubelle before , or to take off all her clothes for that matter . Justin Timberlake doesn't have a very large role but he's not bad at doing rage and anxiety . Or rather " anxiety " , because it seems clear the writers have never had anxiety attacks as I've had . Yet the writing and the direction is subtle enough to suggest the kind of thing that precipitates anxiety attacks , what shrinks call " low-probability catastrophes . " For example , on their final getaway in the car , Timberlake is driving slowly , as anxiety neurotics are want to do , and is being passed by one of those loud , threatening eighteen-wheelers loaded with timber . The monster truck takes an agonizingly long time to pass in the outer lane , sometimes appearing to slow down to the speed of Timberlake's own sluggish vehicle . Meanwhile another loud monster with a grill the size of a king-sized box spring has pulled up behind him , its air horn screaming . Stuck between threats , Timberlake adjusts the rear-view mirror nervously a few times then tells Ricci he has to pull off onto the shoulder . The symptoms may not be right , but the trigger and the behavior are spot on . The musical score is steeped in blues played on an electric guitar , and I found it lugubrious and ultimately tiresome . " Shot a man in Memphis - - bullet hole in his haid . " Well , not that . The lyrics actually underline the development of the characters . I also wish the writers hadn't thoughtlessly thrown in the abuse excuse for Ricci's nymphomania . As if it were that simple . Something else I'm compelled to add . If I don't , nobody will get it . In the third sentence above , both the words " mental " and " process " are puns . They have independent meanings in anatomy and psychology , and both usages are apt . I'd pat myself on the back if I could reach it but I really can't claim credit . The voices tell me these things . The movie's pace is a bit slow too , but it's obvious that a good deal of effort has gone into it . Not badly done .
The Ghost At The Banquet .	It's an unusual movie for MGM , known best for its family movies . Think " Little Women " and " Meet Me in St . Louis . " This is pretty dark stuff , visually and otherwise . Van Heflin is a contractor in a Los Angeles suburb , when Los Angeles still had suburbs . He's evidently the kind of contractor who's best at turning orange groves into monopoly houses so he's rich and respectable , with a beautiful young wife ( Janet Leigh ) and a child . He leads a life on the sunny side of the brand new street in Santa Lisa . However we soon find that he's being tracked by the lame Robert Ryan . Ryan has black glittering eyes and carries an automatic and seems to be sneering all the time . Ryan tracks Heflin to a nice lake up in the mountains , then back to his home , then to a contractor's convention in Los Angeles . Heflin doesn't find out that he's being followed until half an hour or so into the film , but he realizes at once the reason for the pursuit . Heflin rushes in a panic through the empty wind-swept streets of LA at night , looking for the courage to kill himself , finally falling in with hooker Mary Astor and her louche friends , one of whom ( Barry Kroger ) he hires to wipe out Ryan before Ryan can get to him . But he's so fagged out , half drunk , when he makes the deal that the next day he must have Astor explain it to him . When he stumbles back to his house in the suburbs , Janet Leigh greets him with a big smile and chirps , " That suit will have to go to the cleaners . And you're a mess . " Later we see her knitting socks or something . Those were the days . So what did Van Heflin do and why is Robert Ryan going to kill him ? They were POWs in the same Stalag . Heflin found that Ryan and a dozen others were to try an escape through a tunnel that the Germans knew about . Heflin couldn't dissuade Ryan , though other POWs had been killed trying the same route . So Captain Heflin went to the Germans and , after getting them to promise to go easy on the would-be escapees , he informed on them . The Germans fed him for that , while others were near starvation , but Heflin didn't care . He ate . He even ate while the Nazis went back on their word , bayoneted the escapees , and left them writhing and whining like run-over dogs . Ryan managed to escape by playing dead and now Ryan seeks revenge for himself and the dead men . Heflin pays for his sins by getting himself and Barry Kroger killed in the process of saving Ryan's life . This is a more interesting film than it seems at the start . Oh , we know more or less right away that Heflin has done something bad , but Ryan's trench-coated , limping , scowling figure is so menacing that he seems to be not much more than a stock villain . You know , maybe Heflin quit the gang without permission or something . Or maybe he squealed on the boss . But , no . It's a more grown-up film than that . Heflin can no longer remember whether he informed to save the lives of his men or just for a loaf of bread . The evil influence here , Kroger as the hit man aside , is war . War seems to have a habit of corrupting at least as many of its participants as it ennobles , so it should probably be avoided . The photography , by Robert Surtees , is exceptional . Evocative location shooting , from a lake shimmering under the sun , to seedy urban streets along which the wind machines blow shreds of paper . Fred Zinneman directed . The problem with the movie , the thing that keeps it from being better than it is , is the dialog . It's flat and strictly functional . It doesn't give any of the characters much depth . There is nothing in this movie , for instance , to equal the scene in " Crossfire " in which Paul Kelly comes up with his surreal monologues . All the performances are good but none are memorable .
Nature vs . Culture .	At the beginning of the film Michael Moriarty , a correspondent in Vietnam , is writing a letter to his wife ( Tuesday Weld ) , describing how the elephants are thought to be used as pack animals for the VC , so US choppers have been ordered to chase them and destroy them . " You see , " he writes , " in a word where flying men pursue elephants , people just naturally have to get high . " That's a pretty good line , and it's not the only one in this fairly literate dialog . Moriarty obliges Nick Nolte , a friend from their Marine Corps days , to smuggle five pounds of heroin back into the states for him . Everything is all set up . Well , it's not . A crooked narcotics agent ( Zerbe ) and a couple of his goons barge in and try to rip off the smack . Nolte escapes with Weld . The heavies capture Moriarty and demand to know where Nolte and Weld have taken this fortune's worth of heroin , but he has no idea . They beat hell out of him , shoot him full of drugs , force him back on a red hot stove burner , and dunk him in a bathtub , but it's no use . ( Man , does Moriarty do a great job of registering horror and pain . ) There follows a cross-country pursuit , from Oakland to Los Angeles to a barren mountain in New Mexico , site of a long-deserted hippie commune and fair grounds . That's where the final shootout takes place , with Nolte and Weld on the mountain and Zerbe , his goons , and the captive Moriarty down below . If this sounds a little confusing it's because I found the story itself a little confusing . At critical points in the story , cause and effect seem to evaporate . I'll just give one example . Nolte and Weld in their Land Rover or whatever it is race across the Southwest with their stash and an M16 . Weld asks where they are going . Nolte tells her that they're headed for this isolated hideaway in the great beyond of the New Mexico hills , El Ojo Grande . For all purposes , he seems to have improvised their destination on the spot . And yet , after leaving the highway and crawling up a dirt road and driving through dry washes , they finally pull up at their destination , one of Zerbe's spies is watching them through binoculars and through his radio tells Zerbe , " They're here . " I don't know , either . Throughout , the film follows the general idea layed out by Moriarty in his letter . Culture ( " flying men " ) destroy Nature ( " elephants " ) . And narcotics are the by-product of this conflict . The cities we see are smoggy industrial Oakland and a Los Angeles in which rich people are ridiculed as stupid before being victimized for no reason . Zerbe , the government man representing civilization , is corrupt and treacherous . There are one or two references to Nietzsche , the relevance of which eluded me , but I guess philosophy is culture too , even if its boiled down to a crib sheet . " When he encounters danger the man of courage goes forward . " You don't have to read Nietzsche to get the idea . You don't have to get past Hemingway in high school . Nolte , basically a natural man , could easily hand over the dope but he won't do it - - out of pride . " I swore I was never again going to let myself be ordered around by morons . " That's his justification for endangering everyone's lives . Culture is despicable . Nolte is only really happy after he reaches the faded hippy hideout , an unspoiled paradise now , full of joyous memories for him . He plays Hank Snow's " Golden Rocket " and does an impromptu square dance with Weld on the delapidated bandstand . His friend , a kind of caretaker of the place who lives in a tiny abandoned mission , is a Mexican and a gardener and a caring avuncular figure . How natural can you get ? Can you beat a Mexican gardener ? Well , I guess you could , but at least we are spared the stereotypical Indian communing with the spirits and exercising second sight . Villains aside , the characters are pretty complex , not to say unformed . Nolte's role is the easiest - - the he-man who knows his business and is hard . Weld is required to change from a blithering housewife who works in a Berkeley bookstore to a drugged-out frightened escapee from the bourgeois life who falls for Nolte and begins to share his dreams of owning a boat in Mexico . ( " But who will be on the boat ? " , she asks him dreamily . " Where will the boat go ? It must be some boat . " ) The most complex character - - and the best performance - - is Moriarty's . He's a genuine philosopher . He commits an existential act at the beginning and follows its consequences through all the way . Whenever he's asked a question of any intricacy , his answer is , " I don't know , " said simply , the way a child might say it in a second-grade class . He's bony and balding , his face innocent and a bit bewildered , and he feels real pain - - but he faces threats with a gangling carelessness . A gun is put to his head and he's ordered to get down on his knees and pray . Instead he walks away and sits down carelessly . The performance is just short of marvelous . I'm not sure I've got a grasp around the whole movie . I'm not sure anyone does . It's vague enough to be interpreted a dozen different ways and sometimes seems meandering . But what's on screen is directed well by Karel Reisz , my director in " Weeds , " and if we can ignore the holes in the script it's an enjoyable and tense story . But do not look for a standard-typical action flick , with people's heads getting regularly wrenched off by some Lyngbakr with an attitude . It's more than that .
Los Angeles in its decadent period .	This script about two high-school kids - - one a genius ( Roddy MacDowell ) and the other a nubile blond airhead ( Tuesday Weld ) . MacDowell , close to 40 at the time of shooting , looks about as much like a high schooler as I do . Weld , on the other hand , reminds me a lot of Irene Revok , this succulent , shy blond who sat immediately in front of me in chemistry class . She was enchanting , had a splendid figure , and a fascinating nape . Oh , how I wanted to bite it . Anyway , the movie has some extremely witty scenes and dialog . The students attend a new consolidated school in which botany masquerades as " Plant Styles For Life . " There is a drive-in church in which people sit in their convertibles , sleeping or getting a tan , and listen to the sermon from the speakers . The congregation is assured that " prayers ARE answered because whatever happens - - THAT'S THE ANSWER . " There is also a lecture on " Christian attitudes towards the automobile . " A college boy necking with his girl feels guilty because he lied to his mother and told her that they were going to see " The Ten Commandments . " And suppose she asks about it ? What can he tell her ? He's never seen the movie . The girl scoffs and says she read the book and , though she can't remember the story , she knows that the central idea is " Thou Shallt Not . " The writer , George Axelrod , has taken an early poke at just about everything that Southern California was on the verge of becoming . Blatant materialism , rabid ambition with no focus whatever , social snobbery , funeral practices , consumerism , anomi , fake marriage counselors . " Q : Every morning when my husband leaves for work he kisses me on the forehead . How can I get him to kiss me on the lips ? " " A : Wear high heels . " Granted these all seem like pretty easy targets right now , but LA was just entering its phase of cultural discontinuity in the early 1960s . It would be well captured by other films too , such as " The Loved one . " And Marin County came in for a few quick jabs in the 1970s with " Serial . " MacDowell adopts some silly name and promises to give Weld anything she wants . Well - - first she wants a dozen cashmere sweaters . And MacDowell arranges it so that her divorced father ( Max Showalter in a hilarious pop-eyed mode ) buys her a pile of such sweaters . He laughs insanely while she models them for him and gurgles out the colors - - papaya surprise , put-me-down peach , glans mauve , or whatever . The two of them swoon and wrap themselves in sweaters , drooling and moaning in a counterfeit climax . It's the best scene in the movie . It all somehow doesn't quite hang together . MacDowell sees to it that Weld has what she wants - - first the sweaters , then a holiday at the beach , then a gloriously dumb boy friend , then marriage to him - - but when it comes to divorce , " We don't divorce men in our family . We bury them . " Half a dozen attempts to off Weld's new hubby fail , so MacDowell goes mad and uses a back hoe with huge teeth to slaughter the guy , along with the principal staff of the high school . There's also the dramatic suicide of Weld's mother , of the type that Emil Durkheim called egoistic , as if it weren't enough for a satirical film to be merely funny . The message underneath the chuckles is serious without the suicide . Tuesday Weld can have anything she wants - - but she doesn't know what she wants . That's tragedy enough . Some day , after the dreams dissolve , she'll find herself headed in the same direction as her mother because there really is nothing much underneath the froth .
Nifty B Thriller	With very little effort you could visualize this on the screen of some neighborhood theater - - The Ritz or the Bijou or the Mayfair - - in , say , 1949 . Only then it would be in black and white . The credits take about 90 seconds to unroll . It stars people like Edmond O'Brian and Adele Jergens and Marie Windsor and Ted DeCorsia . It's not called " Bound , " though . I'm having a little trouble putting that together . It's called something more like " The Big Con " or Edge of Darkness " or " Where Danger Lives . " " Bound " is a bit too suggestive even for 1949 . " Bound " is a B movie . The script is pretty elementary , the film has no bankable stars , everybody double-crosses everybody else , and it's cheaply made . But it's updated through the direction , which gives us not just some hood holding a snub-nosed . 38 at his hip and shooting someone once . Instead , the hood holds his big pistol sideways and at eye level . Okay , this makes no sense . If you're going to hold it high enough to take aim , why hold the weapon sideways ? The answer , I guess , is that that's how it's done in modern thrillers . Frankly , I blame Bruce Willis for this . He was the first to use this self-defeating convention on screen , that I know of , in " Die Hard . " It's updated too in that the director has more freedom . So , for instance , the camera can climb up an apartment wall and then OVER the top into the apartment next door . And , people aren't usually shot just once but several times . Sometimes many times . Bullet holes and blood all over the place . And when shot , the victim doesn't simply grasp his belly and grimace , then twirl around and crumple to the floor . He throws out his arms , slips around on a floor covered with bone-white latex interior paint , dripping blood in artsy patterns onto the slickness . It could be grand opera , except that sometimes the victim has time enough , though bullet-riddled , to raise his finger as if lecturing the shooter and make some absurd wisecrack - - " Please don't shoot , " in this case . And it's updated also because the two lovers take off with the boodle to live happily ever after , we guess . In 1949 the lovers would have been maybe Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Ryan . Here the lovers are two lesbians . ( Some nice , but not hot sex between them is thrown in for the voyeurs . ) And although they are both pre-verts and at least one of them has murdered somebody in cold blood , the getaway vehicle in the final scene doesn't plunge off a cliff , as it would have had to in 1949 . What I mean is , did Hannibal Lecter die at the end of " Silence of the Lambs " ? No - - and he ATE people . Times have changed . Gina Gershon with her protruding lips could pass for an ex inmate . Jennifer Tilly's voice is a slow , wispy croak and she comes across as the dark side of the moon of Melanie Griffith . The Italian mobsters weren't too impressive , but Joe Pantoliano was great as usual . He can play almost anything . Here he covers his Jersey City accent with a reasonably authentic Chicago sound , although perhaps nobody but Pantoliano would catch it , or would care if they did . Interesting minor flick , worth watching .
Colorful training camp romance .	The plot is nothing much new . An older , experienced aviator ( Preston Foster ) is hired as a civilian instructor at Thunder Bird Airfield in Arizona . His missions : ( 1 ) To shepherd a class of American , British , and Chinese novices through primary flight training , and ( 2 ) to woo an old girl friend , Gene Tierney , who happens to live on a ranch next to the field . One of his British students is the elegant-sounding and clean-cut young John Sutton . The poor guy used to be a doctor but then volunteered for the RAF , a position for which he seems manifestly unsuited . He gets airsick and is acrophobic , like me . Encouraged by his aunt , the no-nonsense Dame May Witty , he does his best to overcome his defects . After some initial flights , Foster says he's going to wash Sutton out but Sutton begs for another chance and Foster relents , for now . That's not all that's going on though . The ability to fly is one thing , but then there's Gene Tierney to contend with . Wow . Sutton and his co-cadet Richard Haydn ( the voice of the caterpillar in " Alice in Wonderland " ) run into Gene Tierney in a dress shop . They admire her legs and she taunts them , flirtatiously , and leads them on . Preston's love for Tierney , if that's what it is , in unrequited but Tierney and Sutton get along quite well together . Did I mention her legs ? Did I mention her facial features ? She looks like the result of a mating between a Chinese porcelain doll and a fox . But never mind the romance . That's ground . The figure is the flying . The director , William Wellman , was a flier himself and though this was strictly a contractual obligation , his fascination with airplanes illuminates the film . I can only think of a few other films that have so successfully captured the exuberance of flying biplanes in their colorful pre-war paint schemes in the blue and crystalline air of Arizona . Such beauty for such an ugly end . If you find the romantic theme music familiar or appealing , it's written by Harry Warren for another movie about ice skating in the same year , 1942 . The title is " There Will Never Be Another You , " and it's entered the Great American Songbook . You can download it from anywhere . There's not much else to be said about the movie . The performances are all professional , the plot is the result of innumerable recyclings , and the visual imagery is splendor itself , especially the girl and the airplanes . Did I mention her legs ? A cheerful and diverting way to spend an hour and a half .
Entertaining buddy comedy .	It's the kind of relaxed , enjoyable , self-referential episode we expect in the " road " series of Bob Hope and Bing Crosby . It fills the usual template . Two greedy , cowardly , libidinous show-business guys get thrown out of a circus and find themselves stowing away on a ship bound for Rio de Janeiro . ( Brazil , like all their other destinations , will be constructed entirely on the studio back lot and on sound stages . ) They meet Dorothy Lamour . Dorothy is in trouble again . Her sinister aunt , Gale Sondergaard , is hypnotizing her and forcing her to marry a rich suitor . Depending on her trance , or its absence , Lamour is either a distressed woman in need or a blank automaton who tells Hope and Crosby , " I hate you . I loathe you . I despise you , " and then slaps them . Two hoodlums are working for Lamour's aunt and the rest of the movie is basically a pursuit through the streets , night clubs , and hotel rooms of a touristy Rio . There are some pretty funny scenes . Hope and Crosby trying to celebrate a evanescent victory by toasting it with champagne , while one of the hoods keeps shattering the glasses with a silenced rifle fired from across the street . Three comic monolingual Brazilians are taught slang phrases in order to pass as genuine American jazz musicians . Each learns one phrase - - " You're in the groove , Jackson " , " This is murder , " and " You're telling me . " The boss catches them in the hall and , not knowing of the masquerade , admonishes them for smoking . " You're in the groove , Jackson . " " You're telling me . " Boss : " No , I'm telling HIM . " It's really amusing . But there are signs that the writers ' imaginations are flagging as well . The musicians , who take up quite a bit of screen time , are too cute by half . The narrative seems padded out with more musical numbers than usual , though they're not bad and at least two songs ( by Burns and van Heusen ) became popular hits - - " You don't have to know the language , " and " But beautiful . " The gags don't seem to come quite as fast as they have in the past . Some are borrowed openly from Laurel and Hardy routines ( even the L & H theme is used ) and some are reminiscent of The Three Stooges . Still , it's fun to watch the kids romping around once more . Hope , Crosby , and Lamour - - all look fine , not having seemed to age much since their initial outing some years earlier . Relax and enjoy it .
Wayward Brothers .	Post-war Los Angeles is nicely evoked in this story of two brothers - - Desmond Spellacy ( Robert DeNiro ) and Tom ( Robert Duvall ) . Plenty of grand old gas-guzzling Fords . Vacant lots that are now undoubtedly buried under a Starbucks or a Nieman-Marcus . Five-dollar cat houses that smell like old paint . And both DeNiro and Duvall do well by their several parts . DeNiro is thoughtful , reserved , and an efficient wheeler and dealer in the hierarchy of the Catholic church , a Monseignor in fact . Duvall is equally smart but more tempestuous . He's not much of a pragmatist , ripping off a Fat Cat's " Catholic Layman of the Year " breast ribbon , flinging it drunkenly away , and asking at a public gathering if the Fat Cat , Jack Amsterdam ( Charles Durning ) , was wearing it when he was " banging Lois Fazenda . " Who is - - or was - - Lois Fazenda , you ask ? Well , I'll tell you . She was a great big pain in the neck , a beautiful young woman who was careless enough to get herself murdered and then cut in half , with both parts distributed in a vacant lot . Duvall and the other detectives and reporters chuckle and make jokes as they check out the body parts . In the course of his investigation Duvall turns up the fact that Lois Fazenda was a disappointed movie starlet who made some skin flicks and was subsequently butchered by the producer , who then committed suicide . She turned to hookery and was the close personal friend and sex toy of Jack Amsterdam , the Fat Cat whose financial favors DeNiro has been cultivating . DeNiro himself once met Lois Fazenda by accident , although he doesn't remember it until he's reminded of it . All this , of course , involves the church in the murder , upping the stakes all around . It puts Duvall in the position of having to investigate his own brother , his brother's Cash Cow , and the entire institution of the church . There's still another way in which Lois Fazenda is a nuisance . Her case , although it involves a minimum of screen time and practically no suspense , is a heck of a lot more interesting than the story of intrigue between Fat Cat criminals and church finances . Lois Fazenda , modeled on the " Black Dahlia " murder , was the victim of a particularly barbaric crime - - yet her death is almost brushed off , the mystery given little attention , and the murderer's identity sloughed off with some two-bit comment about how he's dead now . Instead of a notorious and still-unsolved case of illegal dumping , we're left with a wary relationship between two brothers who have taken different paths in life , and an exploration of how the Catholic church takes losing real estate deals off your hands so you get a tax write-off . The dicey relationship between Desmond and Tom is nicely drawn . ( In " Mean Streets " , DeNiro played the other , irresponsible friend . ) But do we really need to see Charles Durning dancing an Irish jig ? Far more gripping to see Duvall alone poking through the abandoned barracks where Lois Fazenda was sawed in half , and finding a bathtub covered with dried blood . DeNiro looks the part of the manipulative priest . Duvall , though , has settled into his later mode of open-mouthed grins , nodding head , and meaningless chuckles ( he he ) . There's an outstanding performance by Cyril Cusack as the rather worldly Cardinal who is philosophical about where the church's money is coming from . The score is elegiac and its theme nicely blends hints of the Spanish guitar and a sentimental Irish tune played on a wooden tenor recorder . John Gregory Dunne , who died not long ago , was a fine and cynical writer . The problem is that in this screenplay he seems to need to fill us in on the secrets behind the rectory's closed doors . A powerful priest plays footsies with a louche real-estate mogul . What else is new ? Dunne seems to have taken the same position that many Italian-American writers have taken with regard to the Mafia , trying to explain how things work because so many of us have it wrong . See , the Dons have wives and dogs and family values just like the rest of us . Or the way some Southern writers on the margin of history , Faulkner for instance , tried to clarify the issue of race relations for the rest of us . You Northerners think we hate all blacks but we don't . When they're nice , we're nice too . One of them taught me how to play the banjo as a child . The narrative drifts off in two separate directions and holds them together by the thinnest of threads , while devoting most of its attention to the less captivating of the two stories . " The Brothers Spellacy " might have made a solid movie all on its own , drenched in ethnicity , and the final scene at the graveyard is quite moving , but this film is sawed in half .
Huston Takes a Vacation	It's an easy-going , mildly entertaining mystery , the solution of which is given before the ending . The mystery itself could have been cooked up by Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle as a neat Sherlock Holmes short story . This one is rather dragged out . There's a subplot involving a French businessman and Dana Wynters that has nothing to do with the main story . Some of the Reveals are telegraphed ahead of time . Holmes could have solved the whole thing in a few hours over three pipes of shag . That doesn't matter . It's kind of relaxing and enjoyable . I mean , here are all these famous faces hidden behind rubber masks , sometimes with dubbed voices . The only one we can consistently recognize from beginning to end is Kirk Douglas . ( That nose ! That chin ! ) Well , that's not entirely true . In an epilogue , Robert Mitchum struggles manfully to remove his makeup and when he's through he looks almost exactly as he did before . Some mysteries are easier to solve than others . No need to go on about the plot . I will bet my riding breeches that whoever wrote the script had read " The Hound of the Baskervilles " not long before . However , here are John Huston and a lot of megastars of the time having a vacation in Ireland . ( Not the only Huston vacation , to be sure . ) Few of the megastars appear in the same shot . That's because - - well , it works this way . You hire , say , Burt Lancaster for a week . No more than that because he's expensive . And you shoot all his scenes in a few days . Then you do the same with , say , Frank Sinatra . By featuring them all in short and separate scenes , you wind up with more cameos for your buck . The lead is George C . Scott , with a reasonable British accent , at least to untutored ears . The unnecessary French friend may have added some appeal for French audiences . Kirk Douglas has a more substantial supporting role as the head heavy , and Robert Mitchum is on screen several times as a drunken scoundrel . The director , John Huston , had an estate in Ireland at the time and rode in exaltation to the hounds in fox hunts . Fox hunts - - " The unspeakable after the inedible , " commented Oscar Wilde . Yet I have this vision of them all having drinks and dinner at Huston's country place . And Huston getting to his feet at the end of a long evening and suggesting they all start half an hour later tomorrow . To him , at least in my vision , this is what " Donovan's Reef " was to John Ford . And the disguised cameos are kind of fun , even after you know who's who .
Sam's War	These comments are based on the restored version , now available on DVD . It's Sam Fuller's story of a small group of infantrymen from the First Division , Mark Hamill , Robert Carradine , Bobby De Cicco , and Kelly Ward , led by their sergeant , Lee Marvin . The battles , and the rests between battles , takes us from North Africa , through Sicily , France , and Czechoslovakia . We see the entire war through the eyes of this small group because Fuller was operating on a budget of something like four million dollars . It's as close to an " epic " as Fuller was to come , but the budget shows . This is no " Saving Private Ryan . " I'm taking a couple of things into account - - not just the budget but the effort and care that Fuller put into it . It's by far his most personal film . Carradine plays " Zap " , a reporter who is a stand in for Fuller , and Fuller himself appears as a war correspondent . It's an episodic movie , as many war movies are , but if there's one feature of this film that's consistent , it's its inconsistency . When somebody dies , there are no tears , no eulogy , no remembrance of him later . Instead , there's a quick cut to a party . Death comes out of nowhere , both for the Americans and the Germans . Pause to take a leak and you get your throat cut . ( That's how Fuller would have put it . ) There are a couple of memorable moments , small ones that don't involve a lot of action . Halfway through the film , the reporter and writer , Zap , notices a replacement reading a novel that Zap has just had published . Inching his face close to the replacement's , Zap says , " That's my book . " " YOUR book ? I just bought it at the repo depo . " " Yeah , but I wrote it , " Zap tells him , then gives him a swig from a bottle of booze and claps him on the cheek . Marvin has been lounging nearby , his helmet over his face , and when he overhears this exchange he surreptitiously tilts his helmet back to stare wonderingly at Zap for a moment before allowing the helmet to drop again . He didn't know Zap was a writer , and no power on earth could ever get Marvin to compliment him on having a novel published . There isn't space enough to describe more , but most of them revolve around the utter absence of sentiment . Well - - one more . It lasts about a minute . It's just a scene in which a matronly hotel manager sits at an old piano and plays a bit of Chopin , while Marvin sits on the end of the bench , looking away from her , dreamily , and neither speaks a word . For those few seconds we're able to get far enough into Marvin's head to get past his identity as a soldier . But there are other recurring elements that Fuller makes good use of . The kids , for instance . The children . First we meet Arab kids who are conniving scamps . Then we meet Italian kids , the boys tough ( one of them shows no emotion when he's arguing with the men that the decomposing body of his mother must be buried in a proper place ) , the girls sweet ( one of them weaves flowers into the netting of Marvin's helmet ) . The German kids who are still saluting Hitler and sniping at the advancing GIs . We also get to meet Lee Marvin's German counterpart , a sergeant played by Siegried Rauch , who was the intelligence officer assigned to research the personal characteristics of General Patton in " Patton . " Well , ALL the Germans we anything but lovable . But Rauch is an uncomplicated Nazi . He's brave , resolute , and brutal . If someone bad mouths Hitler or the cause , Rauch simply machine-guns them to death . It doesn't matter if the victim is just a poor disgruntled grunt or a contessa . Rat-a-tat-tat . And when Rauch finally surrenders , it's just so that he can live long enough to carry on the fight later . That's kind of a simple-minded view of an enemy , never mind another human being . And the film , its strengths notwithstanding , suffers from this simplicity in its dialog and characterization . On a French battlefield , the men stumble across a monument to the First Infantry Division , with a long list of names . One of them says , " Look at that ! We just got here and already they put up a monument to the Big Red One . " Marvin explains that the monument was put up in 1918 after the First World War . " But the names are the same , " remarks the kid . " They always are , " replies Marvin . Well , Fuller fought with the Big Red One through Europe . He's been there . And yet incidents like this sound fraudulent . The event itself is improbable , and the dialog could have come from a 1950s comic book . There's another problem with the film . Lee Marvin and a couple of foreign professionals aside , nobody in it can act . Some are positively embarrassing . The four young privates that Marvin manages to shepherd through the war may , from time to time , utter a believable line of dialog or come up with an endearing and appropriate expression , but none looks or sounds right for the role . I don't like tearing this film apart because I liked Sam Fuller's character , but he's made a much better war movie than this - - " Merrill's Marauders . " " The Big Red One " doesn't linger on anything for long and what character development there is , is predictable from almost the beginning . ( Griff learns to shoot a man . Lee's sergeant lays the ghost of a murder from the previous war . ) If you want to see a movie that stands almost in direct opposition to this one , take another look at Terence Malick's " The Thin Red Line . " It's slow . It's languorous . It's poetic - - too poetic at times . The battle scenes can make a viewer shiver with fear . The enemy , although strictly an obstacle to be overcome , isn't stereotyped .
Hit or Miss Satire Of 60s Phenoms .	Kind of fun . An episodic , jet-propelled satire of just about everything in the contemporary newspapers . The President of the US ( Lyndon B . Johnson at the time , briefly glimpsed walking his hound dogs on the White House lawn ) is a troubled man . He recruits a psychoanalyst ( James Coburn ) . Johnson was REALLY troubled . Troubled enough to summon Coburn at all hours of the day or night by means of hidden , blinking red lights . The red lights and buzzers interrupt Coburn while he's in sessions with other patients , while he's entering elevators , while he's making love , while he's headed towards the urinal . It drives him nuts , and he finally takes off on his own to escape the burdens . Alas , the word gets out that the president's analyst is free . He knows so much that every secret agency in the world - - from China and Russia to Canada - - are out to find and kidnap him and send him to what he calls " a brain laundry . " Worse , the " CEA " and the " FBR " know this , and they set out to kill him before the others can get him . The chase takes everyone from Washington , through New York and New Jersey , to the Midwest . Nice to see Greenwich Village again , as it was then , watching Coburn run in and out of the Cafe Wha ? , which was on , what , West Fourth ? The Cafe Wha ? was a phenomenon of the psychedelic age and a lot of the targets here are - - blissed-out hippies and so on . Nobody - - no social position , no attitudinal set , no object , no entity of any kind - - is spared . William Daniels and his family live in a disgustingly neat and revoltingly decorated middle-class tract home in Seaside Heights . They're liberals . We know they're liberals because Daniels makes a point of telling us . The only thing is , his home and car have . 44 magnums stashed in them because they are surrounded by gun-crazy right-wing fascists who might attack them . The chief of the " FBR " is named Lux , a brand of vacuum cleaner , just like Hoover . Hoover had what amounted to a fetish for tall , impressive agents , so Lux is about five and a half feet tall , and all of his agents are even shorter than he is . That height business is typical of the jokes . You have to ( 1 ) notice it , then ( 2 ) interpret it . With some of the other jokes , you might not get past ( 1 ) . For instance , there is a scene in which Coburn is boffing a hippie chick in the middle of a field and he is stalked by a killer . The killer is killed by an agent of some other government . He in turn is killed by still a different agent , and so on . And as the serial assassinations go on , the weapons used become more and more ridiculous - - from shooting , to strangling , to a blowgun , to poison gas , to a fish net , and finally a pitchfork . It's more ludicrous than funny , I guess , but someone went to some trouble to think of that sequence of weapons . Competent performances by about all concerned , especially Severn Darden as a Russian agent . Joan Delaney , Coburn's girl friend , looks and acts like a model . She has a whispery , pre-teen voice , and she walks with that half-flailing slink that models have developed for the runway . It's not a zany laff riot but it's quietly amusing and it is nicely paced , with few pratfalls and a lot of gags that are almost subliminal , especially now that their targets have been almost lost in the mists of antiquity . You might enjoy it more if you'd been around and aware in 1968 .
Pretzel Logic .	Gerald Sanford , the writer , has given us a story about an unhinged officer of the law ( Hopper ) who kidnaps a rootless crime victim ( Argento ) and keeps her in a cell in his basement , where she must earn " points " to gain privileges . So far , nothing much original . " The Collector " had more going for it . But the script has Dennis Hopper delivering a couple of lectures to his prisoner which he pulls off with panache although , in fact , the logic is as twisted as Hopper's character . I wish I could repeat all of them verbatim but they go something like this . Hopper gives Argento breakfast and she dashes it through the bars of her cage onto the floor . When Hopper returns from work , he sees a rat nibbling at the breakfast . He blows the rats brains out . Then , in a patient but annoyed tone of voice , he asks her rhetorically : " Now , look what you've done . I make you a nice breakfast . You throw it away . A rat starts eating it . I blow the rat away . Who's fault is THAT ? Is it MY fault for fixing you the breakfast ? I was being nice to you . Is it Mister RAT's fault for eating it ? Absolutely not . It is all YOUR fault . And I'll bet you never gave a thought to Mr . Rat's family . The starving Mrs . Rat and the little baby Rats . " Hopper explains all this as if it makes perfect sense , no more complicated than one plus one equals two . In another scene , later , he tells Argento that he has to testify at a friend's Internal Affairs hearing . The friend , Officer Burns , gave a speeding ticket to a black man who claimed that it was racism . " I know Officer Burns , " he says , " and he hasn't got a prejudiced bone in his body . He's even got a Jewish wife . He might even be a Jew himself . ' Burns ' could be short for ' Bernstein ' . " When he returns from the meeting , he tells Argento , " Well , aren't you going to ask me how my day went ? After I testified the judge asked me what Burns ' Jewish wife had to do with the speeding ticket . I told him that I had checked the speeders background and it turned out that in the past year alone , he'd had other speeding tickets . Three of them . And two were handed out by policemen of his OWN PERSUASION . " I won't give any more examples , I think , because those are the ones that leap most readily to mind - - and I don't want to stroke out laughing . Hopper , as Sheriff Krebs , is older and chunkier than we're used to . He was my supporting player in " Blue Velvet . " Not that , as an extra , I spoke to him but we exchanged glances that were charged with indecipherable meaning . His face has plumped out a bit , gotten wider , and with his shades he looks a bit like the elder Truman Capote . He seems to switch smoothly from raging maniac to socially responsible sheriff and back again as the situation requires . A kind of Krebs cycle . ( If anybody gets THAT pun , let me know and I will send you a personal check for fifteen cents . ) Asia Argento doesn't really look much like anyone else . Everything about her appearance , from her plump lips to her throaty Italian-accented voice , seems to radiate a kind of feral heat . The first thing she spends her earned " points " on is a shower , which she takes nude on screen . All women in R-rated movies take showers on screen at one point or another . And the showers are not merely instrumental but expressive too . The actresses close their eyes and smile and loll their heads around and soap up their breasts . Not that I mean to devalue the functionality of the act . It's reassuring to know that these girls are so terribly clean . There's some kind of sub plot involving Hopper playing with puppets and Helen Shaver wanting to turn him into Buffalo Bob or Kermit the Frog or something . Shaver discovers the captive and tries to blackmail Hopper into becoming her permanent lover . This is foolish of her . You do not blackmail Dennis Hopper . Shaver gives the best , most modulated performance . Well , the story's ridiculous , though tense enough to carry an undemanding viewer along for most of its length . There aren't really any surprises in it . It could have been written by a computer . But there are a few minor gems sprinkled about in the dialog .
Early , inexpensive , relaxed Ford / Will Rogers	If you want to see what the Hollywood world was like before everyone became politically correct , this one is worth seeing . Hear Hattie MacDaniel sing about " the darkies " . Watch Stepin Fetchit as he explains that he's not wearing his shoes because he's saving them for when his feet wear out . Watch the small Kentucky town's darkies get together and play a rousing version of " Dixie " outside the courtroom in order to help free a heroic ex-Confederate soldier and murderer who is on trial inside the building . Listen to Will Rogers as he tells Fetchit that if he , Fetchit , plays " Marching Through Georgia " on his harmonica he , Rogers , will join the lynching party . How extremely amusing . Stepin Fetchit ( Lincoln Perry ) and Sleep ' n ' Eat ( Willie Best ) played lazy , superstitious , gluttonous characters through the 1930s and 1940s . Whence such stereotypes ? Adam Smith considered free labor more efficient than slave labor because a free worker was driven by a chance to better himself . A slave , wrote Smith , " can have no other interest but to eat as much , and to labour as little as possible . " That's known as sleeping and eating . Yet , the whole thing is pretty good natured . Sure , the blacks are all happy and supportive in this Reconstruction piece . But it isn't clear that they're treated less condignly that most of the white folks . Or that the stereotypes are any worse than the ever-popular and award-winning " Gone With the Wind . " Everything is so relaxed , so shambling , so easy going , like Will Rogers ' character , that the offense we inevitably take has to be bracketed . This was the mid-1930s and audiences of all colors laughed . The story itself is a relatively simple tale of a basically good man put on trial and saved by a surprise witness for the defense . Mostly Ford is interested in character and community relations . There's a ritual taffy-pulling in which every towns person participates . There's a lot of whiskey floating around . There's John Ford's tobacco-chewing brother , Frank , hitting a spittoon hidden around a corner . At the end , Frank is able to spit a great distance in a trajectory like a rainbow in order to land inside the bloviating Berton Churchill's top hat . There's Rogers talking to the portrait of his deceased wife and children , bringing them up to date . Ford sometimes claimed that this was his favorite picture , but he lied so often that it's hard to tell . His current " favorite " was always one that hadn't done well with the critics . It's not a major effort by any measure , nor an important one , but quietly amusing in its own quietly amusing way .
Mme . La Farge and her damme knitting !	It's pretty good , actually , and long enough to have some of Dickens ' subplots and subincidents covered in more detail . Plus it was filmed in England and Bordeaux . Yet , without knowing exactly why , I think I'd prefer the 1935 version with Ronald Coleman . It's a little tough on the endurance factor to sit through an entire miniseries that depends almost entirely on talk , intrigue , treachery , and politics . The 30s version compresses much of the story and makes it easier to follow . There were times during flashback in this miniseries that I was confused about who was who and what exactly was going on . And in some curious way , the earlier set-bound Hollywood version looks more believable than the real location shooting . Yes , okay , those are real French streets we're looking at here , but the Hollywood streets look the way real French streets OUGHT to look . I should mention in passing that Dickens took some pains to set up his first scene . In the novel he paints an evocative picture of a stagecoach , its horses struggling to pull it up hill through the mud , the passengers walking beside it through the night , with frosty breaths . An unknown horseman approaches . The coach driver unlimbers his blunderbuss , fearing a highwayman , but the rider turns out to be a harmless messenger . That initial scene is there for a reason . It prefigures the confusion and mixed identities that are to follow . They captured the scene in 1935 , but here the meeting simply takes place during the peaceful daytime transit of the coach . The performances in the 1935 version were sometimes extraordinarily hammy . Madam LaFarge is straight out of a DeMille silent movie . Here they are Britishized , quiet and understated . If Jarvis Lorry , the banker , was played in 1935 by an actor who looked mean and kept everyone at a distance , it made the ultimate revelation of his humanity more poignant . Here the businessman is John Mills , a kindly , soft-spoken , sympathetic character from start to finish . The principals too don't really measure up to the original cast . Ronald Coleman is a magnet on screen . In this version Sidney Carton is quiet , not nearly dissolute enough , and looks disturbingly like Timothy Hutton . Lucie is a dud in both versions , as was her character in the novel . Dickens has given us a good story , one in which the Brits , while hardly flawless , are above the nastiness of the Parisians . It seems to be in the nature of revolutions to be excessive . And how human beings DO love seeing people get their heads lopped off at public executions . The people being killed of course are always " the enemy . " Of course , since we are all someone's enemy , it puts every one of us at risk . What's truly repulsive is not so much the enemy's end . Everybody must die sooner or later . It's the pleasure that the executioners derive from the death . If we look at the human brain we see what looks like a walnut , the cerebral cortex , whose chief function seems to be to damp down the impulses generated by the lower-level reptilian brain , the part that wants nothing more than to eat , sleep , satisfy its sexual urges , and kill . If we run out of political reasons to take vengeance , we pass beyond the pale into the personal , as Madam DeFarge does . In both versions of this story , I am all for M . DeFarge , who sits alone in his tavern while the blade of the guillotine continues its ghastly work and mutters over and over - - " Enough is enough . " If you must pick one of the two versions to see , I'd advise checking out Coleman in 1935 . This one isn't bad at all , but it does have its longeurs .
Plot Overboard !	Jack London led a life easily as interesting as most of his characters . Started out as an oyster pirate near Oakland , then a writer , journalist , and socialist in - - well , all over the place , London , Alaska , the Orient , and back to the artists ' colony in Carmel , California , before it became unaffordable for everyone but cosmetic surgeons , then alcoholism , and heroin addiction , before winding up in a mountain hideaway near Napa . His socialist tracts are forgotten ; his short stories survive in high-school compendia , but his best-known novel is probably " The Sea Wolf . " ( Unless you favor dogs . ) The opening of the novel is unforgettable for anyone who has crossed from the City to Sausalito on the ferry through the fog . The collision that sinks the ferry and puts Humphrey Van Weiden aboard the Ghost is supposed to take place , I think , in 1904 , but it could have happened yesterday . London has that opening down pat . And not just the opening . The San Francisco waterfront at the time was filled with Scandinavian skippers - - a repetitive slew of Larsons and Carsons - - so much so that each had to be given a nickname so he could be distinguished from the others . What nicknames ! Red Dog Carlson is one that comes to mind . And Wolf Larsen is London's most famous character , for good reason . The book's Wolf Larson doesn't look much like E . G . Robinson , though . The novel's Larson is tall , blonde , and deeply tanned , except that when he removes his clothing he's revealed as white all over except for his weather skin , and he bulges with muscles . He calls Humphrey " Hump , " a nice touch . Robinson is actually quite good in the role . He can be domineering and nasty when it's called for . And he's one of those guys who quotes Dante and has copies of Nietzsche and other eggheads stashed below in his cabin . Alexander Knox is fine as " Hump . " But London befouled his novel with a love story that simply does not belong in the narrative . And , worse , his prose gets all mawky and purple as Hump falls in love with a girl they pick up . The movie pretty much keeps the captain's character intact as well as the general story line of Hump's brutal socialization , but the romance which is a blemish in the novel is blown up in the movie until it is an integral part of the plot from the very beginning . Characters such as Leach , the very recognizable John Garfield of the 1940s , are added for box office punch and maybe as compensation for Knox's more effete qualities . It's a good story , a very good story , and hardly needed the embellishments of the Hollywood hacks who worked it over . Still , the movie is well worth seeing . There are several other versions of the tale . I think I've seen two of them and neither is as good as this one . Jack London was never a great novelist . He died young but it's doubtful that he would have produced much more of value . But at least two of his adventure tales - - " Call of the Wild " and " The Sea Wolf " - - are accurate reflections of particular points in place and time . They're sort of embedded in our literary history , and they deserve to be . Maybe some teenager will watch this movie out of boredom and , when it's over , think , " Hey , there's a lot of action in this ! Maybe I ought to get that book out of the library and READ it . " Can you imagine a teenager being stimulated enough to read a book ?
Good cast in Western journey .	After World War II , Jimmy Stewart's career seemed to stall . He was no longer the piping-voiced naive youngster , and it's difficult to believe that his war experiences hadn't affected his real character in some way . This was one of a series of Westerns Stewart made under the direction of Anthony Mann , one of the best and probably the most brutal . There had been an undercurrent of an unstable passion in Stewart's post-war movies , hinted at in " It's a Wonderful Life , " especially the scene in which Stewart is on the phone , about to accept a job that will take him out of Bedford Falls , and decides instead to stay in town as Donna Reed's husband . When he grabs her , trembles , and sobs into her hair , Donna Reed - - the actress , not the character - - seems almost embarrassed by Stewart's intensity . That's the part of his personality that this movie cashes in on . What a cast ! Jimmy Stewart is a bounty hunter driven by revenge . Robert Ryan is the prey he captures , along with the girl , Janet Leigh . Ralph Meeker is an ex Army officer , thrown out because he was judged " morally unstable . " Millard Mitchell is a wretched prospector . And what odious characters they play ! Stewart is haunted by his demons and is not a superman by any means . He can't climb a rope up a sharp cliff face but Ralph Meeker can . Meeker himself is a scuzzbag who almost gets everyone killed because of his treatment of a Blackfeet woman . Leigh thinks she loves the outlaw and murderer . Mitchell is one of life's losers - - fundamentally decent but willing to do just about anything to strike it rich . Ryan is superb . He transcends himself as the unshaven , sloppy , jocular , philosophical captive who is worth a lot of money , dead or alive . Everyone joins in to bring him to the law but things fall apart and only the center can hold . After all the bullets and treachery and skulduggery , only two survivors are left . Guess who . It's relatively realistic , unlike , say , a Gene Autry or Randolph Scott or early John Wayne Western . As these folks travel through forests and up and down mountainsides , they look dressed for the part , in thrown-together dusty wardrobes of no particular distinction . Stewart - - the hero , mind you - - wears unglamorous chaps while he rides his favorite horse , Pi . Ryan looks the worst of all , his black hat tilted back on his head , all smiles and laughter . The script even gives him a bit of dignity . When Stewart unties Ryan's hands and challenges him to draw , Ryan claims his hands ain't fit , and says , " If you want to murder me , Howie , you'll have to make it look like what it is . " Ryan's range was greater than he's sometimes given credit for . Even strictly as a heavy , he could inform the role with a variety of characteristics . His heavy in " Crossfire " is polite and subordinate except when crossed , when his eyes seem to glitter with menace . His heavy in " On Dangerous Ground " is coldly psychopathic . His heavy here , had he been in a contemporary movie , would have been one of those happy-go-lucky killers with " BORN TO BE BAD " tattooed on his upper arm . Of course , today the fist fights and shootings seem tame - - hardly a drop of blood in sight - - but at the time it was pretty dark stuff . Interesting film . You probably won't be bored .
Tense , Cheap Train / Crime Drama .	There's something about Charles McGraw that is in its own quiet way unspeakable . The guy seems hardly human . Of medium height , blocky , with a voice that sounds like a subwoofer on acid , and a face that is made not of flesh but some sort of igneous rock , maybe quartz . Punching him in the nose would only break your fingers . Pounding him on the skull with a sledgehammer would make him crack and splinter instead of frown and slump . Maybe his best role was the small part of Robert Blake's grizzled father in " In Cold Blood . " Age seems to have slowed him down . His eyes have grown almost gentle . He seems less ready to pop . He's all that and more in " Narrow Margin . " As Detective Brown he's assigned to escort the widow of a top gangster who recently died of natural causes after being shot several times . She's Marie Windsor and is supposed to sing before a grand jury in Los Angeles . They take a long train ride together , from Chicago to L . A . as the song goes . She's pretty nasty actually . She insults him and complains constantly and urges him to sell out and join her on " the gravy train " or something . ( It's a little confusing at times . ) Meanwhile McGraw has nothing but contempt for her . There is on the other hand a nice , clean , well-spoken middle-class blond lady with a young boy who catches his eye . I mean - - the blond catches his eye , not the young boy . They keep bumping into one another as the train lurches from side to side . There's this really fat guy too , Sam Jennings , who plays his weight for laughs . Then there are a couple of creepy underworld types who know that McGraw is escorting the widow to L . A . They know what he looks like but they don't know what SHE looks like , and - - well . Discretion forbids further revelation . I won't sell out any more than McGraw would . Not badly done . Train movies are almost always more interesting for being set aboard a train . There's constant motion . Images fly past the windows . Shadows and lights from outside zip over a character's face . And there are always stops where the characters can get off for a few minutes and make phone calls , send telegrams , smoke cigarettes nervously , have assignations , or play table tennis . Cars can speed alongside trains and draw suspicious stares . Marie Windsor wasn't the greatest actress in the world but she was dependable and pretty , what with her big eyes and fluffy black hair , a little like Ileana Douglas . The open-faced innocent blond passenger is dull . Her little boy , Tommy , is a noisy pain in the neck and should have been flung off the train while it was traversing a bridge . There isn't anything outstanding about the film - - no tag lines or spectacular scenes or anything . And not all that much action . Two shootings and one fist fight . Yet the story moves along at a pretty fast clip and keeps you occupied . Once you get into it , you don't really want to get out of it without seeing the ending . It's a nice , professional piece of craftsmanship with no special effects extravaganzas and not much of a budget . Worth seeing .
Sleep disorders .	Interesting murder / love story , set in the Australian outback . Way out in the outback . A road picture in which a reckless young couple are pursued by both the police and a gangster who wants something they've taken from him . Simple enough so far . The problem is that the couple seem to be ahead of the people tracking them , yet from time to time , as they stop at some crummy motel for the night , or stay at a friendly couple's house , a dead body or two turns up the next morning . So who's doing whom around here ? The young lady ( O'Connor ) has a habit of sleepwalking and doing things at night that she is unable to remember . But Al ( Day ) is doing things too - - robbing their acquaintances , for instance - - and trying to keep these secret acts from her . The ending , which renders the concept of implausibility corporate , winds up with both the young folks innocent of any serious crime , and they live happily ever after . Despite the fact that people get burned to death , raped , and have their throats cut , it's overall a pretty good-natured movie with little gore or horror . Actually , there is some humor , mostly involving the pair of obscene detectives who are tracking the suspects . At one point the cops are forced by their responsibility to watch a tape which has recorded the goings on in a motel room , searching for an image of O'Connor . In one episode on the tape a middle-aged man slips into bed with a blond young boy . ( " Eh , this ' s sick . " ) Farther on , a dark girl strips and begins servicing her customer . One cop says that it looks like O'Connor . The older cop stops the tape , peers at the screen , and says , no , that's not her . That's Felicity . The first cop thinks for a moment and asks , " ' Ow do you know air nime is Felicity " ? " Because she ' as no teeth , " answers the other . They both nod and start the tape again . There are several such incidents , all the more funny because neither of them laughs . They're given the best lines , no doubt about it . " Well , this isn't the end of the world but you can see it from here . " I don't know exactly why the film is edited in such a way that many cuts have a few frames missing . I guess it saves time and adds some zip to what is already a pretty fast-moving story . I didn't find it as distracting as it might sound . Never any sense of the director's hollering , " Hey , Mom , I got a CAMERA ! " Australians are generally a lot of fun . I like the guys especially . They're heavily into sports , beer drinking , jokes , bonding and a lot of other masculine stuff - - without a touch of narcissism or meanness . I like them because they demonstrate that manliness doesn't necessarily take the form of John Wayne . They haven't painted themselves into a corner by adopting too narrow a definition of gender identity . Hard to believe that Greek warriors would write poetry in the evening and rush into combat mano a mano the next day .
Pretty Amusing Story of Roles .	I can't remember much of " La Cage au Folles " , the , um , mother of this film except that Marcel Bozuffi was extremely funny in demonstrating the way men walk . But this remake is funny on its own terms . You may or may not leave prancing to " We Are Family " but there are scenes that are almost certain to make you chuckle . Story : A young man and his girl want to get married . The girl's parents ( Gene Hackman and Dianne Weist ) are a stuffy self-righteous senator and his dim wife . The young man's parents ( Robin Williams and Nathan Lane ) are a gay couple living together over the Miami drag club they own and in which the " wife " stars . Senator Bibb or Bilbo or Clagget or whatever his name is knows nothing of this arrangement , but he and his wife are invited to visit the gay couple . Williams and Lane and their friends try desperately to decorate their Miami apartment in a stereotypically masculine fashion ( a giant crucifix replaces the faux Gaugin painting of a gay man ) . There are only a few hours in which the previously married Williams , who is the genuine father of the young man , has an opportunity to try turning the flamboyantly gay Lane into a simulacrum of masculinity . The attempt fails . Williams and Lane wind up as Mr . and Mrs . Coleman , with Lane in drag , entertaining Hackman and Weist through an excruciatingly and very amusing dinner , before all is revealed . Senator Hackman , up for reelection , finds a street full of tabloid reporters and TV crews waiting for him on the street and is forced to escape by posing as a drag queen during the show in Williams ' night club - - named The Bird Cage . I suppose there must have been a lot of laughs squeezed out of the shock value of the original . I'd give it bonus points for that . This is a remake and doesn't get the bonus points of the earlier French version . Much of the material dealing with the expressive aspects of homosexuality - - the lifted pinky , the mincing walk , the squealing voice - - aren't really funny in themselves . And in fact the director , Mike Nichols , and his crew are most successful with that catastrophic dinner scene in which Hackman , Weist , Lane , Williams , and the young couple sit around a formal table with dinnerware showing copies of Greek paintings in which naked men are sodomizing each other in a daisy chain . The chef and butler is Hank Azaria who does his best but whose laughs come chiefly from pratfalls . Of course Robin Williams does a hilarious take-off on a gay man , but here he's in the butch role and must be more restrained . He's good at embarrassment and tension too , making excuses to run into the kitchen , excoriate the chef , and meanwhile guzzling Irish whiskey out of the bottle . Surprisingly , Gene Hackman's performance as the alternately charmed and astounded Senator Keeler is among the most effective in the film . The first minutes of the dinner scene have everyone sitting decorously in the living room while Hackman tries to start a conversation and the others stare at him with hellish anxiety . " Yes , it was a nice drive down here from Washington . . . We came to see the change in seasons . . . yes . . . First Virginia , then Tennessee . . . The foliage was beautiful . . . The leaves . . . some red . . . the road , always black , cutting through the green . . . The foliage of Pennsylvania is nice too . . . Of course , I've always thought the foliage of Ohio was underrated . . . The different regions of this great country of ours . . . . " Nathan Lane as Williams ' " wife " isn't bad but someone made a decision to play him cute as well as funny . It was probably an error . And the direction is at times a little heavy handed . In the original the character was hysterical but never cute or lovable . Think for a moment of the introduction of Dustin Hoffman in drag in " Tootsie . " It's a crowded New York sidewalk and dozens of diverse people are marching towards the telephoto lens , and we only gradually become aware of - - HEY , that's Dustin Hoffman in that DRESS . It's very surprising and very funny . Here , Senator Hackman is ensconced in this apartment with a couple of gays and he's whining about there being no way out except through the throng of reporters waiting for him . " Not quite , " says Nathan Lane in a meaningful close up . Cut to the floor show of the drag club downstairs . During the exuberance of " We Are Family " the camera noses through a handful of male dancers in drag to settle finally on the over-sized blond wig of a man with his back to the camera . It's entirely predictable . It's out of a Bob Hope movie . We know what's going to happen the moment Nathan Lane gets his cute idea and the sense of astonishment is thrown away . Well - - some scenes are funnier than others , but the funny ones make this a worthwhile watch .
Gangsters in Newcastle	Kind of complicated revenge movie . Michael Caine is Carter , a London gangster who learns his brother Frank has been murdered in their home city of Newcastle . Against the advice of his London friends he returns home , sees to his brother's funeral , discovers his brother's murderers and their accomplices one by one , and either murders them or sees to it that they wind up in jail - - or gaol . He discovers that Frank was killed because he found out that their young sister , Doreen , had acted in a pornographic movie . Frank was eliminated before he could drop the dime on the porno ring . I found myself comparing it to other revenge movies to figure out why it doesn't quite meet the expectations most of us bring to the viewing experience . In the similar " Point Blank , " Lee Marvin is betrayed , shot , and left for dead by his traitorous accomplices , so the deaths that follow seem somehow justified . In Fritz Lang's revenge movies - - " The Big Heat " and " Rancho Deluxe " - - the protagonists seem obsessed with justice , to the point of injustice . In " The Bravados , " Gregory Peck kills only those who have already been convicted of murder . In " Nevada Smith " , Steve McQueen kills only those who have slaughtered his parents and made a tobacco pouch from his mother's skin , and even he relents at the end . In this film , the springboard for mayhem is the appearance of Caine's younger sister in a skin flick . That's what leads directly to the death of Caine's brother , the deaths of his murderers , and ultimately to the death of Caine . And it isn't enough of a motive . Caine even murders a helpless girl who held information from him . Only two of Frank's friends in Newcastle show up at Frank's funeral . Caine allows one of them to be beat to a pulp by the head of the porno ring ( John Osborne , the playwright ) and cares not a jot . The other friend , who has also withheld information , is deliberately stabbed to death by Caine . Caine does not play a typical " good guy " of the sort we're accustomed to in crime or action films . He's a much more complicated figure . After all , before he kills anyone , he comes into possession of an illegal skin flick and has the means to put all of the gang in jail , as in fact he does with many of them before the climactic violence . Unlike the protagonists of most revenge movies , his are murders of choice . It's all less about justice than about Caine's personal satisfaction . This sequential massacre could have been avoided by the legalization of porn movies . Now - - you'll have to excuse me - - I'm about to present a brief argument drawn from a school of sociology called functionalism . Porn has been around roughly forever . I've seen a stick figure drawing of a man with an erection in a 20 , 000 year-old cave in Les Eyzies de Tayac . I needn't do more than mention the red light district of Pompei , loaded with erotic murals and statues of Priapus . Our imagination can fill in the line up to and including internet sites like XXXOhBabyXXX . com . Porn wouldn't always be around if it didn't do something for society . Maybe it keeps the streets safe for our wives and children by acting as a substitute for the real thing . Maybe it gives women a chance at a career that they can choose of their own free will , the way the integration of baseball led to avenues of advancement for African-Americans and , later , for Hispanics . I now step away from the lectern . Thank you for your indulgence . Anyway , Caine is pretty good in a straight dramatic role but I prefer him in semi-comic productions . He can be truly funny when given a chance , although , to be sure , he's rarely , if ever , bad . The other players are good too , including Osborne whose face , except for its pretentious little beard , has all the interest of a hard-boiled egg . The direction is functional and the location shooting successfully evokes a dreary , grimy , industrial town in the North . Not a bad film , just a little hard to follow once in a while .
Pretty good spy story .	Chris Cooper is Robert Hanssen , a traitor working within the FBI and selling secrets to the Russians . The FBI knows about the billions of dollars of damage he's done and the lives that he's had sacrificed , but they need more solid evidence to put him away for good . They recruit Eric O'Neill ( Ryan Phillippe ) , a novice lawyer at the Bureau , as a mole who is to work as Cooper's immediate underling . Cooper thinks Phillippe is working for him , but he's really working for a different department , run by Laura Linney . Phillippe must conceal his work from his German-born wife , Juliana , leading to the usual mess in which the guy must not only keep his work secret but must keep secret the fact that he's keeping it a secret . In the end , Cooper is nailed and put away for life , and Phillippe quits the bureau for an independent ( and undoubtedly more lucrative ) private practice . Ryan Phillippe is adequate but he's up against some seasoned and impressive players . His performance is even overwhelmed by Dennis Haysbert in a small part . You'll recognize Haysbert when you see him . He's told us in his sonorous baritone a thousand times that , " You're in good hands with Allstate . " I'm going to skip most of the details of how Cooper is finally trapped , partly because I don't quite understand them . For instance , Cooper makes a final drop at the drop place , but I couldn't figure out how anyone managed to divine the location of the drop site . Anyway , the movie belongs to Christ Cooper and , man , is he good . When we first meet him , he's sour , pasty , and mean to his subordinate . He hates Hillary Clinton , lesbians , and the usual betes noires of the right wing . He doesn't approve of drinking . He and his family attend mass every morning and makes snotty comments about Protestants . He seems at first like a stereotype , yet as the movie rolls along in its deliberate pace we see that he's a far more complex character than we might have thought . He's genuinely sympathetic as Phillippe tells him lies about his sick grandmother in order to cover his own attempts to uncover solid evidence . And he sends around tapes of him and his wife making love . We get to know Cooper's character only through the eyes of Phillippe , so as the character unfolds he seems to lurch from one state to another . For instance , we know Cooper doesn't drink . But he shows up unexpectedly at Phillipe's house drunk , takes Phillippe into Rock Creek Park , and shoots a few rounds near him to find out if Phillippe really is what he says he is , a mere clerk . After a scene like that , you can't help wondering what is going through Cooper's mind , what - - exactly - - happened to him to bring him to this state ? I'll give one example of Cooper's expertise in this film . Phillippe has just been in Cooper's office , rifling some files , and is almost caught when Cooper returns sooner than expected . Cooper enters his office , looks around , and then saunters over to Phillippe's desk . " O'Neill , have you been in my briefcase ? " Phillipe makes up some BS cover story about spilled water and having to move the briefcase , while Cooper listens doubtfully . And if you want to see a good actor express " doubt " without either underplaying or going overboard , watch the expression on Cooper's face while he parses this story in his head . There are no shoot outs and the suspense is limited to a few incidents . Mostly it's a drama about character . There is no question that Cooper was a traitor and there is virtually nothing about his motives . Nor need there be . I'll speculate anyway . It wasn't money . He evidently made lots of it but he didn't need it , and it seems hardly worth risking humiliation , arrest , and a life sentence in prison . Cooper lives about the way his character should live , not modestly but not opulently either . Cooper's character does mutter something about the thrill that comes from being part of a team looking for someone , and knowing that you yourself are the person they're looking for . It might be a clue . There's a sensuous quality to outwitting other people , a reward in itself . Money needn't be part of it . That's why we enjoy playing scrabble or hearts . That's why a burglar will tip-toe through a house in which he KNOWS others to be present , just in order to steal a purse with a few dollars in it , as happened to my mother . It satisfies our desire for self testing - - how good are we ? What a rush !
A Random Walk Down Biscayne Blvd .	You know what this reminds me of ? Godard's " Breathless , " one of the first of the shockingly original Nouvelle Vague flicks of the early 60s . I remember first seeing " Breathless " with some friends in a theater in Ithaca , NY , and emerging arguing about what it meant . I don't mean trying to identify any great load of symbolism or moral lesson it might be towing behind it . I just mean , what happened , and why ? As I recall we decided that " Breathless " was an " existential " movie and didn't really need to be specific about what was going on . It was a story about a man making a life choice . You can be or do anything you want , said Sartre , and you can break all the rules - - as long as you're willing to take the consequences . In " Miami Blues " the Belmondo part is played by Alec Baldwin , a guy fresh out of prison who has chosen a life of wilful disobedience . His girl friend ( who really ought not to be in college ) is a part-time hooker with aspirations that are utterly bourgeois . Jennifer Jason Lee wants to live with her husband and babies in a house with a white picket fence . Fred Ward , looking grizzled and great , is a homicide detective whom Baldwin clobbers and whose identity he steals . I don't know why certain things happen . For instance , I have no idea how or why Baldwin manages to dig up Ward's home address , then goes there and beats hell out of him , and winds up stealing his false teeth , handcuffs and other cop accoutrements . What was THAT all about ? I'll give one more example . Baldwin is in a convenience store and stumbles on an armed robbery . " I'm the police ! Drop that gun and walk out of here ! " he shouts - - and threatens the armed robber with a jar of spaghetti sauce . See , in an existentialist movie like this , the characters don't really need to have motives . They do whatever they feel like doing . There IS continuity though , even if in its details the movie makes very little sense . The characters are consistent , and there is a rudimentary plot , engaging and amusing without being in any way memorable . I did enjoy the movie though , even the second time around , or maybe even MORE the second time around , since I'd learned not to expect an abundance of logic in the narrative . The acting of the three principles is also admirable . Alec Baldwin had just appeared in " The Hunt for Red October , " in which he struck me as not much more than a handsome leading man . Here , he's a different character entirely . Watch him as he struts down the street , arms swinging jauntily , grinning through pain , happily throwing off non sequiturs in dramatic situations . ( " Do you own a suede coat ? " he asks a criminal before murdering him . ) Lee is more than childlike . She's positively childish with her overflowing emotions . I loved Fred Ward in this . He's full of quirks and rarely seems to be taking the role seriously . Instead of soaking his precious false teeth in - - what is that stuff , Polydent ? - - he soaks them overnight in a glass of left-over booze . Interesting exercise in style and acting .
Pass the wolfbane .	Well , Jack Nicholson is no Lawrence Talbot . In a way that's too bad because the original wolfman was trashy fun . This one is more ambitious and expensive , and it kind of loses its way . The first half is a treat , and is witty too . Nicholson plays his schleppy character , someone without daring or imagination . It's no wonder that his wife is bored with him and his boss is firing him . Not that he's doing a bad job as editor-in-chief of a prominent New York publisher , just that he shows no guts . After being bitten by a wolf one night , he begins to notice slight changes in his appearance and his character . ( He checks it out with a doctor but otherwise treats these changes kind of nonchalantly , if you ask me . ) For one thing , he sleeps most of the day and works best at night . His sexual appetite returns and he begins to get frisky around his wife again . It would be interesting to know a little bit more about the details of THAT . He can smell alcohol on someone's breath from several feet away . He can hear conversations on the other side of a window across a wide hallway . He walks more quickly , speaks more forcefully , and is overall more animated , so to speak . He even gets a neat-looking growth of new hair across his balding forehead , and he as he pauses to look admiringly at himself in the mirror , patting his belly with satisfaction , beaming at his new hair , he remarks , " And by the way , I'm not only the president of the Men's Hair Club . I'm also a member . " His level of aggression rises too . He outwits the nefarious subordinate ( James Spader ) who's been plotting to replace him , and he blackmails his boss into rehiring him and giving him even more authority . And after sloughing off his unfaithful wife , he meets and mates with the boss's lovely daughter ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) , who looks half feral on her own . The scheming and exploration of Nicholson's new personality are the best-written part of the movie . The rest of it gets kind of screwy , as if the writers had begun to run out of steam . Nobody seems able to determine what kind of movie this is supposed to be . Nicholson's wolfiness turns dangerous . He may have ripped the throat out of his errant wife during a gibbous moon . We KNOW he's chased down a deer and eaten the thing alive because he wakes up covered with blood , in an unpleasant scene . After he bites Spader , Spader begins to turn into a werewolf too , only uglier and meaner than Nicholson's werewolf . The two werewolves get into a dogfight over Pfeiffer and Spader is about to win when Pfeiffer appears on the scene and shoots him and kills him . ( Where'd she get the silver bullets from - - the Lone Ranger ? ) Nicholson has now turned permanent werewolf and after a few friendly growls of thanks in Pfeiffer's direction he hustles off alone to join the rest of the werewolves in the forest . Somebody - - I forget who - - has also bitten Pfeiffer , which is understandable , and then she begins to morph into a wolf and leaves to join Nicholson in the woods where , presumably , they will live happily ever after and produce litter after litter of pups doggy-style . I can't help it if the second half of the movie sounds a little nutty . It has suddenly turned into a half-hearted horror movie with slashing fangs , a woman threatened with rape , Nicholson shaking frantically at the bars of his cage , a dead body in a pool , and similar inanities . None of the performances are at fault . Nicholson is pretty convincing as he gradually morphs . And Spader is great as the loyal friend who turns out to be a backstabbing phony . Too bad their efforts are put into a scenario that devolves into something that makes less sense than Lawrence Talbot's predicament .
Rambling but successful comedy .	It's divided into three parts . ( 1 ) Woody and an inept gang set up a cookie store as a front , to be run by Woody's wife , Tracy Ullman , while they tunnel through the store's basement into the bank next door . ( 2 ) The robbery fails but the cookie store succeeds beyond anyone's imagination and Woody and Tracey become rich . ( 3 ) Tracey falls for a phony art dealer and Woody takes up with his sister-in-law , May , Elaine May . When the cookie franchise goes bankrupt the couple get together and it all ends happily . The first part seems somewhat detached from the rest of the movie . Most of the main characters disappear from the film in the two later sections . It's almost a film in itself . And actually I think it just about was - - called " Larceny , Inc . " back in the 1940s . Part two is transitional and is the most nearly serious ( and least amusing ) part . Ullman wants to learn how to be classy from Hugh Jackman but is flatly unable to overcome her innate vulgarity . My God , her taste is awful . Woody is forced to wear clothes that are in themselves lessons of dissonance - - a royal blue jacket with canary yellow trousers . He refuses to look at a wall on which an abstract expressionless painting hangs and has the butler read him the time from the clock hanging next to the dreadful thing . The third part revolves around Woody's plan to switch a cheap fake for a terminally expensive necklace at a fancy party . The plot is silly but Elaine May carries the day as a complete dodo . Some of the gags are simple minded and others a little more complex . I'll give an example of an exchange between May and a guest at the formal party that illustrates both kinds of jokes . May has been ordered by Woody to keep quiet and play lookout and to say nothing except maybe about the weather . Something like this . May : " There's a warm front moving over the city . " Guest : " You know , you're the most charming woman I've met since my dear , departed wife . I noticed you when you first entered the room , the way you carried yourself . " May : " You can't carry yourself . That's physically impossible . " Guest , laughing : " Really , you remind me so much of Helen . " May : " Who's Helen ? Was she your wife or just some woman who died ? " Later May tells Woody : " He said I reminded him of his dead wife . I assume he meant while she was still alive . " There's still another reference to this exchange but I think I'll quit . This is one of Woody's better recent comedies . He's the nervous street-wise schlub that he was in " Broadway Danny Rose . " If you liked that one , you ought to enjoy this one .
Cosmos Through the Looking Glass .	Three people meet , walk around , and talk on Mont-St . - Michel . They are an American poet in exile ( John Heard ) , a frustrated politician ( Sam Waterston ) , and a disillusioned physicist ( Liv Ullman ) . It's sort of wintry and bleak at Mont-St . - Michel , which looks as imposing and impenetrable from the inside as it does from a distance , a great Disneyland castle of a place , perched on and overgrowing an island that becomes part of the mainland at low tide . As good a place to talk as any . You surely don't have to worry about being overwhelmed by the sounds of traffic because here , among the stone walls and spires , the internal combustion engine doesn't seem to have been invented yet . So what do they talk about , these three charming characters ? Well , it's mostly a lecture by Ullman's physicist . She delivers it the way Carl Sagan pitched his material in " Cosmos . " She covers quite a lot of ground but it's not hard to follow , although it may make you wish you'd paid more attention in Mrs . Gridley's class in Physics 101 . She winds up pimping a holistic view of the planet . Nothing evolves . Everything co-evolves , and our thinking is short sighted . We are what Tielhard de Chardin called " the thinking part of the earth . " An American Indian tribe ( she claims ) takes action only when it has thought about the consequences of that action for the seventh generation from now . Well , I couldn't agree more with her about that . Ullman seems so good-natured , even in her skepticism , that it keeps the freshet of ideas from becoming somniferous . Heard and Waterston have less to do . " So what does all this mean ? " , asks Waterston . And Heard gets to illustrate some of Ullman's points by quoting Pablo Neruda or playing a chord on an organ to illustrate that individual notes acquire a different meaning when they are played together at the same time . The film has the three characters wander around inside and out , squatting on the sand , having lunch , but doesn't do much to break up the rhythm . It's all cheerful and pleasant and filled with the wonder of it all but it doesn't have much going for it besides its intellectual verve and its unimpeachable acting . I wish they'd have added a fourth character who was a Dadaist or an aging member of Andy Warhol's Factory or a stand-up comic . Maybe Little Richard . I suspect the ultimate goal was not so much to teach the public that atoms are indeed very small , but that everything we do has moral overtones . Most of what we do in the way of scientific research , says Ullman , is paid for by the Pentagon , and we turn the responsibility for using our results back to the people who paid us . And of course the scientists and the Pentagon - - and poets and politicians , as well - - are us . Florence Kluckhohn outlined three ways of adapting to nature : ( 1 ) subjugating ourselves to it , ( 2 ) living in harmony with it , or ( 3 ) conquering it . Ullman plumps for living in harmony with it , of course , but although it sounds suspiciously platitudinous we WILL get politicians standing on earth scorched by forest fires or cities swept away by floods and declaring nature an " enemy . " Here's a quote from another egghead - - Pogo the Possum : " We have met the enemy and he is us . "
Exciting Story of Western Outlaw .	Henry Hull , as a newspaper publisher and Jesse's friend , is giving the speech at Jesse James ' burial . " We're PROUD of Jesse around here , " he shouts . " I reckon all America's a little proud of him . I dunno why . Maybe it's because he was bold - - and lawless - - the way we all like to be , once in a while . " Nothing like being bold and lawless . The middle-class James family in Clay County , Missouri , were slave owners and Jesse fought on the side of guerrillas who were sometimes lawless even by Civil War standards . After the war , Jesse was wounded while trying to surrender , and thereafter lawlessness became a career . He was more or less turned into a Robin Hood by a newspaper editor in Kansas who had fantasies of restoring the Confederacy . But that's all history and history is all conjecture . Any pretense towards factuality in this movie can be easily shrugged off and a viewer can sit back and enjoy a bang-pow Western full of well-crafted scenes of shooting and galloping horses and drama about loyalty and love . Some scenes are positively comic . During the hold up of a train , Bob Ford ( John Carradine ) walks down the aisle collecting cash from the terrified passengers . " Thank you ! Thank you kindly , sir . Hurry , please . That's a fine pocket watch , sir . " And there is an engaging meeting between Randolph Scott as the lawman in Liberty , Missouri , and Tyrone Power as the skedaddling Jesse , in which Scott intuits Jesse's real identity but pretends not to know it . Some of the shots are spectacular - - twice , a horse and its rider slide off a cliff into a river , tumbling over every which way , a distance like unto that dropped by Paul Newman and Robert Redford in " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid . " Tyrone Power is as handsome as Newman or Redford . Randolph Scott is manly , honest , and wise . Henry Fonda , as Jesse's brother Frank , is taciturn , spits tobacco , and acts like The Man With No Name . Henry Hull , as the cantankerous newspaper editor , paraphrases Shakespeare to amusing effect , " If we are ever going ' to have law and order in this town , the first thing we got to do is take all the lawyers and shoot ' em down like dogs . " The movie was shot in splendid Technicolor on location in Jesse James ' country . The sentiment with which the film ends is stupid . We all want to be like Jesse James . Right - - we all want to carry guns and shoot people we don't like , or just strangers who get in our way . But the protagonist of this story isn't Jesse James . It's Tyrone Power acting out a revenge motive and he's fundamentally a good guy , so we can afford to applaud him because the character doesn't exist . Let's cheer for Robin Hood too , while we're at it .
Soap , Politics , in About That Order .	Those of us who came of age when Barbara Stanwyck projected an image of hand-shaped steel on screen - - a lesbian , a stern matriarch , or whatever - - may not be aware of how fragile and accommodating she was in her earlier films . Never a sex symbol or an actress who shot out the lights , her performances were always reliable and sometimes quite accomplished , as in " Double Indemnity . " Alas , her earlier movies don't have the appeal today that they once had . In the early 1930s there were " women's pictures , " and this is one of them . At the time there were only radio serials like " The Romance of Helen Trent , " but now anyone interested in romantic dramas can turn to afternoon soap operas or LMN . In " Forbidden , " Stanwyck is a homely librarian ( meaning mainly that she wears glasses and wears drab garments ) who rejects the advances of a newspaper editor , Ralph Bellamy , and decides to take a fling on a Caribbean vacation . On the cruise she meets Adolph Menjou , a debonair rising politician who has an affair with Stanwyck ( don't they all ? ) and this results in a child . Pretty risqué for those days . The problem is that Menjou is a married man with a crippled wife and - - well , all kinds of complications ensue . They end with the wife adopting the illegitimate child and providing her with a good , substantial home and a college education . Now , Ralph Bellamy has not disappeared from the story . He hires Stanwyck and she finally decides to marry him , but not out of love . I was certain her affections would be transferred to Bellamy , who would turn out to be an understanding and forgiving kind of guy . But no . For the first and last time in my entire life I was wrong . Bellamy digs up the illicit connection between Stanwyck and Menjour ( who are still seeing each other ) and intends to expose Menjou out of spite . Menjou is now running for governor and I think we all know what that means . I don't have to draw you a picture . A couple of slugs from Stanwyck's . 38 solves the problem . But governor Menjour , on his death bed , guilt ridden , signs a confession of all his misdeeds and leaves half of all he own to Stanwyck . Ever the stout heart , she rips up the bequest and throws it in the trash . With a brave smile , but without any money or family or social standing , she strides off to face the future , her honor untarnished . ( I hope she does better than I did under similar circumstances . ) It's not a dumb movie . The director , Frank Capra , who brought us a couple of gems ten years later and a good series of war-time documentaries , is no dummy . He's a populist but not a nasty minded one , and if here he was still learning his craft , his generosity and his respect for his adopted country shows . ( He was born in Sicily . ) " Forbidden " will interest most those who are interested in intrigues and the social dynamics of small groups of acquaintances . It's also of historical value because we see Stanwyck before she became the Stanwyck so many are familiar with from " The Big Valley " or whatever it was , and because this is one of Frank Capra's earlier efforts .
Serious , almost plausible , historical drama .	What an arrogant society we are . We stand at the pinnacle of knowledge . We know everything there is to know , except there's the small business of filling in the dots . Of course the fact is that every generation feels the same way . No matter how stupid they are , every cohort of scientists and moralists manages to convince itself that it has a monopoly on wisdom , never realizing that there's a new paradigm waiting around the corner - - and then the following generation feels on top of the mountain . At the time this film is supposed to be taking place , pain during operations was supposed to be natural and good . Well , maybe not so good for the patient . The subsequent infection generated " laudable pus , " a sign of healing . In Georgia , Dr . Crawford Long was working on ether as a painkiller in dentistry . Mostly though , Long and his friends sat around sniffing the stuff and getting high . Nitrous oxide ( " sweet air " ) was popular when I was a kid . As an adult I started to make it in a closet . It's easy enough to do . But I chickened out because if you boil it too long it explodes violently . Boris Karloff , in a serious performance , is a tousled surgeon who is trying desperately to make some anaesthetic concoction out of opium and other things . He tries it on himself . This is an acceptable form of data collection - - " self report . " It's how the Swiss chemist Hoffman discovered the effects of LSD in 1943 . But Karloff's stuff seems to be addicting , like Dr . Jeykll's . In pursuing chemicals to experiment with and to feed his addiction he falls in with bad company and is eventually killed by Christopher Lee . It's a confusing story , or so it seemed to me . " Resurrectionists " are mixed up in it . But the London setting are effectively evoked and Karloff's shaky and unkempt descent into addiction are well portrayed . The director makes good use of the wide screen . Support is provided by British stalwarts like Finlay Currie and Nigel Green . And there is Betta St . John , who is , I'm convinced , the lost sister of Theresa Wright . There are some effective scenes of operations too , straight out of Eakin's " The Gross Clinic . " Painful to watch . It's not really a horror film , and certainly not a slasher movie . There's nothing supernatural about the drama , and nothing that's especially implausible . We can imagine the scorn that Karloff receives from his skeptical colleagues . After all , it does happen , as it did to Freud .
The evolution of enmity	It's easy to make somebody look villainous . You give him a grim dark face , something along the lines of Bela Lugosi , deprive him of any sense of humor , have him speak with an accent , and light his face from below with a hideous green key light . While you're at it , make him a full foot shorter than his American counterpart , played here by John Cromwell who - - and this is a little-known fact - - is the third tallest human being on the planet . All these conventions are adhered to in this movie . The Russian Premier thinks as reasonably as the American president , but it's hard to believe his lines when they come from a mouth with lips that resemble a fresh two-inch incision on somebody's belly . The real problem isn't making someone look like the enemy . It's deciding who should be the enemy in the first place . The Soviets provided us with bad examples for decades but - - well , they are , let's say , no longer available to Hollywood . As the Cold War wound down , even Ian Fleming had trouble . The real SMERSH had to be changed to the fictional SPECTRE because Fleming's conscious was beginning to trouble him . In " The Sum of All Fears , " the Nazis are resurrected , a kind of generic villain to whom no one will object . How could things possibly go wrong ? Is someone going to write an angry letter to the New York Times and say , " Hey - - wait a minute ! My grandparents were Nazis and I'm offended " ? The movie calls them " terrorists " and throws in , let me think , Aryan supremacists , and some others into the stew , but they speak German and we all know who they are . The plot ? This group of terrorists decides ( for reasons I seem to have forgotten ) to blow up a nuclear bomb in America , an act which they figure will provoke a response against Russia , who will then respond because they must show their strength , and so forth , until there is a nuclear exchange and the world is basically blown apart . Jack Ryan , or " Doctor Ryan " as everyone calls him , figures out the plot and barely prevents the plan's success . I enjoyed watching the movie . Great shots of airplanes . Special effects , some of them a bit obvious , involving the exploding bomb in Baltimore during the Superbowl . ( Does Baltimore have a pro football team ? The Crab Cakes or the McHenrys or something ? ) There's a big hole in the middle of the movie though . Ben Affleck has a big chin and looks the part . I'm sure he's a good guy but he is lightweight for the part . Both Alec Baldwin and Harrison Ford were able to bring strength and some underlying humor to the same role whereas Affleck hits his marks and speaks . I hated to see Morgan Freeman die half-way through . And John Cromwell is a splendid actor but the part doesn't allow him to do much with his character . The climax is borrowed from " The Godfather . " Nessun Dorma - - the aria de jour - - swells in the background while we see the president and the premier signing some sort of joint anti-war treaty , and this triumphant scene alternates with bloody assassinations . Tom Clancy is an interesting guy . I've only read " The Hunt for Red October " and I can understand why it was all the rage at the military academies . It was really retro . But it was also filled with exciting bits of technology - - how nuclear powered subs work and all that . He evidently used to spend a lot of time shooting at targets with a large caliber pistol . And I saw him perform for his charity , along with three other celebrities , on " Jeopardy . " The other contestants bungled their buttons and stumbled over their answers and joked about their own inadequacies . Clancy didn't do that . He smiled politely throughout , was thoroughly decorous , and answered every question flawlessly and without iterative comment . He demolished the competition . In interviews he's been candid and friendly . I'd like to have a beer with the guy sometime .
Great Communicator Beats Beautiful Woman !	John Cassavetes is a teacher at a school for the blind . Confronted by two hit men , Lee Marvin and Clu Gulager , he waits stoically for the flood of bullets that shortly follow . The dead man's resignation surprises the killers and they determine to find out why he didn't try to run . As it turns out , Cassavetes was seduced into joining a gang of thieves run by Ronald Reagan . The seducer was Angie Dickinson . She betrays Cassavetes , leads him into a trap in which Reagan plugs him non-mortally , and then runs off with Reagan and all the loot from the big robbery they've just pulled . There is a shoot out at the end , in which Reagan , Dickinson , Gulager , and Marvin all wind up mincemeat . This was originally filmed for TV , efficiently directed by the seasoned Don Siegel or however his name is spelled . ( I wish Don and George and Steven and Barbara and the rest would decide on a single spelling of that last name . How tiresome . ) The viewer will find an abundance of intrigue and action , as well as those unusual guns that Siegel was developing a fondness for , culminating in Dirty Harry's . 44 magnum . The California locales are well photographed but , as in any TV made-for , seem somewhat flat . Angie Dickinson is attractive but not in any conventional way . Her mouth is small and crooked , her nose broad and rather flat , and her eyes seem to look in two slightly different directions , but she's never been more inviting . She's glamorized , of course , but not to the point of revulsion . What I mean is , she comes out - - just fine . I can't imagine why Ronald Reagan would treat her as a speed bag in one scene . Lee and Clu bat her around and hang her out of a window in another scene . That's understandable , they being what they are , but Ron ? Actually , everyone in this movie seems a little too dressed up , a little too clean , even the mechanics who have been crawling under cars . Dickinson dresses in pastels , Marvin wears a silver business suit , the others are in pressed dark clothing . The overall impression is that of cut-outs from a fashion magazine being animated on screen . This isn't really too bothersome . The two dimensional quality of the images is more than made up for by the acting of Marvin and Gulager as the bad guys . ( Some might call it overacting ; the mean-spirited might say " ham " . ) It's interesting , too , to see the future president in the role of commander-in-chief of the evildoers , a genuinely slimy character with every hair set in place as if by Elmer's Glue . He tries his best to scowl , really he does , but his easiest role has always been that of the good-natured pal . The best performances are probably given by Marvin , Gulager ( an under-rated actor ) , and Cassavetes . Watch Marvin's final scene in which , mortally wounded , he offs Reagan and Dickinson then staggers about on the lawn like a drunk . One of the things that makes the scene so magnetic is that , during the take , Marvin actually WAS thoroughly discombobulated by alcohol . A good movie , in some ways the equal of the original . Nice job .
Tortuous trip through the supernatural .	Not having seen the credits , I first thought this was a Steven King story . Kevin Bacon and his wife , Katheryn Erbe , attend a Friday night party at the house of their Chicago neighbor . Half drunk , Bacon allows himself to be hypnotized by his sister-in-law , Ileana Douglas . She induces the trace by suggesting he is alone in a dark theater with only the huge screen to look at . The blurry letters on the screen gradually develop , like a Polaroid photo , into the word SLEEP . Boy , does Kevin sleep . But after he is awakened he finds shards of strange visions are haunting him . First instantaneous and meaningless , then apparently involving an ordinary looking but rather dead young woman . The visions are annoyingly shocking , following the latest editorial fad . His son too is showing some extraordinary qualities , talking to the same young woman who is invisible to everyone else except Bacon during his seizures . Erbe and the boy meet a big , black , friendly Chicago cop who follows them around and seems to know something about what's going on . Erbe corners him and demands to know what's wrong with her husband . " He's a receiver " , explains the cop , " like a man with a flashlight that goes on and off . " The girl he's been hallucinating is a ghost and eventually she will ask him for something . And the boy ? " He's got a much bigger flashlight . " So saying , he closes the door and isn't heard from again . In an attempt to rid himself of these ictal states , Bacon has Douglas rehypnotize him , but this time the word that appears on the screen is DIG . So Bacon starts digging - - first the back yard and then the cellar . Finally , accidentally , he bangs a hole in the wall and uncovers the mummified body of the girl in his vision . So far , so Steven King . In particular , a blend of " The Shining " , with Scatman Crothers as the twigged black guy , " The Tommyknockers " with the digging and " Firestarter , " in which the little girl has a much bigger flashlight than her father . Seeing the credits , realizing that the story was based on a Richard Matheson novel , cleared things up a bit . It isn't that Matheson cribbed from King , but the other way around . The Matheson story appeared earlier . And ( I suppose ) , Poe's " The Cask of Amantillado " was even earlier . The first two thirds of the movie I found a little unfocused . Those nightmarish fragmented visions are as pointless to the viewer as they are to Kevin Bacon . They seem implanted in the story to provide the generic shocks that jaded fans of horror movies have become accustomed to . Clichés , one and all , and not very interestingly done . When , in its last act , the film turns into a story of murder and the circumstances endanger Bacon , all the supernatural business comes together and things get a lot more prosaic and a lot more interesting . A question is raised , a new question . Not , " What the hell is going on ? " , but , " Will one friend kill another in order to protect a loved one ? " Bacon does an efficient job . Katheryn Erbe isn't a magnetic actress but the script provides us with a shower scene from the rear in which she seems to glory in her bilateral symmetry . Their little boy is just a little boy and I don't know why he's there except to pump up our worry quotient . He should be stomped on . One of the ancillary virtues of the movie is that it does such a splendid job of capturing a working-class Chicago neighborhood without any obvious display of effort . We get to know those musty , decaying houses pretty well . We can almost smell the black soil of their back yards . And neither the Sears Tower nor The Loop appears in any of the shots .
Updated Faust .	You can't help wondering how many times this story has been told in print , on stage , and in film . Weren't there independent redintegrations of this Medieval plot by Marlowe and Goethe ? This version comes to us from Steven Vincent Benet and Archibald MacLeash , updated to the current time . It's entertaining still but all very familiar . Alec Baldwin is a luckless , penniless , sexless unpublished author who just can't catch a break like his college Dan Aykroyd , who has written a highly successful novel , " A Feeling of Loss . " All he has are a few fellow sufferers like Barry Miller , who is always willing to tell Baldwin the truth about his writing . An agent , Anthony Hopkins , tells him to write better but Baldwin is going berserk . Back in his shabby apartment he cries out that he'd sell his soul to succeed . Enter Jennifer Love Hewitt as a sexy devil . She gives him the success he pines for . Cabs stop magically to pick him up out of a crowd . An editor , Kim Cattrall , reads his manuscript and decides its worth a first printing of 100 , 000 . That's a lot . You're lucky to get 5 , 000 . But she insists on a few changes . Baldwin agrees , even though the alterations turn his work into the kind of trash that sells . It begins with the title , " A Loss of Feeling . " Of course it's a ripoff of Aykroyd's book , " A Feeling of Loss , " but that's the point . There follow a number of sequels . " A Feeling of Greater Loss , " or something , winding up with " A Certain Numbness In the Extremities . " That's pretty funny . Alas , there is a long courtroom scene at the end in which Hopkins defends Baldwin and Hewitt is the prosecutor . The trial is a fantasy . The jury consists of departed writers like Ernest Hemingway and Dorothy Parker . I don't know how this scene was originally written but here it comes across as maundering and uninventive . " This is the world God gave us , " Hewitt orates . Smooth violins in the background tell us that this is all very important , in case we didn't get it . I think it's mush . " Death - - well , death gives us a chance to sum up our lives . " Baldwin directed this and there's nothing wrong with his work , either as director or actor . Anthony Hopkins is a remarkable actor . He convinces us with such little effort , even when the lines he's forced to read are idiotic . Hewitt is a bit of an embarrassment among the pros . She looks and sounds like a pretty young girl in a high school production . It's hard to pin down just where she goes wrong , but , by contrast , we can check out Kim Cattrall in the part of the shallow and sexy editor . Hewitt looks cute , while Cattrall projects a sleek kind of professionalism . I kind of enjoyed the film except for the last twenty minutes when it bogged down into seriousness . It should have remained the up-tempo screwball comedy that it started out as . Frank Capra would have done wonders with it back in the 30s .
The Torso Has a Life of its Own .	D . H . Lawrence's tale of class distinctions and nature versus culture turned into soft porn , but pretty good soft porn as these things go . Sylvia Krystel is Constance Chatterly whose wealthy , titled husband , Shane Briant , returns to their vast estate from World War I only half a man , confined to a wheelchair , but cheerful enough about it . Krystel spends her time taking care of him until Briant brings in a tough-minded elderly nurse . This leaves Krystel out in the cold and terribly bored . Briant is insensitive to her needs but he does want an heir , a future baronet , and the couple more or less agree that she can take a lover who will impregnate her . So she does . But she picks the wrong guy . It takes no more than a glimpse of Mellors , Nicholas Clay , the caretaker , washing himself in the nude to put her in a lather and soon they're rolling around in the hay . Briant figures out that something is either up or in the offing and becomes petulant . I mean , the man is some kind of GARDENER or something , always needing a shave , dirt under his fingernails . Not the proper father of a future baronet . He humiliates Mellors by ordering him around and making him undertake unpleasant tasks . Anyway , the wind up : Krystal becomes pregnant and runs away to Canada with the caretaker , while , under the tutelage of the nurse , Briant becomes strong enough to walk on crutches and the pair of them live happily together in their mansion . Lawrence's novel was something of a cause celebre when first published in the USA . All that sex . The movie has captured all that sex , including a notorious purple passage involving wildflowers and pubic hair . It's the equal of " the earth moved " as a description of orgasm in Hemingway's " For Whom the Bell Tolls . " It's quite a laugh getter today . I don't know exactly how realistic the sex scenes in the film are . One instance of simulated coitus involves Krystel sitting on the rough bark of a fallen elm , which I can't imagine to be anyone's idea of a good time . It's not a junky movie , though . The photography and the location shooting are well done , and a good deal of attention is paid to wardrobe and makeup . You won't find any fashion statement here , unlike the pastel splendor of Robert Redford's " The Great Gatsby . " My God , these clothes are ugly here , right down to the underwear . People wrap themselves up like mummies . And Krystel doesn't wear dainty slippers like Daisy . She wears these ruddy great black shoes that lace halfway up the calves . I guess the director , Just Jaekin , is best known for other soft-core porn like " Emanuelle " and " The Story of O , " but he's efficient enough here . Sylvia Krystel looks the part of the frustrated wife , though her voice is dubbed . Clay is bluntly masculine as the ithyphallic male . Maybe the best performance is given by Shane Briant as the crippled husband . He has strangely neotenous features , as if he'd never quite outgrown his infancy - - large eyes , prominent forehead , and generous lips , with an overall resemblance to a ventriloquist's dummy . Yet he's able to do wonders with those features . They're required to change in the course of the story from brave and resigned to bitter and superior - - and they do . His is the toughest role in the story and he carries it off pretty well . I couldn't remember all of the novel but I remember being impressed by Lawrence's sharp eye for detail , along the lines of John Updyke . Who , for intance , can better capture the crunch of gravel beneath shoes ? With only one or two sentences Lawrence was able to project volumes of information about a place or person . The class distinctions that obsessed Lawrence and the people in his story were roughly the same as those that captivated F . Scott Fitzgerald in " The Great Gatsby . " They don't mean as much to us today . ( Or if they do , the worry is hidden away somewhere in the upper reaches of the status-sphere . ) Of course we are still occasionally treated to scandals in which the teen-aged heiress runs off with the smooth-talking chauffeur . The theme of nature and culture runs through the story too . ( Somebody call Claude Levi-Strauss , quick . ) I particularly enjoyed the regional accents of the local nobodies , in which " up " becomes " oop " . And those wildflowers - - some heavy duty symbolism there . And I suppose that Briant's going to war and being horribly wounded was a cultural act , while stringing wildflowers in your lover's pundendum was a natural one , but the fact is that all through the movie I kept thinking about how much Briant's character had sacrificed for his country , while Mellors was petting his doves in the gamekeeper's cottage . Life's not fair .
Wrecks are Great .	Sometimes you can't help wondering why certain occupations produce so many accomplished writers - - pilots , seamen , and doctors , for instance . Maybe pilots tell good stories that are made into films because - - let's face facts - - what goes up must come down , one way or another . Doctors also can tell gripping stories about life and death decisions , and there's always blood involved . When was the last time a popular novel was written by a dermatologist ? Seamen have the toughest time . They're not going to cash in on the audience's fear of flying , and they don't make decisions that , gone wrong , may fatally nick the subclavian artery . For sailors , they must heave the story up out of its marine context into psychology ( eg . , Conrad ) or intrigue ( eg . , " The Wreck of the Mary Deare " ) . Storms at sea are fine , but you can hardly have a whole movie about a storm . " The Perfect Storm " was padded out with fiction . I guess " Typhoon " is all about a storm but to my knowledge it's never been filmed . Sorry . Kind of a tedious introduction , I know . " The Wreck of the Mary Deare " takes place basically in three acts . ( 1 ) Charlton Heston's salvage boat almost runs into a derelict freighter in the middle of a storm off the French coast . He boards her and finds Gary Cooper , the sole occupant , hostile and suspicious . They manage to beach her amid some mean-looking rocks . ( 2 ) There is a formal investigation of the wreck by the insurance company and a court of inquiry , amounting to a courtroom drama . Cooper unfortunately is cast as the kind of defendant who wants to shout out " the truth " but is constantly being told to shut up and sit down and stop interrupting the proceedings . ( 3 ) The only way Cooper's curious behavior can be justified is by examining the cargo in Hold Three . He and Heston don wet suits , swim into the hold , prove their point , and successfully fight it out with the owner's henchmen on board . Innes ' novel has a harrowing opening act . Like Nicholas Monserrat he has an eye for capturing the dramatic detail . The film doesn't get it . Heston , climbing a line to board the heavily rolling Mary Deare , SHOULD BE swung back and forth like a weight at the end of a pendulum , slammed against the cold iron hull every few seconds . In the film it looks like he's climbing a rope in a high school gymnasium . Still , we get a good impression of what a hostile and unsteady environment a cold deck can be , filthy and dark , wallowing and sloshing . You can almost smell the rust . My memory of the novel is fuzzy after so many years but the film's middle act isn't bad . I did , though , miss John Williams as Sir Wilfred , the prosecutor or barrister or chief inquisitor or whatever he is . John Williams has played so many investigators and detectives I've lost track - - " Dial M for Murder , " " Witness for the Prosecution , " " The Paradine Case , " " To Catch a Thief . " It was a criminal act to give the role to somebody named Emlyn Something . Pardon me while I call my solicitor . The novel did not end with an underwater fight . That's a kind of a cop out . SCUBA diving was becoming a popular sport in the 1950s , replacing snorkeling , which was for wimps . And wet suits were still something of a novelty on screen . ( Cf . , " Thunderball . " ) I believe , though , that a good argument could be made in favor of women in skimpy bathing suits SCUBA diving , rather than bulky men in full wet suits . Women look slick and phocine under water , as if built for it . Men may look better while running , but women look better while swimming . ( These silly generalizations are exhilarating . Everybody should make one a day . We'd all be happy campers . No more wars in the Middle East . No more atonal music . No more , " Will Jessica Leave Brad " ? ) See it if it's on . Fine special effects and miniatures for the period . And note the best performance in the movie , by Richard Harris as a smiling and snide villain .
If You Fill It , They Will Swim .	If you like " Field of Dreams " you ought to get a kick out of this Twilight-Zone fantasy too . They both follow a similar trajectory . Similar , in fact , to Twilight Zone's " Kick the Can " episode , in fact , from which both may be derived . The director , Ron Howard , hasn't taken any chances here in this sentimental , mildly amusing , mildly thought-provoking story , but then he rarely does . This expedition from Antares ( looking quite normal on the outside ) comes to Earth to retrieve some cocoons left behind earlier when their planet was about to be turned into a monstrous prune - - something like that , anyway . It doesn't matter . They retrieve the cocoons from the ocean floor and stash them temporarily in the swimming pool of a deserted Florida mansion . The pool is being secretly and illegally used for wading by a three old dudes from a neighboring retirement community , Wilfred Brimley , Hume Cronyn , and Don Ameche . Without anyone's seeming to realize it , the cocoons are infusing the water with some elan vital that is exponentially more powerful than Geritol and Viagra combined . The boys don't begin to actually look different but they regain , let's say , both their youthful vigor and the turgor associated with it . Instead of sedate dances at the club to old-time Glenn-Millerish swing music , they go to discos and Ameche does a break dance , wowing the audience . Soon their wives begin enjoying a dip or two as well , and the couples wind up climbing trees and chasing each other through the mangroves . There's a younger couple too , a girl from Antares ( Tahnee Welsh ) and the owner of the boat that the aliens have hired ( Steve Guttenberg ) . They fall for each other . The problem is that underneath these plastic exteriors , the Antarens , Tahnee Welsh included , are diminutive bilaterally symmetrical beings with tiny mouths and big eyes and they glow with the blinding , eyeball-coagulating light of an arc lamp . This presents certain problems , as you can imagine , when the young man inquires of Welsh , " How do Antarens , um , express affection for one another . " " Not in the way you think , " she replies , and we can feel the guy's heart sink , " but we show ourselves . " Well , that doesn't sound too bad , especially when Welsh begins showing herself by ridding her plastic body of its hampering outer garments . But then , alas , it gets kind of twisted because the rest of what she " shows " him resembles one of those huge spinning wheels made of fireworks that one sees at the climax of a Fourth of July picnic . Call me old fashioned but I think it helps to be less than ten years old to appreciate that particular mode of affectionate self display . Tahnee Welsh can't act , unfortunately , but looks good just walking around . The three old dudes - - and their wives , and Brian Dennehy - - do quite well . Don Ameche practically renewed his career with this film . And Jessica Tandy STILL looks fine . One of the Antarens has a wordless part and is a ringer for Tyrone Power , probably because he is Tyrone Power , Jr . The cocoons are being drained of their mojo because of all the humans sucking up to them . The leader of the Antarens generously offers to take a few humans along with him back to his planet . Some go along . Some insist on " playing out the hand they've been dealt , not shuffling the deck again . " ( It's kind of like Burt Lancaster's character in " Field of Dreams , " stuck in the present . ) I don't know that I particularly blame the risk-averse old folks who decide to hang back and not live forever . Who would want to be a bus boy or an assistant professor for one thousand years ? Anyway , it was a successful movie . It must have been because there was a sequel , meaning that the committee of MBA's sitting up there on Antares decided to greenlight another installment because there was probably another nickel left to be squeezed out of this Fountain of Youth fantasy .
Slow story , nice direction .	There's nothing new about the story . Naive young Emma Bovary married older man , finds he's not very exciting , leaves older man , finds younger man , drops mescaline , smokes rainbow , paints political slogans on body , goes back to older man - - no , he dies , that's right , of a " self-inflicted gunshot wound " - - nibbles madeleine cake dipped in tea , broods over lost love who dumped her for cheerleader , meets movie mogul , is morphed into Hedy Lamarr , is busted for shoplifting - - and the rest you know . I hadn't seen this for a generation . The last print I saw was chopped to pieces and was a lousy print . This one , which appeared on Turner Classic Movies , is about as good as we're likely to get now . And it's not bad either . Definitely a chick flick though , rather like " Lady Chatterly's Lover " or any one of a number of stories with similar themes . The horny young man is not named Count Vronsky but he might as well be . The director , whom I'd never heard of , does the best he can with this slightly shapeless script . I don't mean the nude scenes which by today's standards are dismissible . I mean the way he allows Hedy Keisler turn away from the camera and hide her face behind a door jamb when she must register shock and guilt . And - - good grief - - what he does with symbolism ! When the young couple are developing the hots for each other - - let me think - - he's got a bee pollinating a flower , a male horse huffing and puffing around a mare in estrus , a rising wind , a burning lantern - - please , I'm trying to remember . Yes , when she is suddenly rendered virgo no-longer intacta , her pearl necklace breaks and the pearls roll around on the floor . The old guy knows who the young guy is and gives him a ride in his six-cylinder convertible . The car picks up speed in a truly excitingly photographed and very tense scene as the old driver is deciding whether or not to kill them both by running into a train . He stops short , at the same time as the locomotive , and the locomotive boiler releases its pressure in a plume of steam and a terrifyingly exhausted hiss . Not much acting is called for , this being on the cusp of talking and silent movies at that time and in that place . Hedy Lamarr was only twenty and a little plumper and sexier than we are used to seeing her , though that description doesn't extend to her bosom , kind of a nice touch . It's worth seeing . It's not just an historical curiosity . If you're in the right mood you'll be caught up in the story , sad as it is .
No Means No .	This is a pretty decent movie in its direction ( Jonathan Kaplan ) and its principal performances ( Jodie Foster , as a gang-rape victim , and Kelly McGillis is the prosecuting Assistant District Attorney ) . In the opening scene we see Foster running out of a bar and onto a highway , sobbing , her dress torn . She's been raped by three young men on top of a pinball machine while a dozen others stand around and cheer . One young college student is appalled , however , and drops a dime on the others . Justice winds up being served . The obvious point of the movie is that not all rape victims need to be saints to deserve our sympathy . Jodie Foster plays a sluttish waitress who lives with some tattooed moron , drinks too much beer , and smokes dope . And after she cuts her own long blond hair in a spiky fashion , she looks like hell . On top of that , she's so ensconced in her working-class world that , when McGillis is driving her home from the hospital , she turns to the lawyer and asks in her croaking voice , " Did you go to college ? " College , for Foster's character , is as remote as the planet Neptune . Charges are brought against the three rapists and McGillis , at the insistence of her boss ( Carmen Argenziano ) , plea bargains them down to a guilty plea to reckless endangerment , not rape , because the boys don't want a sexual assault on their record . When Foster learns about this , she erupts with anger and accuses McGillis of selling her out . Foster wanted them convicted of rape , not reckless endangerment , although the sentences are identical . McGillis , fraught with guilt , decides to prosecute the onlookers for encouraging the crime by clapping , shouting , and offering encouragement . There follows a sharp argument with the D . A . who tells her to go ahead and throw her career away because , win or lose , McGillis is fired . The jury brings in a guilty verdict and three of the onlookers wind up in the slams . The strong performances bring out the weaknesses of the film , and they're simple flaws , easily avoided by a writer or director willing to challenge more than the rather mindless observation that some rape victims aren't perfect . All the men are bad and all the women are good , or at least well intentioned . The rapists are horrible of course . ( I've always wondered how a man who is drunk and stoned can beat a woman into submission and still achieve an erection , let alone maintain one . ) The onlookers , free to walk the streets , are remorseless . They follow the victimized Foster around . They taunt her and call her filthy names when they meet her in stores . They ridicule her and block her exit from the parking lot . They're ugly too . That's the second main point established by the movie - - men are beasts , from the loathsome rapists on up to the District Attorney - - and you can only trust another woman to jeopardize her own welfare for your sake . The message reeks of political correctness and is offensive to anyone of taste and perception . Life simply doesn't work that way and presenting reality so structured is a betrayal of art , although it would fit nicely into a Saturday morning children's cartoon . Granted , though , that the world might well be a better place if we could find some kind of antidote to all that testosterone . None of this vitiates the film's many virtues . Nice location shooting . And effective performances from everyone involved , including the men who are villains , pragmatists , and weaklings .
S . A . C . wants YOU !	Interesting story of Dutch Holland ( James Stewart ) and his wife ( June Allyson ) and their involvement with the Strategic Air Command of the U . S . Air Force in the post-war years . Holland , an ex bomber pilot , is now a successful third baseman for the St . Louis Cardinals and has just signed a contract for seventy thousand bucks . His career is interrupted when the Air Force activates his reserve status and he's hauled back in for 21 months . Holland has a lot of catching up to do but learns to love flying the huge B-36 and then the slim B-47 . He's a good officer and reenlists , which perturbs his wife , but a bad shoulder forces him out of the Air Force and , presumably , he goes back to baseball as a coach or manager . The movie is practically a recruitment film for the Strategic Air Command , promoting self sacrifice for the sake of a nation on the brink of war . The incidents we witness are familiar from earlier war movies . All that's missing is the war itself . June Allyson plays June Allyson , the steadfast , common-sense wife , who endorses Stewart's first hitch but balks at the second . Some sit-com humor is gotten out of their adjustment to military life . They move from a prosperous-looking home into a standard typical spare functional monochromatic generic Monopoly Air Force house . The re-introduction to military routine is played for some sarcasm too . Stewart has gone for a medical check up but he's late . " Well , honey , they go over you from head to foot here , and they've only gotten down to my throat . " There is the requisite cigar-chomping tough general , modeled after the brave but reckless Curtis LeMay who ran SAC at the time . The tedium of being checked out on various airplanes is omitted . And there is a soaring score by Victor Young that almost adds lift to the wings of those stone-heavy B-36s . Interesting airplanes , B-36s . The largest combat airplane ever produced . As in a training film , the story guides us through the vast interior of this machine , crowing a bit over the 80-foot-long " Holland Tunnel " that connects the fore and aft compartments . The thing was a dinosaur , of course , designed during WWII to deliver bombs from the US to Germany in case Britain fell , slow , ungainly and obsolescent almost from the beginning . The B-47 represented a new paradigm - - twice as fast and with a crew of only three men . And the B-36s replacement , the B-52 , has had a service life of half a century . There are also a few proud shots of Globemaster transports , huge things , seen swallowing an 18-wheeler whole from its open maw , like a python swallowing a shoat . It seems impossible . Gorgeous shots of airplanes in flight . ( In fact , the photography , by seasoned pro William H . Daniels , is superb . ) Seeing this spacious bomber fly from Texas to Alaska and back without refueling generates a desire to be aboard . There's even a built-in coffee station . Maybe glazed donuts with sprinkles . I've seen it twice and enjoyed it both times despite the stereotypical script . The airplanes make the rest of it worthwhile .
Above Average Bronson	This time around , Bronson is a Russian major sent to the USA to eliminate a renegade Stalinist who is activating human time bombs . It's a kind of Manchurian Candidate times twelve . Bronson's double-agent assistant is Lee Remick . The plot , though not hard to follow , is a bit intricate and involves the solution of several puzzles and a good deal of travel around the country , from Denver to Akron to Los Angeles to Cambridge ( NM ) , to some dumpy bar in rural Texas with a rattlesnake in a cage . The series is designed to spell out the name of the villain , Dalchimsky , across a map of the USA . It's not worth going into enough detail to explain exactly what that means . But I must add that I thought it was pretty rotten of the director to actually blow that rattlesnake's head off for real , Crotalus atrox , a beautiful specimen . Where is PETA when you need them ? And what do they have against snakes ? Oh , sure , nobody would argue that rattlesnakes are as cuddly as French poodles or sea otters - - but , still . Bronson is his usual self with his built-in swagger and mustache . He's a Russian major and his hair looks styled by Mister Kenneth or something . And he's completely incapable of projecting anxiety , let alone fear . Lee Remick was no longer a teenage baton twirler but she has the strangest , most appealing pair of pale blue eyes , surrounded by black circles , like Meg Ryan's . And she too has a curious rolling gait , like a sailor's . Neither Bronson nor Remich was ever a major star by Hollywood standards but they're both engaging and it's sad to think that they are now both history . I could never get with Donald Pleasance as an actor . He's probably a fine man and loves his dog , but his shining dome and pop eyes become banal in a hurry . Sheree North in her small part gives a good impression of being an exuberantly sexy no-nonsense woman . The plot has its implausibilities . We kind of expect Bronson and Remick to wind up together somehow , and they do , but it comes out of nowhere . Bronson has heretofore done no more than smile at Remick , and that only once , when suddenly they get in the car and take off for a motel ten miles away . A couple of fireballs for the young at mind , but no car chases , no slow motion deaths ( except for that disenfranchised rattler ) , and only one shooting . This is one of about two Bronson vehicles I look forward to seeing again . I'm not sure why . Schifrin's music is no more than adequate . The photography is interesting , all of its colors drawn from the red end of the spectrum , all beige , gray , orange , and scarlet . Anyone in blue looks like a tramp at a Kandinsky exhibit . Maybe I like the irony of a Russian major trying to save the USA from being blown up .
War is all hell .	There's a stunning scene towards the end when Jude Law approaches his long-lost girlfriend , Nicole Kidman , on a snowy path through what appears to be an archway of rock pinnacles all dusted with white . Law is hardly more than a scrawny black scarecrow in a slouch hat . Not recognizing him after a year's absence she fires two warning shots towards him . He is shaken and begins to turn away , thinking she's forgotten him , but then awareness comes to her and she calls out , " Inman ? " Now , what follows ought to be a slow-motion shot of the two figures running towards each other and weeping with joy . She runs and weeps and laughs in slow motion . He runs and weeps and laughs in slow motion . But , no . Minghella , the director , has Law and Kidman crunch towards one another cautiously , as if neither is entirely certain that what is happening is not an hallucination . And Minghella cuts away from the reunion after only a brief and tasteful moment . The movie is a series of rather loosely linked episodes , cutting back and forth between Law making his lonely and dangerous way back home from the battlefield , and Kidman who is about to starve on her wretched farm because , as a gentlewoman , she was taught only what was useless . She can name all the plants in Latin but she can't grow them . Renee Zellweger shows up at the opportune moment , a no-nonsense practical independent and blunt young woman who is able to show Kidman the ropes . The initial meeting between Law and Kidman only lasts for a few minutes , and they are together at the end just long enough for the anticipated climax , so to speak , but everything in between the beginning and the end kind of meanders about , like one of the ox bow lakes that Law must traverse during his journey . What the heck is going on ? What seems to be going on is mostly two things . First , the movie gives us a pretty good ethnographic picture of the folks who lived in the Upland South in the 1860s . ( Good production design and wardrobe . ) There are no magnificent steps in the Big House for Bette Davis to trip down in a hoop skirt , just old weathered shacks whose shingles need replacing and whose corn cribs must be filled if the inhabitants are to survive the winter . Come to think of it , there are no hoop skirts at all . Everyone is dressed in more than usually drab garments , usually dirty . Even the women's underwear is yellow and blotched . The dialog isn't noticeably Upland South though . In the Lowland South , say around Charleston , " sir " becomes " suh , " but in the mountains it is " sirr . " Not an important point . Because of their beards and raggedy clothing the men tend to look alike . They all look like Chuck Norris , unless they are older and look like James Gammon . In fact one of them IS James Gammon . Nicole Kidman's visage is as sleek as her figure . She could be the hood ornament on an old , ornate automobile . Some of the episodes are more interesting than others although it was never too difficult to figure out who would survive and who would die . Philip Seymour Hoffman as one of those pasquinades of pastoral piety is a riot . What music he lends his lines ! And at one point Law is invited to spend the night in bed with Natalie Portman , her husband long dead , who writhes with grief , guilt , and horniness as she asks him to promise that if he lies down next to her he " won't go no further . " Righto ! It reminded me of a similar scene in which a lad was successfully tested in " Tales of the Arabian Nights " , to which the translator , Richard Burton , had added a rare footnote - - " The young man must have been a demon of chastity . " I have a feeling there is a moral to this movie . The moral is that war should be entered into only as a last resort , but I'm not sure .
Caligian Teen Comedy	It's better than it has a right to be . Kimberley Joyce ( Wood ) with " the face of an angel " persuades two of her classmates to sue for sexual advances a disliked English and Drama teacher at their elite high school , so that his reputation is ruined ( even if they lose , as Wood figures out ) and they achieve an early boost in their career goals as actresses . It's pretty witty in a teen-age comedy kind of way but rather murkier . " All it takes to become an actress is beauty , talent , and the willingness to sleep with somebody you otherwise wouldn't . " And : " Listen to me carefully . ( Silence ) That's the sound of me not caring . " And Wood's father ( James Woods ) having his filthy phone conversation interrupted when his wife walks in , and being forced to improvise a harmless conversation . " Yeah , yeah . Okay , Heshie . Shalom . Right , I'll see you at , uhh , at the mezzuzah . " The direction , the editing , and the innovative musical score all combine to give a further gloss to the performers and the script . Elitism , wealth , adolescent jealousy , publicity seeking , shallow beauty , a lack of morals , selfishness , the media , air headed ambition , reckless parents , the law , political correctness , homosexual intrigue - - all are pinned to the board with the precision of a dead butterfly . But , man , it's dark . One of the three girls , having brought shame to her strict , devout Palestinian immigrant family , shoots herself , leaving a message behind on the chalk board : " We are all sinners , " in Arabic . No one emerges from the plot unsinged . And the reason for it all ? Here the movie falls apart , during the last few minutes . It switches from a critique of our values to a more traditional tale with Wood the evil mastermind who plotted everyone's doom . " The world is an orchestra and I feel like the conductor . " There's no nudity in the film , but it's pretty raunchy . The dialog is vulgar too . " I'd guess that munching underage rug is a good way to get fired . " But much of the wit depends exactly on that sexuality and vulgarity . These are three fifteen-year-old girls , barely out of their adolescent growth spurt , and they know ALL ABOUT IT . It's scary . They know more about it than I knew when I was - - well , let's see - - when I was SIXteen ! They've managed to pass from being innocent to being jaded without ever having gone through any period of florescence . They are so clever . Asked to explain a loud anti-Semitic remark ( " At least my father isn't a money-grubbing shyster Jew lawyer ! " ) , Wood looks remorseful and says , " My father is a racist . I guess I picked it up at home . " Her interrogator nods his head - - " It always starts with the parents . " I had to listen carefully because she has a tendency to speak in hasty bursts with a valley accent , like a small motorcycle revving up or a German MG42 firing . All kinds of inconvenient phonemes are eleded . " I still feel bad " comes out as " I stuffle bed . " Wood is a beautiful young woman , of course , but although James Woods has a small role I think it may be his best film performance to date . He is hilarious , whether exploding with anger or squirming , but it sounds utterly believable . He has a theory that his new Jewish colleagues are sending signals in Yiddish to one another and disguising them as coughing spells - - and he gives a side-splitting imitation . The movie , alas , loses its grip at the end and goes for pathos . The movie isn't aimed only at teenagers , thank God , although they'll probably like it and find at least some of it familiar . But they'll mostly miss some of the film's points , like the characters themselves , which attuned adults will not . Kind of a cross between " Clueless " and " Heathers . "
Interesting Story of Hostage Negotiations .	David Morse is an engineer captured and held hostage for ransom by a corrupt group of revolutionaries in the fictional South American country of Tecada or Tecate or San Placebo or someplace . Morse is taken to a remote camp where a few other captives are being held for the same purpose . Man , are these revolutionaries a bunch of barbaric slobs . They lock Morse up in a hut made of reeds and give him a rubber boot saying , " Here ees your toilet . " They use the most foul language . They booze it up and smoke dope , and if they take a dislike to you they give you a taste of the old bastinado . On top of that , the weather on this mountaintop is lousy - - cold and wet . Back at the ranch , Morse's anguished wife , Meg Ryan , is at a loss for what to do . There is a call for ransom and , after a few skirmishes with the local negotiating team , which seems about as corrupt as the revolutionaries , there appears a business-like and knowledgeable professional hostage rescuer in the form of Russell Crowe , he of the mighty latissimus dorsi , along with half a dozen of his buddies led by David Caruso . They're a sensitive but macho bunch . They address each other as ladies in the local saloons . Interesting and convincing material on negotiating with bandits follows . It's a little like a course in Hostage Negotiations 101 . While the movie stays on this course , it's informative and pretty good . The months pass by as Crowe and the rebels haggle over the price for Morse's life . Many viewers might find this aggravating , especially Americans . We are a " can do " nation , not a " can wait " nation . " If you're gonna do it , then do it now . " Mercifully , and to their commercial advantage , the writers scarcely have Morse penned up in that airy hut before there's a cut to a title : DAY 44 . See , that way you don't have to wait . Let Meg Ryan do the waiting . In the end , it develops that Morse already knows too much about the coca crops and the organization of the bandidos and all that , so there's no way they're going to let him out alive . The money no longer matters . This precipitates a raid by Crowe and Caruso and their half dozen companeros . They follow the usual routine , dressing in camos and greasing up their faces with black and olive drab paint that doesn't do a THING for them . And there is the ritual laying out of weapons , two smoke grenades , two stun grenades , and two HE . The assault by helicopter . Now , these half dozen highly trained pros are up against a hundred well armed and slightly insane dudes . But what's that to Crowe and his gang ? All it means is a higher body count . ( Cf . , the raid on the camp in " Predator " . ) The climax is a guignol scene in which none of our guys misses and all the bad guys do nothing BUT miss . None of the rescuers dies , the hostages are rescued , Morse goes back to his wife , their marriage renewed , and Crowe leaves her behind in a gentlemanly way although he's fallen for her . And who wouldn't ? She's cute as hell . She looks like the girl in your high school class that all the boys dreamed about before they went to sleep . Not the sultry slut but the virginal cheerleader . Her troublingly blue eyes have circumferences of black . The actors playing the rebels put in as good a performance as anyone else in the film . There's an unexploited pool of talent for you . They have actors , we have Keanu Reeves . I kind of enjoyed it . The location photography is magnificent and the characterizations convincing . The confrontation between Crowe and the local team of corrupt negotiators is as tense as any other scene in the movie . It was also a good idea to individuate the bandidos . They're not all scuzz bags . There's a more or less helpless young woman who scolds the men for their rudeness , and there's a younger rebel who isn't entirely unfeeling .
Nostalgie de la Boue	Havoc ( 2005 ) The Shadow of Sixteen Candles . , 16 June This comment may contain spoilers A lot of people seem not to have enjoyed this film very much . I'm not sure why . Yes , the rich girls seemed phony but lots of teenage girls sound similar in their speech . It comes across as so stylized as to be stilted , yet it's a genuine parole . It's the way some people speak in real life . The acting wasn't that bad either . The only major flaw in the story is that Ann Hathaway didn't take her clothes off more often . Just kidding . I've never seen her in any of the Disney epics so was deprived of the enjoyment of having any pedophilic fantasies fulfilled . She's the best looking of the bunch , in a conventional way , and she handles the part like a pro . The story , alas , is the weakest part of the film . It isn't just that the rich kids are stereotypically bored . I imagine boredom among the very rich can be a serious problem . When you have everything material that you need , it's hard to glom onto a goal other than momentary pleasure . And it isn't just that the Latinos we see are a horde of overmuscled greaseballs who feel only contempt for the " white girls " and who sell dope and whose bodies are adorned with elaborate tattoos . It's that the dialog doesn't always ring true . Some Pachuco punk who has gang banged her and her friend comes up with something like , " Who are you ? You not real . Not REALLY real . You a fake . " And so on . The guy sounds like he's studied with Fritz Perls . And yet the movie is an attempt to answer an interesting question and perhaps only a happily middle-class female director could have handled it this well . The question is : What is it about lower-class men that attracts upper-class women ? In my experience black men have far more of this mojo than Latinos , but okay . The attraction extends to gangstas in prison , even those who will never be released . Are such men perceived by such women as imbued with some feral sexual power ? Are women driven to them by impulses like those that put men behind the wheels of racing cars ? Is it self-testing ? Is there an adrenalin rush involved in seeing if a rogue male can be brought under rein , like a wild stallion ? I don't know . I'm just asking . I'm not aware of any professional research on the subject but it's a fascinating one .
Only Half a Man .	This is the original " The Fly . " I never did see David Cronenberg's remake except for a few snippets , but those snippets convinced me that Cronenberg was following his usual impulse to make the viewer's skin crawl . Some of us don't really need that . If we want our skins to crawl all we have to do is get out of bed in the morning . ( I'll except Cronenberg's " Dead Ringers " from those generalization , a truly spooky movie without a pander in it . ) As the original , this 1959 version stands tall . They actually seem to have intended to make a horror / science fiction movie rather than a comedy , and yet they've achieved both . It's a horrifying story of a Montreal scientist , Al Hedison , who invents a teleportation machine that deconstructs objects and sends their elements at the speed of light to a glass box where they are reassembled in their original form . Even the champagne retains its chill . There are , of course , always a few small problems to be ironed out . The printing on a cheap ash tray comes out backward . The pet cat , Dandelot , gets lost somewhere between the transmitter and the receiver . " Where is she now ? " asks the desperate wife , Patricia Owens . " Somewhere out in space . A stream of cat atoms , " Hedison replies wonderingly . The fact that Dandelot has been thoroughly disassembled doesn't stop her atomic stream from going MEOWWW as it sails off into the ether . ( I warned you this was funny . ) The general idea is that there are some things man was never meant to know . This used to be called hubris . The story of blundering into the unknown and coming up with unexpected consequences seems to have been especially common in the 19th century when theology was coming to grips with scientific breakthroughs like Darwinism . The theme had a resurgence in the SF movies of the 1950s , following the atomic bomb but " Frankenstein , or The Modern Prometheus " is still the holotype . The movie resonates with all sorts of familiar ideas and images . When Hedison's teleporter transmits the words " Made in Japan " backwards , he wordlessly walks away from his wife to sit at his desk and work on the problem . Just when they were planning a romantic evening together too . Hedison was never more than just half a man from the beginning . At any rate the scene reminded me of the opening of James Joyce's " Ulysses , " when the atheist Buck Mulligan mocks the Catholic mass by intoning ritualistic mumbo jumbo over his bowl of shaving cream , claiming he's transforming it into the body and blood of the Savior . Looking down puzzled at the untransformed shaving cream , he says , " Oops . A bit of trouble with those white corpuscles . " Hedison has the head and one arm of a fly , and the fly part is slowly fighting the rest of him for dominance . At one point he's trying to type a note to his wife with his human hand and the fly hand grasps the other's wrist and begins struggling with it , and all we can see is Dr . Strangelove and his gloved hand , which insists on saluting Hitler and strangling its owner . It is , however , a reasonably well-done , if not exactly expert , horror film . We want Hedison to get himself together again but his supporters can never seem to find that fly with the " white head . " At the end , after Hedison is safely cleaned and pressed , his brother ( Vincent Price ) and the skeptical police inspector ( Herbert Marshall ) stumble upon the fly with Hedison's head and arm . The " thing " is caught in a web and about to be eaten by a spider . " HELP ME ! HELP ME ! " it cries in a terrified yet comically tinny voice before Marshall comes unglued and smashes spider and fly with a rock . This scene , with Price and Marshall bent over , peering at the fly in the web , was subject to innumerable retakes because the two actors kept cracking up with laughter and ruining the shot . It really IS kind of funny .
Above Average Example of the Genre .	Professor Deemer ( Leo G . Carrol ) and two of his colleagues have holed up in a lab out in the desert where they are experimenting with a new non-organic nutrient that will feed the world as its population explodes . The experiment goes awry - - don't they all ? - - and Deemer's colleagues both contract a fulminating pituitary disorder , acromegalia , that distorts their features and then kills them . Before he dies , enraged , one of the colleagues gives the unconscious Professor Deemer a shot of his own medicine . When the corpses begin to show up , the small-town doctor , John Agar , is prompted to visit the lab out of curiosity . It is about this same time that Carrol's beautiful young assistant , Mara Corday , arrives . The young doc and the lab assistant fall for each other . This nutrient - - I hope you're following this - - this nutrient promotes dramatic growth in organisms . In one day a baby rat is the size of a bunny rabbit . Imagine what this will do for the world's cattle supply ! One cow would fill up the barn and eat nothing but this non-organic nutrient fluid ! Oh , by the way , the professor's prediction about population growth was a little off the mark . He predicted that by 2000 the planet would be host to something more than three and a half billion people . It's now 2007 and we are just shy of six billion . The best estimate is that in another 50 years we'll have doubled that figure . Someone place a long-distance call to Thomas Malthus and tell him he was right after all . Well , see , most of the experimental organisms were destroyed in a fire , but one managed to escape . It could have been a guinea pig but if it had , there would be no picture . No - - it was a tarantula the size of a foot stool . The wretched thing hobbles about secretly in the desert , making a nuisance of itself by eating cattle , horses , and people . Before you know it - - and , more important , before Agar , Corday , the local sheriff , and the US Air Force know it , the spider is the size of Shea Stadium and is crunching whole houses beneath it . ( The now gruesomely disfigured professor is hoist by his own petard . ) Tommy guns don't stop it . It doesn't even pause when a load of dynamite is exploded under its cephalothorax . Only an infallible super hero could save us now . And here he comes . Clint Eastwood , leading a pack of jets , demolishes the lumbering creature just as it is about to attack the town of Desert Rock . Well , we knew Mara Corday would survive anyway , because she was later to appear in " Sudden Impact " with Clint , many years later , as a waitress . The movie is made on a low budget and it has no ambitions beyond inspiring fear and wonder at the special effects , which look a bit shoddy to today's audiences used to CGIs . It has no lesson to teach us , unlike , say , " The Day the Earth Stood Still , " but its very cheesiness lends it a charm that's lacking in multimillion-dollar f / x extravaganzas like " The War of the Worlds . " It's comforting to see a small-town doctor who makes house calls . The vistas of empty desert enchant the eye . And if the characters are stereotypical , well , stereotypes exist for a reason . They are fixed points in a changing and unpredictable universe . We sort of like our doctors to be humanists and one of the crowd , and we like our professors thoughtful and quirky , and the sheriff hard-headed , realistic , and given to derisive laughter when he hears an implausible tale . There's a scene in which John Agar and Mara Corday are driving in the doc's nifty 1950s Ford convertible through the empty desert , and he shares with her his sense of awe at living in a landscape like this . Everything that has ever walked or crawled has left its mark in this desert . . . . She asks him to pull over and stop . They sit on a rock and chat in the middle of this vast void . The scene only lasts a few minutes , but for those few minutes we could wish we were part of that couple , innocent , capable of inspiration , still able to look at emptiness and recognize beauty in it . My guess is that the location for this scene is now part of a strip mall and the vacant lots sparkle with bent soda cans and styrofoam . Would that we were at three and a half billion and there were room enough left for wonder at a natural landscape . It's a simple , unpretentious movie made for adults as well as kids . You'll enjoy it .
Long , prepossessing WB Flynn Western	As a film unto itself , " They Died With Their Boots On " rolls right along in the mainstream of Errol Flynn's action movies for Warner Brothers . It's effectively directed and attractively shot , although it really would have benefited from glorious Technicolor . They could have called in Natalie Kalmus who would have been happy to see her name in the credits once again for having done nothing but becoming the widow of Mr . Kalmus . Flynn is his reckless self . He was only 30-ish when this was shot but in some scenes the effects of self indulgence were already becoming apparent . It hardly interfered with his handsomeness or the sense a viewer has that Flynn was not taking himself or his career too seriously , even in the serious scenes . Olivia DeHavilland is beautiful and a little fragile and her acting stops just short of being cloying . She and Flynn evidently got on well together . Curiously , the real Libby Bacon somewhat resembled DeHavilland in her early photographs . But she didn't age as well as some of the rest of us and became plumply matronly , raising the question of whether Custer , out of desperation , committed suicide by Indian . No need to go through the story again , I don't suppose . Custer distinguishes himself in the Civil War , finds himself out West , and is killed along with 200 or so of his troopers atop Custer Ridge at the Little Bighorn River . Actually there were three simultaneous and independent battles of the Little Bighorn . One of them , Major Reno's , took place partly IN the Little Bighorn River . As for the Indians , the ones attacked by Custer are described as coming from all kinds of tribes but they were really from one group , the Sioux , who were divided into several nomadic , territorial bands - - the Minneconju , the Oglala , the Hunkpapa . They lived together for some months in larger settlements , then split up into small bands of 50 or so for the rest of the year . There were no Blackfeet present . There were only seven Cheyenne involved in the battle . One was named Two Moons . I lived with the Cheyenne at Lame Deer and Two Moons ' descendants are still quietly proud of his participation . And as far as that goes , the Visitor's Center at Custer Battlefield National Monument swarms with Indians . They appear not to view Custer as a hero . In 1988 , on the anniversary , they installed a small , angry wrought-iron plaque commemorating the many Indians killed during the fight , placing it at the foot of the phallic monument to Custer's men - - under the eyes of armed National Park Service personnel . Nobody hears much about Indian resentment because they tend to be restrained and have no particular talent for media-grabbing practices , but the wounds still run a little deep . Anyway , forgetting the historical realities and looking only at the fictional illusory ones , what you're left with is a rousing film about a guy who was a bit foolish in his youth but who grew up to be a Mensch .
Immanent Justice	Edward G . Robinson is a timid bank cashier suffering from low self esteem . He's married to a shrew and takes refuge in his weekend painting , which he deems unfit for display except to friends , of which he seems to have exactly one , and THAT one so distant that he isn't even aware of Robinson's love of painting . Robinson's a decent man , though , and interferes when he sees a man slapping a woman around on a lonely street in Greenwich Village . He shouldn't have . The woman turns out to be an " actress " ( Joan Bennet ) being mistreated by the man she loves , her " boy friend " ( Dan Duryea ) . Over coffee , Bennet is mistakenly led to believe that Robinson is a famous painter whose work sells for as much as fifty grand . She and Duryea , two weasels , successfully dupe Robinson into supporting Bennet in her own apartment and Bennet is constantly wheedling money out of him . Robinson's problem is that he's trying to support himself and his nagging wife on a cashier's salary , but , since he's now in love with a woman who loves him , or so he thinks , he steals money for her from the bank . The story gets complicated after that , with Robinson's paintings being discovered by an art critic and , without Robinson's knowledge , being sold for big bucks under Bennet's signature , and - - well , Robinson finally twigs and murders Bennet with an ice pick . Duryea is convicted of the crime and executed . Robinson's embezzlement is found out and he's fired . Then he contracts a severe case of immanent justice , which is the notion that bad behavior leads to illness and suffering , even in the absence of any causal connection . Robinson winds up wandering the streets , an insane bindle stiff , hearing the voices of Bennet and Duryea ridiculing him . The year before this was released , Fritz Lang directed a successful noir with the same three leads in similar roles , " The Woman in the Window . " There , Robinson was a psychology professor who kills a man in self defense and tries with Bennet's help to cover up the crime , even while scuzzbag Duryea is figuring things out . " Scarlet Street " suffers by comparison . It's an ugly picture . In the earlier film , Robinson's wife was away , but he gathered with two or three friends regularly to have dinner and some witty and sophisticated conversation at their club . Robinson's professor was a little bored but otherwise generally satisfied with his life . The plot was simple , straightforward , and filled with suspense . In this one , Robinson is stupid and friendless from the beginning . Instead of one whiny voiced snoop , everybody seems to mistreat him , lie to him , exploit him , and ridicule him in his absence . Or , like his wife , they simply insult him constantly and boss him around . And they all live like slobs . Bennet flips her cigarette butt into a sink piled high with dirty dishes . The problem doesn't lie in Lang's direction . He does a fine job . ( The murder scene may make you gasp with surprise , the brutality emerging as it does out of a mild-mannered clerk . ) There's a bit of ironic humor in evidence too . Robinson's wife , too stingy to buy her own radio , goes downstairs to listen to " The Happy Family Hour , " while Robinson sits at the dinner table and buries his head in his hands . And the dialog is sometimes keen . " He's too dumb to be a phony " . And he IS . Robinson's performance isn't bad but it's stereotyped . There's little complexity in it . He's thoroughly undermined by his corrosive lack of self esteem , a naive , self-deprecating fool and he's treated like one . Bennet is more animated than in the earlier film , but Duryea is , if anything , even a riper villain than before . In real life , of course , Edward G . Robinson was a true aficionado of classical art and , along with Vincent Price , had one of the more esteemed and expensive art collections in Hollywood . In the film - - and I don't know if this was intended as a joke or not - - his much-admired paintings truly stink . Take a good look at that flower in the milk glass . My kid could have done better than that with finger paints in kindergarten . I'll reserve judgment on the big snake with the forked tongue wrapped around the el tracks . That one is either way over my head or way under it . Overall , it's pretty depressing and paints a bleak Edward-Hopperly picture of modern life , so to speak , without much in the way of redemptive wit . It reaches for tragedy and winds up with only melancholy , baby . Rent " The Woman in the Window " instead . If nothing else , the transfer to DVD is better . This print is so fuzzy and blotched that when an envelope is held up for the audience , the viewer can't read the address .
Car chases car , boat , person , woolly mammoth , etc .	The first time I saw this , about ten years ago , I thought it was pretty cool . Zippy car chases , nicely staged , up and down stairs in Hamburg , in and out of passageways , and so forth . Three - - count ' em - - three gorgeous women . Gene Hackman and Matt Dillon , a couple of engaging actors . And it had an interesting premise , too . Young man doesn't get along well with his dad , discovers dad was a CIA spy , develops new respect for him . But I just saw it again , less distracted by the puzzling plot , and it was something of a disappointment . The women are just as gorgeous , Gene Hackman is as good as he almost always is , and the shenanigans with the cars are as exciting , but the rest seems pedestrian , almost amateurishly done - - from the script to the direction . I'll give you an example of what I mean . Hackman and Dillon are driving on a crowded road outside of Paris . Hackman is driving slowly and Dillon impatiently urges him to speed it up . Hackman , his eyes on the rear-view mirror , says , " We've got company . " Then he shifts into a lower gear and the Peugot leaps ahead . " What are you doin ' ? " Dillon exclaims . " Seeing how good he is , " replies Hackman with a slight smile . There follows a high speed chase with cars twirling around on wet sandy roads , through some kind of quarry , and it ends with Hackman confronting the other driver and telling him to quit following him . The chase is fine . But it's pointless . Why is the car chase in the movie anyway ? " Seeing how GOOD he is ? " That's the reason these lives are put in danger for five hectic minutes ? Not to mention the Peugots ? That would be a great motive for a car chase in a kiddy cartoon . The rest of the plot is almost as weak . Matt Dillon's character is a complete irritation for the first third of the movie . He seems to have nothing but contempt for his father , although Hackman doesn't seem to be guilty of much more than losing the kid's jitterbug bass lure . Dillon is always noodging him , the way Captain Ahab was always noodging Moby Dick . The kid is a dumb , self-indulgent slob and Hackman can never do anything right . Well - - that's okay as a proposition , but it's very poorly delivered , and Dillon's character is turned into a strident stereotype . Furthermore , Dillon himself gives an artless and unconvincing performance in a role that maybe nobody could convincingly enact . When Dillon finds out his father , whom he'd thought to be an ineffective stick-in-the-mud , was a spy , he almost begins to weep as he goes through his lines - - " You've been lying to me all this time . " Dillon ought to be elated at discovering his Dad's secret identity . Another curious incident , among so many curious incidents : the evil guys ( and man , do they LOOK evil with their black leather coats and their rimless spectacles as thick as Coke bottle bottoms ) have kidnapped Hackman's succulent wife , Gale Hunnicutt , because he has information they want him to spill . So the first thing they do when he steps off the plane is try to massacre him in a drive-by shooting ? Did I miss something ? Why kill someone you need to wring information from ? I won't go on , I guess . It's still an engaging movie if you're seeing it for the first time because you don't know where it's going to turn next . And the location shooting is interesting too , reminding us that in the middle of a chill wintry drizzle even Paris doesn't look so hot , never mind Hamburg . It has other exciting moments that I haven't mentioned . Identities twist themselves inside out unexpectedly . I don't want to get into that and possibly debase the film's chief virtue .
" Shoot Lovely Ducks ! "	Well , it's identifiably a Hitchcock movie , but you have to watch it a little carefully to be sure . There are no dramatic set pieces , no mind-boggling crane shots , no screaming violins in the score , and the touches of humor are sparse and more understated than usual . The story is basically a murder mystery generated by a false flashback , for which Hitchcock evidently received some critical heat . It's hard to understand exactly why . The flashback is told by an unreliable and half-hysterical narrator ( Richard Todd ) to the decent girl ( Jane Wyman ) who loves him , although he is obsessed with a glamorous woman of the theater ( Marlene Dietrich ) . The lie is satisfactorily cleared up at the end . And the device of the lying flashback is common enough now . But in 1950 , " Rashomon " hadn't swum into public view yet . The performances are up to par . The film makes good use of established English character actors like Alistair Sim as Wyman's father , who is given the most amusing lines . At one point , Wilding the detective is chewing out Sim : Wilding : " How could you let your daughter get mixed up in a thing like this ? What kind of father do you think you are ? " Sim : " Unique . " Marlene Dietrich gets the award for second-best lines . And then there is Joyce Grenfell , a toothy spinsterish lady running a shooting gallery at the garden party - - " Come and shoot lovely ducks ! " Michael Wilding is pretty handsome , isn't he ? Or is he . From some angles and at certain times , he looks and sounds like Danny Kaye . The tenor of the film is relaxed and casual . A bit unfocused at times . Joyce Grenfell is very funny but what is she doing in this scene ? And what do we think is going to happen when Sims gets the little Cub Scout to climb on stage and present the blood-stained doll to Dietrich ? Maybe it's supposed to catch her conscience , like Hamlet's play within a play , but it leads nowhere . The movie overall seems to lack tension , but it's still enjoyable to sit back and watch the characters go through their paces . All of the performances are good and the movie isn't a flop . It's just not one of Hitchcock's most memorable pieces , the kind only he was capable of .
Flynn Western is Full of Action and Color .	There are these bad guys in 1870s Texas , see , led by the wealthy Paul Kelly and the underhanded Victor Francen from New Orleans . What they and their henchmen have been doing is rustling cattle by the horde , or by the herd , whichever you prefer . Then they run the stolen cattle across the Mexican border , rebrand them , and filter them back into the states to sell at a profit . Many honest ranchers and small cattlemen get shot up in the process . Errol Flynn was one of them , his ranch destroyed , his cattle driven off , and he himself shot full of holes . A friend , John Litel , seeks him out in his Hollywood-style Mexican village where he finds Flynn now completely recovered and in possession of a ledger that proves Kelly's guilt . Also , need it be pointed out , Flynn is as gay and cheerful as ever . Flynn and Litel now set out for Texas to see to it that Kelly and Francen pay their debt to society . The rest of the plot gets complicated . Alexis Smith , gorgeous in Technicolor , enters the picture along with S . Z . ( " Cuddles " ) Sakall . The first is beautiful , the latter is less funny than silly , though the tastes of contemporary audiences may be responsible for that impression . Poor Litel is shot unawares by Francen . It does not come as a surprise . We know as soon as we meet his character that he is dead meat . The smoothly groomed miscreants steal the ledger or the diary or the MacGuffin or whatever it is - - the evidence . Flynn has to do a bit of shooting to get it back . He gets it back . The bad guys die . The rest of the good guys live . It's not a demanding film . It goes down like a double café latte mit Schlag . None of the characters is in the least ambiguous . We never feel sorry for a moment when the bad guys get it . And the good guys have no qualifying quirks . They're all good-natured heterosexuals . I kept wishing for some surprise - - maybe Flynn could open his closet and a copy of Pepys ' diary would tumble out with all the ribald passages underlined . Anything . But , as it stands , the movie , though a bit slow , is enjoyable . The whole Warners factory was at work here . All the expected supporting players are present . The score is by Warners stalwart Max Steiner . How he could write so MANY scores for so MANY movies of different genres is a mystery . Flynn is fine as his usual casual self . He's casual even in action scenes . In the 1937 " The Adventures of Robin Hood , " he interrupted a sword fight with the menacing Basil Rathbone to wisecrack . " Did I upset your plans ? " Here , he faces down gunman Tom Tyler . They both draw and shoot , and Flynn asks wryly , " Something wrong , McClaine ? " Tyler , by the way , then does a reprise of his pre-mortem performance in " Stagecoach . " He drops one of his guns , turns and begins to walk slowly away , drops the other gun , takes a few more steps and drops dead . The superb photography is by Bert Glennon . Alexis Smith is merely decorative , but she IS decorative . S . Z . Sakall , a Hungarian , mangles the syntax of the English language and slaps his blubbery cheeks with his palms when he's frightened , which is most of the time , but his role is perhaps more dramatic than his persona can handle . I genuinely enjoyed the wardrobe and the art direction . San Antonio really looks glamorously Mexican . And the director has Victor Franken at varying times chewing on a tamale and what appears to be a soft taco . I've often wondered , though , about the livelihood of characters like Flynn's . He rode into Mexico wounded and without a centavo . He returns to Texas to correct the situation - - but he NEVER WORKS . He has multiple Western outfits , can afford to eat in what passes for fancy restaurants , carelessly tips a tiny Mexican messenger boy - - but he NEVER WORKS . Whatever his source of income is , that's the one I want . Flynn didn't have much of a career ahead of him after this movie but you'd never know it by watching him romp through this retrograde nonsense with such zest .
Hollywoodized Version of an Incredible Story .	In the early 50s , Audie Murphy and his ghost writer published a book of Murphy's unbelievable exploits in Italy , France , and Germany during World War II . Murphy , still in his teens , won about every decoration for valor that the human mind can dream up - - and he earned them too . The experience wrecked him . He made movies later in his life , always boyish looking and modest sounding . But he suffered from PTSD . He was tormented by nightmares of firing an M-1 at attacking Germans and having his rifle fall apart , piece by piece . He slept with a Colt pistol under his pillow and attacked another man with a baseball bat . His many medals were stashed in disarray in a drawer . He died in a plane crash . Hollywood has taken this man's remarkable story , lifting pieces of it from his memoirs , left out the most poignant passages and twisted Murphy's remaining heroics into pablum . An example of what I mean . In the book , written in the present tense , Murphy describes his first encounter with the enemy and sees one of his targets fall . " Now I have killed , " he writes , and goes on to explain his emotions . No room for any such ruminations in the movie . We see Murphy rejected by the other services for being too young or too short . In the Third Infantry Division he is ridiculed in a good-natured way by the usual stereotypes from other war movies - - the guy who brags about his sexual exploits , the stoic Indian , the ambitious Pole , the reckless good friend . Murphy's achievements provide a peg to hang a formulaic war movie on . No cliché is avoided . On leave at last with his fellow troopers in Rome , they all head off to get drunk and get laid , leaving the bashful hero behind . The shy Murphy winds up spending the night with an accommodating young woman while the others are either satisfied with finding someone to talk to or find themselves in some other sort of dead end . The next morning all the men brag about their conquests while the reticent Murphy says nothing about his night of romance . The battle scenes are pretty good , though again they fit the Hollywood mold . The writers even are forced - - get this - - they are forced to downplay or skip over Murphy's boldest actions - - because they are UNBELIEVABLE . The guy's military achievements are so extravagant that the writers must have figured no one would believe them , although to be sure , what's left in is heroic enough . It isn't a bad movie , or rather it wouldn't be if it were fictional from beginning to end . It would just be a standard genre effort , inferior to , say , " Battleground " or " The Story of G . I . Joe . " But it pretends to be a true story and it is simply not . What a tragic waste - - of the rest of what life remained to Murphy , and of an historically accurate narrative that was never told .
Heroism and Cowardice .	This is one of those perilous journey semi-Westerns . In 1916 , Major Gary Cooper is the awards officer during the pursuit of Pancho Villa into Mexico . After witnessing two battles he recommends five men for the Congressional Medal of Honor - - enlisted men Michael Callan , Richard Conte , Van Heflin , and Dick York ; and a lieutenant , Tab Hunter . The commanding officer , Robert Keith , tries to wheedle the same decoration out of Cooper but Cooper declines . The angry Keith orders Cooper to take his five heroes to the distant base at Cordura , and while he's at it he can take Rita Hayworth too . She's been harboring Villistas at her desert ranch . The merry group sets out on the forty-mile journey . It soon becomes apparent that the men aren't all that Cooper thought they were . They're jealous , vain , half loony , coarse , spiteful , self-pitying , and murderous . Even the other officer , Tab Hunter , sides with them . None of them wants the medal . The hatred of Cooper becomes more intense when they discover that during Villa's raid into Columbus , New Mexico , the major hid out in a ditch . Rita Hayworth , on the other hand , who starts out as a self-indulgent alcoholic , proves herself insightful , generous , and stalwart . With the other men refusing to help , Cooper drives himself to exhaustion and near death before the base at Cordura is sighted . The visuals are magnificent . The film was shot near St . George , in the red rock country near the four corners region of the Southwest . It's all piles of pink and gray sedimentary boulders with scattered juniper and pinion pine . When the detail comes upon an abandoned railway speeder , one of those contraptions on rails that must be operated by two men lifting and pushing down on handles , despite the gloomy tonus , one can hardly help but wish to join them on their journey through the Pinesol-scented air of someplace clean . Fascinating , too , to see what is essentially a Western played out in olive drab uniforms and . 45 automatics and field caps that look as if they came straight out of an ancient Boy Scout manual . Alas , the effort is undercut by a banal and sometimes incomprehensible script . The dialog is sometimes stylized but it comes across not as poetic but as clumsy . Cooper mutters things like , " Got to go on . Can't give up . " Not even Hemingway would have dared to suggest a man would drop those pronouns because he was too tired to pronounce them . There is some bloated talk about having acted " beyond the limits of human endurance . " Nobody can do that . If you cross the limits of human endurance , then the limits were in the wrong place to begin with . The director , Robert Rossen , has done better work elsewhere - - " All the King's Men , " for instance , or " The Hustler . " At one point , after some of her cup of tequila has been used to tend a wounded and despised Richard Conte , the canteen cup is handed back to her , half full . She lifts it shoulder high before slowly and dramatically pouring it onto the sand . That gesture belongs in an Italian opera . And the acting varies from the very good indeed ( Van Heflin , who manages to believably conquer his villainous lines ) through the disappointing ( Tab Hunter trying out his acting chops in the role of a heavy instead of a glamor boy ) , to the almost unbearable - - Rita Hayworth acts by the numbers , showing only rudimentary talent . She can't even play a convincing drunk . And when she is pushing the railway speeder , her idea of demonstrating fatigue is to drag the pointed toe of her trailing boot in the gravel . Anyone , no matter how played out , who has ever shoved a burden must wince at her ineptitude . The first half of the story is engrossing . The last half deteriorates , and at the ending the movie collapses entirely and just gives up . All along , the men have given reasons why they don't want the medals and why they resent Cooper enough to kill him . Not all the reasons for rejecting the decoration are plausible - - Richard Conte , for example , " don't hanker to be made no lead mule . " But his character would have grabbed at the chance to make " an extra two bucks a month . " At any rate , Cooper finally collapses while trying to haul the speeder single-handedly and the machine rolls backward , dragging Cooper face down through the gravel for fifty yards . The men now have the hated major at their disposal and Tab Hunter is about to administer the coup de gras . Before the trigger is pulled , the men read Cooper's formal description of his recommendations and undergo an epiphany . At the same time , Cordura is sighted just over the hill . Everyone climbs to his or her feet and marches off towards base accompanied by triumphant music . The moral is that no man is either entirely heroic or entirely cowardly . We all must overcome our tendency to think categorically . We're all a mixture of good impulses and bad impulses . Try to remember that , will you ? Otherwise you expect too much of people , or too little of people , including yourself . I just spelled out in one paragraph what this movie takes an adventurous and beautiful hour and a half to tell us .
Often funny satire of Hollywood .	This intermittently and sometimes very funny send up of cheap movie making was written by , and stars , Steve Martin . He's pretty good , and so are the other performers . Loved Eddie Murphy as the loser / brother of Kit Ramsey . The film is efficiently directed . The humor , as in a lot of Steve Martin's stuff in The New Yorker , depends on incongruities and irony . The incongruity begins with the title of the film-within-a-film that Martin is supposed to be directing - - " Chubby Rain . " ( Cf . , " Cruel Shoes . " ) The irony shows up in scenes like the post-coital murmurs between Martin and Heather Graham as a would-be actress sleeping her way to the top . " I love you . I promise you I'll never use you , " she tells him . " And I will never betray your trust , " he swears , after just having pocketed her credit card . Frank Oz did a good job on the direction . The scene is which an Eddie Murphy look alike ( Eddie Murphy ) is told to run across a multiple-lane freeway full of speeding cars and trucks is nearly perfectly done . Not just the idea but the set up and execution . The editing couldn't be better . Oz had to transpose that scene from a more-or-less detailed written screenplay into two dimensional images . Sometimes the script gives Oz an easier job than at others . As the end of the film approaches the pace becomes frantic and there were times when I lost it . Something to do with aliens and pod people . ( One shot is lifted directly from " Invasion of the Body Snatchers . " ) Martin is a bright and imaginative guy , obviously . His humor borders on the fantastic . Things take place that are physically impossible . And the jokes are liable to be over the head of a less alert audience . I mean , are the kids really going to get the connection between MindBust and Dianetics ? Will they recognize the allusion to " the pod people " ? He's rather like a West Coast Woody Allen , without the serious side , but more of a physical actor . His notion of what's funny is more literary than cinematic , bent slightly towards the late S . J . Perelman . I thought Martin's first film , " The Jerk , " was a disaster but there were scenes and dialog in this one that had me laughing out loud . When Eddie Murphy , as a famous movie star , is offered a script , he counts up all the k's in the text , divides by three , and comes up with the number of times the KKK is mentioned in code . No wonder he winds up at MindBust's " Celebrity Rest Home " . Not all the jokes are so successful , but it's a good-natured and diverting comedy - - better than I'd anticipated .
Film Blanc	Two Swedish policemen , one of them Stellan Skarsgard , arrive in northern Norway to help solve the murder of a high-school girl . The killer is almost trapped but escapes into the fog along the shore . By mistake , Skarsgard shoots and kills his partner . He invents a story in which the girl's murderer shot his partner . Later he's invited by the girl's killer to meet at an isolated place . The two agree to pin the murder on the dead girl's boyfriend , an obnoxious kid anyway . But Skarsgard , plagued by his conscience and the midnight sun , has been unable to sleep and makes an attempt to capture the killer . The killer clobbers Skarsgard and then accidentally falls to his death . A Norwegian policewoman has figured out roughly what went on but contemptuously allows Skarsgard to go back home where , it is fondly hoped , he'll be able to sleep again , although we are left with grave doubts about that . The final freeze frame is of Skarsgard's face and everything fades to black except for his eyes , which are wide open and glow in the dark like an uneasy animal's . Stellan Skarsgard is just about perfect for the role of the insomniac cop . He always looks half asleep anyway . He slouches around , placid , bookish , as if his mind were elsewhere , maybe in wonderland . You can't ruffle him . When the murderer shoots off his shotgun into the plaster ceiling over his shoulder , Skarsgard simply moves his head to the side with an expression of mild distaste . I show more animation when the dentist says , " Turn this way a little . " It's a slow film though , a story of intrigue and character , rather than a who-dunnit with a lot of ancillary action . What I mean is that it's quite different from the American remake that starred Al Pacino . Pacino is equally good at projecting exhaustion but in a very different way . The logic in this film isn't as clear as that in the remake . Here , Skarsgard can have absolutely no motive for shooting his partner of more than a year . In the remake , Pacino's partner was about to squeal on him for some irregularities to Internal Affairs . And here , all it takes is a single phone call for Skarsgard to agree to meet the killer . Pacino had to listen to Robin Williams sympathize with him about his insomnia . And Pacino's hallucinations were far more vivid - - a massive truck bearing down on him in his lane - - while Skarsgard's are more subtle - - a glimpse of his dead partner's face staring through a window . The remake is palpably " American " . It ends with a shoot out that Williams ' heavy has never shown himself capable of . Shotguns and pistols bark . Seaside fishing shacks are blown to smithereens . So is Williams , while Pacino dies after a few parting words . The European original ends with a dying fall and an ambiguous hint of things to come . ( Those glowing eyes . ) Neither film is a masterpiece . They both fit nicely into the generic frame of the guilty cop movie . And in some ways I prefer the remake . It's pace is faster and the characters ' motivations are explored in greater depth , and finally it makes more sense . But that stupid final shoot out works against it and it is , after all , not the original , so it gets no bonus points .
Blimp v . Zeppelin .	I only was able to catch this in sections but thought it was worth recommending . I saw the first half hour some years ago and it struck me as a little boring , but having more recently seen the last half hour it seems to me to have more appeal than I'd originally thought . It's a flag waver , a little pedantic , but it's quite lively and the performances are excellent . We watch " Colonel Blimp " change in the course of forty years or so from a gentlemanly soldier , full of honorable ideas , to a general of the Home Guard , still full of pizazz and , now , of practicality and generosity too . The " death " referred to in the title is evidently meant by Powell and Pressberger to be that of the original idealistic character , not of the man himself - - Roger Livesy as the officer Clive Candy . Now , that's good taste . The writers have made us witness to the development of a man from naive youth to realistic greybeard , or rather grey walrus mustache , and at the end he does not die . ( How tempting that missing deathbed scene must have been . ) Anton Walbrook is also fine as the bitter German officer who loses the First World War , only to later escape the Nazis and become the general's closest friend and adviser . And Deborah Kerr , who died only a few weeks ago , has three roles , each different from the other . I don't know why she was considered an " ice princess " until she supposedly turned the heat on in " From Here to Eternity . " She's certainly animated enough here as Angel or " Johnny " . In appearance , she exemplifies a holistic axiom : the whole is greater than the sum of its parts . None of her features stands out . She doesn't have Gene Tierney's zygomatics , Elizabeth Taylor's violet eyes , Kim Basinger's droopy lids , Nicole Kidman's ski-slope nose , Angelina Jolie's collagenic lips , or Anita Eckberg's bosom . But if you take what she DOES have and put them all together you wind up with a striking-looking woman , from certain angles of almost unearthly beauty . It isn't a masterpiece . It's a colorful and well-executed story about a man's character and friendships , and their development over time . You won't feel sad at the end , and you probably won't regret having watched it .
Upscale Brit Crime Thriller	It's not as bad as I'd expected . It's one of those British crime dramas in which people walk around in Saville Row suits , visit Paris and Spain at will , and drive Jaguars - - and the plot centers around a fake Rembrandt painted by Jason Patric , who is double crossed by a couple of co-conspirators and aided by art expert Irene Jacob . The sociologist Dean Maccannel , in his book " The Tourist : A New Theory of the Leisure Class " , has a delightful anecdote about a group of young American tourists in the Louvre or the Prado or someplace , noticing that a number of paintings were designated as having been executed by P . ignotus , Latin for " painter unknown . " The kids loved P . Ignotus's work , rushing from hanging to hanging , exclaiming , " Oh , here's another one by Ignotus ! " This has nothing to do with the movie unless I want to squeeze it in by saying that I was reminded of Maccannel's story by an argument the fakers are having near the beginning of the film . The production of this fake has taken a long time and Patric has not signed it as Rembrandt van Rijn . The others ( who are supposed to be art experts ) want him to sign it so they can be sure they'll palm it off as the real thing . But Patric knows ( as they should ) that not every artist signs every one of his works , Rembrandt included . Without the signature it is less likely to be obviously faked . ( I think Michelangelo signed only one of his works , La Pieta , although flamboyantly . ) It's kind of interesting to watch Patric fake the painting . Looks convincing enough to me , and I once won a prize for window painting in the 8th grade . The rest of the movie - - with the thieves and murderers in pursuit of Patric and Jacobs - - is kind of routine , with one or two scenes very redolent of Hitchcock . But there's nothing spectacularly WRONG with it . It simply doesn't seem too original and hasn't much in the way of sparkle . Except for Irene Jacob , the art expert who falls for Jason Patric for reasons that escape me because he looks quite ordinary . SHE doesn't though . I think it was Anthony Burgess who remarked of a chapter in James Joyce's Ulysses that " it may be gibberish but it's English gibberish . " Something like that could be said of Jacob's face . She has even features but they are distinctly French even features . She has deep unripe-olive eyes , is not glamorized in any way , but is nevertheless striking , like the girl in a senior high school class that was only available to the captain of the football team . She has a slender modelesque figure with matching breasts . Badham , the director , is tasteful enough to have her disrobe on camera . The film ends in a trial which is pretty tense and enjoyable , although not in the slightest believable . On trial for murder , Patric has a chance to prove his innocence by reproducing the faked Rembrandt in court , which he can do in a jiffy . One afternoon , in fact . He is well on his way to succeeding , to the dismay of the prosecution and the satisfaction of his counsel , when he stops , throws his palette down , and refuses to go on because " Only Rembrandt can paint Rembrandt . " Faking someone else's painting hasn't bothered him a whit before and , man , does this epiphany come at the wrong time . No matter . It's kind of enjoyable . Worth watching if it comes up but not worth working for .
Some of what glitters is gold .	Sean Connery , as James Bond , with the help of Pussy Galore ( Honor Blackman ) prevents Goldfinger ( Gert Frobe ) from irradiating all the gold stored at Fort Knox , Kentucky , and thereby rendering the basis of America's credit untouchable , along with that of much of the rest of the world . An international monetary crisis . James - - Baby - - where are you when we need you ? By the time of this release , 1964 , the properties of the James Bond film had been almost formalized . There must be Sean Connery , he of the wicked double entendres , at the center of the whole affair , contesting some monstrous plot to rule the world , or to ruin it , or to do something damaging to it . There must be a beautiful babe at his side , or at least somewhere nearby . In this case , it's Pussy Galore or , as Connery pronounces it , " Poosy . " ( Ian Fleming was noted for his attention to sartorial detail , not for the sophistication or reach of his word play . ) There must be gadgets galore , too . The most elaborate on display in this movie is Bond's Aston-Martin with its bullet-proof doors , built-in machine guns , smoke screen , ejector seat , and so forth , all of which , sadly , turn out to be impotent when confronted with a simple low-tech mirror . Some of the gadgets we now take for granted - - one of those car-compactors that squeeze a full-blown auto into a block of metal the size of a ham sandwich . A kind of geopositioning device , a laser gun that was new to the audience at the time . ( It has a narrow pink beam ! Watch it melt metal ! ) This differed from the original holotype , " Dr . No " , in that , by this time , the series had proved sufficiently successful that the budget had been boosted . And the familiar and ominous guitar theme was more or less replaced by a pop song that , it was hoped , would bring in yet more dough . Shirley Bassey sings the uninteresting " Goldfinger . " The songs were actually to improve in quality over the years - - " For Your Eyes Only , " and " Live and Let Die , " for instance . There doesn't seem to be much point in describing the plot . If you enjoyed the other entries in the series , you'll enjoy this one . It's pretty much the same as in TV shows . Did you like last week's " Columbo " or " The X Files " ? Then you'll like this week's too . Until tonight , I hadn't watched it for about thirty years , and I kind of enjoyed it . By the time another thirty years rolls by , I may enjoy it again .
The Gentleman Vanishes .	Sort of a nifty mystery about a woman , Jean Simmons , whose brother , David Tomlinson , vanishes from their hotel at the Paris Exposition of 1896 . As in Hitchcock's " The Lady Vanishes , " the concierge and staff deny having seen him . They claim Simmons arrived alone . Simmons pokes around but all the signs of Tomlinson's visit has disappeared . Even his room is gone . The British Consul , Felix Aylmer , would like to help but , he tells her , without any evidence , he's helpless . He advises her to find someone who has met both of them during their one night in Paris . That person exists , in the person of the English artist Dirk Bogarde . Bogarde had borrowed some money from Tomlinson the night before and they'd had a brief , polite conversation . Bogarde is determined to discover what happened to Tomlinson . Together , Bogarde and Simmons do in fact find his whereabouts and the reason for his disappearance . This isn't a psychological mystery along the lines of " Bunny Lake is Missing " or " The Turn of the Screw . " There's never any doubt that Tomlinson is a real human being . And it isn't long before we see the manager of the hotel and her staff toasting his absence , so we know they're in cahoots . It's a genteel mystery , not a sinister one . There isn't any physical action and nobody is genuinely evil . The problem I have is with the concierge , played by Cathleen Nesbitt . Simmons keeps poking around , bringing in the police and generally disrupting the operations of the hotel , and the concierge is consistently polite , suggesting in a friendly way that perhaps Mademoiselle is a little mad . This runs contrary to my experience with concierges . They are uniformly rude to guests . And money grubbing too . And when they write the number 1 it always comes out looking like a 7 . They do this quite deliberately to confound visiting Americans . Oh , there's a conspiracy all right but it involves EVERY concierge in Paris , and now , not just in 1896 . No " politesse " , if you know what I mean ! It's an enjoyable movie . It's always nice to see mysteries unraveled piece by piece . I suppose that's why Agatha Christie has always been a best seller , and the Sherlock Holmes stories before her . In the best of them , we flood out with relief at the end . In that respect , this climactic reveal is a bit of an anti-climax . I won't give away the reason why Tomlinson disappeared but it's pretty prosaic . Still , Jean Simmons is a handsome young lady . Interesting to see her play a scene with Felix Aylmer . This movie was released in 1950 . Two years earlier Simmons had been Ophelia and Aylmer was her father , Polonius , in Olivier's " Hamlet . " The Brits certainly had a pool of accomplished players to fill the roles in their films .
Dinner Chimes at Cabeza de Loco .	Neat set decoration on display here as Aunt Violet Venable ( Hepburn ) takes Dr . Cucrovitz ( Clift ) on a tour of Sebastian's , her deceased son's , botanical gardens while trying to persuade him to perform a lobotomy on her niece Cathy ( Taylor ) who is making a nuisance of herself . The indoor gardens are a vast place filled with primitive plants that were once eaten by the dinosaurs - - the first dinosaurs , the herbivorous ones , not the flesh-eating dinosaurs that came later . Aunt Violet demonstrates the feeding of a carnivorous plant , the " aptly name " Venus flytrap , whose diet of live flies must be flown in at considerable expense during the winter months . Well , to let the cat out of the bag , Aunt Violet promises to fund a new building devoted to psychosurgery at Cucrovitz's underfunded state hospital if only he will do a slice-and-dice number on Catherine's frontal lobes and " cut those lies out of her mind . " The lies , as it turns out , aren't really lies . For years , first Aunt Violet and then Catherine acted as bait for attractive young men , whom Sebastian would then seduce . The operation does not take place . I don't know about Aunt Violet but Catherine would have made pretty good bait . When we first meet Elizabeth Taylor she is a patient in a psychiatric hospital with a diagnosis of dementia praecox ( schizophrenia ) . She apologizes to Clift for her appearance . They don't let her groom herself . However , she looks okay . Her eyes are properly colored and though her hair is a bit messy and her dress a little drab , she has a magnificent bosom and a face that would light up a room . Clift himself was staggeringly handsome a few years earlier but had since been in a car wreck that ruined his good looks even as it cemented his friendship with Taylor , his co-star in George Stevens ' superb " A Place in the Sun . " His acting , however , is up to par , despite the fact that by this time Clift was bombed and strung out from morning till night . Can't imagine how he remained so thin . The story is engaging , no doubt about it . Rich Aunt wants troublesome niece silenced by what amounts to medical murder . Lobotomies are no longer used , having been replaced by powerful and ( mostly ) effective anti-psychotic drugs . They were pretty brutal anyway , taking away extreme anxiety and the distress associated with terrifying symptoms , but also leaving behind little more than a raw and bleeding stub of the patient's original personality . This film is set in 1937 . Two years later , the innovator responsible for lobotomies , Egon Munoz , won a Nobel prize in medicine for it . There's a problem with the screenplay . Williams ' best play was " Streetcar Named Desire . " It was studded with short and flowery phrases , sometimes extending into brief , intense monologues . ( " Don't you just love these long rainy afternoons in N'Awlins ? When an hour's not just an hour but a little piece of eternity dropped into our hands - - and who knows what to do with it ? " That's Blanche , just before she puts some moves on a teen aged boy . ) In this film the flowery speeches come more often , and they're longer . Only a few minutes into the story and Aunt Violet is carrying on about the baby sea turtles being eaten by birds on the beaches of the Galapagos Islands . Catherine's big Reveal about Sebastian's homosexuality and his recruiting tactics is split into two parts . It's all a bit much , and these long speeches constitute an extreme demand on the performers . Hepburn is up to it because hers is shorter . Taylor gives it her best but it's almost too much and a viewer can sense the effort being put into it , the rising , almost hysterical pitch . The story lacks Streetcar's sense of place too , the ambiance . Arnold Malcom's scores have done yeoman work in other films , like " The Bridge on the River Kwai , " but Streetcar had Alex North's slouching , slightly menacing Southern rhythms and this film needs such support badly . Here we feel uneasily that Aunt Violet should be slashing her way through the jungle behind William Holden . Well , those speeches may be long and difficult to read out for the audience , but what imagery . Not Williams ' best , but by no means a clunker .
Friends and Neighbors	Jeff Bridges plays a professor at George Washington University in Washington , DC , living a peaceful , suburban existence with his girl friend and his son . He teaches a course in " Terrorism , " which , in reality , would have to be called " Selected Social Problems " or something like that . His deceased wife was an FBI agent killed in a shoot out with some gun hoarders who turned out to be innocent of any crime . You see , it's all mixed up , but he's doing as well as he can . Next door , in this splendidly barren environment , lives Tim Robbins , an architect , and his wife , Joan Cusack . They're a nice couple . They're sympathetic to Bridges ' issues but they don't butt into anyone else's affairs . They form a nice bond with Bridges ' son , so Bridges begins to trade visits and barbecues with them . This all takes about half an hour and is quite nicely done . It is as boring as hell . Not the movie , but the life style depicted . I can't stand polite conversations over backyard barbecues or dinners at which the two women talk about raising children and the two men describe the work they do . Speaking of work , it seems to Bridges that perhaps Robbins has been fibbing just a little about the job he's doing . In the Robbins ' kitchen , Bridges uncovers a blueprint on the table and Robbins covers it again , saying that it's the Reston Mall , something he's currently designing . Well , Bridges knows a blueprint of an office building when he sees one , and he has just seen one . Why would Robbins lie about something like that ? One discordant note in the social symphony leads ineluctably to another . Robbins appears to be getting mail addressed to someone else . He dismisses the letters by saying the writer was confusing him with another man . But , let's not forget , Bridges is paranoid , so he begins looking into Robbins ' real identity . It turns out to be a pretty crummy one but I won't give any details . This would have been a good movie for teens , had it been more shabbily done , less expensive , and dealt with WITCHES or SATANISTS or VAMPIRES next door . As I recall , there have been several popular movies along those lines . But then the action scenes at the climax would be missing , and the kids would have to settle for a blood feast instead of a tumultuous series of explosions and showers of debris . You can't have everything , you know . The movie was released in 1999 , a good year for terrorism in America , though more was yet to come . There had been the World Trade Center bombing in 1993 and , a bit later , Timothy McVeigh's destruction of the Murrah Building in OK City . Most of us are properly horrified by such acts , but not too much . Some of us seem to demand that the violence only be directed against the proper targets , as when a popular columnist joked , " My only regret with Timothy McVeigh is he did not go to the New York Times building . " ( Ann Coulter , New York Observer , / 2002 . ) Robbins and his family are part of us . A bad part , but definitely lurking around somewhere , and maybe not even as far away as next door .
God's in Bogie's Corner Tonight .	Humphrey Bogart is a sports writer who is hired as a publicity agent for the Argentinian behemoth , Toro Moreno , a new boxer being promoted by the greedy , unfeeling , and corrupt Rod Steiger and his squad of thugs . Bogart needs the money and does the job . Moreno is not too quick on the uptake . He thinks he's as good as the newspapers say . What he doesn't know , but everyone else does , is that all of his fights are fixed or set ups with broken down , aging brawlers . Moreno himself cannot hit a lick nor take one . The night before the championship fight in New York , with Moreno filled with guilt thinking wrongly that he killed his last opponent , Bogart introduces him to the facts , with the aid of Jersey Joe Walcott . Moreno now knows that he can't fight , yet he is facing the world champion ( Max Baer ) who fully intends to butcher him . Does Moreno give up ? Does he take his dinero and run back to Argentina ? Does he chicken out and stay away from Baer , and cling to him to shield himself , in the ring ? Are you kidding ? The point of the movie is that boxing is a brutal sport , fought by men with no future and managed by crooks . How dare they make such an argument ? Why boxing is a clean sport , run according to the strictest code of ethics . Ask anybody . Ask Don King . It's a decent movie for its period . It's not really as shocking as it once must have been , but everyone was about as empty headed as Toro Moreno in the 1950s . It takes a lot to shock us nowadays . But , in the spirit of the times , everything is spelled out for the viewer - - who corrupts the game and how . Maybe it's just as well because there are a lot of non-boxing fans out there who need those instructions . Rod Steiger is a standout in the role of the corrupt manager . His character is named Nick Benko . Could a person with such a name ever be any good . My God , he overacts outrageously . He whines , pleads , threatens , sweats constantly , wiping his face with a soggy hankie . Bogart looks pained throughout . He was seriously ill and died soon after the movie was released . Toro Moreno is played by somebody with the unlikely name of Mike Lane . He was evidently born in Washington , DC , but gives a first-rate impression of a clumsy mammoth from Argentina . During his fixed fights , his technique is to pound his opponent into the canvas with descending blows on the head and shoulders , like a child using a hammer . He can't act but doesn't have to . He's a walking cartoon , a pituitary gland run amok , about eight feel tall and built like a cistern . His ears are huge and in the ring they flap like those of an elephant . Jan Sterling is the stalwart and supportive wife . Not very sophisticated movie making but not bad either .
Diverting H . G . Wells Fantasy .	Lionel Jeffreys is Dr . Cavor , a loony English inventor who takes Edward Judd and Martha Hyer along on a trip to the moon in 1899 in a sphere propelled by his anti-gravity paste ( " cavorite " ) . The moon , at first , looks rather like the imaginations of 1964 would picture it - - barren , mountainous , and dark . The image of the distant earth had not yet acquired its stippling of white clouds . It isn't long , though , before the intrepid trio discover one of those secret civilizations dwelling beneath the surface , where they've built a giant oxygen-producing machine that makes the atmosphere breathable . The society seems to be built around a three-caste system - - giant caterpillars , big furry soldiers , and technologically advanced eggheads . Conflict ensues . The trio escape and head back to earth for a happy landing . I nodded out once or twice towards the end because the story wasn't actually gripping in any sense , though it was nice to see Ray Harryhausen's special effects . That monster caterpillar was pretty spooky . The problem that fantasists like Wells , Verne , Edgar Rice Burroughs , and H . Ryder Haggard had was that they generally had some illuminating intuitions about how to get from the ordinary to the fabulous , but then sometime stumbling while figuring out what to do once they reached the alien corn . Welles ' " The Time Machine " was fine until we wound up with the pale and naive Eloi and the cannibalistic subterranean Morlocks when , unless you were clued in to the fact that Welles was trying to predict the future evolutionary status of the working class and the aristocrats , it seemed a little confusing and arbitrary . " The First Men on the Moon " has a similar problem . F / X aside , I kept thinking , " So what ? " , through the cerulean haze of stage one sleep . Edward Judd , formerly of " The Day the Earth Caught Fire , " was okay . And Martha Hyer gives her most animated performance on film , which is kind of like watching a digital clock click from one minute to the next . Lionel Jeffreys is more than your usual quirky scientist . ( Miles Malleson , here as the Dymchurch registrar is quirky . ) Jeffreys is positively manic , running around screaming , stumbling over things , repeating himself - - " I've got it ! I've got it ! " - - when he should be begging for lithium . And the photography is great in many ways , images that are crisp and sharp , but a fable like this deserves to be bright , cheerful , and inviting , like George Pal's " The Time Machine . " This fairy tale is dark , too dark , rendering every background object minatory . I mean , a murky hole in the ground filled with terrifying monsters is depressing . Reminds me of my childhood . The subdued lighting is expertly used in the scenes at Cherry Cottage , though , deep greens with the subtle pink of flowers in the shrubbery . And the rich score is impressive . It's still a light-hearted and appealing movie , though . The kids ought to get a big kick out of it too .
Midstream for Eastwood .	There are about three minutes of genuine pathos in this film and they come at the very end . Clint Eastwood , as the eponymous outlaw , has been pursued across half the nation by bounty hunters , law officers of various types , and Union soldiers . He's just been involved in a gunfight against impossible odds and though he and a few friends have killed all the blue bellies , Eastwood has been wounded in the upper right quadrant . His chief enemy , a viperous Redleg played by Bill McKinney , has ridden away from the fight . Eastwood follows and kills him with his own sabre . He then repairs to the dilapidated saloon for a shot of medicinal red eye before trying to make it back to his home and friends . However , after all he's been through , wounded and in pain , he finds two more men in the saloon , looking for the renegade Josey Wales . One is a stranger . The other is an old acquaintance from the Civil War , John Vernon , who has worked for the Union Army since the surrender . The few people in the saloon are friends of Eastwood's and they lie to the Union men , telling them that Josey Wales was killed dead in a Mexican shoot out . The stranger accepts the story and has one of the customers sign an affidavit to that effect , but Vernon has recognized Eastwood . Eastwood and Vernon step outside , facing each other , and Vernon says he doesn't believe the story about Wales ' death . He thinks Wales is still alive and if he encounters him , he'll give him the first move . He owed him that much . Eastwood makes no move to pull any of the several guns he's always packing around . Vernon glances at Eastwood's boot and sees a few drops of blood spattering on the tip . Then Vernon - - and the viewer too - - suddenly realize the ordeal that the tight-lipped Eastwood character has endured , enough hard riding , blood , violence , loss , and murder to last a dozen lifetimes . And Vernon says that if Josey Wales isn't dead , Vernon would tell him , " The war is over . " A long pause before Eastwood replies , " I guess everybody died a little in that war . " Eastwood rides off towards home , slouched over in his saddle . I wanted to mention the good part , and it IS well done - - well written and directed - - because the rest of the movie doesn't live up to it . Right off the bat , the Union soldiers from Kansas raid the home of Eastwood , a peaceful farmer , burn his house and kill his wife and children . The rest of the movie is a story of revenge . Revenge is an easy motive to identify with , especially when the pillager and murderer is the evil Bill McKinney who's never played anything BUT brutal and stupid rural characters . ( He was the cracker who sodomized Ned Beatty in " Deliverance . " ) Well , revenge is easy to understand , but it can also provide an engine for endless cruelty if one wants it to . Fritz Lang recognized this in his American movies , " The Big Heat " and " Rancho Deluxe . " Eastwood pulls off some repugnant stunts here , against people who sometimes are obviously evil and sometimes not . Eastwood not only starred but directed , and his direction shows him at a sort of tipping point between Sergio Leone and Eastwood's own later films . Gigantic close ups of wet faces and glistening teeth alternate with grandiose high shots of galloping horses . Eastwood's Josey Wales is his familiar Western figure , taciturn , slightly mean , given to spitting tobacco juice on dogs , full of provocative insults . " Well ? You gonna pull those guns or stand there whistlin ' Dixie ? " When he tries to speak in ritualized and poetic English to the Comanches , while making a peace proposal , he fails . Perfumed speech is not his forte . And when he rides off into the sunset , it's without any suggestion of remorse for the hundred or so dead bodies he's left in his wake . Sandra Locke is a fetching young blond who sounds as if she'd just graduated from Vassar . Chief Dan George is fine in everything he does . One suspects he's not acting at all , just trying to get his lines right , but they come out the way they ought to . Paula Trueman , as Granny , is splendid . One thing I'm not sure the writers intended , but the movie is anti-Union in sentiment . Not pro-Confederate , just anti-Union . Nobody connected in even the most remote way with the United States Army is any good . At best , there are four harmless , doltish youths ( whom Eastwood kills ) . At worst , they are treacherous creeps who line up Confederate prisoners at the surrender ceremony and mow them down with Gatling guns . In an amusing scene , Chief Dan George tells Eastwood how they screwed him out of his house and killed his family too . No mention of the Cherokees owning slaves , just like the plantation owners they learned from . No mention of slavery at all . The Civil War itself is economically reduced to a fuzzy montage of battling figures and an abundance of smoke . All these scenes I've mentioned are dark , cold , and uninviting . It's not an attractive movie . It's worth catching because it has a few good minutes in it , above and beyond the appeal of the traditional violent Western . But as he edged into his 70s and now his 80s , Eastwood's output was to become far more sophisticated , far more thoughtful , at times approaching art .
Surprisingly - - Okay .	I hadn't been expecting much , so it came as a pleasant surprise to find this was a rather well-done flick . Instead of Annie the Dinosaur , I got " King Kong " in nascent form . The guy doing the special effects , Willis O'Brien seemed to be developing his craft here . The dinosaurs , while obviously models moving in stop motion , are not cartoons but realistic models . If a giant Allosaurus is about to attack , he whips his lizard-like tail around , just as the Ymir did in " 20 , 000 Miles to Earth " . They copied a lot of this stuff for the 1950s monster movies . And the plot ! I don't know how closely in adheres to Conan-Doyle's novel , but in " The Lost World " we see laid bare the structure - - the armature , as it were - - of a dozen later movies , beginning with " King Kong . " How's this for a plot structure ? A hardy handful of explorers and adventurers travel to an exotic land , dragging a beautiful young woman along . There , they discover dangerous creatures of monstrous size , prehistoric and alien . They manage to capture one of the beasts and take it back alive to the Big City , but it escapes and runs wild through the streets , smashing buildings , knocking over landmarks , eating people , and parking illegally in handicapped zones . That's what happens here , only instead of a giant ape or some ill-formed and befanged organism from outer space , it's a brontosaurus . The effects are really sophisticated for their time , 1925 . And though the science may be pure hokum , still the adventure is an exciting one . What's missing here is the death of the monster , and the pathos of King Kong's death , who , after all , died for love , just like the rest of us . This dinosaur simple rumbles onto Tower Bridge . The bridge collapses under its weight and the creature swims to the sea and presumably freedom . Just as well . There is no record of a brontosaurus ever having harmed a human being before . This one was simply taken from its natural environment and presented with the overwhelming temptation to do so . Live and let live , I say . If you don't bother THEM , they don't bother YOU . Unlike , may I say , certain forms of spyware and the purveyors of male enhancement products . The acting is of the period and not worth much attention . This version of " The Lost World " is shorter than the 1960 Irwin Allen version and I enjoyed it more . In the latter , real lizards and crocodilians , dressed in fake horns and blown up to giant size , actually fought and tore pieces of flesh from each other . These models fight too but nothing is being wounded or killed for our pleasure . There's always the knowledge that what we're watching is what was known at the time as " fake photography . " Not bad . And not just " not bad " per se , but not bad because in watching it we seem to be witnessing the birth of an entire genre of films . Willis O'Brien was to pass the baton to Ray Harryhausen , who would carry on with the stop-motion work until obliterated by time and the advent of computer-generated images of the kind we see in " Jurassic Park . "
Suspenseful Airplan-in-Jepeordy Movie .	Rather nicely done for the genre . Scott Bakula is flying a small Cessna from Pago Pago to Norfolk Island and finds himself lost over the wide Pacific due to instrument malfunction . No ships around - - not that anyone knows where he is - - and the only other traffic is an Air New Zealand Boeing passenger plane , piloted by Robert Loggia . Bakula calls an airport and declares an emergency . His plane is low on fuel and he plans on ditching in a few hours before the sun sets . Loggia , informed of the situation , decides to help Bakula . The rest of the film consists of Loggia and Bakula trying with increasing desperation to find each other in the darkening skies so that Loggia can guide Bakula to the nearest airport at Aukland . They get the job done , but not without a lot of intervening problems . There's nothing particularly outstanding about the acting . All the principals are professionally competent . And there are some nice shots of a Boeing heavy in a sunlit sky . Bakula's little Cessna , a goofy-looking low-winged crop duster , looks like a joke unto itself . The script is a little stereotyped . Bakula simply MUST have a pregnant wife back home who wants him to quit his freelance flying job . And , hearing of the impending disaster , she MUST be patched through to Loggia's airplane so that he can pass sentimental messages back and forth . The script is at its best when it sticks to technical matters and the directing is best when the actors speak in dry , crisp tones . Pilots don't scream at one another over the radio . Whoever did the special effects for the thunderstorm that the planes have to fly through should be fired . Bakula shouts : " I'm flying into a thunderhead ! " Immediate - - and I mean like right away - - the camera goes ape , shaking all over the place as if being kicked from all directions , the lightning flashes from the strobe lights are constant and blindingly bright , and the electronic thunder is constantly crashing around our ears . Loggia's huge passenger plane goes through almost as much turmoil as Bakula's little Cessna . That's wretched excess . A more imaginative approach to the thunderstorm experience would be built up gradually , with intimations of mortality , a few dim booms first , and some diffuse pink flashes in the distance before the impact , to give the audience a chance to worry properly . And the little Cessna shouldn't be whacked around . It should fall and rise in excessive swoops . The apparent danger is vitiated by the fact that everything lets go at once . There's no tension or anxiety . As it is , when Bakula yells , " I'm LOSING IT ! " , there's no evidence that his airplane is being battered any more than it was when he was in control . The film holds a viewer's interest , though . It's no fun to be lost over the ocean in a small plane and have to ditch . Look at Amelia Earhart . It happened to me , too , and it was scary as hell , though it was a bright sunny afternoon off Montauk Point and the seas were light . Ditching in the dark must be a nightmare . There are tense scenes aboard Loggia's plane too . Just how much is he willing to risk to save a single life ? Considering that he has not only his own crew but 88 passengers aboard , many of them children . He risks quite a lot actually , small things first , then more important things , like dumping fuel to create a contrail . An interesting job for a TV movie .
Funny Danny Kaye .	Danny Kaye made a couple of amusing comedies in the 1940s . He always played himself , the bumbling , stuttering coward . He's the same here , although the setting is now Medieval England and his character is mistaken for a court jester or , at times , for a Robin Hood figure called The Black Fox . The plot is too complicated and dumb to be detailed , but the story is successful because of isolated , almost incidental , comic moments . The writers - - Panama and Frank - - must have had a good time dreaming up some of the gags . They don't stem organically from the plot or the characters . Let me put it this way . " Some Like It Hot " is a comedy from beginning to end . It has continuity . What's funny about it grows out of situations that , seen in context , look inevitable . " The Court Jester " has , instead , amusing scenes that aren't really anything much more than skits . There's no particular reason to introduce the hypnotic trance that transforms Kaye from a phony and a coward into a confidant warrior and passionate lover except that it's good for laughs . Ditto with the scenes of combat mortal . And WITHIN the combat scene , Kaye's armor happens to be struck by lightning and magnetized , leading to a few ludic incidents that are quickly thrown away when used up . That doesn't mean it's not a funny movie , because it really is just about the equal of Kaye's best , although it comes late in his oeuvre . He's ten years older than he was at his peak but it hasn't affected his playing or his appearance . ( There are several songs , but no gibberish . ) Basil Rathbone , as Lord Ravenhurst , looks considerably more aged that he had when he played the same role with Errol Flynn on the other end of the swords . He's a less robust figure , and a comic movie wouldn't suit him if he weren't the hammy heavy , yet he's fit and dances around convincingly in his swordplay . Cecil Parker does well with his usual dithering persona . Glynnis Johns is magnificent , a tiny buxom girl with the biggest blue eyes in the business . Angela Lansbury tosses off her part with panache , as always . She's an extremely good actress . If there are any clichés in the genre of medieval movies , you'll probably find them here . The battle between knights on horseback , with mace and chain ; the good guys disguised as hooded monks ; the desperate struggle to lower the drawbridge ; the castle overrun by attacking midgets . Wait a minute . The castle overrun by attacking MIDGETS ? Well , okay - - that's not exactly a perfect cliché , but if you've seen " Robin Hood " or " The Flame and the Arrow , " you'll know what I mean . Some of the scenes are quite amusing . The hurried marching of Kaye through the ceremony in which he is knighted . The chalice with the palace is the brew that is true . The kids ought to get a kick out of it , as mine did .
Familiarly Heartwarming .	Matt Dillon is a divorced , working-class New Yorker who pines to chip in with his buddies and buy a bowling alley . The thing holding him back is that he is disgorging money to his ex-wife Annabella Sciorra . Dillon is also hooked up with a nurse , Mary Louise Parker , while Sciorra has bonded with her professor William Hurt , who , lamentably , is married . I ask you - - the experienced movie-goer - - is it necessary to spell out what happens at the end ? Not if you've seen " The Awful Truth " or any of the innumerable others that wind up with the estranged couple realizing that they were really meant for each other all along . The only alternative , and it was fashionable for a while , was for the wounded wife to find empowerment in her singlehood , as in " Unmarried Woman . " The story was written by women and directed by a man , and so the perspective of both genders is rather neatly represented . The bits of symbolic interaction , the kind that women pick up and men blunder over , are nicely captured in the script . A little hackneyed here and there , as during Parker's dismissal of Dillon , but overall a nice job . The director adds an understanding of male companionship , of men stifled in their ability to express emotions other than lust and rage . And he knows how much men of Dillon's background treasure their Vettes . Here , the dialog is sometimes inept . A friend of Dillon's , Pope , is in love with a young woman named Marie . ( The central figures are all Italian ; the WASPS are on the periphery . ) " I doan know how I feel when I see Marie ! I mean , she might be 50 feet away . Maybe she's just brushin ' her hair or somethin ' . I mean , I doan know . My stomach gets dis HOLLOW feelin ' . I get all kinda JUMPY , if you know what I mean . " Well , I may or may not know what he means , but I know that working-class men DOAN TALK DIS WAY . Here's how the dialog would go . Dillon : " Hey , you still wit Marie or what ? " Pope : " Yeah . I tink it's getting ' deep . " If you take that verbal clumsiness away from these guys , you might as well take their cojones while you're at it . It was all pretty familiar , if intermittently amusing . Here's the thing that surprised me . Mary-Louise Parker's performance as Dillon's sometime girl friend who finally realizes that she can do better with somebody who cares more for her than for his ex wife or his car . She's quite good - - and in a slurpy and uninspiring part , too . No one wants to sound like a sexist but I'm compelled to point out , speaking to you as your psychologist , that men's and women's brains are rather different . That's not even to mention their hormones . I won't get into detail , but this biological difference is reflected in their interactional styles . I refer you to any of Deborah Tannen's books on the subject , as much as I hate to . ( She knows how to cut men off at the knees while retaining her deniability . ) Anyway , I think women would enjoy this film more than men . The men will squeeze some enjoyment out of what is likely to have been the director's contribution . I wish Mary-Louise Parker had been on screen more often , here and elsewhere , and not stuck in the victim role so repeatedly .
Challenging Adult Story of American Terrorists	A lot of reviewers seemed to despise this inexpensive but thoughtful movie . The fons et origo of their hatred ( because that's what it is ) is the spouting of anti-government notions by the three or four terrorists to which the movie introduces us . It's probably a good idea to keep in mind that the description of events on the screen doesn't mean that the writers or the director endorses those events . Otherwise the guys who write and direct stupid slasher movies are all in a world of difficulty . It's also probably the case that the calumny heaped upon the execution of the film - - " boring , " " too long , " " no action " , " leftist propaganda " , and so on - - stems from the reviewers ' dislike of the fact that the terrorists are given an extensive hearing without any too-obvious condemnation of what they're saying . Not that it's a perfect movie by any means . The four terrorists - - well , three , really , since one of them is an FBI infiltrator or something - - are John Shea , Henry Simmons , and Juliet Marquis , and they all do the jobs of seasoned professionals . Shea is the intellectual of the group , the guy who provides the justification for building the bomb . Simmons is an embittered and impotent Gulf War veteran . Juliet Marquis , who is beautiful without being in the least Hollywood-pretty , is the sexual glue that hold the others together . Michael Mosely is the innocent , wide-eyed , somewhat skeptical young man who is recruited by accident into the group and becomes an informant . Shea's reasoning never really makes much sense . He sees evidence of a conspiracy by the Project For a New American Century everywhere , helped by those at the top who would destroy our liberties , our way of life . The choice of , for instance , as the day of attacks was not chosen at random . The hijackers knew that there would be an Air Force drill that day that would confuse radar operators and air controllers with lots of false positives . How did they know ? Somebody in the Pentagon must have told them , using Osama bin Laden as the conduit . You know , if you throw a handful of pebbles on the floor they will scatter and form a random pattern . But if you look closely enough , and if your desire to find a pattern is strong enough , you can connect the dots and find an elephant parade or whatever it is you're searching for . What you're looking for depends on your beliefs about the world you live in . That's why the Chinese zodiac is different from ours , although both zodiacs are socially constructed from random arrays . The three wing nuts we see in this movie aren't stupid by any means . Shea is a successful historian and author . It's just that the pattern he builds out of random events don't jibe with the pattern the rest of us see . However , he's articulate in explaining why he thinks the way he does , and that must be what's irritating some of the other reviewers . They'd likely prefer Shea to be a gibbering maniac of the sort we see in so many childish action films . A joke instead of a human being . I wish , though , that the damned movie had been built in a more linear way instead of jumping back and forth in time so often . It's all talk and it gets confusing after a while . And the motives behind the planned bombing aren't made at all clear . The motives behind the individuals involved are either formulaic ( the black guy who is impotent ) or unexplained ( Shea's intellectualism ) . And I'm not sure why , in the last shot , the informer drops the pistol's hammer on an empty chamber while aiming at his boss's forehead . In the end , I don't like having my nose rubbed in obvious propaganda either . That's why I don't generally like Costa-Gavras's work . But if this film is propaganda , I don't know which point of view is being peddled . Certainly not the domestic terrorists . For all their devotion and self-righteousness , I never felt for a moment that the writer / director was rooting for them to actually do it and get away with it , nor that he was urging the audience to root for them .
The Adventures of Joseph and Shannon .	Not a fairy tale . Not like " The Quiet Man " anyway . It's the straightforward tale of two Irish folks - - Joseph Donnelly ( Tom Cruise ) and Shannon Christie ( Nicole Kidman ) . There are three dramatic episodes : the miseries in the Ireland of 1898 where everyone is subject to the English landlord's whim , a spell in the poor Irish ghetto of Boston where Tom and Nicole share a sex-free room and Tom makes some money fist fighting for the ward boss , and finally the excitement of the Oklahoma land rush when Tom and Nicole , having earlier gone their separate ways , are united and in possession of " the land " . The Irish , they are a funny race . No , really . They have a quaint , almost fey , way with words and language in general . It's not elegant , but sometimes it amounts almost to folk poetry . A couple of examples that come to mind : ( 1 ) If a stranger enters a saloon and asks if Michael Murphy comes here , the barkeep is liable to respond , " That name has a lot of usage in Ireland . " ( " Shake Hands With the Devil . " ) ( 2 ) Of a departed friend , " He was a grand man entirely . " ( " The Last Hurrah . " ) ( 3 ) Of a poor little boy , " He hasn't a shoe to his foot . " ( " Angela's Ashes . " ) ( 4 ) If an angry crowd waits outside for a man , he's liable to say , " I'll leave later by the back , pendin ' the coolin ' of their ardor . " ( " Up the Rebels " . ) ( 5 ) Of a drunken failure , " He has a great future behind him . " ( Joyce's " Ulysses " . ) No wonder that underpopulated little island has produced so many poets and novelists of note . Let me get back on track , though , this comment not being a doctoral dissertation . Where was I ? Yes , Cruise and Kidman on the prowl . They're okay . And the dramatic episodes aren't too disturbing because we know that the lovers will wind up together and still living . This is a Ron Howard movie after all , and he's as dependable in this regard as Rob Reiner . Even the fist fights that Cruise is so well paid for in Boston are almost reassuring in their own quiet way . Cruise gets to show off his definition . Many of the punches land in slow motion so we can see the blood dripping like heavy oil from Cruise's lips , just as in " Raging Bull . " And Cruise walks away from all these bare-knuckled fights with his nose intact and nary a scratch , whereas in real life he'd be toothless and his features would resemble a relief map of Waziristan . Nobody gets seriously hurt for that matter . The three Donnelly brothers have a hell of a good time punching each other full force in the kisser and engaging in unbuttoned laughter at the same time . I don't think Ron Howard or his writer could ever have been in a fist fight in the schoolyard or they'd know one blow can start a cascade of gore . The movie begins with a score led by a pennywhistle that is sentimental and nostalgic for the Auld Sod . During the climactic land rush , it switches to generic " epic adventure . " Under the end credits we hear an up-beat tune by somebody like Enya , full of echoing chorus and percussion . That last bit is emblematic of the entire movie , both hauntingly pretty and mood stirring - - easy listening .
Sprightly Musical From the 1940s .	Relaxed and enjoyable musical comedy . ( There are some nefarious Nazis here with evil plans but forget them . ) It's not Red Skelton's funniest comedy but he's still pretty amusing as his usual tall hick , with his goofy smile , falling over chairs , a pants-presser who impersonates someone else and gets rattled when threatened with exposure . The musical numbers are pretty well done and efficiently integrated into the plot - - direction by Vincent Minnelli . Eleanor Powell is the major musical star and her tap dancing is so vigorous , and her body so limber and supple , and the tempo so fast , that just watching her spins for thirty seconds gave me chest pains . We are given an extended version of the song " Star Eyes " . It was a big hit during the war years . The lyrics are loony , but the song is pretty and amenable to all kinds of variations , as the film demonstrates . It's still part of the Great American Songbook . You can catch it on the occasional recent CD if you keep your ears open . Nick Brignola did it on baritone sax some years ago . The version in the film is of the period , with Helen O'Connell and Ray Eberle , with Jimmy Dorsey's orchestra . Some of the jokes may get by younger viewers - - that is , younger than about 60 . Red Skeleton is listening to a recording by Jimmy Dorsey at a shop window . He turns to the man standing next to him and makes some complimentary remark about Jimmy Dorsey . The man makes a snotty comment and walks away . The man is Tommy Dorsey , Jimmy's brother , and the two were notorious rivals at the time . Someone pointed out in another comment that this was an updating of a Buster Keaton movie and I can believe it because Keaton's influence seems apparent in some scenes . ( Skeleton trying to lift the limp body of the unconscious Eleanor Powell and stretch it out on the bed . ) Keaton was gag adviser on another Red Skeleton comedy , " A Southern Yankee " , and turned some of the scenes ( eg . , a dentist's chair ) into comic gems . " Star Eyes " was nothing more than ordinary pop music at the time . Whatever happened to vernacular music ? Now I have to listen to some gangsta who can't sing threaten to wrench my head off and pour beer down my neck cavity . ( Sob . ) Where did it all go ?
Quelle Damage .	In this erotic melodrama , Jeremy Irons is tall , elegant , imperially slim , impeccably groomed and coiffed , the very model of a modern major minister . He's a distinctive looking fellow with his big , sunken eyes and thin , almost cyanotic lips . He's a member of parliament here , about to be offered a cabinet position . He's a husband and a father and lives in a more-than-comfortable home where his wife's family has been for more than two hundred years . But he's a fool nonetheless . One day , his son , Martyn ( Rupert Graves ) , brings home a girl friend ( Juliette Binoche ) whom he plans to marry . Irons and his wife ( Miranda Richardson ) greet her politely , but Irons and Binoche seem unable to break off their interlocked gazes . Returning home , Irons finds Binoche waiting for him . She sits on the edge of the bed , then wordlessly slides to the floor , where they make rough love like two aardvarks in heat . Thereafter , despite the marriage plans of Binoche and Graves , she and Irons meet often and make love all over the place . I mean , on the floor , on staircases , in bathrooms , in empty city doorways , on a sea of broken marmalade jars . ( Well , no , I made that last one up . ) Irons knows he's endangering everything he holds dear . She may be forbidden fruit , but she's very willing to drop . They can't seem to break it off . There is a visit by Binoche's mother , Leslie Caron , who - - being French and female - - can tell simply from the glances during dinner between Irons and Binoche , or rather their complete absence , what's going on . She warns Irons to knock it off , and he agrees , but , as he already knows , he can't . Tragedy ensues . While Irons and Binoche are going after it in their usual gymnastic way in a bare hotel room , Graves enters by accident and , stunned , backs away and tumbles over the balcony railing to his death several floors below . Irons loses everything - - his son , his wife , his lover , his job . He winds up in a foreign land , gray haired , supposedly poor but living in an apartment that looks more comfortable , if not as exotic , as the hovel I inhabit . This was directed by Louis Malle , who has done some splendid work , all of it sensitive to relatively minor interactional exchanges - - glances , silences , the reply that does not quite answer the question . The family is seated at their usually elaborate dinner and someone remarks to Graves that his life has been nearly perfect . He pauses and says with a smile that he wishes he were a little more passionate about things . His mother comments , " You must have gotten that lack of passion from me . " " No , " he says , " I think it was from Dad . " The kid has no idea what passion his old man is capable of . Yes , dear old Dad is a human tea kettle with its lid flopping up and down and nobody but Juliette Binoche has the slightest clue . It's flawlessly shot , directed , and acted , but the script is a bit hackneyed . And although it keeps our interest and is realistically based on the kinds of conflicts we all experience , the story is rather slender . Two people getting after it , who shouldn't . Sometimes you must deny the impulses your glands put you up to . What we wind up with is " Romeo and Juliette . " The film can't be easily dismissed - - a tragedy whose end everyone can see coming except the two protagonists .
Post-war Quickie Warning About Guns .	It's odd to see such a time-bound short in these oh-so-modern days . It must have taken a couple of hours to shoot this . It does have Morris Ankrum as a performer , though he has no lines . It's a straightforward warning that the guns brought home from the war by discharged GIs were more than merely souvenirs . They were weapons that were completely indifferent to their owners , as the gun's first-person narration points out , and were designed to do only one thing - - puncture the human body . And so we trace a Mauser pistol from Germany , through an ordinary post-war family ( where the gun is used to accidentally kill the family dog ) , through a varied series of owners , until it winds up in the hands of Morris Ankrum , an armed robber , and is involved in a shooting in which three men die . Whether it was intended to be so or not , it's virtually an argument in favor of restrictive laws governing the ownership of handguns . The way the pistol's story is presented , of course , says no such thing . It might have been endorsed by the NRA as a plea for responsible gun management . But over the sixty years since this was shot , the cultural context seems to have developed in such a way that the message it carries is now quite different . We don't really need to worry about post-war souvenirs anymore . We need to be concerned about weapons , whatever their origins . The souvenir that was lethal and indifferent then has become the plain old ugly gun that is lethal and indifferent today .
Slickly commercial , and funny	Unemployed actor Dustin Hoffman poses as a woman , Dorothy Michaels , and lands a part on a soap opera where he falls for another cast member , Jessica Lange . Hoffman gets into the role and begins improvising snotty remarks and put-downs against his overbearing male costars , as well as coaching Lange on standing up for her rights instead of letting men walk all over her . Hoffman becomes the most popular person on the show and is irreplaceable . He's in hot water , however , since no one on the show realizes that he's a man , Lange included . ( The makeup is superb . ) Then things get all complicated . Lange's father , Charles Durning , develops a passion for Hoffman's Dorothy and offers him a ring . And Hoffman is locked into a contract that he can't get out of without inviting professional ruin . It's a very funny movie with clever gags that break little new ground in the transvestite genre . Example : After a friendly dinner , Lange confides to Dorothy that she , Lange , is tired of men hitting on her and fabulating compliments . It would be so much simpler , say Lange , is a man just came up to her , said , " I could lay a long line on you , but what I really want to say is that I find you very interesting and would like to make love to you . " Hoffman , as Dorothy , nods eagerly . Shortly afterward , in his male persona , he runs into Lange at a party . She of course doesn't recognize him without his Dorothy disguise . " You know something ? " , Hoffman asks . " I could lay a long line on you , but what I'd really like to say is that I find you very interesting and would like to make love to you . " Lange throws a glass of wine in his face and walks away . There are unusually good performances from Dustin Hoffman ( looking and acting convincingly feminine ) , Bill Murray , Sidney Pollack , and Jessica Lange in particular . I won't give away any more gags , I guess , though there are many amusing scenes . The chief problem with the movie is that it's structured for popular taste . It's burdened with a " meaningfulness " , namely the empowerment of women , that " Some Like It Hot " never dreamed of . And there are times when it's soft and cloying like the chocolate-covered cherries that someone gives Dorothy as a present . Lange and Hoffman are sharing a bed at Lange's family farm and the scene is loving and tender . A sappy love song swells in the background . It played under the end credits with a saxophone lead that sounds like Kenny G . And most of the comic situations are derivative too , as perforce they just about must be , because how many twists can be wrung out of a plot that has become this familiar . There isn't as much outright slapstick as in " Mrs . Doubtfire . " Nobody's bosom catches on fire . But there's the same quick-change problem when Hoffman's girl friend ( Terry Garr ) bursts into his apartment while he's still in costume . There's something else too . It's a little demeaning to women . I don't watch soap operas ( " afternoon dramas " ) , but I wonder if female characters are really treated as doormats . If they're called " Tootsie , " or " Doll , " or " Sweetie , " behind the camera , how terrible is that ? How different is it from calling a man " Pal " or " Mac " or " Buddy " ? And if it were true that women were subtly trashed behind and in front of the camera , does it really take a man in a woman's guise to wake them up ? The impression the film leaves with the viewer is that a good deal of thought and expense went into the production , but most of the effort was aimed not at making a good comedy but at appealing to the widest possible audience and raking in the shekels at the box office , at which I believe it succeeded .
Entertaining concept , nice action scenes .	Peter Hyams both wrote and directed this cynical business about flaws in the space program that first lead three young astronauts - - James Brolin , Sam Waterston , and O . J . Simpson - - to participate in a Mars landing faked on a sound stage by the program's head , Hal Holbrook . During the " return mission " , after which everything is supposed to be just fine and dandy , there's yet another failure in the hardware , the space capsule blows up during reentry , and the astronauts , kept under guard at a remote landing field , figure things out and decide they'd better vamoose . I mean , " dead " can't become anything other than dead without the quotes . They make it into the middle of a wasteland before their airplane runs out of fuel and crash lands . Then they stride off in three different directions in hopes that one of them will find a phone booth , a police station , a hospital , a newspaper , or a Starbucks coffee shop . A grueling trek ensues . O . J . and Waterston are picked up and - - well , we don't find out what happened to them except that they disappear . Let's hope they didn't disappear to the same place that nosy technician disappeared to when he twigged on the ruse at Command Control . Hyams hasn't written what anyone would call a tight plot . The faked jump from the landing module to the surface of " Mars " ( " We make this leap in the name of all mankind " ) ought to be one of , if not THE , most gripping moment in the story . It raises all sorts of questions . Who wrote their phony dialog from Mars ? ( " The surface seems powdery . " ) Who dreamed up the Martian landscape ? But it lasts no more than five minutes and the backdrop and lighting look as slapped together as in a " Dragnet " episode . The dialog is no help either . " This is a good , old-fashioned , American , can-do , red-white-and-blue favor I'm asking . " ( Something like that . ) The characters are stereotypes . Brolin is the sober commander of the three . Waterston provides the comic relief , which isn't very comic . O . J . has no lines to speak of - - just as well . Hyams does much better with the action scenes . There's an out-of-control speeding car with Eliot Gould , as a meddlesome reporter , behind the wheel . No brakes , he can't shut the ignition off , the parking brake doesn't work , he can't down shift , an open drawbridge looms in the offing , and - - well , you know how it goes by now . It's exciting . It would have been just as exciting if the camera hadn't been under cranked to speed up the motion artificially . And you can pretty much tell this is a post - " French Connection " film because a camera is mounted on the speeding car at about one foot above the zipping pavement . Motion is accelerated during the airplane chase too , where it REALLY doesn't belong , but the chase itself - - two armed government helicopters after a beat-up old biplane , swooping down among the desert canyons , looping around crags , without CGIs - - is thrilling . And obviously dangerous . The airplanes banging their parts against one another are real in a way the dinosaurs of " Jurassic Park " never were . And I don't know whether Hyams intended this to be " cute " or not , but the two diminutive military helicopters acts like individuals . They fly in single file and when they find something interesting , they hover and turn face to face , as if having a conversation . When they make a " decision " , they practically nod in agreement , then they turn in the same direction and fly off together again . They do this several times . It's like watching an animated cartoon on Saturday morning TV . Goldsmith's score is bound to the genre , but it's a good one , and you can hear echoes of " Chinatown " in the thrumming of piano wires . A very mixed bag but worth seeing . ( I kind of like movies in which people get lost in deserts . ) Evidently Hyams had tried to put such a film together earlier but wasn't able to do so until after Watergate . ( Kids , " Watergate " is the name of a Washington scandal that led to a president's resignation in 1974 . This movie came out the following year . PS : That would be 1975 . ) Of course , now , in 2007 , I don't think Hyams or anybody else would have much trouble .
Where are the pros of yesteryear ?	In " The Seven Pillars of Wisdom , " T . E . Lawrence describes in the simplest terms how the Turkish army treated him when he was their captive . " They handled me unspeakably . " That could go for just about every character in " The Candy Stripers . " They do everything unspeakable to one another . And speakable too . Unabashed pornography from the Golden Age , of this film it can truly be said , they don't make ' em like this anymore . This was before glabrous became glamorous so every pore is exposed and examined in detail by the camera . If you can think of any part of the human body of either sex that is accessible to another , it is accessed . Follicle for follicle this is the equal of anything ever seen on celluloid . I don't know about the guys but the women aren't that unattractive either . One of especially magnetic appearance goes under the name of " Amber Hunt . " One can only imagine what it was before that - - some Czechoslovakian jawbreaker , I'll bet . Not a soul in the film could act his or her way out of a paper bag , but does it really matter ? Must they be able to act ? It's like asking an Olympic weight lifter to sing Nessun Dorma while he performs , completely irrelevant to the goings on . The significance of the act lies outside the realm of the aesthetic . I can imagine a lot of people might find this pretty disgusting . Men , more than women , might find it erotic before it gets boring . I suppose it could be revolting . Who wants to watch two strangers , about whom we know absolutely nothing , grappling on a hospital bed ? And suppose - - just suppose - - that people in real life started imitating what they witnessed on screen ? Come to think of it , though , the consequences might not be as devastating as if they'd watched a marathon of Freddy Krueger movies . To each his own , in any case . This is a free country . Live and let live . De gustibus non disputandum est . One man's meat is another man's poisson . Honi soit qui mal y pense . And furthermore give me liberty or give me death .
Stylized Murder Game .	At the very opening , we see a Swiss police officer stop beside a parked car on a hillside . The officer opens the door . There is a corpse inside with a bullet hole in his temple . So what does the policeman do ? Does he go back to his own car and radio headquarters to report a homicide ? Does the police force descend upon the crime scene , seal it off with tape to preserve its integrity , and examine the ground and take photos of the body ? No . No , the policeman gets into the dead man's car , starts it up , and drives into town with the corpse nodding beside him . A woman in a passing car is horrified by the sight of the bloody head , so the officer tries to perch his own police cap atop the corpse . The attempt is unsuccessful and the body jiggles and collapses against the dash . Now that's a weird opening for a murder mystery but then this film is something outré from beginning to end . The story , by the well-known Swiss author , Friedrich Durrenmatt , involves no more than the usual number of convolutions and winds up with a surprise ending . But the direction is by Max Schell , a highly underrated actor , who's done some enterprising work as a director too . He opts for a considerably stylized approach to the material . " I think I'm going to croak , " groans the police commissioner ( Martin Ritt , also an actor / director ) , sounding more like a man complaining of a hangover . " Well , I hope you feel better ! " chirps his assistant , John Voight , in a completely anomalous , cheery tone of voice . Ritt's commissioner really is ill and is schedule for an operation in a short while that may give him an extra year of life . A consequence of his illness is that he can't eat anything or drink any stimulating fluids . Throughout the film , maddeningly , others keep offering him schnapps or a piece of cake , all of which he must refuse until the reveal at the end , when he solves the case and , with gusto , stuffs himself full of soup , wurst , sauerkraut , and huge wedges of Emmentaler cheese . But , as I say , there are unexpected incidental touches in almost every scene . The initial corpse turns out to be that of another police officer . And we see perhaps two dozen people dressed in dark clothes standing around in the autumnal foliage while someone reads over the casket and a brass band plays a lament . But the threnody take on a subtle , more lively lilt . Soon , some of the mourners are tapping their feet . Then a row of four or five dark figures begin bobbing slightly up and down to the tune , by Ennio Moriconne out of Nino Rota . And that's nothing . An icy rain begins to fall . The mourners are quickly drenched and look as if they're about to freeze . And two more figures come literally dancing down the slope to drop a wreath on the coffin before dancing away . The wreath has the wrong name on it , but as it turns out , the cadaver was undercover and had two identities and whoever ordered the wreath got them mixed up . And so it goes . Sometimes Schell takes the story seriously . There are several shooting deaths . ( Only one of them is turned into a semi-joke . ) Jacqueline Bissett has the role of the girl who belongs to three men , the evil and egotistical villain Robert Shaw , the corpse , and John Voight's ever-smiling policeman . I can't figure out just what it is that informs Bissett's beauty , what it is that brings her so close to feminine perfection . Certainly her eyes have something to do with it . They slant at an ideal dihedral and they're sometimes blue , sometimes the color of a light turmeric . She has a generous bosom but I discount that . Martin Ritt is surprisingly effective as the worn-out , cynical , old cop . His features are over-sized , as are his black-rimmed glasses , and he has quadruple chins , smokes cigars , and his clothes are as shabby as his carefully cluttered apartment . Voight is good too , but then he always is . As a murder mystery , this is pretty sloppy work . As a thing unto itself , it's not at all bad . Madonna , it is always cold , foggy , and cloudy in Bern , hardly a healthy place to live . No wonder the commissioner is ill .
Good-natured , small-scale crime drama .	" Out of the Fog . " The classic title for a noir , which this is not . Instead it's basically a stagy story of two quiet elderly men ( John Qualen and Thomas Mitchell ) who enjoy taking their outboard motor boat out of Sheepshead Bay for night-time fishing . Mitchell has a nagging wife ( Aline McMahon ) and a bored , impatient daughter ( Ida Lupino ) who works for the phone company . Both men have dreams of getting away from it all , buying a large boat and getting out into the Gulf stream , where it's always daylight . ( Here , it's always night , and always foggy . ) Enter the small-time extortionist , John Garfield , who hits the two guys up for five dollars a week for " protection " of their small boat . Garfield also begins squiring around Ida Lupino , throwing his money around , bringing her orchids ( " five dollars for flowers that don't smell " ) and alienating her from her honest boyfriend , Eddie Albert . Garfield learns from Lupino that Mitchell has saved up $190 towards that big fishing boat , and he extorts that too . Mitchell and Quaylen plot Garfield's death in a Russian spritz bad in Brooklyn , while Kropotkin , George Tobias , carries on cheerfully and endlessly in the background about how he's just become " a bankrupt . " In the end , neither Mitchell nor Qualen can murder the guy , who falls overboard and dies accidentally , conveniently leaving behind his wallet full of ill-gotten dough . The play was written by Irwin Shaw , who has left a legacy of some neat short stories and novels . ( Read " The Girls in Their Summer Dresses " at once . ) Many of the cast and crew came from the Group Theater , a fashionable leftist organization at the time , but if anyone can sniff out a hint of communism here he must be a bloodhound or a paranoid . In the play , the two old guys managed to actually murder the thoroughly obnoxious Garfield but in the film the code wouldn't permit it . Nobody will win any medals for this production but it's tightly written and professionally acted . Or - - let's put it this way - - if you liked Sidney Kingsley's " Dead End , " you ought to enjoy this one . It even has one of the Dead End Kids in it , playing a waiter . Particularly enjoyable is the brief scene in the Russian bath , with George Tobias , whose monologue is really pretty funny , and its boisterous comedy is refreshing in this rather quiet , low-key tale of crime and adaptation .
Payton's Place .	You can tell this was written by a woman . There's not a gun in the whole picture . ( Well , a suicidal gun shot in another room doesn't count . ) The plot is a fascinating web of deceit and intrigues built around having babies , holding onto a husband , maintaining an upper-middle-class lifestyle , surprise birthday parties , and sharing secrets . I enjoy watching it once in a while because it's so well plotted - - and I can handle a bit of violence even absent exploding heads and car chases and erupting fireballs . It's kind of soothing , really , when the worst death is ( implausibly ) caused by some falling glass from a greenhouse overhead . The guys are faithful but pretty much helpless to stop the goings on of the beautiful , young , but evil nanny ( De Mornay ) . The black retarded housekeeper and the bearded husband of Annabella Sciora are both dutiful but dumb . Nobody is about to believe the big and brutish African-American handyman who can hardly get out a believable sentence when confronted by a clever manipulative blond little De Mornay . And Hubby , aside from looking a little wimpish , is thoroughly disabled by one whack in the face from De Mornay's shovel . ( He falls off a staircase and breaks both legs , so he's unable to do anything during the final confrontation between the superhumanly bitter De Mornay and the terrified asthmatic wife . This is where the gender bifurcation is most obvious . There must , of course , be a final conflict between the villainous creep and the honest wife . In any movie of this kind written and directed by a man the climactic confrontation would involve exactly 112 Uzi automatic pistols . Not just the interior of the house but the surrounding landscape for miles around would be shredded by bullets . But what happens here ? De Mornay has a poker and is trying to kidnap the baby . ( In a man's movie it would be money or a woman . ) Sciorra rushes at her with a knife , but is quickly disarmed . She falls to the floor , wheezing desperately as she is crippled by her asthma . And what does De Mornay do ? Does she bash in Sciorra's head with that bad old poker she's carrying ? Nope . She kneels down and begins to whisper to Sciorra - - " When your husband makes love to you , it's my face he's thinking about . " And then De Mornay continues trying to INSULT Sciorra TO DEATH ! ! ! Would such a means of committing a murder even enter a man's head ? It's a refreshing change from the ordinary thriller . ( There's no mystery involved . ) A nice genre piece , worth catching .
Fast , complicated courtroom intrigue .	It's a taut and tightly wound story of lawyers and entrepreneurs competing with each other to get , influence , and ultimately buy a jury so that one or the other side wins . Rachel Weisz and the other talent are as good as usual , although Dustin Hoffman has had roles that fit him more comfortably than that of the crusading attorney for the plaintiff . One role , mixing antisocial motives with weakness and even sensitivity , is nicely written , and played by ( I think ) Nick Searcy . The rest of the characters belong in a political cartoon . John Cusack and Rachel Weisz keep us guessing until the end but only because information about them is held from the audience , not because their characters are particularly human . Gene Hackman and everybody in the gun industry that he represents are evil incarnate . Dustin Hoffman doesn't care about money and simply wants to see justice done . His client doesn't care about the money either . ( $110 , 000 , 000 - - and it's irrelevant ! ) They're the good guys . Cusack and Weisz are good guys too . They weasel $15 million out of Hackman's group and they're going to give it to the relatives of the victims of a mass murder that took place years ago in a small town in Indiana . I suppose they'll at least keep some of it to cover their expenses . When they confront Hackman with their victory in a restaurant , they smirk at him . When they leave Hackman is given one of those scenes where he has to stand by himself shouting empty threats at their phantoms while others stare and wonder if he's nuts . The plot isn't improbable , it's unbelievable . Hackman and his half dozen or so subordinates have an elaborate electronic set up in a kind of loft . At the end , Weisz calls the Police Department and reports an ongoing burglary at that address . When the police cars pull up at the curb , Hackman's organization panics and begins dismantling all the poster boards , dumping files , erasing computers , and screaming orders at one another . Why ? I suppose to give us the impression that Hackman's marginally legal organization is kaput . No other reason comes to mind . Otherwise Hackman's troops could have simply covered up any potentially incriminating evidence , met the police at the door , and calmly explained that no burglary was taking place at this perfectly innocent " legal consulting firm . " And the trial has been going mostly in favor of the Vicksburg Arms Company all along until , in the last few minutes , Cusack pulls a Henry Fonda and convinces everyone that the good guys should win . The only bad guy who is truly murderous , a henchman for Hackman , speaks with what sounds like a Russian accent . " Sit down and lat me make you sandvitch , pozholista . " That's both rebarbative and cheap . Hackman has the kind of little beard that the devil wears . And Hackman has a little encounter with Hoffman in the men's room . Hackman has some interesting points to make - - " You're gonna get your picture in the papers and make a lot of money from this case " - - while Hoffman is stuck with only platitudes . Hackman : " Your average juror doesn't give two s about justice . He's a roofer with a mortgage . He just wants to go home and sit in his Barcalounger and let the cable TV wash over him " Hoffman : " They're people . " Hackman : " Exactly my POINT ! " But the impact of Hackman's argument is vitiated when he chuckles and delivers his exit line . " You know something ? I don't give a s . I never have . " The first time I saw this I had the impression that it was pandering to the self righteousness we all feel . We are , after all , against mass murders at schools . And we're against gun companies that produce " fingerprint-resistant " weapons . We don't believe that the Second Amendment was meant to allow a street dealer , as in this case , to sell more than one hundred ugly " assault pistols " out of his car trunk . Now , a few years later , I'm not at all sure that an American audience would root for the obvious good guys in this movie , not even after being hit over the head with the propaganda with which this movie is pregnant . The national character seems to have shifted so much recently in favor of intolerance , violence , and corporations that I'm not certain Hoffman and the rest would be the good guys . Without the assault rifles that the gun companies provide , how can we protect our way of life against the hordes of enemies that hate our freedom to buy assault rifles ? Without those assault rifles , how can we vote for politicians who will go to Washington and be bought by lobbyists and will then see to it that we have the freedom to buy those assault weapons to defend our freedom to buy assault weapons ? I had another problem too , nothing to do with the plot . The director sounds intelligent and perceptive on the audio commentary , but why does the camera never come to rest ? It wobbles , it pans , it zooms , it racks , it does a toe dance to " The Flight of the Bumblebee . " And the editing is such that each shot lasts as long as a single stroke of lightning . The last viewing left me a neurological shambles . This is supposed to be a feature film , not MTV , isn't it ?
Kazakhstan discovers America , and vice versa .	Borat ( Sasha Baron Cohen ) is a TV broadcaster in Kazakhstan takes a trip to the United States with his roly-poly friend Azamat . His mission : To experience the greatest country on earth and acquaint its citizens with the folkways of Kazakhstan . But first he guides the viewer through his home town , all its glories on display - - the cows in the living room , the incestuous relations , the " oldest woman in city " who is 47 and looks twice that . This technique is used throughout the film . As Borat and Azamat perambulate , there is a third person always present but never on camera , the photographer who is recording all these adventures on film . The structure is by its nature episodic . There is New York City , where Borat tries to greet pedestrians on the street with a Kazakh kiss on the cheeks and they threaten to emasculate him or rearrange his features . Then there is Washington , DC . Then Atlanta and Dallas , where Borat visits a curio shop that carries items like a bumper sticker with a Confederate flag and the slogan : " Secession - - Because It's the Right Thing To Do . " Complications arise . Borat happens to catch " Baywatch " or " Beverly Hills 12345 " or whatever it is and falls in love with Pamela Anderson . His pronunciation of her name - - Pa-MELLA - - is in synch with his English syntax , of which you may get some hint by reading the subtitle of the movie . He is determined to wed her in the Kazakh manner , by kidnapping her . This leads to what impressed me as the funniest scene in the movie . Pamela Anderson is signing her book at a store and Borat joins the line of admirers . When he reaches her , he fawns all over her and produces what looks like a white tablecloth embossed with roses . He lovingly shows it to her and explains that it was made by his wife back in Kazakhstan . But it's not a blanket or a tablecloth . It's a kind of canvas dufflebag and he shouts with the pride of a successful fisherman as he throws it violently over her head , packs her over his shoulder , and tries to run away with her . It is , at times , a very funny film , right down to the credits and the subtitles . Yet there was something distasteful about it too . It's not a particularly good-natured film . Cohen wrote it himself and some of the scenes are up-dated slapstick - - two naked men , one of them impossibly obese , wrestling at a public meeting . It's outrageous but it's not exactly clever . Then , too , Cohen seems to have taken aim at people and notions he personally finds offensive . Christian evangelicals come in for ridicule when they speak in tongues and go through faith healings . Homosexuals get it too . And he announces to a large rally , " I support your war of terror in Iraq ! " ( Some targets deserve to be skewered . ) The only people who seem thoroughly decent and polite are an elderly African-American lady and a Jewish couple who run a Bed and Breakfast place . Borat is an anti-Semitic and he covertly spits out the food they serve him . I'd have found the comedy more satisfying if it dealt with the politically correct Thought Police or something . Or militant minority groups and their leaders . Spread it around a little bit , you know ? One bunch of loonies is as silly as another . His victims are safe , easy to mock . ( How did he miss the Miss American pageant ? ) The underlying theme of contempt is not dismissable , but what we see is diverting and amusing enough and we can thank the Great Jub Jub that at no point does Cohen treat the material as serious enough to turn it into a platitudinous sermon on tolerance , understanding , and love . That's one big pitfall that every attempt at comedy must skirt , and " Borat " does so successfully .
Tightly plotted thriller .	Mel Gibson seems a likable sort of guy , his recent tsuris notwithstanding . It would be great to have a beer with him and have him try to explain his current predicament . As an actor , however , I find him rather bland . I keep seeing Mel Gibson instead of the character . He does a better job than usual here . He's surprisingly good at projecting fear of physical harm , almost as good as he is at wisecracking . The supporting cast is fine too . Gary Sinese is a rogue cop who has kidnapped Gibson's and Renee Russo's young boy , ask for two million dollars in ransom , and plan to off the kid anyway because he's a witness . Lili Taylor is good as Sinese's rapacious girl friend who ( for reasons I don't quite understand ) turns on him at the end and is shot full of holes for her effort . The script gives us a Sinese who is completely cold blooded except for his love for Taylor , so his having to shoot her is an act that leaves him basically empty of everything but bitterness . Nothing goes the way he planned . And at every frustration , every new glitch , he blasphemes and kicks furniture . We all know how he feels . There is also DelRoy Lindo with the biggest chin in the business . We feel sorry for the doomed kidnapped kid , of course , but the drama surrounding the nest of kidnappers on the one hand ( which include Liev Schreiber ) and Gibson , the millionaire airline owner on the other hand , swamps any real emotional involvement with the kid's plight . On a chess board he'd be a lowly pawn . And that brings up the part of the movie that has me wondering about what , exactly , it is trying to say . Sinese is holding the kid and asking for two million . Gibson , who can easily afford twice that amount , tries to cooperate . The first attempt at a drop is botched . Half-way through the second , it occurs to Gibson , in the absence of any evidence , that they're going to kill his son no matter what he does . Pay or not pay - - it makes no difference . So instead of being the compliant victim , he turns into an open antagonist . Gibson goes on TV and announces that , yes , he has the two million . Here it is , right on the desk , in unmarked bills . But the kidnappers will never see a cent of it because he will never pay them , convinced as he is that his son is dead meat anyway . So instead of a ransom , Gibson designates the money as a reward for whoever drops the dime on the kidnappers . " Do you know anyone who would NOT turn you in for two million dollars ? " , he asks . ( I'd turn my mother in for that much . I'd turn my ex in for nothing . ) Later , Gibson ups the reward to four million . The movie lost me at about this point because I couldn't grasp precisely what Gibson's motives were . The police , the FBI , TV journalists , and his wife all beg him to pay the ransom . ( It's half Russo's kid too , isn't it ? Yet he doesn't discuss his decision with her . ) And though of course there is always a risk that the kid will be offed anyway - - think Lindbergh - - there's at least an equal chance that the kidnappers will return the kid and avoid murder charges . Instead of betting the percentages , Gibson turns into a kind of John Wayne figure . It's a duel of wills between him and Sinese . I kept waiting for Gibson to come up with some John Wayne-ism like , " Talkin ' words is fer wimmin . " What the hell is he playing at ? His kid's life is at stake . His unshakable belief that they intend to kill his son anyway is not rooted in facts but only serves as an excuse for Gibson to out-tough Sinese . A scene near the inevitable final shoot-out is very well handled . Sinese , whose identity as one of the criminals has not been uncovered , shows up to collect the four million dollar reward from Gibson . Gibson gradually becomes aware of Sinese's involvement , and Sinese gradually becomes aware of Gibson's awareness . Sinese tosses the four-million-dollar check in the air and it glides to the floor in a neat shot . The violent climax was a bit anti-climactic . Gibson winds up in the middle of a New York City street pounding the disabled Sinese to a bloody pulp while the audience is supposed to be cheering and the traffic whizzes unflappably by . And guess who gets to shoot Sinese in the last scene ? It's all supposed to be cathartic , I suppose . The writers and director must have thought the audience is slavering at the prospect of finally seeing Gibson loose his rage on Sinese , but it's disappointing all the same . What has so far been a contest of wills and intelligence has become a routine blood bath .
Man of honor .	I would guess that many people find Jack Nicholson as satisfying as I do because , like Cary Grant , he always seems to play an only slightly refracted version of the same character . Those leaping eyebrows , like twin Mount Raniers on his forehead . That toothy grin , sardonic and sadistic . Here , though , he gives all that up and becomes a different and highly energetic Jimmy Hoffa . His lips are tucked in , his head held back emphasizing the folds in his neck , and he wears an almost constant scowl . His voice too lacks the expected sleazy glissandos of the Nicholson School of Elocution . His speech is clipped , fast , and full of working-class grammar . ( " All these rumors are unsubstantuated ! " ) He does a great job as Jimmy Hoffa . And Danny DeVito is great as always , playing Hoffa's old-time buddy , Bobby Ciaro , a clown with a potential for deadly seriousness . Nicholson and DeVito grew up in the same town - - Neptune , New Jersey - - at about the same time and have known each other for years . DeVito claimed to have dated Nicholson's sister . It's pleasing to see the two of them working together . In some ways , though , the whole may be less than the sum of its parts . The story is a bit like that of " The Godfather " but without the Mafia mystique . Hoffa starts out good but then - - well , what ? Does he go bad ? If so , the movie does as good a job of hiding exactly what he did as Hoffa himself did . There is a scene in which he seems to agree to lend money from the Teamster's Pension Fund to " a known Italian . " But the scene takes place during a faux deer hunt and is played for laughs . While D'Allesandro ( Armand Assante ) and Hoffa argue over the terms of the loan , a deer walks up unexpectedly and is ignored by everyone until , finally , DeVito uncorks his automatic and blasts it . When the shots sound everyone hits the dirt . The scene is amusing but it's distracting too . What WAS that agreement , exactly ? Is it illegal for the President of a labor union to lend money to someone else at a profit ? Hoffa claims not . And who argues with him but Robert Kennedy , played very unsympathetically as an elitist snot who never worked in his life and is just trying to make a name for himself by bringing Hoffa to court . Hoffa , eventually is convicted and goes to jail . But it is never made clear exactly what he was convicted of . Lending money to an Italian ? Nicholson plays Hoffa pretty straight . He's not a particularly nice guy but he's clever in the way that an alley cat is clever . ( Mamet's dialog stays on track . ) Yet the director , DeVito , gives him the almost same kind of sentimental treatment that Don Corleone got . I am happy , though , that the movie spared us scenes in which Hoffa's wife sobs and complains that he's so often away from home that she hardly knows him anymore . ( Thanks again , Mamet . ) There is a fictional but still unnerving assassination scene at the end . Hoffa and DeVito's bodies are dumped atop one another in the back seat of their car . The car is driven up the ramp of a waiting truck and the truck zooms off down the highway towards its unknown destination . Elegiac music swells on the sound track . The image of the back of the truck recedes and dwindles until it disappears down the highway , a setting sun hovering just overhead . Did Hoffa really deserve this Viking's funeral ? I don't know . The movie left me with a lot of unanswered questions , none of them about the performances . A viewer can't help wondering where Hoffa is now . Part of a building somewhere , or an automobile ? Or a truck ?
Krasnya horrorshow	For some reason I almost always watch this when it appears on cable TV . The plot , twisted and complicated as it is , is a bit hard to follow at times although it does make sense if you pay attention . But I think it's the general milieu that is evoked by the location shooting , wardrobe , makeup , and art direction that makes this interesting . Boy , it looks cold ! Everyone seems to dress in multilayered dark clothing and the men wear Pelzkappe , those big furry caps . When characters speak in outdoor scenes , their breath steams , though not always , so you can pretty much distinguish the scenes shot in the studio from those outside . Smith's novel was a bit more explicit about the material culture of Moscow than this movie is . Not only doesn't Chief Investigator Hurt's cheesy looking compact car have a heater but his shoes are made partly of cardboard . Viewers usually don't pay much attention to makeup unless it draws attention to itself but the makeup department should get a medal for this one . First off , everyone is pale , as they should be in the midst of a Russian winter . The usual tendency is to pile on the suntan and make everyone glamorous . If you want to see an example of what I mean , watch " A Time to Love and a Time to Die " , the scene in which John Gaving as a German soldier returns from months at the front during the winter and takes a bath naked so we can all admire his muscles and that tan he sports all over his body , suggesting not November in Kursk but a summer at the beach in Zihuatanejo . Then there is Joanna Pacula's makeup . She's pale too but she's given just enough eyeshadow or kohl or whatever it is , and her brows and lashes are emphasized just enough to make her look even more modelesque than she ordinarily would . If her eyebrows were any darker she'd look like Audrey Hepburn in " Sabrina . " As it is , with her blue eyes framed by those orbital rings and her chestnut curls cascading around her cheeks , she looks slightly predatory , maybe like a sable . In some later movie she played a vampire , I think , and I can see why she was cast . William Hurt , likewise pale , even paler than usual come to think of it , is likewise nicely handled . His thin stringy hair has been blackened for some reason . I don't know why . There are plenty of blond Russians . Look at Alexander Gudonov . Hurt's character is nobody's idea of a superhero . He's just an earnest cop who can be beaten up , as he is several times . After he has killed a traitor who happened to be a man of considerable importance in the Soviet bureaucracy , he next shows up on screen with a small shiner the color of a storm cloud on one of his eyelids and a slight scab on his lower lip . He's been clobbered by the KGB for the killing , you see . But we don't see it on screen , or hear it described . The bruises on his face tell the story . How tempting it must have been to make more of these possibilities . A Makeup Department could have gone ape here - - one cheek stuffed with cotton , bandages on his head , his face a welter of bruises . But this is tastefully done , giving you all the information you need in order to know what happened . Actually , there is one tan face in the crowd - - Lee Marvin's . But it suits him . And he's an American businessman who only visits the USSR from time to time so , between visits , for all we know he may be stretched out on the beach at Bora Bora . He even wears beige and dark browns that match his suntan , and he's the only one in the bunch who actually looks spiffy . William Hurt may be chewed out by his superior for not having shaved closely enough but that would never happen to Marvin , who looks like he just stepped out of five-hundred-dollar a head hair salon . There isn't a line spoken by Marvin that doesn't ring with irony . Every pause , every facial twitch , every curious line reading , tells us that this guy is very clever and he knows it . Pacula's performance is that of a model who's taken acting lessons . William Hurt , a fine actor , does some strange things here . He LOOKS the part of the determined militia detective , relatively quiet , rarely smiling , seldom physical - - but he drapes his speech in British locutions : " yore " for " your " , " bean " for " been , " and so on . We can only guess why . The two Americans ( Dennehy and Marvin ) speak frank American . The actors playing Russians are all from the UK except Pacula , who is Polish and kept help her Slavic accent . So by adopting a Brit accent Hurt places himself among the " Russians . " Dennehy , by the way , is at the top of his form . Marvin is absolutely magnetic , as is Ian Bannon , whose readings have the same ironic pitches and stress as Marvin's . You never believe a word he says . The film ends on a noble note . Pacula gets to go to America which , as everyone knows , is rich , democratically pure , and free of corruption . Hurt stays behind to save her from being followed and killed by KGB . The novel had a different ending . The hero follows the girl to New York City . They sit down to watch television . The program is one they have never seen before . It's title is , " The Price is Right . " ( " Come on DOWN ! " ) The hero says something like , " THIS is what it's all about ? Money ? " And gets up and goes back to Russia leaving the girl flat .
Surprisingly Effective Thriller	Jodie Foster , in a fine performance , is FBI-trainee Clarice Starling . She is assigned by the chief of the Behavioral Sciences Division ( Scott Glenn ) to interview the brilliant and cannibalistic mad psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter ( Anthony Hopkins ) in prison and try to enlist his help in capturing a currently active serial murderer , Buffalo Bill ( Ted Levine ) , who skins his victims and sews the patches of skin into a kind of integumental suit made of women . When Starling first visits Lecter , the chief psychiatrist ( the eminently hatable Anthony Heald ) escorts her down into the bowels of the institution and cautions her about approaching Lecter too closely , although they will be separated by a wall of bullet-proof plastic . Lecter DOES in fact help her . Buffalo Bill had once been a patient of his . But Lecter wants something too , in return . " Quid pro quo , " he tells her , showing off his Latin clichés . For every hint he gives to her and to the FBI , he demands some sort of present , such as a room with a view and , most important , some personal details about Starling's earlier life , the events in her past that brought her from a one-horse town in Appalachia to the FBI . He gets it . And she gets Buffalo Bill . And Lecter escapes in order to carry on his own cannibalistic career , beginning with the eminently hatable Anthony Heald . ( His last line : " I'm having an old friend for dinner tonight . " ) It doesn't sound too promising , does it ? Still ANOTHER serial killer on the loose ? With a puzzling modus operandi ? Which the FBI must figure out in order to track him down and shoot him dead ? But I described this as an effective thriller , not an ordinary one that serves as one more opportunity for Stallone to strip off his clothes and bulge his muscles at the camera . It's functionally directed by Jonathan Demme , based on Thomas Harris's novel . Only one incident involves a stunt man . There isn't a car chase in sight , nor an exploding fireball , nor a slow-motion shot of violence . There is one lethal beating and only a single shoot-out - - with pistols , not Uzis or 40 mm . Bofors cannons . The three threads of the story involve Glenn's avuncular relationship with the younger Starling , the flirtation ( for that's what it amounts to ) between Lecter and Starling , and the pursuit of the twisted Buffalo Bill . The stories mesh very well , and one scene in particular , linking the FBI's attack on a suspect's house to Starling's casual and apparently post-climactic ringing the doorbell of a house belonging to an old lady , is masterfully done . Tak Fujimoto's camera work could hardly be improved upon . He paints for us a wintry Middle-Atlantic setting with ice-cold rivers and stark , bare deciduous trees . There is a scene with a decomposing corpse that makes your skin crawl , although it is handled matter-of-factly , or even in such good taste as such a scene allows for . Original , too , is the character of Buffalo Bill's last intended victim , a large young lady kept prisoner in a basement pit . With Bill still darting around in the shadows somewhere , the lone Starling yells down to her and tells her she's safe now that the FBI is here . We're wrong if we expect the captive to pull the usual response . She doesn't break down and sob with relief . She screams back , " that , you b ! Get me out of here ! " It was a nice touch in the novel too , which is written in lean , functional , and artless prose . All of the performances are quite good , with Hopkins outstanding as the crazy genius . The character became something of an icon in vernacular culture , which I guess is why audiences find it satisfying and amusing that he should be left on the loose to kill still more people . It adds a new dimension to films - - the serial killer who deserves to be let free because he's polite and has visited Florence . The writers help bring this story above average . When Foster explores the house of an earlier , almost forgotten victim , there is a touching moment when she discovers some hidden photos the girl had taken of herself posing coyly in her underwear , although she's too plump to be conventionally attractive . A music box plays in the background while Foster goes through these pitiful remnants and we can sense the life behind the death . The direction isn't free of conventions though . Foster is blinded in darkness and the murder's hand reaches out from behind the camera and traces her contours without touching them . Every horror movie must have such a scene . And earlier , when Scott Glenn realizes he's sent Foster into a dangerous , potentially lethal circumstance without any warning , the camera moves in quickly to a close up of his startled expression as he says , " Clarice ! " These clichés are available in finer B-grade slasher movies everywhere . The conventions are aptly deployed though and the movie succeeds in what it's trying to do .
Pip Pip .	I can only comment on the episodes using Patrick MacNee and Diana Rigg between 1965 and 1968 . What a diverting show it was . MacNee is John Steed , the proper gentleman in bowler hat , wielding his deadly brolly . His character and appearance are perfect for a vehicle like this . It isn't so much that he was never nonplussed , so much as that he was always plussed . Rigg is Emma Peel in her jump suits , zippered up front , with that tantalizing , over-sized ring dangling from the zipper just below her sternoclavicular notch . Diana Rigg has a curious beauty . She sports a pair of wide-set eyes , elevated cheekbones , a perfunctory nose and tiny lips , like a Hentai cartoon . She's a good actress too . Did a fine job as one of the bad daughters in Lawrence Olivier's TV production of " King Lear . " She was so popular at the time she left this series that she was whisked off to Broadway for " Abelard and Heloise , " which included a topless scene . I understand the theater was jammed , but then the story has always been immensely popular with the masses . There are Abelard and Heloise fan clubs in every dusty little town in the world . The two of them work off each other very well , whether popping the cork of a champagne bottle or fending off evildoers . Their , um , relationship is never fully explained . They both work for some ultra-secret British government organization apparently . Each show opens with Mrs . Peel uncovering a message from Steed , coyly hidden in a box of chocolate or under some peeling wallpaper - - " Mrs . Peel . We're needed . " The forces they battle are absurd . Some fantastic organization is breeding a horde of robotic soldiers in a vast , excavated place under a cemetery , and they plan to emerge and take over the British Isles . Or another cabal - - P . U . R . R . - - has invented a device that turns ordinary pussy cats into demonic , homicidal beasts that will be used to eliminate the world's leaders so that P . U . R . R . can take over . Somebody is always trying to take over the world . And Steed and Mrs . Peel are always there to thwart their plans . It isn't broad comedy . A viewer is more likely to smile than laugh out loud . But the scripts are quietly witty and suggestive . The episode about felines - - " The Hidden Tiger " - - has an uncountable number of references and puns on the subject . P . U . R . R . is run by a Mr . Cheshire . ( Cheshire cat , get it ? " Alice in Wonderland " ? ) The manager's name is Mr . Manx . Too many puns on pussies and cats to enumerate , but the last word spoken in the episode is " cat-astrophe . " The fashion is that of Britain in the period of the early Beatles , and Carnaby Street , and the general sense conveyed is that of a loose-limbed freedom from earlier conventions . Nothing is taken seriously . If a man drops dead in front of Steed and Mrs . Peel , they kneel down , check his pulse , and look at each other with a slight , quizzical frown . The plots are convoluted , and it's easy to lose track of what's going on . At times , one's mind drifts . A series like this must walk a tightrope . " Whimsy " can too easily slip into " cute " or , worse , the abyssal " silly . " But the plot is never very important anyway . Everything is handled with style and panache . Bowler-hatted or coiffed auburn , these episodes are heads and shoulders above most of the junk that fill the TV screens today .
Tell it to the Spartans	Richard Burton gives his usual splendid , stiff , explosive performance as Lt . Col . MacRoberts , an English ( " Pommy " ) officer put in charge of Australian and New Zealand troops at Tobruk . There is some natural resentment on the part of the colonials . On top of that , Robert Newton is in his company , and Newton was Burton's old schoolmaster , now turned into a semi-coward . Tobruk at the time was a crummy seaport surrounded by the Afrika Corps . Rommel was dashing all over the place more or less at will , except that his attack on Tobruk had failed . Rommel would eventually take Tobruk too , but by then the Allies had landed in Rommel's rear and he was now facing two front instead of one . To his further disadvantage , the German code had been cracked by the British , so they knew when ships with Rommel's supplies were to leave Italy . Few of the supply ships got through to the German and Italian troops in Africa . By El Alamein Rommel was losing two-thirds of his supply ships . It was not just an inconvenience . At times the Germans had to drain several tanks and abandon them , in order to fuel another . Not knowing the code had been broken , the Germans blamed the Italians for blabbing after they were taken prisoner . Rommel distrusted the Italians and their generals , one of the more operatic of which , Ettore Bastico , Rommel nicknamed " Bombastico . " Anyway , Burton is quite good and his support is too , including James Mason as Rommel . I admire Burton a lot and it may be heresy to suggest this but I wonder if he was the great actor everyone seemed to think . It was his voice that did it for him . " My name is Richard Burton - - and I've bean through hell . " His Hamlet was misconceived . During the famous soliloquy he shuffles back and forth like a plastic bear in an amusement-park shooting gallery and hustles through the lines . James Mason comes up with an absolutely unbearable German accent as General Rommel . " Come now , MacWooberts , I shushpect dzat you alweady know dzah answer . " A year earlier he had given us an unimpeachable Rommel in " The Desert Fox . " Rommel was so humanized that there were objections from the critics . Mason was TOO NICE . So here , playing the role a second time , he goes back to World War II stereotypes and plays Rommel as formal , condescending , and sneaky . This is still a good war flick within the limitations of the genre at the time . The action scenes are exciting . The dialog is crisp and believable , mostly . There are some chronological goofs . Planes attacking the German trucks in Africa are TBFs from the Pacific Theater . And the Germans seem to be using American water-cooled Browning machine guns . But these aren't really bothersome . Lots of character and action . Worth seeing .
What happens when you love not wisely but too well .	Above-average tale of a defense plant engineer ( Michael Douglas ) who loses everything - - his job , his car , his dignity , his temper , his wife , his daughter , his life . We first see him stuck in a Los Angeles traffic jam , bumper to bumper , sweating and fretting , until he walks away from his stalled car and begins to walk " home " - - that is , where his divorced wife ( Barbara Hershey ) and his young daughter live . Some home . ( Like that in the John Cheever short story , " The Swimmer , " it's a fantasy . ) As he trudges along in his white shirt , tie , and unhip eyeglasses , he pauses from time to time to phone his wife and tell her he's on his way , because it's his daughter's birthday . " I know it's Adel's birthday - - what do you want ? " , she tells him , adding , " I'll call the police if I have to . " She doesn't seem to want him around and his daughter seems completely indifferent . Meanwhile , Douglas runs into all kinds of obstacles . A street-wise Korean shopkeeper wants to charge him eighty-five cents for a can of Coke ( a big laugh , as of this date ) and Douglas blows his cork , smashing some merchandise and walking off with the owner's sawed-off baseball bat . Things get worse . He crosses paths with some cholos who demand his money and produce a weapon that , when I was a teenager , was widely known as a " Portugese " knife . But he clobbers them with his bat and , later , winds up with a gym bag full of their pistols and automatic weapons . The confrontations continue and the police , represented by Robert Duvall and Rachel Ticotin , finally get wise to him and track him to the Santa Monica pier where he is more or less holding his wife and child hostage . When Duvall tries to place him under arrest , Douglas asks wonderingly , " I'm the bad guy ? " Whatever other things he's lost , self-justification isn't one of them . From what I'd heard , I hadn't expected much of this film - - another revenge story , along the lines of " Death Wish " . But it's actually fairly complex , despite some clumsy moment and many implausibilities . The film's chief weakness is that , though Douglas is clearly around the bend , everybody who gets a taste of his anger somehow has asked for it . The offense can be major - - trying to gun him down on the street - - or minor - - refusing to serve him from the breakfast menu at a burger joint after eleven thirty . And I don't know if the writer , Ebbe Rowe Smith , intended it this way but both Douglas's ex-wife and Duvall's current wife , played by Tuesday Weld , are both bitches in their different ways . When Douglas has called to say he's on his way home , despite the restraining order , Hershey calls the police and informs them that he has " a tendency towards violence . " ( He pounded on the door after midnight . ) The police ask her if he struck his daughter . No . " Did he - - strike you ? " " Not exactly . I didn't want to wait until he got around to it . He COULD - - I think . " The cop nods knowingly and makes a note . Abusive husband . That's a cheap , stereotypical shot . Douglas has a restraining order against him because he's suspected of perhaps some day possibly committing a violent act within his family . Kind of a unilateral preemptive move on Hershey's part . Duvall's wife , Tuesday Weld , is also a thoroughly formulaic figure - - whining , narcissistic , demanding , hypochondriacal , the clear wearer of the pants in the family . The two wives may be manipulative but Duvall's partner , Rachel Ticotin , comes off as an admirable figure . Not dazzlingly gorgeous , she nevertheless has good , strong features arranged in an uncontrived manner . And she gives a good performance . So does Lois Smith in the small part of Douglas ' uncomprehending mother . Douglas himself can't be considered a wildly expressive performer but he successfully suggests the kind of pressure one might find behind a zit that's about to pop . Robert Duvall has given some magisterial performances early in his career - - MASH and The Godfather among them - - but here rather walks through the part with a lot of pointless or possibly ironic chuckles . Weaknesses aside , Douglas's character is complicated enough to grip us and the milieu of Los Angeles is captured in all its local color , which varies from indifference to outrage .
Originality in abundance .	There hadn't really been anything much like this Western on the screen before Pekinpah put it there . It's not predictable , the way life is not predictable . I guess there's nothing unusual in the story of two aging gunfighters teaming up for a last job ( within the law ) with one ( Scott ) being a bit more relaxed in his morals than the other ( McRea ) . It must be tough to transport a bag full of gold around without being tempted . And it isn't unusual for a movie like this to have a handsome but inexperienced youngster ( Starr ) tagging along so that he can fall in love with the young woman who joins their merry group . So far it sounds a lot like something Randolph Scott might have made with Budd Boetticher a few years earlier . But there the expectability just about ends . The acting by all is above par , especially Scott who , for the first time in human memory , is someone burdened with unethical impulses . It's the script and Pekinpah's direction that make us aware of the fact that there is something new afoot in this ancient genre . The dialog , for one thing , is full of colloquial felicities . Scott accuses McRae of " ironbound ethics . " And the two of them have a hilarious discursive conversation while McRae soaks his tired feet in a creek . Scott joins him and picks up one of McRae's boots , which has a hole through the sole . The exchange is something like this . Scott : " I see you believe in ventilation . " McRae : " Those boots were made by Raoul in San Antonio . Special order . I had a hell of a time persuading him to put that hole in there . " Scott : " I remember Raoul . Good man . He believed that the boot should always cover the foot . " Neither actor cracks a smile while this absurd conversation is taking place . And it has absolutely nothing to do with the story that is unfolding . There is another distinctly non-lyrical interlude . The three men - - Scott , McRae , and Starr - - deliver Hartley to her boyfriend in the mining settlement of Coarse Gold . What follows is a perversion of everything that was so amusing about " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers . " Not only does Hartley almost get raped pronto by her boy friend , but his four brothers also expect to share his bounty , and at the wedding dance ( in Kate's cathouse ) they slaver over her and give her lengthy and disgusting smooches . McRae and Scott manage to rescue her from the clutches of these libidinous maniacs and ride off with her , but they are followed by the five brothers and in the final shootout , McRae is mortally wounded and left to die . ( In the last shot , as he dies , he rolls gently out of the frame and the camera does not follow him . ) I think either I or the editor lost something because the first brother , who looks like an inbred geek , is referred to as dead before the shootout , but I don't recall his being dispatched . At one point , Scott tells McRae : " You know what a poor man's clothes are ? The ones on his back when they bury him . Is that all you want ? " And McRae thinks for a moment and replies , " All I want is to enter my house justified . " This is a pretty good Western from a new talent .
Long Long Trail Awinding	Missed the first ten minutes or so , and lost the reason why the three cute aboriginal girls were separated from their family . Kenneth Branaugh , in an excellent performance , distant and compassionate at the same time , makes pronouncements about " saving these people from themselves . " I gather that , as The Chief Protector of Aborigines , he means that they must be cleansed of their own culture and learn that of the West . The way to do it seems to be to remove children from their families and put them in formal schools where they can learn English ways . It's a good movie . Nothing is force fed to you , no moral messages stuffed down your throat as if you were a Strassburg goose . The message is clearly enough spelled out in images and incidents . It ought to inspire a good deal of white guilt , although I don't know why . Most white people had no idea of what was happening in Australia - - didn't know where Australia WAS . The three kids are very good , although they have very few lines . In fact , nobody would claim that this is a talky movie . Whole minutes pass while we watch the girls outwitting their trackers on their long long walk back to their Mum in Western Australia , following a rabbit proof fence . They're pretty clever too . As Branaugh remarks at one point , " Just because they are neolithic doesn't mean they have neolithic minds . " Nobody knows what neolithic minds were really like . That's like 20K years ago . But those minds produced some mighty fine cave painting and some exquisitely flaked spear points that are light years beyond the merely utilitarian . ( The Australian aborigines also had a staggeringly complex system of descent , the most complicated version of which I - - as a cultural anthropologist - - still do not understand . They didn't have much in the way of tools but they had a lot of imagination . ) They had a sophisticated vision of time and conceptions of magic which , thankfully , the movie does not go into . Unlike so many movies about " natives , " the writers don't tell us that these are people in touch with the earth , with the spirits , living in harmony with nature , while white people are just out to beat everyone else into submission and rape the earth of its resources - - however true that may sometimes be . No - - these are just three ordinary , sullen and quiet kids who want to get back to their families . And Branaugh is no villain . His racism is casual and linked to the times he lived in ( just as ours is ) and he's chiefly concerned that the girls may die in the Western desert . David Gumpilil is the aborigine tracker working for Branaugh . He wears a threatening expression throughout the movie but at the same time sympathizes with the girls . ( His own daughter is forced to stay at the school . ) What a surprise it was to see him again . Wow - - has he aged - - beautifully - - since he was a young likable man in " The Last Wave " and " Walkabout . " Many viewers seeing him and the other native Australians might think , " Oh , they're black , like African-Americans . " But they're not . They were ( until very recently ) the most isolated of human populations and their genes are as confusing as their kinship systems . Their skins are dark , yes , just like the average human on earth , but notice that their hair is either straight or wavy . They were treated as the white man's burden , as the film shows . We managed to bring enlightenment to the darker regions of the earth . But at least the Australians are still around . They were not wiped out by disease ( like our North American Mandans ) or deliberately murdered and dispersed like the native Tasmanians who lived on an island to Australia's south and were probably even more " neolithic . " It's a highly watchable film , emotionally engaging . Man , are we sad when one of the girls is caught and carted off in a 1920s sedan down a dusty road . And we are happy in the scene in which an investigating constable stumbles across two aboriginal men in a forest at night . The men are guarding a woman's ceremony . The constable , armed with a rifle , advances and one of the aborigines slowly raises his very primitive spear and balances it on his shoulder , the bare point , simply ground like a pencil's , pointing at the constable . The scene is full of the potential for violence and is completely wordless . Really effectively done . And the location shooting is splendid . The dry fine soil is the color of ochre and the shrubs with their tiny leaves are a pale aqua . It's well worth watching .
Atmospheric , well-acted mystery / thriller	This is really a Southern movie transplanted to the Great Basin desert . I wonder , really , if the script started out with some outsider alighting from a train at a one-stop town in Mississippi . The town is hiding a mystery . The outsider is referred to as " the stranger . " Some address him as , " Boy . " The residents of the town treat him with suspicion and resentment . " We don't like strangers pokin ' around our town , Mister . " And , " We mind our own business around here . " And the secret is that some black family was outraged and murdered by a drunken gang . The Spanish moss heaves gently in the magnolia-scented breeze . Only here the mystery involves a Japanese farmer who is murdered by the drunken gang in a fit of patriotic zeal the day after Pearl Harbor . ( Some personal revenge involving a land sale is thrown in , just in case anyone in the audience thinks it was okay to murder somebody if patriotism is the motive . ) The switch to Nevada is very well done and makes what is a thin and familiar plot easier to overlook . Wow - - what a town ! We see a dozen or so smallish buildings with rusting old cars pulled up nearby . ( The time is post-war 1945 . ) There are no houses . The buildings we see are all shops or functionally related to business , a few tin-roofed sheds baking under the sun . Let's see . I noted a jail inhabited by the sheriff ( Dean Jagger of the unwashed shirt ) , a combination veterinarian / mortician shop with big empty windows in front ( Walter Brennan's ) , a gas station and auto repair building ( Anne Francis ) , a little chili café , and - - the the only sizable structure - - the hotel ( Robert Ryan , John Ericson , Lee Marvin , Ernest Borgnine ) . The shrubby lots between the buildings and sheds have anonymous chunks of thin curled metal lying in them . There may be scorpions underneath but the metal is too hot to touch so no one will turn them over . The stranger of course is Spencer Tracy who has come to seek Komoko , the violated Japanese farmer , and leave a medal with him . The medal was earned by Komoko's son who died trying to save Tracy's life in Italy . Tracy is one-armed , laconic , unflappable , good-humored - - and very sharp . He puts together the pieces of the puzzle in only a short time and , in doing so , endangers his own life . Tracy's acting is superb . He mumbles and smiles shyly and then , smartly , turns inquisitor . In one scene , for example , he's sitting on a bench at the gas station staring at his shoes and Robert Ryan is standing in front of him and politely explaining that the town is curious about why he's here and that's natural enough because most people want to be left alone and - - Tracy looks up without skipping a beat and interrupts by asking with keen intelligence , " Left alone to do what ? " The conversation continues in this vein , with Tracy cutting Ryan's palliative responses to pieces with quick , knife-like queries . What a scene . How dull this dialog must have looked on paper . Tracy and Ryan turn what is basically a conventional conversational exchange into an acting tour de force . Every film student should see it . I'm kind of skipping over the violent part because it's less worthy of comment . The audience is waiting for the most brutal of the thugs , Ernest Borgnine as Fatso Judson again , to get the crap beaten out of him and the script gives them what they're waiting for , at the cost of revealing Tracy to be a martial arts expert with unbelievable skills , able to dispatch gorillas with a few chops . Lee Marvin often has some bit of business that makes him stand out from the crowd . Here it's a flapping shirt tail . I recommend this as highly as I do not because of the sketchy story but because of the evocation of the locale , the characterizations , some wit in the dialog , and competent acting all around , with Tracy splendid . And the title , too - - " Bad Day at Black Rock " - - with its nacreous labials and its patty-melt junctures .
Nice drama , conjectural history .	Willem DaFoe is a by-the-book FBI investigator and is assisted by ex-Southern-sheriff Gene Hackman in the real-life inquiry into the deaths of three civil rights workers in Mississippi in 1964 . The three kids disappeared . No one , black or white , is willing to cooperate with the " Hoover boys " that poke around in the small town's business . The blacks won't cooperate because they're afraid , the whites for more obvious reasons . And some less obvious ones . As the clued-in Hackman puts it , " They have to live here long after we're packed up and gone . " Just about every character is a stereotype that's played out like a card in a hand of bridge . The head of the local Ku Klux Klan , who calls himself " a local businessman " is a balding nincompoop who hates not just blacks but Papists and Jews and probably Brobdignagians . He doesn't have a family . Not even a dog or a cat as far as we can tell . The other heavies , including the prototypical redneck Michael Rooker with his frozen sneer , don't have families either , except for Deputy Brad Dourif , who has a wife . But he only has a wife so that the movie can show us that not all Southern whites are murdering racists . Some are sweet and lovable and attractive , in the way that Carol Burnett is attractive , and , as just about sublimely played by Frances McDormand , are so haunted by distaste for these illegal caste-ridden shenanigans that she's able and willing to squeal to Gene Hackman's FBI agent about the murders . That indiscretion gets her clobbered . The performances are all good and some are splendid . Hackman could not be better . Every move he makes , every line of dialog , carries weight . DaFoe's character is less colorfully delineated . McDormand is outstanding , and so are Rooker , Dourif , and the guy who plays the KKK head . ( What a trio of villains . ) The tobacco-chewing Sheriff is great in a small supporting role . When the FBI is stretched to its official limits without results , Hackman is given license to use his own methods . Enter two unofficial FBI heavies . One is a balding red-head with bulging eyes who has since made a career out of playing serial murderers . The other is a huge black guy with an ominous and resonant baritone who threatens to castrate the Mayor unless he spills the beans , which the Mayor does , leading to almost all the desired convictions . The direction is tasteful . When the decomposing corpses are uncovered , it's in long shot . When Dourif beats hell out of McDormand , we only get a few introductory blows before the cut , just so we know what's going to happen next . Location shooting is evocative . It's a convincing small Southern town shimmering in the summer heat . Most " Southern " scene - - the silent guy on the Choctaw reservations who is carving up catfish . The characters , although they may as well carry sandwich boards advertising their function in the script , are pretty well drawn . If there's a problem with the film it's that it is laid out like a dramatic movie in the usual form of rising climaxes . The payoffs towards the end simply don't fit in with the otherwise realistic depiction of events . I did not for a moment believe that undercover FBI agents were brought in to kidnap the Mayor and threaten to cut off his family jewels . That belongs to a movie script , or to some black hole of a CIA prison in Bulgaria , not to a narrative that purports to be based on an historic event . The final impression the film leaves you with is how surprisingly easy it is for a deeply felt and thoroughly entrenched set of values to change so quickly . A generation has passed , only a generation , since the governor of Mississippi's neighboring state stood in the doorway of the university and proclaimed , " Segregation now , segregation tomorrow , segregation forever . " The situation displayed here , in 1964 , isn't perfect now . Nothing is perfect . But it's a hell of a lot better than it was then . This is actually a curiously mixed blessing . It leaves Southern white people with still another defeat that they must get over . And it leaves blacks with a great deal of anti-white resentment that has no place to go .
Laugh-worthy nonsense .	The Hope and Crosby Road pictures were very popular in the 1940s and " The Road to Morocco , " the third in the series , shows them at about their best . Well , maybe " Zanzibar " was at the top , with " Utopia " not far behind . The climax in this one depends a little too much on minor gimmicks like dribbling glasses , exploding cigarettes , and whoopee cushions . A weakness easily overlooked . The plot takes them to a fairy tale Morocco , more Arabian Nights and Hollywood than French colony . The men wear white suits and fez caps or turbans . The women wear diaphanous veils and tiaras . Dorothy Lamour turns up as a princess who , her fortune tellers say , must marry a man she cares nothing about because he is fated to die a violent death within the week , freeing Lamour to marry the powerful sheik Anthony Quinn . That man she cares nothing about and chooses to marry is Bob Hope . Crosby muscles in on Hope , not knowing what the sooth sayers sayeth . It's all nonsensical and none of it is taken seriously by the actors , the writers , or the viewers . Even when Crosby is serenading Lamour with a pretty little ballad , " Moonlight Becomes You , " he tries to pick a rose to bring her and pricks his finger instead . Some of the sight gags are pretty amusing - - Crosby and Hope imitating mechanical men , when a fly lands on Hope's nose . It's not the only joke involving Hope's notorious nose , and there's a reference to the size of Crosby's ears as well . I don't want to reveal too many of the amusing incidents , but I always laugh when a girl tries to wake up Hope . He shrugs her off , rolls over in bed , and mumbles , " Okay , Ma , I'll get a job tomorrow . " And Crosby's line : " Junior , how can you do this to me ? Why we went to school together . We were in the same class for years - - until I got promoted . " The script has no hesitation in breaking the fourth wall or slinging anachronisms , self references , or in-jokes around . When Hope asks how they got out of the tight spot we last saw them in , Crosby looks at the camera suspiciously , then leans over and whispers his reply into Hope's ear in order to keep it a secret from us . Some of the gags may be lost on younger , less sophisticated viewers . " Aunt Lucy " shows up as a ghost , giving advice and scolding the two men from time to time . Crosby makes some comment about Aunt Lucy's being dead but you can't keep her down . " Not Aunt Lucy , " Hope agrees , " She's a Republican . " ( Kids : This movie was made midway through the unprecedented , and now illegal , third term of Franklin Delano Roosevelt , a Democrat . ) I've always enjoyed the relationship between Hope and Crosby in these movies . Both are greedy , libidinous cowards , ready to double cross one another at the first glimpse of a dollar bill or a woman's ankle . ( In this one , Crosby sells Hope into slavery to pay for a restaurant meal . ) But neither is superior to the other in any way , unlike other popular comedy teams such as Abbott and Costello or Martin and Lewis . These guys are both equally stupid and despicable . Lots of fun .
Grappling With Hormones .	Alison Folland is a young woman in a shabby section of New York who , after a tempestuous friendship with blond , impatient Tara Subkoff , and the murder of her gay buddy Luke , comes to terms with her own lesbianism and finds a happy and accommodating partner in Lucy , a band leader in a place that looks like the Swing Rendezvous in the Village used to look . Maybe that makes it sound more complicated than it is . It's really a rather simple movie , a little pedantic , a delicate character study rather than a mystery or action movie . Roughly speaking , all the gays are good and all the straight people are messed up . That's not too hard to follow , is it ? Well , there are a couple of exceptions , but not many . Don , the Italian owner of the pizza restaurant where Alison and a gay guy both work , is straight but sympathetic . He's briefly in about four scenes . But it's hard to care about Don's character one way or the other because he serves up these GREAT pizzas ( we only get a glimpse but can practically smell it ) that make Domino's and Pizza Hut look like impostors . Try to get a pizza like that at four in the morning in northern Scotland ! The rest of the straight guys are represented by the boyfriend of Alison's mother , who , in the absence of the mother , begins dangling his insinuations in front of the girl herself , who looks about 16 . The straight adolescent goons who ball Subkoff when they feel like it and throw her out when they're bored with her are little more than perambulating pustules . Folland plays a dumpy adolescent who is shy but sensitive . In fact , however , she has a splendid face with modelesque features , fey and pixie-like . Her bone structure is pretty big though and , alas , the configuration of her weight suggests a strong genetic component . There won't be much she'll be able to do about it . It shouldn't matter , but it always does . Subkoff , her inconstant adolescent friend , has a more conventional and rather skinny figure but her voice , features , and demeanor are coarser than Folland's . She looks like Buffy the Vampire Slayer if Buffy were the vampire instead of the slayer . She has probably the most demanding role in the film and brings it off marvelously , a complex character very nicely rendered . The photography and location shooting are just fine . And the movie does middle-class urban dwellers a big favor . You know those young chicks you see on the streets ? The ones with violently pink hair done up in a fashion resembling a tangled mop ? The ones with maybe a jail-house tat around their biceps ? With their clothes half drooping off and that silver ring dangling from their pipiks ? Well , only some of them are dangerous stoners . Many of them are just playing with their appearance , as adolescents are want to do in all cultures , and they may be a little thoughtless but fundamentally decent people . I'd watch out for the guys though , especially if they're straight . They have a slight tendency to murder people they find offensive . At least that's what the film suggests .
Well-done , tricky , time-travel crime thriller .	If you should tune in to this film after the first twenty minutes or so , you are likely to be clueless about what happens afterward . It's confusing enough from the beginning . Instead of deja vu ( already seen ) I finished it with an uncanny feeling of presque vu ( almost seen ) . A special government agency has these satellites , you see , which are able to peer down and capture events in and near New Orleans in incredible detail . Nothing much new there . But the thing is , the picture the agents get is , dig it , four days old ! And it's a trailing four day period , meaning that the events they are looking at on their giant TV screen are happening in real time . And as the agents spend their " present " watching the images , the " past " they are viewing travels along with them , always four days old . The satellites are not only able to capture any normal images of events in public spaces either . They have " infra red " capacity that allows them to penetrate buildings and walls and see inside people's apartments and offices . And they pick up the audio as well . Of course this opens up new vistas , which the agents take advantage of by watching the drop-dead gorgeous Paula Patton take a shower . Not wanting to run out of space here , and space is our problem now , not time , although we're assured they're one and the same , I'd better - - wait a minute . It occurs to me that I just spent too much of the space / time continuum explaining why I couldn't spend too much of the space / time continuum . Well , it's all no more confusing than the science and technology we see in this movie . To cut to the chase , a domestic terrorist ( James Caviezel ) blows up a big ferry , killing any number of people , including the partner of Denzel Washington , who's an ATF agent . When Washington finds out that not only can we view the past but we can also , in some curious way , penetrate it , he insists on being sent back to a few hours before the explosion to see if he can prevent it . ( The usual paradox is mentioned in passing , as a joke . ) BANG - - and Washington is sent back to a few hours before the blast , and after his Terminator-like trip he immediately rescues the drop-dead gorgeous Paula Patton from certain incineration by the terrorist . He does more than that . He saves the drop-dead gorgeous Paula Patton a second time . He saves the ferry by sacrificing his own life . Or so it would seem , except that he unknowingly shows up at the post-disaster scene , his unknowing " present " self , where he is introduced for the first time to the drop-dead gorgeous Pamela Patton . I don't know how that works either . If you died in the past , how can you show up alive in the present ? For that matter , if your satellite technology can pick up the visual spectrum in the electromagnetic field , plus infra red , how come it can also give you high-definition audio , which is nothing more than waves of differing air pressure ? Actually , I happen to know all these answers but the NSA won't let me spill the beans . Denzel Washington is quite good in this most action movie . He doesn't have much in the way of dynamic range but that's okay . Neither did Gary Cooper or Robert Redford . What more can be said about the drop-dead gorgeous Paula Patton except that she has a slinky , sinewy figure and the face of a model , full of good bone structure . And she has a distinctive husky voice too . Her features are slightly , engagingly , askew , as if someone had sliced her face through the sagittal plane and put it back together somewhat carelessly . She's African-American , I suppose , because we all agree that she is . But genetically my guess is that she's about half Caucasian , like Barak Obama and Hallie Berry . A living example of what's called " the social construction of reality . " She's a decent actress and one hopes she has a career in films , and not just because she's , well , drop-dead gorgeous either . The director , Tony Scott , deserves a comment too . He's done some meretricious work in the past , undeserving of much attention , but this ( with one or two exceptional scenes ) is nicely executed material . There's a bit too much editorial razzle dazzle in the expository scenes involving the satellites , but that's about it . The action scenes , the special effects , are above what you might expect from a routine action movie . Sometimes they're startling . I hope the stunt people were being paid above scale . This is a film that ought to keep you attentive and in your seat , even if you're not an action movie fan . It's a superior example of a much degraded genre .
In Search of Time Lost .	This is a strange episode of Night Gallery , a moving story of a man who is fully aware of the way that he has killed time and time is now killing him . Rod Serling , the writer , did a splendid job of evoking nostalgia for times gone by , peaceful optimistic times , as contrasted with the wreck things seemed to be turning into - - symbolized by O'Reilly's Bar , deserted and bleak , its furniture abused . Serling grew up in Binghamton , New York , one of those smallish cities in which , during the 1920s and 1930s , people came to know their neighbors and all participated in rites of intensification - - the Fourth of July celebrations , Christmas caroling , that sort of thing . He never forgot it . His stories on the Twilight Zone often reflected this winsome sense of loss , and this episode of Night Gallery pretty much closes the book on that sentiment . Serling wasn't to live much longer . It's not a TV masterwork . It does go on , and at times it's confusing . William Windom's performance , though , is very good . He has the pleasantly plain , unpleasantly pained face of Everyman . It's a sad and touching story of a man who , like Serling himself , moved from a state of innocence into one of heartless modernism , devoid of human passion .
Bourgeois	I recently finished watching most of the 69 episodes from this series on DVDs . After recovering from the brief psychotic episode they induced I tried to figure out just what the subtext of this series was . I mean , what made it so very popular in the last 60s , and in today's reruns . Any attempt at a comprehensive explanation would be nothing but conjecture , but I guess it's still possible to make a few observations about the program . The series must have been dear to Jack Webb's heart . It's too consistent to be anything else . The two were one and the same . The stories were based on real cases from the LAPD . I understand that . But the presentation was all Webb's . And I thrilled whenever Webb said the words " Los Angeles " and used a " hard " g , as in the original Spanish name for the city . The design of the program - - the sets , the people we meet - - were hyperkurtic . That is , there was hardly any variation . Every setting seems to be middle class , even the hotel for poor old people . Sometimes a perp may look weird . He may have painted his face half blue and half yellow if he took LSD , or he may be dressed as Captain Crusader , but everyone else is well groomed and neatly dressed . In Webb's L . A . there is no such thing as a slum or a dangerous neighborhood . It's politically incorrect , and this has to be part of its appeal . There is the occasional homosexual - - in one episode a hair dresser who gushes that he " could do wonders " with Joe Friday's hair . But he's not treated too politely . He isn't ridiculed but the character is played for mild laughs . Blacks are sometimes present but they are always victims of racist comments by bad guys , and Joe Friday straightens them out quickly because it's not the American way . And the bad guys who insult them aren't ordinary people but Nazi freaks . The values embodied in the program are straight down the line - - ordinary middle class , patriotic , law-abiding , respect for elders and authority figures , and thoroughly Republican in the old-fashioned sense of cautious about change and careful about responsibility . Dope is bad , and so is anything else that deviates much from the norm . Nobody gets away with anything . If you break the law , you pay for it . In a moment the results of that trial . The format itself gives us a spurious sense of accuracy and attention to the verities . " It was 8 : 45 PM . It was hot and dry in Los Angeles . We were working the night watch out of Littering . " How is it possible to doubt that this is what actually happened ? Acting . Jack Webb is good , and so is Henry ( Harry ) Morgan , although I wish the latter would make up his mind about his name . Maybe it's Harry ( Henry ) Morgan , come to think of it . That brief loss of contact with reality seems to have fused a couple of synapses . Anyway , Webb and H . ( H . ) Morgan had their roles down pat - - from the dramatic to the comic . For the most part , the rest of the acting sucked . That didn't necessarily detract from the show's value , as long as the part was designed to generate laughs . As far as that goes I'm not sure the performers can be blamed . The greatest actors in the world would have a tough time overcoming the stilted scripts . " Hah , Fuzz , you can't say that to me because I'm not under arrest . " Webb : " You forgot one thing , mister . " " Huh ? What's that ? " Webb : " Now you are . " I particularly enjoyed the episodes that were built around a dialog between Jack Webb and H . H . Morgan , on the one hand , and a rebellious spirit on the other . A Timothy Leary clone appears in one and the repartee is gripping . Leary himself , as I understand it , is now circling the earth in outer space , or at least a portion of his ashes are . The orbit will decay with time as , lamentably , did his attempt to transform the world into a virtual reality without the intervention of machinery . ( PS : Kids , Timothy Leary was this ex-Harvard professor who took LSD and advised everyone to " tune in , turn on , and drop out , " and - - well , never mind . ) Curiously enough , there was a similar encounter with a producer of pornographic films in another episode . The baser human instincts triumphed over the spiritual , as usual , and the internet is now awash with free videos that belong in an anatomy class , while no one remembers the meaning of the word " psychedelic . " It's enjoyable mostly because it's a trip backward in time . Webb is telling us what's what . It's like being Twilight Zoned back into a period before the center could not hold and things fell apart . The lines were clear and if you crossed them , well you had Webb and Morgan to cope with - - and you didn't win . By the way , I don't mean to seriously suggest that during the illness I experienced after this marathon viewing , I was a danger to myself or others . I mean , I wasn't climbing the walls . The chief symptom was an inability to walk and swing my arms at the same time and an irresistible impulse to wear the same gun-metal gray sports jacket no matter what I was doing - - work , barbecues , dates , even swimming . Where did it all go ? ( Sob . )
Ponderous , not at all bad .	Clint Eastwood has earned the satisfaction he seems to get out of making leisurely , moody pieces like this , instead of the drive-in kinds of mindless commercial properties he once had to produce to satisfy his bankers . He has enough ambition and talent to do without the orang-utans . You can tell this is one of his more arty enterprises by the darkness , the shadows , the chiaroscuro . People work out in his gym with all the lights but one turned off so they cast dramatic shadows on the peeling cinder-block walls . We can tell that it's Morgan Freeman lurking in the gloom because a single strip of light falls across his eyes . Even hospital rooms are lighted as if they were the interiors of cathedrals . The score , by Eastwood , is a simple one . A melancholy falling arpeggio on a guitar or piano , perfectly predictable except for the final note , which hovers in the air for a long moment before resolving the progression . The theme is not triumph over aimlessness , as in " Rocky , " but guilt . Eastwood is Frankie , a fight manager who feels responsible for his pal Morgan Freeman's losing his eye in a bout . The movie begins with Frankie twitting a priest after mass , provoking him into saying the f word . Frankie's been attending mass every Sunday for more than 20 years but the priest can't figure out why because Frankie lies and blasphemes all the time . It isn't until the end of the movie that we realize exactly how guilt-prone Franky is . He's afraid to push his fighters ahead too fast for fear they'll be hurt , the way Freeman was hurt , and so when his best fighters are fully trained they leave him for more aggressive managers . Frankie's final act of mercy involves such a monumental breach of ordinary ethics that the weight of his responsibility now makes it impossible for him to carry on with his previous life . He disappears overnight , without a trace , with leaving a puff of smoke . A minute-long coda tacked on leaves an unpleasant and unnecessary and unrealistic taste of optimism in the mouth . It's curious , but as Eastwood has aged he's come to resemble the aging Henry Fonda more than ever - - tall , gangling stiff , slightly kyphotic , his voice changed into a hoary whisper . His performance is okay , and so is Hilary Swank's . Morgan Freeman narrates and plays an avuncular observer , doing the interpreting for us , filling in the gaps in the narrative , a fine actor . The prize ought to go to Margo Martindale ( ? ) as Swank's redneck selfish unfeeling Mom . What a picture of pure e-vil . If there's a weakness in the film , that Fitzgerald family is probably the most prominent . The other characters are mostly multidimensional , but not Swank's family members . They're mainly there to illustrate the point that if Swank doesn't box , she has absolutely nothing to live for . It would be a better movie if Swank's family had been more nearly human - - maybe polite and grateful , but not unhappy at her estrangement . As it is , the family is drive-in baggage , though well acted . The boxing part is a little different from that of " Rocky . " Rocky already knows how to box . He just doesn't care . Swank cares a great deal but knows nothing , so the few lessons we see her getting are instructive . ( In " Champion " , Kirk Douglas didn't know how to box and he didn't care either . ) Watching those brutal boxing scenes would have prompted me to wonder what it was like to be beaten to a pulp by a woman , if I didn't already know . They don't show much in the way of either realism or artistry . No blank spots in the bouts . It's either , Pow , right in the snot-locker , or , Whiz , a great big miss . And every fight ends in a knockout . Ah , well . It's not really a movie about boxing anyway . Another thing might be mentioned . Eastwood has always tried to build a part for an African-American or other minority in his films , starting early with Albert Popwell . But these characters are never condescended to . They're not sentimentalized , ennobled , or otherwise politically corrected . They're treated like anybody else . And Eastwood hasn't been afraid to challenge himself on screen with poor performers either . Here ( and elsewhere ) he's used Morgan Freeman , than whom there is no finer actor on the screen today . Watch Freeman play the hilarious scene about his day socks and his night socks , while staring distractedly out the window . Eastwood gets extra points for taking risks like that . This is a tragedy , but a pretty good one .
A Killing on the Stock Market	I'm not sure that Rod Steiger comes across as very Italian in this movie . He wasn't really very good with dialects . And maybe he doesn't need to be too " Italian " anyway ; Capone was born in Brooklyn , not Italy as he liked to claim . Steiger is a repulsive looking gangster here - - treacherous , sweaty , brutal , uncouth , and lecherous . Yet , I kind of like him . Steiger , I mean . Grew up hauling ice on the streets of Newark , New Jersey . Anybody who can get from there to an academy award has my vote . Oh , sure , he can sometimes turn in a nicely measured performance , as in " On the Waterfront " and " The Pawnbroker " and " Doctor Zhivago . " And sometimes he flails about , chewing the scenery to a frazzle , as he does here . But the exaggerration is curiously appropriate . The musical score cues us that this isn't all meant to be taken too seriously . And through the mask of all those wild gestures , verbal quirks , and method grimaces he does manage to project a fullsome ruthlessness . His boss , Johnny Torrio ( Nehemia Persoff ) promotes him to partner and when Capone asks why , Persoff turns to him , eyes filled with fear , and replies in a quivering voice , " Al , I want you standing next to me . I don't want you behind me no more . " The two actors play off each other well . I've sometimes wondered if they reminisced about the scene they had together in " On the Waterfront . " Persoff was the taxi driver in that famous scene , which I watched Elia Kazan filming in Hoboken as a kid . " On the Waterfront " was Martin Balsam's debut film too . He was morally upright there , whereas he is a likable reporter here but embodies moral terpitude , which is engaging as far as it goes , until he crosses Capone . Fay Spain , playing a woman whom Capone has turned into a widow , is exotic and sexy , but a limited acress . James Gregory is miscast as the straight police officer who is Capone's nemesis . I can't recall a single movie in which he appeared to be anything but a lying blowhard . But his character gets the job done . There are no " Untouchables " here . For all of the loathsome things that Capone did or instigated he spent only eleven years in prison for tax evasion . It wasn't easy time , true . When he refused to join in an uprising he was stabbed from behind by another inmate - - and this was Capone ! He was released and allowed to spend the rest of his life in his Florida mansion . I guess we are supposed to take his slow death from syphilis as somehow a providentially imposed punishment , but lots of people had syphilis - - good and bad . Even Florence Nightingale died of syphilis .
Better Angels of Our Nature	There is humanity and bravery enough to go around in these seven stories . Bravery because people risked invaluable things for the sake of others , and humanity because some of them gave things to others even under conditions so hopeless that there was nothing left to risk . It's impossible not to be moved by narratives involving the Nazi program of genocide , perhaps the most horrifying event of the last century . And it's for this reason that it's important for the subject to be treated with care and delicacy . A tragedy of such monumental proportions can't be cheapened by easy sentiment or falsified by myth . There were , for instance , not six million people murdered in the camps . Nobody will ever know the exact figure but it is closer to fourteen million . In addition to Jews the victims included Gypsies , homosexuals , communists , political undesirables , the mentally retarded and the otherwise " unfit . " Much of the footage is unfamiliar and , with one exception , the seven people described were quite ordinary until they were called upon to be otherwise . The narration ( by Ben Kingsley , who has a great voice ) is perhaps a bit heavy , but perhaps not . Anyone old enough to remember these events don't need the information to be laid on too thick . Still the details of what went on in countries we hear little about - - Hungary , for instance , or Lithuania - - add to the store of what we all should know . In addition , I'm beginning to wonder , judging from some of the things I've heard from younger people , if these events have now become so much history , about as meaningful to them as Guy Fawke's Day . ( I certainly hope not . ) At any rate , the film deserves to be long . The informants , who've seen these things at first hand , will not be with us much longer .
Tense Fictional Tale of Jack the Ripper	In this story Laird Cragar goes flapping around a Whitechapel theater in his ulster , a crazed and overweight Batman , trying desperately to murder the delicious stage star Merle Oberon . This is one of those movies made under the Code . All of the Ripper's victims were " stage girls , " instead of the drunken prostitutes they actually were . It's very rude of him to want to " cut out the evil " in somebody who is as stunning as Merle Oberon , even if her talent as an actress was moderate . No normal man would want to do more than pinch her a little . The story of the Ripper is so familiar that it's not worth describing in detail - - and in fact the movie doesn't describe it in detail , concentrating instead of the mysterious comings and goings of Laird Cragar as the new upstairs lodger of the title . Craigar has the part down pat . He's unusually tall and , white not especially rotund , has flabby features that seem made of play-do . Every move he makes , every enigmatic utterance , invites suspicion . He shows up at the house of Sir Cedric Hardwicke and Sara Allgood and their niece , Oberon , on the night of one of the murders , carrying nothing but a black bag . When the papers reveal that the Ripper was seen carrying such a bag , Craigar burns his , causing an acrid smoke to fill the hallway . If the murderer is seen wearing an ulster , Craigar burns his . If the Ripper appears to have some medical knowledge , Craigar is found to be a sometime pathologist . His flat is decorated with photos of " old-time actresses " that he turns to the wall . " Did you ever notice , " he remarks to Allgood , " that when you walk around the room the eyes seem to follow you ? " The suspense is enhanced immeasurably by John Brahm's direction and the noir-like lighting of Lucien Ballard . In his first attempt to confront Oberon alone in her room , Brahm frames her between the bulk of Craigar's body and his arm , emphasizing her fragility and the overall sense of her entrapment . In a later scene , the wounded Craigar is crawling along a catwalk high above the stage and the bars of light flicker rapidly over his face as he crawls along the steel bars of the floor , like strobes , like some demonic light bulb that has decided to trip out . The film is fine at evoking the smoggy , cobbled streets and gin mills of 1875 London too , though the effect is more stylized than realistic . ( Realistically , Whitechapel was a pig style and smelled like one . ) Marvelous job . The film was remade almost shot for shot nine years later with Jack Palance as the eponymous lodger . Palance brings a different kind of menace to the role , that of the coiled spring , while Craigar is so constructed that he seems able to murder a tiny woman simply by falling on her and smothering her . The " dance hall girls " business is always a little bothersome . Why did these women go out after dark when the entire city was in turmoil because of the murders ? Well , unlike dance hall girls , the real victims had no choice . Many were homeless , abject drunks , who hoped to make enough money from some impromptu engagement to spend a night in a flop house and , with any luck , to buy enough gin to get soused . The cheaper houses rented not beds but chairs , lined up in a row , with a rope across the front for the consumer to lean on while sleeping . They weren't killed because they sang and danced . They were slaughtered because they were available . Anyway , this film is probably better than the Jack Palance version and , though the story is cleaned up , it's quite good . Craigar makes a fine menacing figure . George Sanders has the uninteresting role of the Scotland Yard detective . ( None of the political shenanigans are gone into . ) And Merle Oberon is exquisite .
Entertaining Arabian Fantasy	The kids ought to love this good-natured , fast-paced fantasy adventure from the Arabian Nights . The color photography is splendid , but then everything else is as well - - wardrobe , makeup , production design , special effects , and the magical mystery score by Miklos Rozsa . It's got just about everything in it that we associate with Arabian legends - - the genie in the bottle , the flying carpet , the jewel in the idol's eye , the luscious and exotic princess ( June Duprez ) , the handsome blind hero whose sight is returned ( John Justice ) , the black-clad bearded villain ( Conrad Veidt ) , the giant spider , the laughing little thief ( Sabu ) . The plot is just coherent enough to bring these elements together . I was thrilled as a kid when I saw it in a theater , and my kid was equally enthralled when he was of that age . Not that adults won't enjoy it too , just that it presents them with a more demanding epoche than most movies they're likely to get a kick out of . For grown men , at any rate , the foxy princess of June Duprez is a feast for the eyes . Speaking of eyes , her irises are a deep brown and they look slightly outward of her saggital plane , and her canthi tilt upward and outward at an alarming angle . She looks part predatory cat , maybe a margay , except that the rest of her features are so chubbily sensual . Her voice sounds like that of Jane Randolph , the girl friend in " The Cat People , " only with an English accent . Any normal man would want to pinch and bite her . It has no pretense at meaning anything . It's only goal is to entertain and that it does . You'll probably get a kick out of it .
Slick crime story and character study	Director Richard Fleischer handles this story of Leopold ( Judd Steiner / Dean Stockwell ) and Loeb ( Artie Strauss / Bradford Dillman ) with functional and aesthetic aplomb . Nothing in the script or the shooting seems extraneous . It all flows smoothly along like the well-done production that it is , like a gripping commercial item , like a story " based on fact " , like Old Man River . And it's done without any flashy special effects or sensationalized scenes . No exploding fireballs . No chisels being hammered into skulls . No acid being poured on the dead , naked bodies of 14-year-old boys . No car chases . Not a gun in sight . No last-minute witnesses turning up in court . Nobody breaking down in sobs on the stand and crying , " I did it ! I did it ! I didn't mean to kill him ! " Nobody gets raped , not even Diane Varsi . Two gay men never smooch on screen . Everybody walks around chatting with their hands in their pockets , or sits around solemnly discussing questions of moment . Orson Welles as Wilke ( Clarence Darrow ) gives a long monologue at the end , begging the judge for life sentences instead of the rope - - and he gets what he asks for . ( Evidently the script borrows directly from Darrow's real speech . ) The last exchange is phony , however . Leopold snarls at Darrow and says he doesn't believe in God . " You sure about that ? How do you suppose your glasses got there . If you didn't put them there , who did ? " Leopold looks away , surprised and thoughtful , then he's taken off to Joliet . This is like one of those rawhide bones that people seem to think they can fool dogs into thinking are real . Some in the audience might not have been entirely WITH Darrow's plea for mercy because , after all , Darrow was a known atheist . Well , this exchange is a reassuring pat on the back . See , maybe he believes after all ? I don't know why film makers feel it necessary to gussy up Clarence Darrow and reveal him in his Sunday go-to-meetin ' clothes at the end of movies about him . In " Inherit the Wind , " Spencer Tracy is Darrow and he pulls the same stunt with atheist H . L . Mencken at the climax , and gets the same bewildered response from Gene Kelly , before he hefts the Bible in one hand and Darwin in the other and shuffles off . I've pretty much skipped over the actual story because Leopold and Loeb are now an enduring part of our popular culture , along with Sacco and Vanzetti , the Lindberg kidnapping , the Lizzie Borden ax murders , and the split-up between Brittny Spears and Fed Ex . But that's okay , because the crime was never the thing anyway . It's never shown on screen , nor is it described in sequential detail . In fact there is no central protagonist in the film either . After being introduced to the characters , we follow Martin Milner around for a while as he digs up evidence and has his girl friend stolen . Then we get to know much more about the relationship between the two criminals - - one was 18 and the other 19 . Loeb is the antisocial wisecracker , who paid for his arrogance by getting his throat cut with a razor during a prison shower in 1936 . ( Prison is a dangerous place if you're a high-profile inmate : the Boston Strangler , Jeffrey Dahmer , a Roman Catholic pedophilic priest , and Loeb were all murdered . Al Capone was stabbed in the back . And that's not to mention other , lesser indignities . ) Leopold is the submissive partner , which is shown in the film with only overtones of sex , not explicit revelations . " Are you ditching me for some GIRL ? " Loeb asks Leopold . After sticking with the two geniuses , the film concentrates on the District Attorney ( E . G . Marshall , who has played more cold-blooded investigators and analysts than I can remember ) and his tweaking of the two suspects . The end is given over to Orson Welles as Darrow . I don't know what went on during the shooting but whenever Welles appears on screen , everyone seems to start talking at once , confusingly , the dialog overlaps , and suddenly it begins to sound like " Touch of Evil . " He handles his final speech quite well . What a great baritone voice . What a shambling , disheveled physical presence . Recommended .
Meanly amusing , informative documentary .	This film consists of interviews with directors and actors , archival footage of public events , and clips of what the MPAA considers questionable taste from mostly recent movies . It's position is clearly a First Amendment one . That's my position too . And the movie is really funny . The MPAA rating board is a secret organization that determines who gets to see a picture , guides the judgment of potential viewers , or whether the film is shown at all . One clergyman who attends the screenings says , " Jack Valenti wanted this to be a totally transparent process but decided it would be bad to broadcast it to the public . " The " investigative team " who start to dig into the process are good-natured , cheerful , iconoclasts , including a couple of lesbians . They try to film the nameless board members who leave for lunch , then follow them into fast-food joints and try to film them on spy cameras and engage them in conversation . Wearing latex gloves , they steal the garbage bags of film raters at night and poke through them trying to get some idea of what goes through their heads . The whole thing is carried out like a CIA operation . And that's what this film is about - - the investigation itself , and the attempt that follows to get a rating for the film about the investigation . I don't know that there's all that much new here . We already know that some people in audiences are liable to imitate certain actions they see on the screen . ( Rape has a higher reenactment quotient than , say , blowing one's self up in a crowded place . ) We know that our ratings are far tougher on sex than on violence , and tougher on gay sex than straight . We know that the emphasis in Europe is pretty much the opposite . We know that people making films usually throw in one or two sops that they know ahead of time will be rejected by the raters , so the raters can feel that they're doing their jobs . ( Orson Welles did the same thing with Citizen Kane . ) We also know , though the film doesn't tell us , that there's a lot more to the relationship between media and behavior than just copycatting . Canadian border cities like Vancouver , BC , get the same programming that American cities like Vancouver , WA , get - - and Canada has more guns per capita too - - and yet the homicide rate in BC is minuscule compared to that of Washington . Some of the funniest material comes from clips that show what has been deliberately sacrificed to the censors . I forget the title of the film it comes from , but one scene has an animated Ken and an equally animated Barbie engaged in sexual acts . The raters allowed a missionary position and a Barbie-on-top but required the deletion of Ken and Barbie going down on one another , anal intercourse , ondinism , and corpraphilia . You haven't seen ANYTHING until you've seen Barbie trying to dump on Ken's eager , smiling face . ( I can't stop laughing . ) John Waters is prominent among the many talking heads , contributing his invaluable and fulgurating insights . On the other side is Jack Valenti , grinning amiably and lying into the camera about the board members ( " just ordinary people " ) , one of whom lives in a multi-million-dollar mansion . Can you imagine the job these people have to do ? They sit there and watch movies all day long , keeping an eye open particularly for sexy parts , actually counting the number of f and m words used ? And to get PAID for it ? And then to pass JUDGMENT on exactly how filthy a film is ? It's enough to make the rotted corpse of Anthony Comestock push its way out of the grave and come crashing through the doors , demanding a seat and a pencil .
Pretty Good Later Entry .	This is the one in which the diminutive Ruth Gordon plays an Agatha-Christie type of murder mystery author who locks her nephew by marriage into a safe . Gordon believes that he murdered her niece and the young fellow dies of suffocation , while Gordon is traveling back and forth to New York . He manages , however , to leave behind some clues , scratches on a couple of black safe deposit boxes and an improvised and well-hidden note . Columbo enters the case , suspects her at once , and solves the mystery by simply using his supernatural mystical intuitive powers . Oh , and Mariette Hartley is on hand as Gordon's secretary and would-be blackmailer . Hartley is , I believe , the grand daughter of the psychologist B . F . Skinner . I'm not sure her ancestry had anything to do with her attractive belly button , which is on display during a belly dance sequence , but I've always admired Skinner anyway . The murder is well handled . It's a good plot , and none of the performers or crew fluff anything . But the outstanding figure here is Ruth Gordon , only a skosh over five feet tall . She was over 80 years old and looked it . There are moments when she almost teeters , but she consistently exudes charm . Her acting is idiosyncratic . You can never be sure when she's being serious or when she's putting Columbo and the audience on . She's given some good lines too . What humor there is comes from Gordon . Columbo doesn't have any of his frequent comic moments . All in all , a nice job by everyone concerned .
Hard Work and Talent Pay Off .	Fred Astaire's character , Lucky , may depend on the turn of a card or the spin of a roulette wheel to decide his fate but Fred Astaire did not . He and Ginger Rogers , whom he pursues here as usual through several contretemps , put in an enormous amount of work . Astaire insisted that there be few cuts during the dance numbers . Thus , for instance , when Astair and Rogers launch into " Waltz in Swing Time , " which requires especially heroic effort from Rogers , the whole intricate number isn't cut at all . This technique naturally involved multiple takes . In the case of " Never Gonna Dance , " towards the end , forty-seven takes were required . Imagine . You can put yourself through three or four minutes of strenuous , thoroughly memorized dance steps , after hundreds of hours of planning and rehearsal , flub the last step , and you have to start all over again . Whatever they were paying Astaire and Rogers , it was hardly enough . The film gets off to a bit of a slow start . There is some fluff about whether Astaire's pants should have cuffs or not . The Grip Quotient remains the same through the rest of the film , which is to say we're not dealing with " Citizen Kane " here . And the editing . Somewhere along the time line Astaire must have promised Rogers that he would quit gambling because , when she finds him apparently betting on cards , it leads to their third ( or is it fourth ? ) breakup . The scene in which Astaire makes the promise , however , never made it into the final cut . No matter . It's the musical numbers that count and these are about as good as they come . The tunes are by Jerome Kern ( one of them won an Academy Award ) and the often amusing and sometimes touching lyrics are by Dorothy Fields . Some of the songs are likely to be familiar . Pick Yourself Up , Dust Yourself Off , and Start All Over Again . A Fine Romance , With No Kisses . Just the Way You Look Tonight . Others may not have entered the national songbook but are spectacular in their own right . I cannot imagine anyone but Astaire doing that frenetic " Bojangles " number in one three-and-a-half minute take without cuts . I don't mean just because it was flawless . I mean I can't imagine anyone doing it without inviting an acute infraction of the myoculinary , flopping all over the place like a marionette being flung about by some puppeteer on crystal meth . Most people could make a thousand mistakes trying to do it and still drop dead of a heart attack . That number , by the way , is done in blackface , a sorry tradition left over from minstrel shows . But this number was staged ( and designed ) as a tribute to a specific performer , Bill " Bojangles " Robinson , a popular dancer of the 1930s who appeared in several movies , including one or two with Shirley Temple , and Astaire's make-up avoids the crudity of the usual blackface , which even Bert Williams , an African-American himself , needed to wear during his numbers . Thoroughly enjoyable - - or almost . You get a pass if you nod out during some of the " comic " interludes featuring Victor Moore .
Atmospheric crime / police thriller .	This movie always impresses me as interesting though I'm not sure why . The story itself doesn't really amount to that much . A big-city cop takes annual vacations near a small town in the desert and , donning his uniform , stops and kills motorists at random , leaving their bodies in the car trunks for the local cops to discover . The local chief runs into the vacationing murderer , identifies him only as a police officer , and more or less recruits him into helping out with the multiple homicides . The homicidal vacationing cop is Michael Burns . The local cop who finally twigs is Tom Skerrit . The performances of the two principals have something to do with the film's appeal , I think . Burns is husky-voiced and by turns mean and knowing , but always reckless . Burns ' cop is hard hearted , and we understand that this is because of his rotten job of dealing with day-to-day garbage . ( We already know about all that from Dirty Harry . ) But the script drains him of any humanity without making him engagingly evil . He doesn't just murder people whom he finds offensive . He kills ordinary working-class people . He's a stereotypical racist and enjoys taking down blacks and Hispanics . His " friendship " with the locals seems feigned . He beds a blowzy blond waitress but there is no affection between them . ( Lying next to her sleeping body , Burns goes through these weird Dracula-like motions with his hands that adds something decidedly odd to the scene . ) He never seems to warm to his fellow officer , Skerrit , and overall comes across as a blank rather than a human . Burns is a good actor but needs something to work with . Skerrit is quite good too . He left the force in San Bernardino to come to this small town and is now working his way through a post-marital depressive state . His acquires a neat-looking girl friend , his secretary Cindy , who is attractive without being in the least cute and who has a naked back that radiates a combination of sinewy strength and femininity . Skerrit's character is friendly enough without being gabby , rather passive , except that his expressions spell out his emotions so effectively . One of the more compelling features of the film is the location shooting . It's supposed to be somewhere near China Lake , in Hopi Country , in Nevada - - but it's not . The Hopi live nowhere near Nevada . And the desert , of which we see a good deal , is the Mojave in California , full of stucco-coated jumbo rocks and Joshua trees . The scenery excites the imagination . What could be more exciting than zipping along on desert roads on a motorcycle ? The sunshine , the wind , the ever-changing horizon , the scent of creosote - - and not another soul in sight except the occasional potential victim if you happen to be a crazed cop . The little towns and road stops we see resemble those around Needles and Blythe of fifty years ago , or so we imagine , without the Styrofoam litter , when people stopped for lunch in cafés instead of driving through Tommy's Big Boy GigaBurgers for take out . Anyway , I kind of like it , a minor piece with some redeeming virtues .
Likable Entry .	I guess Robert M . Young , the writer , had been reading Tom Wolfe or he wouldn't have come up with the extravagant title of this nice little story . Theodore Bikel belongs to a club for people whose IQs register in the upper two percent of the population's . There are half a dozen or so other members who meet regularly in a comfy , two-story place to discuss weighty matters . Another member is Sorrell Booke , Bikel's partner in the business they run . Booke has discovered that Bikel has been cooking the books to satisfy the materialistic desires of his wife , Samantha Eggar . So Bikel cooks Booke upstairs and arranges an alibi for the time of the shooting by using an elaborate Rube Goldberg chain of events that involve squib charges , an umbrella , a record player , a dictionary , and a Magic Marker . Enter Columbo , from whose rumpled clothing and shambling demeanor we can gather that his IQ registers somewhere in the neighborhood of that of a particularly mature prickly pear cactus . Actually , he's pretty smart , and it only takes him a day or two to figure out Bikel's routine . In this effort , he's helped enormously by his magical powers of intuition . He muses aloud , " Why would somebody play only da last four minutes of a record ? " Well , Lieutenant , MAYBE THEY LIKED THE TRACK ! There is also the usual problem of Columbo not having nearly enough evidence against the murderer to bring to court , and the murderer breaks down anyway and blabs about the crime . " When did you begin to suspect ? " On top of that , when the witnesses rush into the crime scene the opposite door , from which the murderer is supposed to be escaping , slams shut . Left unexplained . Maybe the wind ? No matter , really , because Columbo's Magical Tangerine Flake Streamlined Intuition is part of every episode and usually slips under the viewer's radar or , if the blip shows up , it can be happily ignored . The same with the criminal's abject admission at the end . So it doesn't make sense . So what ? This organization of intellectuals that Bikel belongs to - - the members include Kenneth Mars and Basil Hoffman among the recognizable faces - - is obviously modeled after MENSA . I'm not so sure it's a good thing to be all that smart . There's increasing evidence that genius and insanity aren't strangers to one another . And anyway , there's a mutual fund managed solely by MENSA members and it always loses money because they get hung up on a specific theory and stick with it regardless of returns . It's as if they were not managing a fund but testing an hypothesis . Further , I've had some encounters with genius classes in college and , I'll tell you the truth , they all looked a little neurotic to me . The plot doesn't really do much with all those high IQs . There's an over-sized dictionary in one of the rooms , but nobody discusses weighty thing . Nobody is into mathematics or elaborate puzzles or symbolic logic or games of strategy as far as we can tell . In real life I'd imagine every other sentence would have " string theory " or " fuzzy logic " or " fractals " embedded in it somewhere . And the set-up that Bikel uses to conceal his culpability isn't really that much different from those we find in other episodes , although the script makes a lot of how much brain power must have been behind it . That all sounds kind of negative , but it's small stuff compared to seeing mainstream Columbo . I always enjoy this episode . Bikel makes a nice sweaty villain , though not a snotty one , and there's a cameo by Jamie Lee Curtis . The script has an exchange between Columbo and a brilliant fourteen-year-old girl . He tells her she's not only smart but pretty . And she gushes : " That's the first time anyone complimented me for my body and not my mind . " And Bikel gives Columbo a neat little mental puzzle to solve . Something to do with separating one bag of phony gold from two bags of real gold .
High muzzle velocity .	Sound was hardly used in film before Hitchcock began his playful experiments with it . In " Blackmail , " Annie Ondra has stabbed and killed a lustful neighbor in defense of her virtue . No one knows who committed the murder but the next morning it is the talk of Chelsea . Ondra is haunted by guilt . She sees mementos of the murder everywhere - - a policeman's outstretched hand , or a bread knife . In the back room of her father's small shop , she tries to slice a loaf of bread , but there is a goofy looking woman customer lounging in the doorway and chattering on about the killing . Ondra's hand trembles as she listens to the customer carrying on . Oh , it wouldn't be so bad if the victim were bopped over the head with a brick - - that's a British way . But a knife . How could anyone use a knife ? The annoying customer's voice degrades into a background mumble except for one recurring word . Mmmm , mumble , mumble , mumble , KNIFE , mumble , mumble KNIFE ! The last one is practically a scream and the bread knife seems to leap out of Ondra's hand . The director was to conduct a number of other experiments with sound later in his career , from Bernard Hermann's shrieking violins in " Psycho " to the electronic clutter of " The Birds . " The story itself is kind of interesting if not exactly gripping . Mainly we see Ondra and her detective boy friend from Scotland Yard trying to hide her involvement in the crime . However , it's discovered by a seedy character who begins to blackmail the two of them , at first simply be asking the boy friend to pay for a particularly expensive cigar . An unnerving scene , so small , yet so portentous . It turns out that the blackmailer , although he had nothing to do with the murder outside of seeing Ondra enter the dead man's flat , has a police record . Suspicion falls on him . The police pursue him to the dome of the British Museum . He crashes through the skylight and falls on the floor far below . I didn't find the ending very satisfying . Ondra goes to the police station to confess , which she should have done in the first place . Her boy friend meets her there before she can spill the beans . But until now , he knows only that Ondra was in the would-be rapist's room . Now she tells him that she murdered the libidinous scoundrel . The boy friend - - John Longden by name - - now sees things clearly . He clenches his fists and stares towards the camera , not for the first time . And then he and Ondra walk away together , hand in hand . Well - - what happens NEXT ? What did they do , run out of film ? Does she hang or go to jail , or is everything swept under the rug by the two of them who are in cahoots ? The code would have prevented Annie Ondra's getting away with murder , even if by middle-class standards it might have been justified . But the code doesn't seem to be at work here . The attempted rape is clearly depicted for what it is , though hidden behind a bustling curtain . And Ondra has either been too innocent or not nearly innocent enough , prancing around in her underwear in a strange man's apartment , teasing him when he sketches a nude woman on his canvas , cooing with delight over his attentions . Any conclusion is left hanging , and I didn't get the impression this was intentional ambiguity . Still , the story has an abundance of tension and the guilt that torments Annie Ondra must have appealed to Hitchcock , who was to continue using it as an important theme in his later movies . One wonders what he did as a child . Maybe it's the responsibility of the Jebs .
Not bad - - I think . . .	I haven't seen this movie for more years than I care to remember . It was released accompanied by sensationalistic contemporary tag lines - - " Beatniks ! Rebels ! " - - partly because George Hamilton is seen playing the bongos once in a while . Yet , it has stuck in my memory . It really was an unusual film . First of all , Dostoyevsky is rather awkwardly superimposed on a story involving residents of modern L . A . The novel doesn't quite fit on the setting . It always bothered me about the novel that everyone in Petersberg seems to be acquainted with everyone else . It was a bit difficult to swallow that proposition in the novel ; it is absolutey impossible for that to have been true in L . A . circa 1960 , the most anomic community on the face of the planet . But instead of being an irritation , the lack of fit between the plot and its contemporary setting lends the film an unquiet , almost surreal quality . Something is off kilter and we don't know exactly what . We squirm with bemusement . Two points ought to be made . The movie must have been shot on the cheap . In this case , it inadvertently helps . We are given a tour of the seedier sections of L . A . - - railroad tracks , refuse dumps , shabby housing - - that a better-funded film would probably have avoided . Instead of Echo Park we get a slum . This is commonplace now , but it wasn't at the time . Second , the acting is actually quite good . I am even willing to forgive George Hamilton's handsomeness . ( He's always been willing to poke fun at himself anyway . ) Mary Murphy is not the young naif she played in " The Wild One . " She's not a hooker either , as she was in the novel . In 1960 neither audiences nor agents of social control were prepared for that . But she is a serious kind of easy lay , which was still saying a lot . Best of all is Frank Silvera . The smooth admirable way in which he insinuates himself into Robert's life . The cat and mouse repartee . The wondering expression on his face , his amazement that Hamilton has not yet caught on , as he tells him who committed the murders - - " Why YOU did , Robert . " I don't know how I would respond to the movie now , lo , these many years later . But it is not just a shoddy ripoff of a famous psychological drama . It would be a mistake to think so . This is worth catching , a real curiosity .
Evocative Tale of Two Promoters , .	Nobody would accuse this tale of being taut . It meanders around sufficiently that we get to know the characters , their families , their values - - and therein lies its charm . Eric Roberts is Pauli , the reckless Italian optimist , and Mickey Rourke is his more sensible , principled Irish cousin . The milieu is New York City and it is captured most impressively . These two street proletarians - - waiters and busboys - - ooze with the desire to own a Coupe deVille . Roberts brags that he never ordered a brandy that wasn't Courvoisier VSOP . Their ambition and their taste are palpable . I say this despite having grown up in the area without the slightest desire to live their life styles and lacking any intense affection for Frank Sinatra . Basically , the plot is a cross-cousin of " Mean Streets " , with Rourke in the Harvey Keitel role and Roberts as the maniacal DeNiro . Not to suggest that this is an imitation of anything else . The writer , Vincent Patrick , has street lingo down pat , even to the smallest parts , and Stuart Rosemberg has executed it flawlessly . Even " mozarella " comes out properly as " moozarell . " The two cousins alternately joke and fight with one another , depending on their position on the regression line between Robert's wild schemes and Rourke's more banal impulses . Roberts puts a " horse physic " in the drink of a ruthless cop . He engineers a lucrative burglary with the help of Rourke and a locksmith , Kenneth MacMillan , that results in the accidental death of a corrupt police officer , Jack Kehoe , whose only motive for being corrupt was to make enough money to move him and his sickly mother , Geraldine Page , to Phoenix in order to improve her health . ( As I said , the script meanders , but meaningfully . ) Geraldine Page gives a fine performance , by the way , as the self-destructive tough-as-nails street-savvy Mom . The money from the burglary belonged to the neighborhood Mr . Big , a villainous and revengeful Burt Young , who forces MacMillan to leave his family and blow town . He also removes one of Eric Roberts ' digits . And just as he is having a duel of wits with the third party to the crime , Rourke , Roberts feeds Burt Young a cup of espresso filled with lye . The poisoned Young leaps through the storefront window and runs off down the street . The last shot has Roberts and Rourke strolling off , carefree , down the street , arguing about whether it would be better to live in Miami . That's a bit of a weak ending . Given Burt Young's vengeful nature and his position in the organization , I wouldn't give two cents for either of their well-clad behinds . If they wind up as lowly waiters again they'll be lucky . Well , I suppose I've made the film sounds like a terrible tragedy , but it's not . The street lingo and many of the incidents make it as much comic as anything else . One of Roberts ' schemes has to do with betting a bundle on a horse that absolutely cannot lose . But Roberts ' knows as little about racing as he does about keeping out of trouble . He's confused about which part of a stallion must be removed to turn it into a gelding . He's concerned about the colors of the jockey because it makes him look like a fairy . Roberts bets the whole shebang on a win , and the horse loses in a photo finish . The more prudent Rourke has made twenty large by betting on the horse across the board . It's a pretty good movie , full of well-drawn colorful characters and considerable suspense and humor .
Introducing Fred and Ginger	The A story , involving a romance between Gene Raymond and Delores del Rio , is pretty silly . It's the kind of plot that would be handed over to Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers in their later films , and it's dismissible . Fred and Ginger are not romantically connected in this , their first film together . They just happen to be members of the same musical troupe . Their time together on screen is limited and their dancing is not what it would become , but they evidently made the film a hit and it launched their career that lasted throughout the thirties . There are a couple of noteworthy things about it . Ginger gets to sing the first number in a see-through dress . The title of the song is " Music Makes Me " , which is in itself a little wicked , though the lyrics take it further . When Ginger sings it , her phrasing lags behind the beat , which is a definition of syncopation . She's awfully cute . The dialog and characters add spice too . Franklin Pangborn has never been so close to flamboyant fairydom . ( It wouldn't have been allowed , ten years later . ) One of the waitresses he inspects at his hotel has the backs of her high heels worn off . ( " Round heels , " get it ? ) Maybe I'm reading too much into this . Will somebody please hand me that vial of Prozac over there ? Thank you . But when Fred and his band are about to be chewed out by Pangborn , Fred says , " Pull in your apples , boys , here comes William Tell . " Is that naughty or not ? Best line in the movie : A blond is envious of Delores del Rio's appeal to men ( which escapes me , by the way ) . " What have these girls got below the equator that WE don't have ? "
High comic adventure .	Enjoyable , cartoon nonsense about a group of American mercenaries who flee the recently defeated Confederacy for employment in the French Emporer Maximilian's army . A simple-minded plot revolves around the tentative friendship of two men , Burt Lancaster and Gary Cooper , as the leaders of the Americans , and involves escorting the delicious Denise Darcel from Mexico City to Veracruz in a royal coach that carries a hidden stash of three million bucks in gold . An interesting cast . Cooper and Lancaster don't really swing together on screen , or in real life for that matter . Of the principals , Henry Brandon as the chief of Maximilian's lancers is German ( von Kleinbach ) , Darcel is French , and Caesar Romero as a treacherous minion of Maximilian's is Cuban . Two of the talent were homosexual . The supporting cast reads like a list of the 1950s ' best character actors : Ernest Borgnine , Morris Ankrum , Charles Bronson , Jack Elam . Gary Cooper underplays as usual . He's a Southern gentleman of the old school , a man of some honor , though disillusioned by the loss of his estates during the war . By the end of the movie he discovers that he can again commit himself to a cause , that of the Juaristas . Not that the political background of Maximilian's ascent to the throne is gone into , because it isn't . It would have been an insult to the French , who installed him while Americans were too busy killing each other to object . And any endorsement of the Juaristas might look a little too much like communism in 1954 , what with impoverished peasants fighting the wealthy , wearing the rags of peons , and all that . Maximilian is played as a fool by George MacReady . For a different take on the political situation , see " Juarez " ( 1936 , I think ) . Cooper's character comes across as rather dull . Men of honor are always dull on screen . They never do anything wrong . They're wet blankets . They frown disapprovingly while others gets drunk , dance , and playfully bash one another . The chief basher in this film is the most likable character in the film . Burt Lancaster is dressed all in black and carries a nickel-plated Colt and shoots and betrays people at will . Makeup has tanned him to the color of a mummy in the peat bogs of Denmark and when he smiles , them glistening choppers seem the size of tombstones . What a presence . He dips his hands into a water-filled flower vase in order to wet his hair and slick it backward in what he clearly thinks is an attractive fashion . He wets his forefinger and briefly scrubs his teeth to make certain they look enough like chiclets . He pours glass after glass of wine towards his gaping mouth . He's unshaven , uncouth , and unkempt - - a complete miscreant . He's a delight to watch and listen to . It's a lot of fun , full of action and comedy , and not a word of it is to be taken seriously .
Sumptuous .	I had to catch this in snippets and so missed part of the story as it was unfolding , but in some ways the linear narrative is a lesser element of the film . Mostly , we see convincing characters interacting in the believable atmosphere of a small Spanish town . Even the ghost is , well , kind of believable . It's the ghost of Grandma , who has come back in humble and slightly embarrassed form to try to straighten out some of the family tsuris . A feast for the eyes - - photography by Jose Luis Alcaine . What colors ! You've never seen such richly hued flowers , such glistening black irises , or such saturated vegetables for that matter . The central figure , Penelope Cruz , has more or less inherited a restaurant and she and some of her relatives , dead and alive , run the place with satisfying efficiency . Man , can Cruz chop carrots and pimientos . There are times when , as on the Food Channel , we see Cruz dissecting peppers on the cutting board in a shot from above that , given Cruz's decolletage , keeps us glued to the screen . She's quite a looker , Cruz . She plays it almost abrasively here , going about her business of cooking and burying the bodies of murder victims with a certain grimness . She doesn't seem to be getting much out of life , but she's got the character down pat . I can't imagine why Hollywood has thrown her into such garbage so far . She seems a lot more at home here despite the lack of levity in the little town . Friendship , yes , but few laughs . Don't know why , but I have this sudden yearning for the seafood paella they serve at the Seville in Greenwich Village . Hasta la vista , baby .
Snappy Detective Yarn .	With this movie , Dick Powell switched his image from faded musical star to tough guy , and he's pretty good . He's nasal and cynical and sure of himself as he works his way , as Philip Marlowe , through a world of suave villains ( Otto Krueger ) , gigantic and rebarbative clients ( Mike Mazurki ) , blond seductresses ( Clair Trevor ) , and other assorted Chandleresque types . Actually , Raymond Chandler's novel , " Farewell , My Lovely " , is followed about as closely as the agents of social control would allow in 1944 . Edward Dmytryk's direction is efficient and the black-and-white photography , along with the special effects , are well done for their time . Of course , we get Dick Powell's narration of Chandler's prose with its curious tropes . We HAVE to get Chandler's prose because what else is there ? A PLOT ? Five minutes into the film and already Marlowe is working on two separate cases with two separate casts , one having to do with stolen jade , the other with Velma Galento . The threads come together late but it would take the devotion of a Talmudic scholar to figure out all the meanders of this torturous story . No , the key to enjoyment of the film rests with the acting - - from one disjointed incident to the next - - and the recherché charm of the narration . ( " I only took the case because my bank account was trying to crawl under a duck's belly . " ) The movie , like the prose that guides us through it , is inelegant and pretty literal . When somebody hits Marlowe over the head with a sap , the narration tells us that " a big black hole opened up in front of me . I dived in . It had no bottom . " And the screen shows us a big black hole opening up in front of him . He dives in . It has no bottom . It's a good film and enjoyable from beginning to end , once you blind yourself to its limitations . I prefer the 1975 remake with Robert Mitchum . The features that are good in this movie are improved upon in the later version . The photography here is just fine . The photography in 1975 was magnificent . And Powell is a good Marlowe , tough and confident , but Mitchum brings something unique to the role . Mitchum isn't stereotypically hard boiled like Powell . He slouches with exhaustion . ( And that's acting , not Mitchum's natural state , because in Mitchum's remake of " The Big Sleep , " a year or two later , he was speedier and carried the momentum of a bull dozer . ) And Mitchum brings more nuance to the role . Watch the scene in which he's slapped hard by the whorehouse Madam , gapes at her for a second , then lets out a feral yell , leaps to his feet and belts her in the mouth . Powell , satisfying as he is , doesn't have that kind of range . This one has everything that a thoroughly coagulated detective story ought to have . Great scene , when Powell tries to shrug off the effects of the drug he's been given and finds himself surrounded by smoke and spider webs . He tries to threaten the placid doctor who has shot him full of joy juice : " I've got a GUN . When people with a gun tell you to do something , you're supposed to do it ! " He sounds frazzled , confused and a little saddened because the conventions of the detective genre aren't working for him . See it , you big lug , or I turn your face into a dish of moo goo gai pan .
A Political Party	At the end of this documentary , " Hail to the Chief " plays in the background as President George W . Bush mounts the stage at a military dedication . The camera focuses on Senator Kerry clapping ritually along with a hundred others in the audience . " So now Kerry has a chance to unseat George Bush , " says Allie Pelosi in her grown-up teenager's voice . " If he wins , he'll be written into the history books . If he loses , he'll be home reading them like everybody else who failed . " The humor in the movie arises chiefly out of the candor of Alexandra Pelosi's voice-over . None of the candidates seems as willing to joke around as Bush did in " Journeys With George , " except maybe Kerry , who shows a quiet appreciation of the irony in the absurd . Pelosi wants to see another side of Kerry so he begins to turn around . He asks her for her camera , turns it on her , and begins to ask her pointed questions , some of them the same as she has asked him . Interestingly , in this same exchange , Pelosi asks him why political candidates seem to be reduced by the media to stereotypes - - Gore is boring , Bush is dumb - - and what stereotype Kerry would like to project . And he repeats the opinion he gave in the second presidential debates when he was called the most " liberal " member of the Senate . He says he doesn't think the media create the stereotypes but the candidates themselves as filtered through the media . In any case , he says , he doesn't believe them . Gore was not boring and Bush is not dumb . It's easy to pin simple labels on people but the world is more complicated than that . ( If Gore is boring and Bush is dumb , can Kerry be a philosopher ? ) Oddly enough the movie has very little to do with political issues . We learn nothing about the Democratic candidates ' positions on issues like abortion or Iraq . The movie is about the political process itself and how it's managed by the principles . By the end we're almost as fatigued as everyone else by the thousands of corn dogs , the bowls of chili , the hog lots , the weeping groupies , the well wishers , the nuisance who asks the same stupid questions of all the candidates , the flights , the buses , the need to keep showing those shining teeth in public , the identical stump speeches ( " You ARE the power ! " ) . Ugh . The wonder is that anyone would be willing to put himself through this meat grinder just to become president of the world's only superpower . It's less focused on personalities than " Journeys With George , " perforce . Pelosi had to cover half a dozen guys this time around , instead of just George W . Bush . So we don't get to know them as well as we got to know Bush . And there is far less of Allie Pelosi herself , of her affairs with other correspondents and of her decision to cut her hair . In the few shots of her we do see - - mainly taken by Kerry - - she still looks thoroughly deglamorized and goofy , yet vivacious and pretty nevertheless . She has a sharp eye for the balmy among the supporters without overdoing it . One Dean supporter in a beard died magenta explains why he's writing letters for Dean . Another , a woman from Portland , Oregon , is speaking to a group of Deanies . She DOES look a little strange , a middle-aged thin brunette with curiously off-kilter glasses , fiercely tied-back hair , lipstick the color of a three-day-old cadaver , and she speaks in a way that matches her grooming . Pelosi wordlessly lets the camera slide down the speaker's body , below the table , until we see her legs encased in thigh-high stockings that are made of multicolored rings , and finally her feet in things that look like some kind of modified geriatric devices . Not a peep out of Pelosi , although , let's face facts , it's a bit unkind . Pelosi doesn't spare Gebhart's supporters either , whom she describes as mainly old , and she gives us multiple shots of people in wheelchairs , a man with oxygen cannula in his nostrils , and an old woman with thick glasses and crooked teeth who responds to Pelosi's question with , " What ? " Another amusing moment . It's the airport at Wassau , Wisconsin . An employee tells Pelosi , " They're the biggest airplanes that ever came to this airport . " We see a shot of a smallish executive jet and Pelosi says , " Howard Dean's plane . " The camera pans slowly to a long sleek airliner the size of a small freight train . " John Kerry's plane , " says Pelosi . Pan back to the little jet . " Howard Dean ? " Then slowly back to the airliner . " John Kerry ? " She does this several times . There's pathos in this movie , too , which was also missing from her earlier film . Howard Dean buried in a horde of leaping fans , not alone for a moment . Then " the scream . " And now Pelosi has Dean all to herself as he walks with a few friends through empty hotel lobbies and " The Party's Over " plays in the background . Gebhart weeping during his concession speech , a nice guy , as is Joe Lieberman , who proves to be bright and witty but is hampered by his receding chin and a voice that sounds as if it's coming through a mouthful of matzoh meal . This film is all over the place , disjointed , funny and improvvisata , strangely sad , kind of like its maker . It's worth seeing as an historical document although no one should expect penetrating insights into policy or character .
Well-done Story of Fliers Stranded in Holland .	It's pretty good , and it ought to be . Powell and Pressburger produced , wrote and directed it . It was shot by Ronald Neame and edited by David Lean . And the cast includes some well-known faces - - Pamela Brown , Godfrey Tearle , Bernard Miles - - as well as some , uncredited , who were to become familiar over the next few years - - James Donald , Gordon Jackson , Peter Ustinov . The script is literate , though it includes some incidents that are now staples , and the flight of the Wellington into Germany and its being damaged on the return over Holland are eminently realistic and filled with tension , given the period . It strikes a viewer as especially well thought out . The behavior and conversation of the men huddled in the bomber are believable . None of the boyish exuberance of , say , Howard Hawks ' " Air Force . " Nobody shouts , " That'll teach the Nazi miscreants " or anything like that . It's all business , made a little less heavy by some light humor . When the half dozen men land in Holland and are discovered by the locals , they aren't kissed by the girls , they don't have roses thrown at them , and nobody gives them bottles of wine . The Dutch have been living with the Nazi occupation for years and they know better than that . Pamela Brown , as a leader of the interrogation team , takes her time in making sure that she's not dealing with German ringers before she organizes help . Some of the incidents may be real but are a little hard to believe . The men are to be taken , disguised as farmers , to the Catholic church for safety's sake and two of them balk because they are Methodist and Baptist . Huh ? Seriously . It's somewhat surprising to find a Catholic church in a Duth village to begin with , and even more queer to find the congregation singing hymns . But , okay . That's nothing compared to the film's many virtues , which include an exciting rescue at sea from a wobbling buoy . See it . Audrey Hepburn was a teenager who saw it up close because she lived through it . Anything Audrey Hepburn ( nee van Heemstra ) did as a teen-aged girl is all right with me .
Better than average doc .	A history of homosexuality as presented in the cinema . It makes some good points , even if some are a little obvious . As an example , Lilly Tomlin , the narrator , points out that female homosexuality seems to be a little less objectionable to the public than male homosexuality - - and it's true in my experience . I've always been curious about alternative life styles and spent a good deal of time in and around gay bars in Greenwich Village and San Francisco ( including the one and only original Black Cat Cafe on Montgomery ) , used the words " campy " and " gay " before they entered the mainstream lexicon . And as a cultural anthropologist I went through the workshop on Human Sexuality Training at UC Berkeley . I don't really care one way or another about a friend's gender orientation . Yet I still wince a bit when I see men kissing on screen , while I find lesbian love scenes can be a turn on . The movie offers no explanation for this common experience - - nor can it , since no one has figured it out as far as I know . ( I'll skip some technical guesses here . ) Oh , a note . I haven't read the book this film is based on , but anybody who wants to explore the dynamics of a gay community should check out Frances Fitzgerald's " Cities on a Hill . " The movie pulls a lot of information together and makes a convincing case for its chief argument , which is that gay people have been unfairly treated on the screen . In early movies they were mainly lisping and limp-wristed stereotypes , good mainly for laughs . Think of prissy Franklin Pangborn or Edward Everet Horton . I guess it must seem demeaning to gay people , but it really IS funny to see a person assume a different identity and use a bit of overkill . It's always amusing to see Robin Williams act gay ( or do his Yiddish schtick ) on TV . The humor in mixed identities goes back at least to Greek comedy . To explain why it's funny , you'd have to have a philosophy of jokes and humor , and a better one than Freud's . In a second filmic developmental stage , both male and female gays became villains . Again the movie offers no explanation for the change , although again maybe none is possible . And modern movies STILL turn many heavies into homosexuals - - even a liberal fave like " Z " , for instance . Or Gene Hackman's aide in " No Way Out " or Hitchcock's " North by Northwest . " I can't see any particular reason for this overlay of " evil . " It may be amusing to act out an identity different from the one with which you were biologically endowed , but it isn't naturally enraging to hand the same problem over to a villain . Not that there aren't evil gay people , just that there's no reason to think that there are more evil gay people than evil straight people , so why are they disproportionately represented on screen ? I think I can take a simple guess at this answer . A lot of middle Americans hate queers . I would guess that if you were going to come out , it would be a lot safer to do it in a blue state than in a red state . The narration keeps us up with the clips we're seeing on screen but carries an accusatory tone - - YOU did it , you Fascist . I don't especially like it because , frankly , I didn't do a thing and neither did anyone else I know . Actually I think homosexuality may be Mother Nature's way of damping population explosions . ( It increases among crowded mice . ) The most penetrating remarks , and the only funny ones , come from the talking heads who have been in one way or another affiliated with movies about gays . Some of these interviewees are really witty and direct . Susan Sarandon points out that lesbians embrace affectionately and sometimes kiss at the end of the film while male buddies run off bravely to die together , as in " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid , " in which " they get their guns out because they can't get their ds out . " There's a lot more to be said on the subject , and on this film , but let us observe the limitations on space . The movie ends on a somewhat upbeat note . Hollywood is now beginning to deal with homosexuality in a mature way . " The Boys in the Band " is given as an instance . But the movie was released in 1996 and doesn't bring up a newer trend that may be emerging . If gays were stereotypical jokes in early movies , and villains in later ones , they may now be turning into sidekicks on the screen or into supporting people who turn the movie into something " hip . " Vide : " Copycat , " " Victor / Victoria , " " Internal Affairs , " " Single White Female , " and a slew of others . It's probably their most encouraging cinematic function yet , showing us that homosexuality needn't be an earth-shattering mental disease at all .
Sad , in more ways than one .	A kind of prune Danish about a happily married couple , Michael and Sarah and their two doll-like daughters , and Michael's reckless and irresponsible younger brother Jannik . Michael , a major in the army , is sent to Afghanistan where his helicopter is shot down , and he's thrown into a prison cell with a Danish comrade . Beaten , and with a gun at his head , Michael is forced to batter to death his cell mate and friend . Meanwhile , back home , having been informed mistakenly that Michael was dead , Sarah and Jannik come to respect one another and even to be attracted to one another , although nothing goes beyond a tentative but meaningful kiss . Michael is rescued and returned to his home . But , unable to face his own guilt , he claims never to have seen any other prisoners , and he tells his family nothing about his part in the murder , which , although bloodless , is an especially brutal scene . He's not the guy who left home . He partly blames his family for the killing because it was of them that he was thinking when he bashed his friend's head in . He's irritable , suspicious of Jannik and Sarah , bullies the two kids , strikes his wife , and finally is jailed for smashing his own home . Sarah visits him and orders him to tell of his experiences or she will leave him for good . He tells her , and presumably Michael recovers and the family remains intact . I say " presumably " because this isn't a simple movie with simple answers to questions with labyrinthine implications . The film doesn't endorse the cliché of " getting it off your chest " and putting it behind you . It's not that dumb . That , basically , is the story . It's a rather long movie considering that it isn't very dense with incident . I kept waiting for boredom to set in but it didn't happen . For one thing , Connie Nielson as Sarah is very attractive . For another , the performances all around were outstanding . Michael , in particular , embodies the sort of compulsive military type who believes that everything should be in order , that individuals should take responsibility for what they do , and that talking solves nothing . John Wayne would have approved . Then , too , I was curious to see just how far this post-traumatic stress would drive Michael . Would he really kill his family ? We know he's capable of the most tempestuous emotions , despite his outer reserve , because we have seen him scream with horror when a cocked pistol is pressed against his forehead . Finally , it gradually came to me that this is a story about people who fought terrorism and are not Americans , although the invasion of Afghanistan and the toppling of the Taliban was a response to the attacks of . In many Europen cities on September 12th , 2001 , major newspapers ran headlines like , " Today We Are All Americans . " And some of those nations went to war with us and some of their soldiers died doing it . It has been not quite six years since those horrible initial events . And who would march beside us today ? Where are OUR brothers now ? What happened ? It's a sobering and enlightening movie .
Dorothy on a Drastic Bummer .	The film had enough hype behind it that I settled in to watch it . In the first ten minutes I was considering watching an Agatha Christie mystery instead . At the end of fifteen minutes it had me and I couldn't get away . Ofelia , who should know better at fourteen , has childhood fantasies about fairies and fauns and monsters and magic cures . She lives in Spain in 1944 . Her mother is having a troubled pregnancy and her stepfather is a sadistic murdering brute who represents General Franco . There a lot of special effects in the first ten minutes or so . A fairy visits her and beckons her into a labyrinth , at the bottom of which is a faun who gives her three scary tasks . She completes the first one okay - - feeding stones to a giant toad . She flunks the second , but , given a last chance , she succeeds at the third , which means giving her life for the life of her infant brother . She ascends into heaven and sitteth at the right hand of her long-gone real father , and the left hand of her newly deceased mother . What turned me off were those special effects . First of all , the fairy that visits her in her bedroom , the first time , is not my idea of a fairy . The fairy starts of fluttering around the room and making an ominous crackling sound . The first time Ofelia sees it , it looks like a cross between a stick insect and a praying mantis . I don't know if the producers intended it that way but the thing made my skin crawl . Ditto for the " faun . " This is the least pettable faun in your collective unconscious . A stone statue creaks into life and turns into this hideous , demonic creature with monster ram horns , a thoroughly screwed up face , long pointy fingernails , hooves and whatnot . It speaks in a slow raspy voice that sounds as if it's lying with every phoneme . If that's the best fantasy she can come up with , she needs to get into Deepak Chopra or something . Gave me the willies . At that , it may be an improvement over the real world she lives in , a story that saves the film in my estimation . All these Spanish folks are just trying to get along , see , except for Franco's soldiers , of which Ofelia's stepfather is one . He has a nasty habit of going around shooting people , including , in the end , the young girl . He does it without passion , without remorse , even when the victims turn out to be innocent . Sometimes , I guess out of boredom , he allows a doomed prisoner to try brushing away the muzzle a few times before he finally pulls the trigger . On the other side are the communist peasants who live in the hills . They're the good guys and see to it that the stepfather pays for his sins . The special effects were overdone . It's as if they'd been designed by somebody on shrooms . Many of the fantasy creatures are covered with the glutinous substance that sticks to everything , and the sound people have made it sound as if someone is stirring a pot of molasses with a wooden spoon . It would have been a better film if the effects had been turned down a little bit . They seem intended to dazzle rather than convince , but the only people who will be dazzled would be children who haven't played video games or watched crummy monster movies . The effects are even overdone during the real-life story , as when the stepfather sews up his own slashed cheek . He didn't need to do that . First , he could have called the company medic who would have done a better job . Second , we've already witnessed this scene when Arnold Schwarzenegger plucks out his own eyeball in " The Terminator . " It's not shocking . It's self indulgent . But , the CGI aside , it's an innovative movie . There have been other Spanish films about kids ' fantasies ( " The Spirit of the Hive " ) but this one is livelier and truly gripping . A person who has just been shot isn't yanked backwards like a marionette , the cliché treatment . He may hardly notice it at first , pause to remove his glasses , before slumping . The director will sometimes cut while a foreground object , such as a tree trunk , interrupts the flow of the images . And more than once there are other people witnessing a scene but they are hidden from us until someone waves aside the obscuring object , which may be an open umbrella . The shocks are effective and more subtle than anything in the fantasies . The movie really does resemble " The Wizard of Oz " played as tragedy . We even get a pair of Ofelia's red shoes . The ending , of course , is a cop out unless you can believe , as some do , that fantasy life continues after we expire . And the good peasants didn't win , as they seem to in the movie . Instead , Franco lived on to a ripe old age and the baton was passed to his son . The film will break your heart , but it's a nice fantasy .
Life Styles of the Rich and Famous .	I didn't have much hope for this classic . I knew it was one of those multi-plot movies with MGM stars doing their turns . It was likely to be talky too , and from a stage play co-authored by Edna Ferber - - a woman , yet - - and from some ungodly place like Oklahoma or Wisconsin . I didn't care if she'd been a member of the Algonquin Round Table either . She didn't belong . I could just imagine it . Six sub-plots about couples in which the man is a brute and the woman a silent but supportive sufferer . Everybody sitting at the table , eating and intuiting one another's anger and pathos and love . A Lifetime Movie write large . Actually , it's not that bad . There are about half a dozen sub-plots , some mostly comic , some melodramatic , dealing with various human weaknesses as if the writers had OD'd on St . Thomas Aquinas and the Seven Deadly Sins . But the stories are kind of interesting . And they're sprinkled with witty lines . Some have become classics . Jean Harlow : " I read a book about the future or something , and it said all professions would be replaced by machinery . " Marie Dressler : " Oh , my dear , that's something you never have to worry about . " And there isn't a long scene in which people eat an elaborate meal . The entire movie is about the lead-up to the dinner and , in fact , " The End " appears just as the dining room doors are swinging shut . A covey of characters come and go - - maids , waiters , bellboys , and whatnot - - but it's easy enough to follow the individual stories . The one that makes the greatest impression is John Barrymore's portrayal of a has-been actor . Once " the great profile " , he is now reduced to cadging money from his agent and has taken to drink . ( Cf . , the character of Norman Maine in either of " A Star is Born " films . ) Barrymore , a has-been drunk put out of work by talkies , plays himself . At first his performance is comic . He's so proud of himself he's delusional . And Barrymore is outrageously hammy , whether he intended it that way or not . Even his death scene is amusing in a morbid way . Turning on the gas in this major hotel room from which he is about to be evicted , he seats himself in an armchair , smooths his hair back , and adjusts the shade of the floor lamp to bring out his profile . The director , George Cukor , handles this scene well , as he does all the others . Impending doom , for that matter , hangs over everything here , like a shimmering curtain of dread , of which we're only intermittently made aware . Lionel Barrymore is dying of a heart ailment . Madge Evans and the otherwise comic Marie Dressler have a brief exchange about youth and age . Evans , an attractive young woman , talks about youth . Dressler , a vulgar rich and dumpy older woman , responds with some remarks about death . " It's so - - final , " she says , her raccoon eyes bulging so that we don't miss the point . Wallace Beery is kind of interesting too . He plays the kind of low-brow ex-junk man or something , like Broderick Crawford , who has acquired wealth and ambition . I couldn't help noticing that when he acts , his features toggle between three modes . When he speaks , his lips move and he frowns or smiles while the rest of his face is immobile . At other times , his eyebrows wobble on his forehead while the rest of his face is immobile . At still other time his nose wrinkles but his other features remain placid . He can't get his act entirely together but he's funny as hell to watch . I wound up enjoying it but not understanding why it's considered a cinema classic . It's a successful filmed stage play with mixed comic and tragic elements and a couple of neat witticisms . The collection of diverse characters who chat and argue can be found in almost all disaster movies - - airplanes or upside-down ships . Unpromising material - - lots of talk . But some good lines : " Everyone would drop in - - Winston , Noel , sometimes Wales . And then they might park there for a week .
Ossessione	A reprise of Goodfellas , mostly , as has been pointed out , and although long , not as tired or boring as some have felt . How could a movie with Steve Allen and Jerry Vale be all bad ? People have wondered why Scorcese and Coppola keep coming back to mobsters , specifically the Mafia , and all that corruption mixed with loyalty . Of course no one knows , perhaps not even the directors . But I suspect there are at least three reasons : First , it works economically . It draws the audience in . There is power and violence and sex to appeal to the men's fantasies . There is loyalty , intrigue , sheltered family lives , and the excitement of a wealthy rogue male for women . Second , Italian-Americans may return repeatedly to stories of the Mafia for the same reason that Southern writers deal over and over with themes of minority relations . In spelling out the stories , they are explaining the odd customs of their subcultures to the rest of us . Yes , we are hung up on these obsessions , just as you believe , and here is how things work - - a bit more subtle than you'd thought , aren't they ? Finally , in exploring these themes in the interests of the outsider's better understanding of them , they can explore their own conflicts in model form , as stated in the anthropologist John M . Roberts ' conflict-enculturation hypothesis . When we view something with ambivalence we tend to poke around in it , to touch it , fascinated by it . If we can't actually DO the thing itself - - become a mobster , endorse slavery - - we can play games with the idea , constructing little mock worlds in which we can jiggle the concepts around . In conflict about having children ? Well - - you don't really need to . You can nurture something that is a model or surrogate child . Cats and dogs will do fine . But if your conflict is more intense , you are driven to less recognizable models . House plants , say . And if the conflict is VERY intense , you can start a coin or a stamp collection . What , after all , do you do with a stamp collection ? You conceive of the idea , you start it when it's small , you feed it , you watch it grow and get bigger , and when it gets too big , or when you lost interest , you sell it on eBay and it moves out of the house . Directing a movie means constructing a model world too , like the model social world of a chess game . In a movie , you lay out a plot , cause the characters to do certain forbidden things , and imagine how you might feel if you were doing them yourself . I'm not surprised that Scorcese made this movie , or that he's filled it with Italian-American actors . I'm not surprised that Faulkner wrote Intruder in the Dust , or that Judith Rossner wrote Looking for Mr . Goodbar , or that Philip Roth wrote Portnoy's Complaint . These model worlds they've created deal with issues like crime , race , female sexuality , and ethnic loyalties that have kept Italian-Americans and Southerners and feminists and Jews marginal to the rest of our culture . The artists are trying to explain to us and to themselves how things look from the inside . If these issues ever disappear , which is most improbable , the conflicts will ease , marginal populations will no longer be prompted to produce such intense work , and the rest of us will be poorer for it . On top of all that - - man , does Scorsese know how to stage a fierce family fight . Wow !
All About the Man in the Moon .	Kind of a complicated business , this film . Most of Peter Weir's movies are , but at least he lays open here the source of our discomfort . There are basically three layers . ( 1 ) The visual story we see unfolding on the screen , the one that Peter Weir shows us . ( 2 ) The story as constructed by the world's greatest producer , The Man in the Moon named Cristof ( Ed Harris ) , who manages the television show of which the thirtyish real-estate salesman , Truman Burbank ( Jim Carrey ) , is the unknowing star . And ( 3 ) the presumed allegory that deals with such Big Issues as conformity , happiness , God , free will , artificiality , and television . Carrey lives on glossy , carefully enamelled Sea Haven Island , a paradisaical place of warm sunshine , neat middle-class housing , clipped and barbered lawns , cheery neighbors and co-workers , a beautiful and accommodating wife ( Laura Linney ) , and a lifelong friend who bring him the occasional six pack of brewskies . Everything is peace and prosperity . Then things begin to seem a little odd to Carrey . When he breaks his routine , he stumbles into unsettling scenes . What should be the interior of an elevator turns out to be a craft service table with glazed donuts and a few strangers who gawk at him before running off . There isn't space to go on with this in any detail , but finally Carrey realizes that he can trust no one on the island and is literally a prisoner there . Every escape attempt is blocked by some incident - - traffic , an accident at a nuclear power plant - - something . He manages to sail away across the small sea and , pow , the bowsprit of his little boat punctures the wall of the largest television studio in the world . His life is a world-wide hit on TV , filmed on 5 , 000 hidden cameras . Given a choice between the scripted , almost perfect life he's been leading , and a new life full of challenges and entropy , he plumps for - - well , guess which one . As for level number two , the TV program built around the life of one Truman Burbank , who has been on the world's screens from the instant of birth until his final choice , Ed Harris is the man responsible and he and his crew live in the fake moon that hovers so picturesquely in Sea Haven's night time sky . Harris gives the best performance . His character brims with intricacies . His first thoughts are of the show , of the business part of it . It's sustained by product placement . Every artifact that Carrey touches or talks about brings in revenue . But Harris isn't at all a caricature . Of course he wants Carrey to stay put and the show to continue , but he's sentimental too . When he tells Carrey at the end , " I was there when you took your first baby steps , " he's soft and convincing . But as the director of the world's greatest show , Harris is pretty clumsy and it's a wonder that it took the hero some thirty years to tumble . Carrey tries to leave the island on a bus but the bus won't start . The driver , an actor , calls , " Everybody off , " and the other passengers who have been sitting like dummies all stand up at once and file out in order . That's not how it's done , not if it's to look like anything but artifice . An experienced director would ask who was born in the first half of the year . They should stand up at random , some slow and others not , and crowd up at the door , followed by those who were born in the second half of the year . In fact , Harris is an extraordinarily inept director . That leads us to level three - - what's it all about ? I'd be the first to admit I don't know . Peter Weir might even be the second . I doubt , though , that it's any accident that Ed Harris's director who lives in the fake sky goes by the name of Cristof . His mixed attitude towards Carrey is probably not accidental either . Harris has fits of pique when Carrey doesn't do as he's expected . ( Cf . , the Garden of Eden business in Genesis . ) But he's merciful and spares the miscreant's life , edging into New Testament territory . If he's sometimes careless , maybe that's why we humans have this tendency to mutilate one another . Imagine a director who can stage an impromptu power plant accident off-island to stop Carrey but has extras check their watches before crossing the street . " What , then , did the hand of the potter shake ? " The world applauds when Carrey achieves free will , although nobody is sure that's such a hot idea . Look what happened to Alex in " A Clockwork Orange . " No more space , I'm afraid . Good luck with the movie . It gets a lot of points for tripping up an audience expecting a dumb comedy or a dumb action movie . It's anything but that . Weir seems almost as ambitious as Cristof .
Fine , Professional Western .	Walter Brennan , whose movie this is , is " Judge " Roy Bean , the ruler of the tiny frontier town of Vinagaroon , Texas . He's a hanging judge . Everybody that comes into his bar room cum court room is " guilty " and they are all hanged , whatever the offense . Brennan's character is one of those blustering military heroes - - William F . Halsey , George S . Patton , " Howlin ' Mad " Smith . They are always angry and aggressive . They bark out orders . They brook no insubordination . And they usually have some humanizing weakness or quirk - - Halsey discomfort at getting injections , Patton's vanity , that sort of thing . Brennan fits the mold . His weakness is his adoration of the actress , Lilly Langtry . The difference between the arrogant military commanders and Brennan's character is that the commanders channel their prodigious self-confidence into socially approved acts , while Judge Roy Bean had no aspirations higher than maintaining his position as corrupt king of Vinagaroon , perfectly comfortable in his authoritarian skin . But Brennan's weakness humanizes him , too . We disapprove of his hanging people all the time and making up his " rulings " as he goes along to suit his own aggrandizement , but we can also empathize with his worship of a star of the theater whom he has little chance of meeting . He's like a murderous philatelist pining for a rare stamp . Gary Cooper is a minimalist actor , along the lines of Robert Redford , but he's very good at signaling what's going on in his head with only the slightest change of expression . He's accused of horse stealing in Vinagaroom and is about to be hanged . Then he divines Brennan's devotion and claims that he not only MET Lilly Langtry but has a lock of her hair stashed in El Paso . His sentence is forgotten and an accommodation arranged . It leads to a shoot out at the end in which Brennan dies , but not before he satisfies his life's desire and has a glimpse of Lilly Langtry . The movie's iconography gives the impression that it's just another Western actioner , but it isn't that . Oh , there's a dreary actress ( Doris Davenport ) to provide Cooper with a romantic interest , but William Wyler , the director , and Niven Busch , the writer , make full use of every tool at their disposal , including the supernumerary girl . I'll give just two brief examples of unusually good writing and direction . ( 1 ) Having promised Brennan to deliver a lock of Lilly Langtry's hair ( which he never had ) , Cooper is compelled to bring back a fake . The only woman around is Davenport . Cooper and Davenport are leaning on a wooden fence and she is berating him for something or other , while he smiles smoothly , snipping carelessly at his buckskin fringe , and he delicately lifts a strand of her long hair , scissors poised . She stops talking and pouts . " Can I take a little ? " , asks Cooper . Then , a pause , and - - SNIP - - and she snaps out " No ! " , just a fraction of a second too late . It's not much , but it's an expression of some of the effort that went into the writing and direction . What I mean is - - somebody had to THINK about that little exchange in order to make it as humanly amusing as it is . Example two - - briefer . Cooper returns to Brennan with the promised lock of hair tucked away in a matchbox inside a tobacco pouch with a draw string . As the two men sit together , Cooper reaches inside his shirt . Wrong side . With the most deliberate of movements , he reaches into the other side of the shirt . Brennan , meanwhile , is bouncing up and down with anticipation , like a child about to see a Christmas present unwrapped . ( It's all done without dialog . ) Cooper finally , slowly , extracts the pouch and gently tries to pull it open . But the draw string is stuck and the pouch is intractable . Cooper tugs at it , tugs again - - and Brennan's tense , empty hands mimic Cooper's motions impatiently . An added bonus is one of the better " next day " scenes in the movies . Brennan and Cooper , two mutually wary , short-time friends , get blind drunk on a local whiskey that has the power to eat through the bar . Cooper wakes up the next morning to find himself in the same narrow cot as Brennan , and with the snoring Brennan's arm around him . Cooper clambers clumsily out of the bunk and when he nudges Brennan's arm , a hidden ace falls out of the sleeve . I can't go on because I'll run out of space and anyway I'm laughing too hard . Its high user rating is justified . You'll probably get a kick out of it .
Deliberate Comedy Rewards Patience .	It's about an embezzler , Peter Ustinov , who infiltrates a British company , Texa-Conn or something like that , posing as a computer whiz and security expert . He secretly learns to hack into the computer , while gathering the admiration of his boss , Karl Malden , the enmity of his office rival , Bob Newhart , and the love of his inept secretary , Maggie Smith . Some of the business details were a little murky to these non-business-oriented eyes but they're believable enough and I got the general idea . Ustinov , the peculating Peter , establishes phony businesses in Paris , Rome , and Stuttgart , and uses Texa-Conn's computer to send all kinds of money to these ersatz establishments . The overseas companies , of course , consist of nothing more than himself , Ustinov , and the addresses are an abandoned artist's loft in Paris , a barber shop in Rome , and a bakery in Germany . He simply visits them to collect the checks he's sent himself . I didn't think I'd like it for the first few minutes because it seemed rather on the slow side . I was expecting something with a faster tempo and more outrage , along the lines of " The Pink Panther " or " The Lavender Hill Gang . " But this film insinuates itself into your good graces as you come to appreciate the understated humor in the plot , the characterizations , and the dialog . Probably it would be a bad idea to give away too many of the relatively subtle gags but here are some examples of the more noticeable . Ustinov to Secretary Smith : " Let me have the assets of these companies . " Smith : " Assets ? What are they ? " Ustinov : " Little female donkeys . " Now , nothing is made of this little exchange . There's a quick cut and no delay for any laughter , which is appropriate because one's reaction is more likely to be a smile than a laugh . Ustinov searches out that crummy loft in Paris . It's covered with cobwebs . Bricks are strewn around and a couple of the former occupant's paintings have been left behind . The landlord doesn't speak English and Ustinov knows no French . Ustinov points to a child-like painting of a nude woman and chuckles , " Ah . A fam fye-tal , eh ? " Landlord chuckles too , replies : " Vous le prenez pour une anee ? " Ustinov : " Oh - - ANNIE , so that's her name ! " Landlord : " Oui ? " Ustinov : " Entente cordiale ! " ( Mes amis , if I got those genders wrong , je m'excuse . ) Bob Newhart as Willard Gnatpole ( ! ) has the hots for Maggie Smith and is supposed to be driving her home but tells her he's taking " the scenic route . " There is an immediate sequence of suggestive traffic signs . " Caution . " " Lay-By . " " Give Way . " " Yield . " Ending with the imperious " STOP / CHILDREN . " There's another montage when Ustinov's scheme is about to be discovered by the board of directors - - blurry rooftops , police cars , a farewell embrace from Maggie , ending with a sign : PRISON , Wormwood Scrubs . Well , maybe one more . I still can't get over Malden as the boss , declaring decisively , " I never agonize over decisions , " then gulping a handful of pills and washing them down with a glass of water . The acting is unarguably fine . It's Bob Newhart's best role , for instance . Not that he had that many , and not that his range wasn't limited , but he's perfect in this part . The musical score by Laurie Johnson obviously had a good deal of effort put into it . She seems to have written a brief concerto for flute . Ustinov's passion is music and his overseas establishments are headed by false names like Claude Debussy and Giacconino Rossini . Stuttgart's phony president is somebody named Schmidt , and he's an anomalous clinker . Maggi Smith is pretty , sexy , bourgeois , and turns out to be not nearly so dumb as she seems . Delightful , in its own quiet way , but don't expect comic fireworks .
Impaled on the Sword of Justice .	No , it's not Albert Camus . It's better - - more dramatic , more visual , more bombastic - - it's Orson Welles . Welles at the time was having trouble with his reputation . He couldn't finish a movie , it dragged on forever , it cost a fortune , and so on . So he ran into difficulties raising money , as he would for the rest of his life . This was his shot at proving he could turn in a commercial success as well as anyone else . Don't know if it convinced the venture capitalists but it's an above-average tale of Edward G . Robinson uncovering the identity of Franz Kindler ( Welles ) , one of the more atrocious of the Nazi criminals , who has hidden himself as a teacher at the elite Harper School . ( The name of the prep school Welles himself attended as a child . ) Welles is a respectable figure in this small New England town . When a deliberately released ex-Nazi tracks him there , with Robinson in his wake , Welles kills his old friend without a qualm and buries him in " a densely wooded area . " Welles , as Kindler , even kills his wife's dog that threatens to dig up the body . It's not a sinister / comic masterpiece like " The Third Man , " though the plot conforms to a similar template . And it's certainly not " Citizen Kane . " It's Welles bringing it all home . But , the thing is , he does a good job of it too . Commercial it may be , but it's unmistakably Welles . It's as if Copley had painted a portrait of Paul Revere and had added at the bottom a slogan - - " Buy Revere Copper . " Welles simply can't keep himself out of the picture . There are all sorts of quirky camera angles and strange shadows and overlapping dialog . Best scene : Welles is enclosed in a phone booth . He's calling his wife and inviting her to a meeting that will result in her death without his being there . Welles whistles tunelessly , waiting for the call to go through , and on a notepad with a pencil tied to it , he sketches a clumsy swastika , then turns it into a box and crosses it out . And all the time he projects placidity , even boredom . There are a couple of the unusual character actors that Welles liked to include in his films . Nobody is the equivalent of Dennis Weaver in " Touch of Evil . " ( This is a commercial effort , right ? ) But Mr . Potter , who runs the general store comes close . Nobody else comes close . Edward G . Robinson is fun as the war crimes investigator . Loretta Young was a name but adds nothing special . Richard Long is a disaster . Welles gives his real identity away at dinner when he carries on about how the Germans are all into racial superiority and Siegried's sword and whatnot and , when somebody objects that Marx wasn't dictatorial , he replies that Marx wasn't a German , he was a Jew . ( Why couldn't Robinson simply have vetted Welles ' curriculum vitae ? ) Somebody quotes Emerson's famous statement that , to someone who has committed a crime , the earth is made of glass . Emerson was into " immanent justice , " meaning that even if men didn't catch you at it , God would give it to you in the neck in the form of bad luck . ( That's New England for you . ) Welles doesn't get it in the neck . He gets it in the abdominal cavity in a very dramatic ( and commercial ) climax . The movie was made to satisfy all tastes and it gets the job done . Really worth seeing .
A heroine properly sung	Margaret Higgins Sanger has earned her place in human history , and for more reasons than she , or most of us , could know . Her experiences in her own family taught her that population control could help relieve suffering and poverty , and she was willing to pay for the opporunity to make that argument in public , as were a number of her colleagues and kinsmen . But her achievements go far beyond that . From an evolutionary perspective , Homo sapiens is an extraordinarily adaptive animal , due in large part to the incredible complexity of the brains we carry around with us . That three pounds of convoluted tissue has enabled us to vastly improve ( and hurry ) our adaptation by substituting cultural change for biological change . We don't need to wait around for natural selection to give us wings of flesh and blood . We can invent the airplane . This same success is the greatest threat to our continued existence . Organisms who dominate their environments to the extent that we now do follow an almost identical trajectory in their population growth . Keeping this as brief as possible , the growth curve is S shaped . It starts low and then shoots up like a Scud missile . Unless culture put and end to that skyrocketing growth , then nature itself does , through what Malthus called " vice " and " misery . " And Margaret Sanger was one of the individuals who , wittingly or not , promoted the cause of ending that skyrocketing growth by limiting the number of offspring we have . If she hadn't existed , it would have been necessary to invent her . Homo sapiens hasn't solved its population problem yet - - take a look at what's happening in the Amazon rainforest - - but without Sanger's contribution we would undoubtedly be even worse off than we are . Whether we can grasp the lesson she tried to teach in time or not is an empirical question that time will answer . The movie is not extremely demanding , more like a Classic Comics version of Sanger's career . But it's not badly done either . Sanger is capable of being politely sarcastic towards her likeable and well-meaning Irish father . And her nemesis , Anthony Comstock , stops a mob of old-fashioned members of New York's finest from clobbering some poor guy who has been printing Sanger's birth-control pamphlets . Dana Delaney is an entrancing actress , combining as she does a sort of nurturant , almost motherly quality with a good deal of sex appeal , and doing this without being staggeringly beautiful , and despite the beastly wardrobe . Her delivery is understated , as it was in " China Beach . " And it seems appropriate that she should be cast opposite Rod Steiger as Comstock who brings the kind of technique and personality to his role as moral gatekeeper that seems designed to pop the safety valve on every pressure cooker in turn-of-the-century New York . Poor Comstock was fighting a losing battle . There has rarely been the kind of florescence in pornography that there was in the Victorian world . Not since Rome . Perhaps it takes that degree of sexual repression to produce such sublimely erotic art . You can't have a community of Dr . Jeyklls without a few Mr . Hydes popping out now and then . Incidentally Comstock achieved his own peculiar brand of fame . When Freudianism was in flower he was frequently used as an example of an ego defense mechanism called " reaction formation . " ( The notion was actually put together by Freud's daughter , Anna , a psychoanalyst in her own right . ) Someone using " reaction formation " as a defense mechanism is compelled to seek out by socially approved means the very thing he loathes and lusts after . For Sam Spade , it was danger . For Comstock it was sex . Imagine all the filthy photographs and books and paintings he needed to plow through in order to judge them unfit for public display . Nice work if you can get it . This movie is fairly accurate historically , and period New York is nicely rendered out of its Canadian locations . You know what would be interesting ? Showing this film in a high school or college class .
Cool Hand Dilawar .	Anybody see " Cool Hand Luke " ( 1967 ) with Paul Newman as an inmate at a small southern prison camp ? That's the one in which a guard tells Luke , " You got to get your mind right . " A gripping movie , comic and then tragic . The guards , led by the pock-faced " man with no eyes " , are real mean mothers . For infractions of the rules or any sassy backtalk , they lock Luke up in " the box " , an upright wooden shelter the size of a one-hole outhouse , with only a pail for company . He's held there in the blistering heat for 24 hours . When Luke gets more uppity they simply beat hell out of him . Well , all of that is peanuts compared to what went on in our detainee camps at Bagram , Abu Ghraib , and Gitmo - - not to mention the CIA-maintained black holes in countries known around the world for their humane treatment of prisoners , such as Egypt and Bulgaria . The detainees at Bagram and Abu Ghraib - - only 10 percent of whom were picked up by coalition forces , the rest being turned over to us by Afghanis or Pakinstanis , sometimes for bounty - - were not subject to any questioning before being thrown into solitary confinement and held there not for 24 hours , like Luke , but for weeks . They were shackled to the ceiling , forced to assume stress positions , beaten on the legs , waterboarded and forced to undergo many of the other horrors we associate with the Inquisition . But that's an old story by now . This film doesn't really tell us much that we hadn't known or guessed , except that it was worse than we imagined . It begins and ends with the case of Dilawar , a taxi driver who left his family to drive to the provincial capitol and show off his new car and wound up in Bagram where he was killed - - one of 37 homicides so far acknowledged by the US Army . His legs were " pulpified " according to the Army's medical examiner . There are three fundamental issues involved in the application of enhanced interrogation techniques . ( 1 ) Do they work ? ( 2 ) Are they moral ? ( 3 ) Are they legal ? " Taxi to the Dark Side " , for most of its length , seems to focus on the first question . Does torture work ? Well , no it doesn't . That is to say , it's worthless if your goal is to get accurate information out of your subjects . But it may be well worthwhile if your aim to exact revenge upon people who look like the lunatics who flew airplanes into the WTC in 2001 , people who speak the same language and come from the same area , the Middle East . Boy , are those Middle East folks alien to us . The language sounds like they're clearing their throats . They wear tablecloths on their heads . They dream of 72 virgins in Paradise . If you want revenge , these are your targets alright . I doubt that one out of a hundred Americans could walk up to a blank map on the wall and put his finger on Afghanistan , Iraq , Iran , Pakistan , and Syria . We don't know anything about geography but we know what we don't like . The enlisted men who were tried for some of the crimes and interviewed for this film wouldn't say exactly that . For those who were willing to talk about it , they claim that their orders were vague . No officer was ever charged , while the enlisted men wound up with prison terms and BCDs . Also not spoken about - - probably because nobody knows about it - - are the taken-for-granted assumptions about relationships between guards and prisoners . It's all very well for us , sitting at home in our Naugahide recliners , to feel angry at the way the untrained and ill-led MPs performed but , as one of them says , " Try going over there and saying that . " He's right . It has to do with role playing . It's not my opinion . It's established experimental fact . I refer anyone interested to Philip Zimbardo's famous " prison experiment " in the 1950s . It's probably available on Google . Well , you might ask , does anyone come out of this perfectly serious description of perfectly despicable acts looking good ? Yes , in fact . The representative of the FBI argues persuasively that his agency was able to step out of the box and recognize what was happening . And a couple of politicians , like John McCain , coming late to the game expressed their disapproval in public . One is tempted to compare it to Errol Morris's " Standard Operating Procedure " but they're different movies with different ends in mind . Morris avoids easy judgments and asks in his usual philosophical way what the photos from Abu Ghraib " mean " . This film is more interested in demonstrating what went on in the prison . I expected it to be an abusive moral diatribe but it turned out to be pretty instructive . We all know about the mistreatment , but I , at least , had never understood how endemic and intense it was . I give Gibney credit for not taking the easy route of bashing the suits in Washington more than they deserve , for not making fools of them more than they've done themselves . Only once , during a guided tour of Guantanamo Bay , does he turn sarcastic . As the cheerful guide ( it's like a tour of Universal Studios ) shows us the neat little cells with the neatly made bed and the comfortable slippers and the box of checkers on the night table , the pop tune " My Little Corner of the World " plays in the background - - ancient and mindless , kind of like torture . A depressing movie underneath it all .
Masterful dancing , good songs .	A fine black-and-white musical with a weak script , great dancing by Eleanor Powell and Fred Astaire , and songs ( mostly ) by Cole Porter . It's the only film that Powell and Astaire made together . They really didn't get along together that well . Astaire had always been sensitive about having partners who were nearly as tall as he was , and Powell fit the template . She claimed to take baths full of soap bubbles every day hoping she'd " shrink or something . " But one suspects that their lack of magic together had more to do with their different styles than their different altitudes . Powell was trained in ballet but her specialty was tap . Astaire came out of ballroom dancing . And both were used to being the stars of their vehicles . Powell was a formidable partner and a spectacular soloist . She seemed made of some super-flexible flesh-covered metal . Her fans , kicking her leg high and swerving it before her in a semi-circle , seemed to reach for the stars . And she seemed to move herself through brute muscular force , whereas Astaire was narrow-shouldered and skinny and seemed to float . In " Broadway Melody of 1940 , " Astaire used only one lift , perhaps because he couldn't get Powell off the ground . You can't help contrasting Eleanor Powell with Ginger Rogers . Powell was by far the better dancer , but not nearly as good a partner for Astaire . There was something winsome about Ginger Rogers , even when she was being sarcastic . She seemed tiny , blond , frangible , and excelled in her duets with Astaire . ( In all their movies together she was only given one solo . ) And she seemed radiant next to Powell , although Powell was a good-looking woman . I wouldn't have minded taking Eleanor Powell out to dinner at a fancy French restaurant . I'd have minded even less if she'd have taken me out , although , granted , she was intimidating enough , even without picking up the check . There's something else too . Rogers strikes me as the better actress . You can't really watch Powell with her big grin and theatrically modulated voice and believe that you're watching Eleanor Powell , the person , whereas it's possible to believe that Ginger Rogers just brought genuine , if latent , traits to her performances , that Rogers was the same way off screen as she was on screen . The most impressive number is at the climax , " Begin the Beguine . " It was a big hit at the time , thanks to Artie Shaw's 1938 recording , with its famous Jerry Gray arrangement . The lavish number is split into three or four parts , ending with a jazzed-up fast duet by Powell and Astaire , in which they seem to be genuinely enjoying themselves . It's done on a mirrored floor against a black backdrop of lighted stars . Black-and-white film has never looked more sophisticated or barbarously expensive . The story behind the numbers is a rude lump of foul deformity . Forget it . But watch the numbers .
Wind , Force Plenty .	It's almost the opposite of elephantine epics like " Titanic " and " Pearl Harbor . " Those were stereotypic stories of romance padding out an action scene or two . Should she affiliate with the lower-class guy ? Which of two daring lovers should she choose ? This one has half an hour or so of realistic introduction and the rest of the movie is slam-bang action . In the course of that introduction we meet the crew of the fishing vessel Andrea Gail and a couple of their friends as well . The introduction looks grounded in reality . George Clooney , as the skipper , is hounded by the penny-pinching owner of the boat and hopes to make a killing this time , no matter how far from from Gloucester , Massachussetts , he must take the boat . Then there's Mark Wahlberg as the younger crewman , who finally is able to make up with his angry wife , Diane Lane , just before departure . Then there are two guys who dislike each other and get into a fist fight at the bar . ( Don't worry . One saves the other at sea and they get over their pique . Not that it does them any good . ) One of the more attractive things about the film , based as it is ( to some extent ) on a real story , is that the characters don't have to overcome some exotic threat - - no horde of spiders , no Big Bug , no wanton lion , no flying saucers , no maniacal slasher in a Halloween costume - - just the normal , ordinary , everyday laws of physics . When you join two fluids of different properties together and move one across the other , you get waves . It doesn't matter if the fluids are air vs . air , air vs . water , or oil vs . vinegar . I'm more inclined towards action than the soapy romance of those other two Pictures of the Millennium , but there can be too much of a good thing . I mean , All Adventure , All the Time ? I've never seen a perfect storm , although I was on the Carolina coast at the time and watched the wind around the margins clear away everyone's barbecues and dog houses from the back yards . But I can't believe that the lightning in this storm , even at its center , was of such frequency as to provide enough available light for the viewer to see just what was going on . The special effects are very effective but they're excessive too . Wolfgang Peterson was the director and he certainly knows how to handle ships at sea . The way he manages the effects , the acting , and the editing will certainly rattle your chain for you . The constant noise will leave you exhausted . It's a teeth-gnasher if there ever was one . I wish the writer had been equally effective but the truth is that the dialog is kind of sappy and formulaic . Take , for instance , the scene in which Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio , as Linda Greenlaw , visits skipper Clooney in the pilot house the night before he leaves . Why are you risking so much ? , she asks , and Clooney launches into this protracted paean to " the sea " . He stares out at the harbor and tells us what it's like to put out . First you take in the lines , then you pass Cape Sable light , you blow your air horn , then the birds come , first the black backs then the gulls , and you wave to the folks ashore , and you're in charge and the sea is beautiful and the world is at peace and your Krause end bulbs go into overdrive , and so on . Well , I don't believe a word of it . These are hard-working fishermen , experienced , and busting apart with testosterone . No seaman talks like that or even thinks like that , although a screenwriter sitting in his sunshine-flooded living room in Malibu might think he does . The script loved that dumb poetry so much than we hear it again in Clooney's post-mortem voice-over at the very end . There's another problem with the script too . Communications between Linda Greenlaw ( who in real life is intelligent and articulate ) and the Andrea Gail was lost hours before the boat presumably sank , so the writer is free to invent all sorts of dramatic events , and the dialog to go with them , and director Peterson is at liberty to show them in all their immediacy on the screen . There were times when - - between the constant lightning flashes , the omnipresent crashes of thunder , the frenzied score , the shots whose length could be measured in milliseconds , the shouts of the the distressed crew - - I completely lost track of what was doing what to or with whom . But I was able to get the general idea that if you can think of a cliché about a boat in heavy seas , you can probably find it here . Speaking of clichés , we have flung in our faces a " grizzled old salt " who warns of the distant fishing grounds that Clooney is taking his boat to - - " Plenty fish . Plenty weather . " I forget his name . Maybe Elijah something . I see I've kind of trashed this movie but I don't want to leave too bad an impression of it . It's mostly irritating because it COULD have been so much better if the script had only stuck a little closer to the kinds of interaction we've seen in the introductory scenes . The cast are just about right . Nobody looks glamorous . The faces are genuine - - rude and sturdy . Even Diane Lane isn't glamorized . They're ordinary people coping with ordinary issues . Nice job . Too bad that approach was thrown overboard later .
Thoughtful and Suspenseful Mystery .	It's a complicated plot . David Kelly , as Frank Kovak , is an ancient and brilliant scientist who has invented a kind of chip that can be implanted in an unsuspecting victim's neck . He's had this done more than a hundred times and all these unknowing subjects are walking around on Mallorca , the tourist mecca in Spain's Balearic Islands . The chips can be activated when the subject hears Billy Holiday singing " Gloomy Sunday . " When they are activated , the subject commits suicide . Any attempt to tinker with the chips sets them off . De rigeur in these kinds of stories . This happens to the bride of David Norton ( Timothy Hutton ) . She jumps from a hotel balcony and splashes . In fact , there is a rash of similarly motivated suicides on Mallorca and the despondent Hutton runs into another jumper ( Lucia Jimenez ) who survives only because her fall was broken by an awning . The two join forces and Hutton , a successful science fiction writer , finally tracks down the malefactor , Kelly , who nevertheless succeeds in prompting about a hundred people to leap to their deaths in The Caves of Hell on the island . Kelly is dying of a brain tumor and tries to blackmail Hutton into shooting him . He succeeds after threatening to reactivate Jimenez's chip so that she'll off herself successfully . It's a perplexing movie . A good deal of imagination has obviously gone into the plot , which hangs together nicely . Except , I suppose , once the conundrum is clarified , all the potential victims need to do is to make sure they're never in a position to listen to Billy Sunday again . ( Jimenez , when hearing the tuneful trigger , manages to stay under water long enough to escape the consequences . ) It's slow and there's little in the way of action but I rather liked it . Frank Kovac is the evildoer , of course , but he's so wizened and he sounds so sweet that it's difficult to categorize him as thoroughly evil . He is , after all , a sick and dying human being who is facing what remains of his bleak future with dignity and without complaint . It's so much better than casting some tattooed moron as the heavy . Timothy Hutton gives a subdued performance , projecting the presence of a man whose would-be wife has recently done a nose dive off a hotel balcony . Lucia Jimenez is there primarily to provide a threatened female . ( She and Hutton both know she's sporting one of those chips in her neck . ) She does a professional job , though , and she has sensual features and a nice figure , so we'll let her stay in the picture and be threatened . She does NOT wind up in bed with Hutton , or together with him on the departing airplane either , which is a blessing because the alternative is a terrible cliché . The spare musical score by Roque Banos is mysterioso - - somber and spooky . The director may need a little seasoning . The movie has no touches that anyone would consider out of the ordinary . Not that every film MUST be full of directorial razzle-dazzle . But let me give one example of what I mean . Hutton and Jimenez have discovered the secret to the rash of suicides and have come into possession of records that support their conclusion . They take them to the American embassy . The men on the other side of the desk do what these movies always require of them - - they don't believe a word of it . So how does the director handle this formulaic situation ? Not like Hitchcock did in " The Man Who Knew Too Much " , and not like Roman Polanski in " Frantic . " Instead , after the evidence is presented , the Consul shakes his head and smirks while denying that it constitutes proof or , indeed , anything suggestive enough to be worth pursuing . It's as if Hutton and Jimenez were two nuts . The stereotypic template is followed down to the last millimeter . But you can easily get over these occasional directorial vacations - - the cross-cutting between the people about to leap to their doom and the car speeding to their rescue . The plot's the thing . And it's not bad .
Heroes are socially constructed .	Iwo Jima is probably the most famous battle of the Pacific Campaign in World War II . The casualty rate was extremely high . ( Close to 100 percent for the Japanese . ) Aside from that , it's hard to know why . There was virtually no room for maneuver , no tank action to speak of , no bayonet charges , American artillery , naval gunfire , and air attacks had little effect on the Japanese who had had months to prepare for the assault by building tunnels and underground bunkers . It was a necessary battle but not a cinematic one . ( Even " Sands of Iwo Jima " spent more time on Tarawa than on Iwo Jima . ) Well , maybe it wasn't cinematic but it was certainly well covered by the politicians and the press . The ships were loaded with august people expecting a quick and colorful victory against a softened target . Instead they got one ( or two or three ) iconic movies and still photos of flags being raised on top of Mount Suribachi . The pic that made the papers seemed made for public consumption . Five Marines of varied backgrounds , including a Pima Indian , plus a Navy corpsman . It doesn't get much better than that . Clint Eastwood's movie tells us about the tribulations of the guys who raised the flag , during and after the battle , by means of multiple flashbacks . The framing story is that of the son of the sailor who visits some witnesses and records their memories during interviews . The battle scenes are realistic in the way we've come to expect since " Saving Private Ryan , " with gory wounds , decapitations , and desaturated color . The story of the post-battle War Bond tour by the three survivors of the battle is equally well told , and just as painful as the battle scenes . It's not really Eastwood's kind of movie . As a director he prefers scripts with considerable humor and irony - - but not bitterness . And this is one bitter film . The heroes tour the states pimping War Bonds and it's a travesty . The War Bond tour was required to fund the war partly because , though the film doesn't tell us , by 1944 the country was growing tired of the war . The black market was flourishing . The populace was largely spent out . Some people were making a good deal of money while most were giving up sons . Yet the showmanship behind the tour - - the restaging of the flag raising on a papier-mache mountain at Soldier Field - - is positively revolting . Two of the heroes get through it by gritting their teeth . The third , Ira Hayes , the Indian , is driven to drink and ultimately dies from it . You know what these guys needed ? Not a tour in which they garnered handshakes , groupies , and free drinks . Like all other servicemen exposed to transcendently ugly experiences , they needed a peaceful transition period of at least a few months so that they might gradually be reintroduced into a social milieu in which not everybody was trying to kill them . Then , perhaps , a mandatory six months parole with effective counseling , and voluntary counseling thereafter . I've interviewed Vietnam veterans 15 years after their return , at a VA hospital in Palo Alto , some of them weeping , who had been within one or two steps of suicide and were still haunted by nightmares . It's called Post-Traumatic Stress Syndrome now . In 1945 it wasn't recognized . Audie Murphy , our most decorated soldier , suffered from it all of his life and finally took to sleeping with a pistol under his pillow . In retrospect it seems like a miracle that it only claimed one casualty more out of the three heroes . A well-done film , tragic and , frankly , educational if we're open to the lesson it teaches : war is pretty hard on people , even after the smoke clears and we raise the flag .
Superior Series	It's pretty original for a TV series . " Law and Order " is the proper title because the first half has a pair of cops investigating a crime and the second half shows us the DA's office prosecuting the wrong-doers . The writers seem to know something about their subject too , which is a refreshing change . I can't count the number of humdrum police series in which the officers refer to the perpetrators as " crooks " and use other lingo lifted straight out of comic books . This one is different . The cops deal with criminals matter-of-factly , shoving them around once in a while , but shrugging and wisecracking over corpses . And the episodes stick to their subject , without dragging in a lot of time-consuming personal problems and dreary romances . There's very little in the way of a musical score - - mainly that loud PLONK PLONK of a chord when there's a significant change in scene . Of course the show has been going on for many years and there have been a lot of cast changes . It's important because we get to spend a lot of time with the two investigating detectives and the two or three people in the DA's office , so , over time , we get to know them rather well . Some of the cast changes has been improvements . As the police lieutenant , S . Epatha Merkerson is probably better than Dann Florek , who appeared in the earlier episodes . As the Assistant DA in charge of the cases , Michael Moriarty and Sam Waterston are equally good . As their chief assistant , Richard Brooks was replaced ( to good effect ) by a series of babes : Jill Hennessey , Cary Lowell , Angie Harmon , and Elizabeth Roehm . The assistants that followed were barely adequate . The original detective team was George Dzundza and Christopher Noth and both were fine . Dzundza was replaced by Paul Sorvino and then Jerry Orbach , both equally good . I can't imagine why Chris Noth was let go ( suddenly and without warning ) because he seemed ideal in the part . The stories haven't declined in quality much , but the signs of exhaustion are apparent . Earlier episodes were often borrowed from real-life high-profile cases and it was interesting to watch them spun out in fictional form . And they tended to reflect what anyone would think to be the experiences of ordinary detectives . The plots took the cops into the ghettos and crummy back alleys and louche places where junkies and miscreants hung out . And , again , both the characters and settings were convincingly projected . That's changed . More often now the cops work in middle-class or high-end milieus , as if the show itself were losing touch with its roots . And , to an extent , it is getting lost . It jumped the shark a few years ago , after Jerry Orbach left the cast . No satisfactory replacement has been found . Too many of the cast are beginning to look like rich actors rather than like the characters they play . Lately , my impression is that , like all dynamic systems , it suffers from creeping entropy . From it has sprung forth so many spinoffs that the format is finally feeding on its own flesh . I don't bother watching the show any longer . And I always wished that the producer , Dick Wolf , would have ditched that corny wolf howl at the end of each show . At it's best , though , " Law and Order " is one of the most gripping and convincing police shows that has appeared on TV .
Engaging	I don't know why I enjoy this movie as much as I do . I haven't cared about baseball much since I was ten years old . This isn't Redford's best performance by any means . The story is an ur-sports one . Act One : Prodigy is discovered . Act Two : Tragedy leads to slump . Act Three : Protagonist overcomes demons and wins the game ( or bout , or chukkar , or whatever ) . Subordinate characters are largely stereotypes . There is an overobvious mythological overlay that's more pretentious than anything else . During dramatic moments , the score swells to heroic proportions to an extent that we almost expect a cut to Moses's parting of the Red Sea . The slow-motion not only signals a triumph in the making but allows us to relish it for a few seconds longer . Let's see . I guess that about covers most of the reasons not to like the film . But these flaws are pretty much overcome by its virtues . When the score isn't elevating us to the status of worshipers it has a nice period slangy feel to it . During the periods of defeat the score never becomes maudlin . It retains a kind of tinkly offhand quality but sounds a bit slower in tempo , imbued with a hardly noticeable melancholy . The photography is first rate . It has the same tawny quality that has cropped up in lesser works like " The Fortune " or " W . C . Fields and Me . " Everyone seems burnished by the sun . And the period detail is evocative without being obtrusive . A slow-motion shot of a dying flashbulb signals the beginning of Redford's career slump . The light-bulb-as-career works well , as it did for Scorcese and for Orson Welles in " Citizen Kane . " The story follows the three-act pattern , except that it doubles it by giving us two tragedies instead of one , so you get twice as much for your money , and Hobbs has double the number of demons to cope with . ( First he gets shot - - in a theme I must say I didn't completely understand - - then he falls for Lillith instead of whoever the muse of the game of baseball is . ) The acting ? As I say , Redford in the central role is a bit too minimalized , or maybe it's the wrong kind of role for him , although he looks the part of the fit athlete perfectly - - sinuously muscled instead of bulging all over with sarcomeres . Of course his background in baseball must have helped his physical performance . He looks right . I wish he had projected a little more concern about his slump . He's pretty casual about the whole thing . Glenn Close is good , as usual , although surely such companions don't exist . Kim Basinger looks ravishing . Duval turns in his usual superior performance , laughing , smiling , his mouth open , villainous . The other players are equally good , locked as they are into one-dimensional roles . I particularly enjoy the pizazz that Darren McGavin brings to his part of the antagonistic gambler . It's his best role in years . He's philosophical about losing , charming , full of casual jokes . The restaurant scene in which he pops out his eye is amusing and slightly frightening at the same time . The judge , despite his greed and underhandedness , is amusing too . He speaks in the pompous Gongoristic prose you'd expect from someone who used to sit on the bench and is accustomed to demonstrating how superior he is to most mortals . " A canard - - a pure canard . " Brimley and Farnsworth are a pair of aces as they try to deal with the newly arrived middle-aged rookie , or sit together on the bench while each tries to name the song the other is humming . ( This was a touch added by Levinson when he noticed the two of them doing it between takes . ) Yes , it has all those weaknesses . But it's the kind of movie that doesn't repay much analysis . Anybody up for deconstructing " Duck Soup " ? It's extremely easy to sit back and be drawn into the story because it is , in so many ways , admirably done .
Credible and Informative .	It isn't that HBO can sometimes turn out a television movie that's at once inexpensive and admirable . After all , anybody can hit a home run once in a while . It's that HBO has managed to do it so consistently , and by tackling subjects that are by no means guaranteed share-collectors . I mean controversial stuff - - Roy Cohn ? A disputed presidential election ? The means by which a body of an enlisted man is returned from the Middle East ? They aren't easy subjects . This one has Kevin Bacon as Lt . Col . Michael Strobl escorting the body of Pfc . Chance Phelps , KIA , home to Dubois , Wyoming , home to his family . The story of course is moving . How could it not be ? All along , during the flights and drives , Bacon remains with the casket , now wrapped up for its journey in cardboard and bound by those springy steel bands like a particularly long refrigerator . And he and his responsibility are treated with solemn respect every step of the way . Toward the end , high-speed traffic begins to pile up behind the slow-moving hearse . When they realize what they are following , the drivers turn on their headlights and the traffic jam becomes a funeral procession . It's all pretty tastefully done . At no point does anyone sob - - not during the trip and not during the funeral . Not even during the obligatory praise at the funeral service for Chance Phelps , the young man , who was probably not a paragon of Christian virtue but more likely , like most Marines , tough-minded , self-disciplined , and at times a little reckless . Informative , too . I had no idea that the bodies and their personal effects were so precisely buffed up and carefully prepared . I thought ( without really ever thinking about it ) that someone went through the KIA's effects , threw out the pornography , and sent the rest along home . Here , we learn that the dirt and blood are cleaned from everything , from wrist watches to St . Christopher medals , before they're turned over to the escort . And I wouldn't have believed that a Pfc . would have a senior officer to escort him home . There are no politics in the film , and there shouldn't be . Nicely done .
Injustice is meted out .	It's quite a decent movie . Al Pacino is Carlito Brigante , a Puerto Rican New Yorker . Sean Penn is Kleinfeld , the lawyer who gets him out of the slams after only five years on a thirty-year sentence . Penelope Ann Miller is Gail , the old girl friend Carlito takes up with again after his return to the city . Pacino used to be a big drug dealer and , having learned some things about life , is now ready to retire , with the intention of taking his cut of some money from the club he partly owns and flying off to the Bahamas or someplace with Miller , there to open a car dealership . He wants out of a city in which everyone now seems more corrupt than before he went upstate , a city in which " honor " has become an almost meaningless word , useful only in coercing help from someone else , merely an instrument . " You owe me , " says Penn . And Pacino , honor bound , must do favor after favor for the weaselly , duplicitous , coke-snorting lawyer including , finally , involvement in the murder of a Mafia member and his son . Penn does the killings . Pacino didn't even know about Penn's plans , but the mob holds him equally responsible . And while he is running his club and figuring out the details of his escape to the Bahamas , Pacino is forced to enact the role of a man so unyielding and unforgiving that he must brush off brash youngsters who would like nothing more than to take his place in the city's underworld . It's a complicated world that Pacino inhabits . He needs to juggle too many goals . At the end , he is betrayed by his best friend and brought down , just as he is about to board the train for Florida . I once heard a lecture in anthropology on Hispanic fatalism and thought at the time it was just another cooked-up thematic generalization . But subsequent experience has made me wonder . This film , including Pacino's narrative voice over , could have been written and directed by that anthropologist , . ( Or by my fatalistic barber , Luisito , for that matter . ) The acting is fine all around , with not a sour note . The direction is equally competent . No show-off directorial adventitions . Everything looks just about right , from Carlito's wardrobe ( black leather coat ) to the interior of his night club with its neon distractions . Penelope Ann Miller , in a dramatic role , is to die for , or at least to dance with . When this movie was made , Pacino could still run like hell , just as he did in " Serpico . " Actually , the direction is fine , aimed at an adult audience . There is a shoot out at the end , almost obligatory by now , but it's preceded by a super-tense game of hide-and-seek in Grand Central Station , with four mob guys darting around and looking for Pacino , who is doing his best to get to Miller and the train . A less mature execution would have involved dozens of guys with Uzis and thousands of bullets and exploding glass windows and naked women taking showers and cars blowing up in fireballs and Niagras of blood and berserk speeding trains and endangered baby carriages and little old lady by-standers and murdered clowns - - and it all would have been carried out in slow motion . The director has done such things before . Not here . The fact that the story can generate so much suspense and excitement with a minimum of gore is a tribute to the people who put this together .
Man See , Man Do .	Charlton Heston is the only survivor of a space expedition that has crashed on a planet some millions of light years from earth , and thus some 2 , 000 years in the future . He stumbles into a rude civilization in which apes rule , while the tribes of speechless humans are treated as wild animals and periodically rounded up for experimentation or extermination . Heston is wounded in the throat during his capture and is rendered mute like the others . Since he demonstrates signs of intelligence , he is singled out for behavioral examination and kept in a cage with a female of the species . The apes argue over whether he actually has brains or is simply aping his betters . When he regains his speech , it upsets everyone's view of life as it should be , as it's written down in the " scrolls " by the " law giver . " His chief enemy is an orang-utan played by Maurice Evans . With the help of two enlightened scientific chimpanzees , Kim Hunter and Roddy MacDowell , he manages to escape with his Significant Other , only to discover that he has landed back on earth , whence he came , but that a war has destroyed humankind and left an ecological vacuum that has been filled by the great apes . Actually , the movie runs along three parallel tracks . One is the unraveling of the mystery of how the apes came to be superior to humans , and the moral behind the puzzle . A second involves the internal dissent among the apes , pitting those who scoff at the idea of man and culture , and those who believe Heston and want to see him saved and set free . The third is a running commentary on Western culture circa 1967 , the era of flower power and hippies and rebellious youth and disgruntled , resentful elders clinging to old concepts . I discount the relationship between Heston and the young lady , since she doesn't speak and was in real life the mistress of the producer , Richard Zanuck . It all may seem a little preachy now , and in some respects incomprehensible to those who don't remember the tumultuous 1960s . The morphed wisecracks are still amusing though . " Don't trust anyone over thirty . " Will the youngsters get that ? Will they get Maurice Evans ' speech before the Council of Three , which alludes twice to the Declaration of Independence and once each to Alexander Pope and George Orwell ? Probably not . The apes seem to be getting righter all the time . There are other instructive evocations of current social dynamics . On Planet Ape , the lighter you are , the better off you are . The buff orang-utans are the aristocratic leaders . The grayish chimpanzees are their middle-class intellectuals and technicians , rather like today's nerds . The black gorillas are the grunts . They do all the wet work . They're the guards and the police force and the flunkies and the shoe-shine boys . An interesting remark by Heston in a commentary on the film : the three simian strata subjected themselves to voluntary segregation . The separate species hung out together , ate lunch together , and though they showed no evident hostility towards the others , they clearly preferred their own kind . Is this movie telling us more than we need or want to know ? Shouldn't a sociologist find this as disturbing as Heston finds the wreck of the Statue of Liberty ? Except for Charlton Heston , there's no acting worth commenting on . The others are buried in carefully designed make up . They can only project the most rudimentary expressions - - a slight frown , a weak smile - - and their voices could have easily been dubbed . Every actor , down to the extras , underwent this lengthy and elaborate disguise . Later versions of the tale , as the concept became degraded and decadent , saved time and money by giving the lesser performers simple rubber masks . They probably could have lowered the budget on this initial entry by using cheaper techniques . Few people would have noticed , and , really , the story is determinedly middle-brow , like Rod Serling's simple sermons on the excellent " The Twilight Zone " series . Not particularly subtle or challenging , the story is what might be called " thought provoking . " It made scads of money , which accounts for the many sequels and the recent remake . If there's a nickel left to be made out of the franchise we can expect another one any minute . Yet it's an enjoyable movie - - amusing and , well , though provoking . Nice location shooting and imaginative art direction . See it with the kids . Explain to them that " we hold these truths to be self evident " is from a charter document , that Pope said " the proper study of mankind is man , " and that Orwell wrote " some are more equal than others . " They'll thank you for it and , with any luck , will climb down from the chandelier .
Rambo in the City .	You remember , I'm sure , how John Rambo was a practically superhuman expert at surviving and killing in the forest ? And he was hunted by a horde of ill-motivated nincompoops and outwitted all of them in the mountains of Washington ? Well , " The Bourne Identity " is like that , except that its setting is urban and its a far less stupid movie . It's an action move alright , but not a stupid one . You can tell it's an action movie because there is a speedy car chase through the streets of Paris , and because the hero can cause a fuel tank to explode simply by shooting at it with a shotgun . You can tell it's not stereotypical because there are a number of physical fights in which one or another participant's pistol is knocked out of his hand - - and in no case is there a shot of the gun skittering along the floor . And neither does the hero bump his head against an adversary's head in defiance of Newton's third law . Jason Bourne ( Matt Damon ) is hauled out of the sea with a bullet wound and amnesia . He spends the movie , along with the girl friend he acquires ( Potente ) trying to find out who he is , a " born " identity , so to speak . Meanwhile he's being hunted in the most thorough and high-tech sort of way by the CIA , who was to whack him for having failed to complete a hit . They're afraid he'll spill the beans , you see , and of course the police are after him too for various infractions committed in the course of his quest . I quite liked the movie . The atmosphere of wintry Switzerland and Paris are nicely set up . Whew , it looks cold . The performances are fine , especially the two leads and Chris Cooper at the CIA honcho . Oh , I suppose we can all have doubts that the CIA are quite so good at what they do , but this story is fictional . The action scenes , mostly mano a mano , don't drag on . They happen suddenly and are lightning-fast . The script is literate in the sense that people do and say things that are believable . Potenta's voice is especially neat to listen to . Her German-tinted sarcasm is perfectly believable . Matt Damon , well , he looks perhaps a bit like a ex-preppy whose most violent endeavors involved a tennis ball but his performance is fine , as it usually is . And although Chris Cooper's part isn't overly large , I think it's one of his best roles . He has an amazing range considering what he brings with him - - from efficiently slimy here to gentle and sensitive in something like " Lone Star . " And though the plot is propelled by a set of less than plausible propositions , compare it to " Rambo , " in which everything hinges on the revenge motive ( if that's what it is ) of one big hulking brute of an irritable sheriff . It's a well-crafted action movie with no great ethical moral embedded in it . I hope not anyway . If there were a message it would have to be something like , " Who are we , really ? " That's pretty banal unless it's treated as an absurdity , as in Georg Buchner's " Woyzeck , " in which , when the hero becomes conscious , he asks something like , " Who am I ? Where am I ? Why am I ? " I'm not sure why , on the DVD , the director keeps drawing our attention to the " realism " of the script while , at one point , he tells us that nobody was shown smoking in the movie because he didn't want to provide bad role models for kids , even though the entire French crew had Gauloise stubs glued to their lips . What price political correctness ? Technically I suppose this is what I'd call a " latent status movie , " in which the hero has the status of a highly skilled craftsman but doesn't reveal it until circumstances force him to . Shane's latent status was that of a skilled gunslinger . Richard Kimball's was that of a doctor . This is a higher-order latent status movie in that , not only do his friends not know of Bourne's secret identity as a superb assassin , but Bourne has amnesia and doesn't know it himself . ( Suppose , though , Bourne's secret identity turned out to be that of manager of a Sonic Drive-Thru in Amarillo or something ? ) This has nothing to do with the movie but there is a director's audio commentary on the DVD . I do wish directors would do more than tell us which scenes were shot on location and which on a sound stage , and stop telling us how incredible everyone was on the set . Why not point out goofs , weaknesses , and conflicts as well ? They're equally interesting . I recommend it , and I recommend taking a second look at Franka Potente , a young German woman whose appearance would not pass muster next to Brittny Spears or Jessica Alba but who has an inner beauty as well as a hell of a lot more talent than most of today's tabloid heroines . She does have one major flaw - - her name . I keep getting it mixed up with Famke Janssen and Battleship Potemkin and Mandy Potamkin and Frankie Sinatra and the name of a Chevrolet dealership in New Jersey . She'll have to change it .
Rude Desires	Mel Brooks is in touch with out deepest desires , no doubt about it . Fear , greed , lust , self aggrandizement , jealousy - - everything we enjoy denying that we have . This is illustrated in the opening scene , under the credits . A coffin is opened . There is a rotting skeleton holding a book . A pair of hands reaches in and tries to remove the book , but the skeletal digits seems to snatch it back . The human hands pull away , then tentatively reach again for the book , but this time they're trembling . None of Brooks ' humor is elegant , revolving as it does around these primitive motives and human weaknesses such as farts . This isn't Woody Allan . Nobody is going to pull Marshall McLuhan out of a crowd and ask him to explain his theories . Nobody in Brooks ' movie has ever HEARD of Marshall McLuhan . And yet when Brooks connects , he pops it out of the park . How can anyone watch the scene in which Peter Boyle's monster visits the blind Gene Hackman without laughing ? The lonely Hackman , trying to please his guest , spills boiling hot soup into his lap - - twice . He smashes the monster's Bierstein and sets his thumb on fire . " Where you going ' ? " whines Hackman after the monster smashes out through the door . " I was gonna make espresso . " If the jokes fail , as they do about three times out of four , it's still interesting to watch the actors . They seem to be having a lot of fun . Terri Garr looks like a luscious blond yummy from the Midwest . Maybe she has no glabella but she has a sly bosom that makes up for it . Madeleine Kahn has a small but funny part . She's a good singer too . Why do people die young ? We saw this at a theater in the Tanforan Shopping Center in South San Francisco . You should see it too , especially if you are in some kind of Edgar Allan Poe-ish funk .
What's worth dying for ?	Two indisputable things to be learned from this film : ( 1 ) Ireland does not look like it does in " The Quiet Man " and ( 2 ) Cate Blanchett has got to be one of the finest actresses around . Dublin here resembles any large American city , with wealthy drug lords cashing in at the top , a horde of distributing goons near the bottom , and junkies on the streets , sometimes dead . Cate Blanchett is the real Veronica Guerin , a journalist who probed too far into this subterranean system . She writes a series of articles on drug use and the vermin involved , substituting their eke names for their real ones , so she and her paper can't be sued . A ninety-caliber dealer becomes " The Monk , " for instance . The legal system is so arranged that the police have difficulty dealing with the problem and the government is able to investigate only an individual's assets for tax purposes , not the source of those assets . Thus , you can be a bus boy in a louche restaurant and no one will question it when you file a tax return for a million pounds . Blanchett first encounters the usual deaf-and-dumb routine from her sources , then as she continues to gather data and publish them , warnings , then threats , then she is shot through the thigh , then pistol whipped , and finally shot dead . It's astounding , the way Blanchett handles this character . She laughs off the threats from both her editors and friends and from the people she's exposing . Of course it's easy for an actor to laugh , but Blanchett laughs NERVOUSLY and gives us a glimpse of the terror behind the bravado . Not only that , but she acts SO nonchalantly in the face of danger to herself , her friends , and her family that she's able to suggest something resembling a death wish . The story itself evidently made history in Ireland , and the requisite happy epilogue follows Guerin's murder . A special investigative board is created to prosecute heroin dealers and the law is changed so that assets may now be frozen . Some of the bad guys wind up in the slams , some on the lam . The script has its felicities . Blanchett remarks to her editor that she now has the name of the kingpin and the editor replies , " Yes , but you can't prove it . " Blanchett : " This is as bad as the police force . " Editor : " Worse . We don't have the resources or the power to arrest . " ( Something like that . ) At it's bottom , though , the plot fits rather neatly into what seems to have become a genre unto itself - - brave , resourceful , tough-talking babe pushes her way into an expose of corruption and crime . And neglects her family to carry on with her bliss . I'll just mention " Erin Brokovitch " in passing as another example . There are many others . But I suppose there's only so much you can do with a story like this , based as it is on true events . Guerin's death was a noble tragedy by any measure , yet it prompts certain ontic questions . How much in the way of " good " must be at stake to be worth dying for ? Would any normal person die in order to put away a handful of gangsters and to make drug laws more effective ? I suspect that after the pistol whipping , most of us would have started a new series of newspaper articles about the social significance of different hair styles . But Veronica Guerin was different . Watching this story play out is like watching a Greek tragedy . Ennobling maybe , but pretty depressing too .
Diverting Woody Allen Comedy	Gee , what a cast Woody Allen was ( and still is ) able to muster for his movies , even though none of them is paid blockbuster wages since Allen's movies tend to draw in a selective audience . None of his productions have performed like " The Sound of Music . " Here we have too many recognizable faces to mention , but Burt Reynolds , Tony Randall , Lou Jacobi , and Gene Wilder were at the zeniths of their careers in the early 70s . It's an episodic movie , and each episode has its own title and is independent of the others . There are seven segments all together and their titles are as silly as the title of the book they were drawn from , David Reubin's " Everything You Wanted to Know About Sex But Were Afraid to Ask . " The best-selling book was a kind of " Sex For Dummies " and the movie dispenses with its contents entirely . Instead we get fantastic stories of Medieval Fools and giant mammae . Some of the episodes are parodies of established genres - - the horror film , the Italian sex comedy - - and one is a parody of television quiz shows . How funny is it ? There is more within-episode humor than between-episode humor . That is , some parts of each skit are more amusing than other parts , but the total number of laughs is about the same for each skit . Some of the laughs don't require much of the viewer except a firm sense of the absurd . " Transvestitism " has Lou Jacobi trying on the dress of a woman at whose house he is a dinner guest , while Jacobi's wife and the hostess ' family sit in the living room below , wondering what's taking him so long to go to the bathroom . He winds up crawling out the window and dropping to the sidewalk where his purse is stolen , passers-by stop to commiserate , and the police arrive and demand to know what happened . It's funny as hell to see a fat , bald , mustachioed guy like Jacobi prancing around in ladies ' gear but it isn't challenging . Other gags , mostly buried in the dialog , demand a little more attention . In the Medieval sketch , Allen manages to introduce a parody ( within a parody ) of Hamlet's encounter with the ghost on the tower . Then , without any tidy explanation , he gets into Hamlet's soliloquy : " TB or not TB . That is the congestion . Consumption be done about it ? Of cough , of cough . " And later : " We'd better hurry up . Before you know it , the Renaissance will be here and everybody will be painting . " If you don't find that worth a smile , you may be in the wrong ball park . I usually find the Giant Tit sketch more outrageous than the others . John Carradine is the mad scientist who is conducting experiments on subjects like , oh , premature ejaculation in the hippopotamus , and transferring the brain of a lesbian into the skull of a man who works for the telephone company , and who is inventing a forty-foot diaphragm , " Population control for an entire country - - all at once ! " Carradine has a hunch-backed assistant named " Igor " who hobbles around and mumbles like Quasimodo . " I gave him a four-hour orgasm , " Carradine explains . " Oh , he had fun - - but he turned out like this . " The giant breast is the size of a zeppelin and is mobile , traveling around the countryside killing people by squirting them with Half and Half . It's finally captured when Allen lures it into a giant brassiere . I suspect Allen was taking advantage here - - more than he had before or since - - of the newly relaxed regulations regarding the depiction and discussion of sex and violence on the screen . It seems a little raunchy today . But it's good natured and should leave you in a better mood than you were in before you saw it .
Bartleby the Nerd .	I was called away and missed the last half or so of the film , except for the final few minutes , so I can't judge accurately how nearly the film fulfilled the promise of his first 40 minutes . But it was coming along very well indeed . Ron Livingston , who works with a computer in a cubicle , just like everyone else in his office , is dominated by the suavely domineering boss , Gary Cole . Boy , is Livingston sick of his job . He sees a hypnotherapist for some temporary relief . After inducing the trance and telling Livingston he will no longer worry about what happens , and before being able to tweak the post-hypnotic suggestions , the therapist drops dead and leaves Livingston in a permanent go-to-hell mood that even has him smiling benignly at the therapist's fallen body . Two investigators come to downsize the company and Livingston is in the land of Cockaigne . He is the only worker to tell them the flat-out truth . He doesn't give a damn about his work because the job is stupid and he's not motivated . The visiting execs take him for a brutally frank and perceptive subordinate . He's promoted . Livingston has the talent and , equally important , the right comic face for the role . He's a presentable-enough young man but his jaw is slightly large for the rest of his features and it lends him a dumb appearance . So far , so familiar . The guy who is somehow altered by circumstances so that he refuses to conform , is taken as a non-paradigmatic genius by others , and is subject to many comic situations . Just offhand , I'm thinking of a " Twilight Zone " episode with Jack Carson , Peter Sellers in " Being There " , a desperate Jim Carrey comedy . And , boy , there is hardly any more unpromising material to make a funny movie out of than a sterile office . " Bartleby " was able to do it . " Office Space " might have fallen flat on its face once it got past the first couple of funny scenes because , after all , unless there is talented writing behind the plot , a sense of progression , what you're left with is a single joke . I'd like to think this one did better than that , that it hit its mark . The morning after his transformation , a Saturday that Livingston has been ordered to spend at work , he shuts off the alarm , ignores his boss's phone calls , and sleeps until the afternoon while some vibes on the score give us a gentle and beautifully syncopated rendering of " Beautiful Dreamer . " The writers did more than just rob Livingston of his ability to pretend he cared . Jennifer Aniston has some comic moments with her boss too , and her uniform . She's a waitress in one of those " cute " chain restaurants like Chili's and she's required to wear a minimum of 35 buttons ( " flair " ) on her uniform . The buttons are incredibly vulgar - - pictures of Garfield and whatnot . Her boss earnestly talks to her about her flair . She protests that she's wearing the required number of buttons . Yes , but 35 is the MINIMUM number of flairs . Chester over there is wearing FIFTY-TWO flairs . So she'd better shape up . And Steven Root is sublime as Livingston's co-worker whose desk is always being moved ( four times in one day ) and whose Swingline stapler is always being snatched away by Gary Cole , leaving Root only a Boston stapler . I hope the film as a whole measured up to the part of it that I was able to catch . I'm looking forward to seeing Act II when I can .
Good Movie About a Decent Guy .	Gregory Peck is Atticus Finch , a Southern lawyer who defends a black man ( Brock Peters ) unjustly accused of rape . ( It was almost the other way round . ) Peck does his best but Peters is convicted anyway by the all-white jury ; this is 1932 . In Macon . That's in Georgia . While being transported elsewhere " for his safety , " Peters tries to escape and is shot dead . The redneck father responsible for all this mishigas ( James Anderson , who must be great pals with Bill McKinney because their parts are interchangeable ) holds a grudge against Peck for defending Peters in the first place , and for proving Peters was innocent in the second place , and for thereby impugning the honor of the Anderson family in the third place . Anderson calls Peck " a n lover " and spits in his face , but of course Peck would find any response infra dig . Anyway , Anderson sneaks up on Peck's two kids on Halloween night and tries to knife them , but is prevented from doing so - - and is killed - - by Boo Radley ( Robert Duvall in a powerful but wordless performance ) . Peck is told by the Sheriff ( the ever-emotive Frank Overton ) that , although Duvall may have killed Anderson , well - - Anderson was responsible after all for the death of the innocent Brock Peters . " I say let the dead bury the dead , Mr . Finch . " The story is told from the point of view of Peck's two kids , the eleven-year-old Jem ( Philip Alford ) and the six-year-old girl , Scout ( Mary Badham ) . It's kind of sweet too , to see these goings on - - both comic and dramatic - - through the eyes of a naive girl like Scout . Kind of like Candide in Georgia . And if Alford gives a pedestrian performance as Jem , Mary Badham does a splendid job with the character of Scout . Credit , too , the direction by Robert Mulligan and the editing by Aaron Stell , who catches Badham's face at precisely the critical moments . ( When her brother is in jeopardy and a sudden gun shot is heard off screen , her face jerks and her eyes open wide in an almost perfect take . ) It's especially fine work because neither Alford nor Badham are particularly adorable kids . Jem is rather ordinary in a Tom-Sawyerish way . But Badham has a strange face , with keen , slitted eyes , freckles , and a nose that juts out at odd angles . Neither of them is pretty in the usual child-like way , although compared to their friend Dill ( John Megna ) , purportedly based on Truman Capote , they could both be in beauty contests . Mulligan's direction could hardly be better , given the nature of the story . After lights out in this sleepy Southern household , we hear Badham asking Alford about their mother , who died some years ago . The Mulligan's camera drifts from the delicate lace of the window curtains to Peck sitting alone on the porch swing , his face lowered , his arm draped across the back of the wooden swing , as if he can still feel his wife's presence within the circle of that arm . End of scene . Had more been made of it , it would have been banal . The moral calculus of the film puzzles me a little . I'm not sure that " the dead " who have " buried the dead " are in quite the same position . An innocent man is shot and killed " while trying to escape . " A guilty man is killed while trying to murder two children . I don't know . Does that come out right for you ? And Harper Lee , and the screenwriter Horton Foote , are pretty easy on the quiet town of Macon . That lynch mob that shows up at the jail to string Brock Peters up , for instance . They are momentarily stopped by the unflappable and imperious Peck , but what really turns them aside is the appearance of Peck's kids . They don't know what's going on . And Badham cheerfully greets the members of the mob whom she knows . She asks them to say " hey " to their kids , who go to the same school as she does . This innocence is so disarming that the leader of the mob says , " Let's break it up and go home . " Really ? On the flip side of the coin , if the writers treat the town's peccadilloes a little gently , at least there are no Big Speeches - - no preaching . Peck never gives a speech ( not even in his summation ) about all men being created equal , and God made all of us , and we'd better get our stuff together if we ever expect to have a team like the Atlanta Braves . It's a good , sensitive movie . It may or may not sound like it in precis . ( Almost all movie kids are repugnant , I'll grant you that . ) But it's quite well done , and Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch has become part of our cultural data base .
Which Enemy ?	I take the title to be the kind of pun that Richard Matthieson was fond of using . In one sense , the enemy is of course the submarine commanded by the clever Curt Jurgens . In another sense , the enemy is more obliquely identified in a " philosophical " conversation that Robert Mitchum , commander of a Buckley-class destroyer escort , has with the ship's doctor . Mitchum goes on for several minutes about how men seem to have an unconquerable evil part of them , so that " if you cut off the head of a snake it just grows another one . " Let's say that Enemy Number One is the submarine that lies beneath the surface of the sea . Enemy Number Two is the reptilian brain that lies beneath the cerebral cortex . Mitchum plays his role straight : competent and all business . Jurgens on the other hand has been exhausted by the war and disillusioned by the political ideology he and his crew are risking their lives for . He drinks too much brandy at one point and maunders on about how , during the first war , it was all a kind of game in which the KaEl would say , " Torpedos - - loss , " and sometimes they'd go and sometimes not . The American crew are all clean cut and good humored . The Germans are sloppily dressed and sweaty . Jurgens is clever enough to elude the DE but betrays himself by continually coming back to the same course , the one which leads straight to home , and Mitchum outwits him . Good points ? I can't offhand think of a film about the US Navy that has such realistic seagoing atmosphere . The color photography is superb . The wind blows on weather decks and makes everyone's hair and clothing flap , as it does on a ship at high speed . The twists and turns of the game being played by the two skippers generates a good deal of suspense . Weaknesses . All the German sailors are ordinary human beings except the one Nazi aboard , whom Jurgens finds disgusting . And because of his background as a folk singer it's difficult to forget the ethnicity that Theodore Bikel brings to his role as executive officer . And we see a lot of depth charge attacks from the submariners ' point of view , with bolts springing loose , a panicky crewman , chronometer crystals cracking , water squirting forth , all of which are already familiar from earlier movies , including " Destination Tokyo . " Then a scene that I've never figured out . Mitchum has been charging in to drop a few depth charges on a regular basis , then turning away after the attack . After one such incident , Jurgens says to Bikel , " Now I'll tell you something . Each time he comes in to attack he turns away . He doesn't always turn the same way , but twice he did . " This allows the sub to prepare to launch torpedoes if the DE turns the same way again . What does that all mean ? If you only have two ways to turn after an attack , right or left , how can you not turn the same way once in a while ? If you turn the other way every time you finish an attack , you make yourself predictable and therefore vulnerable . The explanation makes no sense , but I suppose is offered just as an excuse for permitting the fish , or " eels " as the Germans called them , to be launched . After the torpedoes wound the DE mortally , Jurgens surfaces to finish the ship off with his guns . Mitchum , who has planned for this , says , " He's coming up . That's the first foolish thing he's done . It makes us even . " I don't get that either . It was routine for U-boats to sink defenseless ships with deck guns in order to conserve their torpedoes . It happened every day ( and night ) . The last thing I consider a weakness is the final scene . True , both the DE and the U-boat are destroyed , but the outcome is hardly a tie . The image of the American ship perched atop the smashed submarine is unforgettable and too powerful to represent an even loss . And on top of that , so to speak , the movie ends with the two skippers face to face aboard the American destroyer that has rescued them . It's a cliché of antiwar movies that have humanized the enemy , as this one has done . We respect one another and we're all alike under the skin and in war there are no winners - - except that we win . The Americans will be free to go on fighting ; the Germans are all prisoners of war , those that have survived . " Torpedo Bay " has an Italian submarine and a British destroyer pitted against one another . The crews meet on shore and develop a mutual respect . In the end , it is only with the greatest reluctance that the submarine blows up the destroyer , saluting the ship as it sinks . It's an Italian movie . In " Zulu , " the bravery and stamina and self sacrifice of the African warriors leave the British soldiers in awe , and it is only out of desperation that the Tommies mow them down like wheat . It's a British movie . In " Die Brucke , " a handful of German schoolkids are put into uniform and told mistakenly to hold a bridge against an attack by an enormous force of well-armed Americans who are by no means brutal savages . The kids suffer terrible losses and in the end the bridge ironically is blown by German troops , although the Americans have been driven off and the bridge held . It's a German movie . " The Bridge on the River Kwai " has Japanese troops that are as human and sympathetic as the British prisoners . But the bridge is destroyed . It's a British movie . I don't need to go on about this . " The Enemy Below , " like the others , has a latent feel-good quality for an American audience . How would they have felt if the two opposing crews had been sailing away on another German sub ?
Death By Ice .	This is the one with Robert Culp as the aggressive self-starting manager of a football team who murders its madcap owner , Dean Stockwell , in the swimming pool of his playboy mansion . Culp has established an alibi for himself by manipulating a taped recording , phone , wiretaps , and other such stuff , some of which lost me along the way . Culp's legerdemain places him in his office high atop the Los Angeles Coliseum at the time the murder took place , whereas he was , in fact , impersonating a Ding-Aling Ice Cream man while driving to and from the scene of the crime . Valerie Harper shows up in an amusing scene as a hooker who mistakes the visiting Columbo for a client . Dean Jagger has a small part , and James Gregory has an even smaller part . All of the performances are up to par and the direction is competent . But - - and this must be said - - but Columbo always shows an extraordinary amount of intuition and has an abundance of good fortune in all his cases . In this case the intuition and the luck smother the plot . Columbo , try as he might , simply cannot pin the deed on Robert Culp . There is a " loose end " , so to speak . But Columbo has an epiphany in a travel bureau when a cuckoo clock announces the time . My legal responsibilities forbid me to divulge more of the plot or its solution . Oh , well , I guess I can say that Culp's motive for murdering Stockwell is not only weak but absent . Early on , Columbo mentions in passing , " The motive . That's what I don't get , the motive . " It doesn't seem to occur to him that there IS no motive . If Culp stands to profit from Stockwell's death , it's never made clear why . He's not going to inherit money . He's not going to take over the ownership of the football team . He has nothing going with Stockwell's wife . So , cui bono ? The rules of logic decree that Culp is unculpable . That's neither here nor there in an episode of Columbo , of course . The emphasis is not on logic but character and the interaction of characters . And this is the episode in which Columbo puts one foot accidentally into a swimming pool , ruins his shoe , and goes about asking people out of the blue , " Where did you get those shoes ? " And , " Sixty-five dollars ? Is there any place you think I could get a pair of shoes that look just like them for sixteen or seventeen dollars ? "
A True Original	SPOILERS . There's no doubt about Quentin Tarentino's inventiveness . This was a real shocker when I first saw it several years ago . There had been violence before , but never so inexplicable . And gore before , but never gore quite so galore before . And that odd , quirky dialog - - alternately clumsy and adroit . It was obviously done on a small budget but did everything it was supposed to do and more . A second viewing , along with some knowledge of Tarrentino's later work , deprives us of the shock but gives us a better perspective on the movie . A couple of things stand out . One is that Tarrentino is like Howard Hawks in depriving his characters of any background . ( That's about all he and Hawks have in common . ) There have rarely been such rootless people wandering around on the screen . In this instance , there is a father / son pair , but nobody else has any family , few real friendships except those developed in the course of the narrative . There is no ethnic solidarity . Nobody has a home or a dog . Nobody has a job . Nobody has a girlfriend . These characters are like the ones Shakespeare warned us about , coming out of " air , thin air . " Another thing is the catholic derivativeness of the story and the scenes . Tarrentino may have made an art movie here but he's gobbled up bits and pieces of every kind of film imaginable , from superior stuff to schlock . The claustrophobic feeling of being cooped up in a warehouse with people you don't know and can't trust , he claims , was borrowed from Carpenter's junk version of " The Thing . " The moment when everyone is pointing guns at everyone else , waiting for someone to fire first , seems to be from the climactic scene of " The Wild Bunch . " The exclusive use of pop rock in the score has been done by Scorcese and others . But it's hard to be sure that these are borrowings because , to the extent they are , such borrowings have never seen in such multitudes and so nicely fitted together . The big shootout , of the sort we saw in such detail in " Heat , " is mostly off screen here , which saves money and doesn't cost the narrative much since it deals mainly with character and motivation and blood . The violence and the blood that follows can be a problem . The focus isn't on suffering , just pain and fear . People bleed enough to fill a bath tub . And that scene in which the bound cop is mutilated by Michael Madsen is a bit too-well set up and executed - - for me , anyway . And this is despite the fact that we don't know the cop , or any of the other characters really . These scenes are just shivers looking for spines to run up . Grown sadists and kids who don't know anxiety may enjoy it more . Interesting anecdote . In an interview , Tarrentino describes how poor Lawrence Tierney was giving his big speech assigning the names of colors to the robbers - - " Mr . Orange , Mr . Pink " , and so on . ( Borrowed from " The Taking of Pelham One Two Three . " ) Tierney kept forgetting his lines or blowing them and asking to start again from the top . The other actors were required to sit off screen without moving or changing expression . It took two hours for a satisfactory take . All of the other performers who had been sitting like stone idols all that time went suddenly into spasms of twitching , yawning , scratching , and moaning with relief .
Night Life of the Gods .	One gets the impression that the detractors of this movie outnumber the admirers but I suspect that , if it's true , it's because the movie was directed by THE Stanley Kubrick . It's hard to top a string of hits , some of them near masterpieces . If it had been directed by some nonentity who had just graduated from film school it would have been hailed as a momentous debut . The plot . Doctor Tom Cruise is married to Nicole Kidman and they live on Central Park West in New York . After a party they get stoned and Kidman confesses that on their vacation last year , she noticed a naval officer and couldn't get him out of her mind , not even when she and Cruise were making love and developing plans for their life together . She'd have given up her future to be with this other man just for one night . Now these are ugly words for a husband to hear . He winds up walking the night-time streets , brooding about his wife and doubting his own grasp of things in general . He runs into a pal , a pianist , who quietly tells him that he's going to play the piano blindfolded at a secret party at a mansion . Everyone wears costumes . And he lets slip the password . He leaves , warning Cruise to forget everything he just heard . But Cruise is still tortured by Kidman's confession , rents a costume and mask , and attends the party . He's discovered as persona non grata and , surrounded by a hundred weirdos in dark costumes and garish masks , he's told to take off all his clothes . To make a long story short , he is " redeemed " - - ie . , saved - - by a nude woman and he's allowed to leave . The next day Cruise learns that his pianist friend was hustled out of his hotel with a black eye by a couple of well-spoken hoods . And the woman who apparently volunteered to substitute her life for his is found dead of an overdose . Is it all coincidental ? Cruise tells Kidman all about his overnight adventure and the two of them agree to believe that it was simply one of those things . It's slow . Mighty slow . Nobody speaks quickly . There are long pauses between utterances while one of the conversants stands open mouthed with expectation . The plot is wispy and filled with adventitious encounters . In all these respects , and more , it's a lot different from Kubrick's earlier stuff that , by comparison , seemed to rocket along propelled by the plots . But it's an obvious culmination of certain trends in Kubrick's later work , which is to say everything after " Paths of Glory " - - the episodic structure , the looseness of consequence , the introspection . There are , though , some interesting innovations . Kubrick had developed a habit of high key lighting . Everything was a fluorescent white in his late work , maybe with accents of color here and there , mostly apple red . There's unyielding light everywhere , as in a hospital operating room . In " 2001 " even the floors were translucent and lighted from below . He's reversed himself here , and it works too . It's Christmas time in New York . The streets are decorated with colored lights and interiors often have Christmas trees . The overall tone of the lighting is rosy and golden and warm all over , an ironic contrast to the disturbing goings on we witness . And there is more comedy that we might expect . There's an encounter with an odd hotel clerk , Alan Cumming , that is right out of the Enchanted Hunters scene in " Lolita " ( both novel and film ) . And another ludic moment in the shop of a Jewish costumier who discovers his daughter , Leelee Sobieski , in flagrant dilecto with two Japanese transvestites , beats them up and locks them away for the police . When Cruise returns the costume the next day , the two Oriental gentleman emerge with Sobieski from a back room , happy as clams , and it becomes clear that the shop owner is pimping his own daughter . Before I run out of space - - and , believe me , this multi-layered effort deserves plenty of space - - I'll add a few asides . The piano theme that dominates the last half of the film is by a Hungarian madman , well , oddity actually , Ligeti , who built that ominous score almost entirely out of only two notes on the keyboard . It's an astonishing feat . Tom Cruise is something of an embarrassment as an actor , at least for me . I'm sure he's a nice guy and gives it everything he's got but I'm always aware that I'm watching some guy from New Jersey trying desperately to enact a role . It can't be the dialog , as elliptical as it sometimes gets , because Nicole Kidman is saddled with the same kinds of lines and she handles them smoothly . ( By the way , she sports an exceedingly nubile figure in her skivvies . She's a lot sexier than the naked hookers at the party . ) And it's not surprising that she's married to a doctor and lusts after an officer in the Navy . One projects immense wealth and the other power .
Slow , engrossing community drama .	I'm not ordinarily given to slow , moody movies unless they're well done . This one is pretty well done , especially considering its slender plot . The Australians have done this before , with " The Last Wave " ( which came out of the cinematic hinterland ) , " Picnic at Hanging Rock " , and " Lantana . " That's a lot of portentous silence . Curiously , the tonus of these films is at odds with Australian character . You have to love the Aussies . They kind of surf along the cultural currents without causing much trouble . They call each other " Mate , " they love beer , they're big on sports , and they avoid dwelling on the unfathomable . Well , Rupert Murdoch is an exception . He's a serious guy . ( I really enjoy these Olympian generalizations . ) Four guys go on an overnight fishing trip near Canberra . One of them is Gabriel Byrne , an Irishman who isn't getting along all that smoothly with his American wife , Laura Linney . When the men reach their fishing spot they find a dead body in the river . There's no mystery about who did it . We find that out in the first minutes . But the men - - well , what can you do ? The young black woman is beyond help . Is she enough reason to abort the holiday ? Nope . They tether the body to a tree and spend the day and night fishing and drinking . The next day they go back , report the finding , and are contumed by their community , not to mention the local black folk . A black woman asks , " What would you have done if it had been a white girl ? " And one of the wives , Laura Linney , asks what Byrne would have done had it been a boy instead of a girl ? The men and their wives would just as soon forget it and get on with things , except for Laura Linney , who is physically ill , perhaps with some psychosomatic disorder . There are times when she's so angry with her husband , and so ridden with guilt , that she seems unbalanced . In the end , she levers the community into contributing enough money to pay for the girl's funeral , and - - implausibly - - uses her moral puissance to get the men and their wives to attend the services . At the service , Byrne approaches the girl's father and apologizes for the way he treated the body . The father throws dirt on Byrne , spits , and turns away . Well , what are you going to do ? The men may not have broken any laws by ignoring the body but they certainly are guilty of inhumane behavior . Having committed a sin , they took their licking and must then keep on ticking , like Marlon Brando in " On The Waterfront . " Insensibly , with the passage of time , breaches like this are absorbed by the community and , if they never are entirely forgotten , they become historical and lose much of their emotional charge . The fact that the press and the other members of the town shun them is part of their penance , the price they pay , and it's just . " Gossip " is a bad word , but community sentiment is an important means of social control . It's foolish to believe that it is the police alone who keep order in the community . Community sentiment is like water in that , while too much of it , uncontrolled , can be dangerous , it's also necessary for public order . The photography is marvelous . Canberra and environs aren't picture-postcard pretty - - but they are picturesque . The film ends on a love song , written by the dead girl and sung by her friend at the funeral service . I began to wince because the singer wasn't entirely terrible . But , thank you , Lord , it wasn't a slow , tragic song with mystic , aboriginal overtones - - just an ordinary vernacular ballad . And the singer chokes up just before she finishes it . She loses it just enough . A few seconds either way would have drained the incident of much of its impact . Those four fisherman , of course , were stupid and insensitive . But it's not easy to feel TOO superior to them , at least not for those of us who have made serious mistakes in our lives that have hurt other people needlessly . At one point , Laura Linney has collected enough to cover the funeral expenses , visits the black family of the dead girl , and offers the box of money to the girl's sister . " It's not charity , " says Linney . The black woman replies sarcastically , " Oh ? You buyin ' something then ? " She certainly is .
Irreverent and snappy .	FULL OF SPOILERS . This is a pretty fast and enjoyable crime thriller based on Ira Levin's play about two gay playwrights ( Caine and Reeve ) that plot the murder of one's rich wife ( Cannon ) to get the property and the insurance . The plot succeeds but Christopher Reeve as the younger and less established of the two writers decides to make a play out of the actual murder - - with only slight changes in the details . Reeve allows that Easthampton , Long Island , can become Southampton , Long Island , in the script , for instance . The rest of the play's plot is a dead giveaway and to tell the truth Reeve doesn't mind a little gossip or even an inquiry into Cannon's apparently accidental death . It will boost the revenues and his own Warhol quotient . Michael Caine is Sidney Bruhl , the megabucks-making playwright whose last four productions bombed and who would like nothing more than to quietly get back to working on a new play , perhaps with Reeve's input , that would redeem his reputation . He cannot permit Reeve's scandalous play-a-clef to be produced . So - - what else ? - - he tries to murder him . In the end they wind up killing one another , the manuscript is appropriated by their neighbor , the psychic Helga Tensdoorp , and she makes a million bucks selling it to Broadway . It's a lot of fun for a number of reasons . One is the production design . That multi-roomed , multi-storied house with the big windmill atop , situated on nine of what must be the most valuable acres on earth ( Easthampton ! ) would be a splendid set of digs anywhere . You wouldn't be able to afford a pup tent in Easthamptom . The house is not overly large or baroque in its decor . It's just magnificently modest , although it's a little tidy for my tastes , the kind of house that's so clean you're afraid to step on the thick carpet for fear of leaving the imprint of a foot . Next , the acting could hardly be improved upon . Caine , Cannon , and Fred Jones are superb . Dyan Cannon gives a pitch-perfect performance as the anxious wife whose slacks are so tight they look as if they'd been sprayed on , which is okay given her assets . Even Reeve , whose talent was limited , seems to find a comfortable niche in his role of affable but psychopathic murderer . Irene Worth , as the psychic neighbor Helga , was in some way hard to define , a mistake . Granted she - - or someone like her - - was necessary to the plot , but , my God , what an offensive snoop her character is , going around and claiming , " I feel pain in zis woom ! " I suppose in order to make her a little more interesting , she's got up in sweats and a goofy looking cap with bicycle reflectors on it . Still , she's a nuisance from beginning to end . You have to love Ira Levin's bitchy dialog . The distraught Caine begs Reeve to tell him why he wrote the tell-all play . " Because it's THERE , Sidney ! " says Reeve , and Caine shouts , " That's MOUNTAINS , not PLAYS ! Plays aren't there until some hole WRITES them ! " Great too is Caine's call to the police after his wife drops dead of fright , as planned . He works himself up into a torrent of sobs , barely able to speak , as he reports the incident and implores that an ambulance be sent immediately . When he hangs up , his face assumes its usual placid expression , he blows his nose into his handkerchief , and walks away , all business again . The climax , though suitably ironic , is confusing and noisy and full of artifice , lacking in the wicked charm that Levin and Lumet brought to the earlier scenes . The score is mostly made up of light-hearted riffs on the harpsichord , neatly fitting into the film . You'll probably enjoy it .
Change Partners and Dance With Her	I wasn't expecting much from " Aimee and Jaguar , " mainly because my satellite delivery company gave it a rating of only two stars out of four , usually reserved for semi-junk like Batman sequels . But that rating was deceptively low . This is a well-done and even fascinating flick . There are three chief reasons for my saying this . First is the reconstruction of the period - - 1944 in Berlin . By that time the war was lost for Germany and everyone seemed to know it except the German citizens . Voices on the radio keep muttering on about how unconquerable the Germans are , but evidence to the contrary is all around . Berlin is bombed and blasted , areas reduced to piles of flaming rubbish . Food is difficult to come by . There is gaiety at parties but it is tense and forced . People have no place to live , except for whatever few feet they can cadge off someone else or pay exorbitantly for . For the few Jews , blending in with the rest , the situation is more than simply desperate . Asked for their papers on the street they try to run and are shot dead . But there isn't anything in the way of self pity here . These women - - they seem to be exclusively females - - are pretty tough and pragmatic cookies . They dance , when they must , with power brokers while the band performs bravely on stage or a samba plays on a scratchy old record . ( The prop master deserved an Iron Cross . ) Makeup is outstanding as well . Hair is marcelled to a turn , lips are blushed , eyes are heavily kohled . I know I'm getting these words all wrong but you know what I mean . The perfomers don't look as if they were in contemporary makeup and garb with merely a nod to period fashions . The authenticity is such that they look almost alien to our eyes . Gee , and it was only fifty years ago too . Where does the time go ? Second , there is the acting . Well , in a word , it's simply fine , all around . Felice is a beautiful , dark-haired young Jewish woman . Actually , she fits a common German physical template very well , with her thin upturned nose , pointed chin , wide-set glistening eyes , and a pair of those eyebrows that seem to arch up onto the owner's forehead like V-2 rockets instead of hovering placidly over her orbital sockets where they belong . For an unusually good example of what I mean , take a look at Jon Voight's girl friend in " The Odessa File . " Felice's German appearance however doesn't detract from the character's believability . German Jews by that time were pretty well assimilated , biologically and culturally , one of the reasons their attempted extermination came as such a shock to them , and to everyone else . Felice is surrounded by friends who seem to be mainly lesbians , as carefree as the real circumstances permit . Lilly Wust , the woman Felice meets and begins by exploiting , is an equally fine actress . In fact , she really is very good , with her reticence and her frozen empty smile . Lilly is married , but her husband is away at the front most of the time , and she is almost crushed by fear and loneliness . At first , when Felice comes on to her , after their friendship has matured , she beats frantically at Felice's face and chest . Later , yielding to her needs , Lilly goes to bed with Felice , who makes gentle love to her and suggests that Lilly be " Aimee " while she , Felice , be called " Jaguar . " I must say that this scene , which is no more erotic than it should be , is a tour de force on the part of the actress playing Lilly . I've rarely seen such a complex of emotions - - fright , awe , sexual desire , loneliness , and love - - projected with such impact . Lilly trembles all over in a kind of Jungian flooding out until , her instinctive repressions overcome , she grasps Felice and buries her face against her breasts . Lilly's husband , Gunter , is a reasonably nice guy too . He comes home to visit his wife and children at every opportunity , even taking French leave from his unit to help Lilly celebrate her birthday . Alas he stumbles into the aftermath of a homosexual debauch . The third element of this film that I find so impressive is the story itself , which I've kind of limned in above and won't go into in any detail . Let's just say that it has everything in it that you might expect in a movie designed for grown-ups . I can imagine a group of teenagers sitting around with popcorn and beer and complaining that , " Hey , this thing has SUBTITLES . " And " Why can't we see more of her boobs ? " ( I kind of sympathize , there . ) And , " Why does she get shot offscreen so we can't see her brains blown out ? " I don't think they'd get through the first five minutes , let alone the whole movie , but if you do , you will find your efforts rewarded .
Thumping Historical Adventure .	Stunning photography of the Norwegian fjords by Jack Cardiff , only one of the enjoyable features of this action movie . Ernest Borgnine is Ragnar a ( literally ) rapacious Viking . The Vikings , as we all know , were given to pillaging - - which is almost as fun as raping - - along the coastal settlements of England , which , in 850 AD or so , was divided into many petty kingdoms . ( Sorry for the AD but , however non-PC , it seems correct to the period . ) Ragnar is proud of his lusty son , Einar ( Kirk Douglas ) , here more gloriously blond than ever . The Viking community is made up of happy people who ride ponies , raise sheep , make stuff out of wood , and sail the seas . They really got around , too . They not only carved permanent settlements out of Northumbria and parts of Northwestern England , but they settled in Brittany , Iceland , and probably the northeastern coast of North America - - most likely pillaging and raping wherever they went . A dark and sullen slave , Erik ( Tony Curtis ) , is a member of their Norwegian settlement too . He happens to be an illegitimate son of Ragnar but nobody finds out about it until the end and , really , it makes little difference to the plot . Janet Leigh is the blond Welsh woman who give Einar and Erik someone to fight over . Richard Fleischer was the director . He and his staff evidently put a good deal of time and effort into researching the period details . They certainly LOOK right . Those clinker-built sailing ships are as graceful as swans . The exteriors look right , and the interiors are inviting - - if you're the kind of pervert who enjoys drinking , fighting , carousing , laughing , stomping on table tops , and chopping the pigtails off the heads of unfaithful wives . I wish Fleischer had looked a little more closely at the hair styles of the original Viking women , though . These all look like Beatniks or students of Martha Graham , the doyen of modern dance . All the performances are at least adequate . Douglas has a flashier role than Curtis . He stumbles around kicking food off table tops when drunk , and looks real menacing when garbed for war . He did most of his own stunts too . I wouldn't want to play " ride the oars " as he clearly does , in medium shot . Outstanding , though , is Ernest Borgnine as the Viking chief , boasting of the drunken , raping , murdering , pillaging Douglas - - " Has anyone ever had a finer son ? " And Borgnine's last shot , laughing , shouting the name of his god , and leaping into a pit of man-eating starving wolves ! It was Tony Curtis who allowed him to do so with a sword in his hand , so that Borgnine could enter Valhalla . This is in England , where the king had good reason to despise the Vikings and their queer customs . Curtis paid for that Viking courtesy with the loss of his hand . The king who lops off the offending extremity is King Aela , played by Frank Thring , who gives what is probably the second most impressive performance in the film . What a scuzzbag ! He wears a perpetual sneer , speaks in an effete manner , and radiates dismissive gestures . He flicks a few fingers and someone is led away to die . At the climax , the Vikings overrun Aela's castle and kill all the bad guys with their hatchets . Then there is a climactic sword fight between Douglas and Curtis - - two bitter enemies . Then , in a kind of Clio ex machina , Douglas , about to lop off the head of the helpless Curtis , hesitates when he realizes he's about to kill someone who is Ragnar's son , and Curtis takes advantage of the pause to dispatch Douglas . This duel takes place atop the windblown , topmost tower of a stone castle with a scintillating and icy blue bay in the background , its curlers foaming against the shore . You can almost smell the chill breeze of the sea . And that castle was built as a set , especially for the movie , if you can believe Fleischer's DVD comments . The music , by Mario Nascimbene , can hardly go unmentioned . It's not the triumphant trumpet-fanfare-filled sword and sandal score you'd expect . It's weird , but weird in an entirely original way . A rousing flick .
Surrender is not an option . ( ? )	In World War II many Japanese soldiers fought according to the Samurai's code of Bushido , the way of the warrior , battling to the last man and committing sepuku rather than surrendering . And then there's the kamikaze business . The response of Americans to this was one of mixed contempt and bewilderment . Repeatedly , we still hear on TV documentaries some variation on the expression , " The Japanese fought to die for their country . We wanted to live for ours . " It was said that banzai attacks were made by soldiers crazed by drugs or hopped up on saki . " Fanatics , " we called them . We have in this movie a reflection of that ethos , only here they are called heroes because they're on " our " side . It's never convincingly explained why they threw their lives away . Maybe , for any number of reasons , they wanted to exchange fire with the Mexicans - - " The drunk delight of battle with my peers . " It's a well-done movie . Hancock is an efficient and perceptive director . The script is more thoughtful and less condescending than John Wayne's version of the story , and the acting is better too , particularly Billy Bob Thornton , who is an amazingly versatile actor . As Davy Crockett his flabby and expressive face radiates a gleam of mischief and irony most of the time , while at other moments he seems to be contemplating a bust of Homer . He's outstanding . Dennis Quaid is good too , an actor who always brings something interesting to each performance - - as Sam Houston , a husky voice and determined frown - - but he's not on screen that much . The battle scenes are well staged . The script gives all of the Americans and their compadres a courage touched by doubt . It also treats the Mexican soldiers as human beings . ( It's a good thing our neighbors to the south aren't North Koreans or Iranians , eh ? ) But there is a heavy - - Santa Ana . A real grease ball of a heavy too , with an unprepossessing face painted like a corpse in a funeral parlor , thin lips , an arrogant sneer , and a complete disregard for the lives of his men or anybody else . " What are the lives of soldiers ? They are like chickens . " Needless to say , any legitimate claims Mexico might have had on Texas aren't gone into . And yet this is an improvement over John Wayne's 1960 rendering . In the earlier film , the Americans are mostly comic figures playing lowbrow tricks on one another - - if you want to start a fight you have to knock a feather off your opponent's nose . Wayne's men all die super heroic deaths , with a mortally wounded Wayne deliberately blowing up an ammunition magazine , taking himself and dozens of the enemy with him . It's not exactly a " kamikaze " death but it will do . In this more recent movie , the men die for the most part just like everybody else inside the walls , except for Crockett who disdainfully invites the Mexican soldiers to perform their variation of harikiri on him . The special effects deserve mention too . I really don't know much about the Alamo or the military technology of the time but it's interesting to see cannonballs with fuzes , which sometimes sputter out . The camera even shows us the point of view of a Mexican cannonball soaring through the sky and plopping down in the middle of the Alamo's zocalo . And to see the effects of grapeshot or cannister on massed troops . In most movies set around this time or a bit later , in the Civil War , we never get to see a cannonball hit the ground . There is simply an explosion and a few stunt men are tossed into the air . Grapeshot is never shown and I don't know why , because in close quarters it was murderous , far more devastating to attacking troops than musket fire . Grapeshot turns a cannon into a huge shotgun full of bullet-sized balls . Cannister shot takes the shell into the midst of the enemy before it explodes and sprays its little iron balls about . It was responsible for most of the deaths among the men of Pickett's charge . At any rate , technology is given its due . The movie ends after the battle of San Jacinto . I'm not familiar with Texas ' history but I know something about movie scripts and this battle seems to be in the movie mainly because we won it . It's the equivalent of Doolittle's raid on Tokyo at the end of the unfortunate " Pearl Harbor . " What I mean is that it provides a victorious ending . This story really ended with the defeat at the Alamo . I can't help wondering what this story would be like if the movie had been made by Mexico . How hard would it be to paint Texas as a secessionist province of the national territory , not unlike the Confederate South , except that Texas was being supported and populated by a foreign power ? Could they really declare their independence , just because they didn't like the central government ? A nice symbolic touch . The Alamo is surrounded by Mexican soldiers who persistently play the Deguello , a song meaning " no mercy . " It is sunset and Davy Crockett says , " I know what's missing , " and he takes out his violin , goes to the roof , and using the Mexican band as an accompanying orchestra he smoothly begins to improvise a tune which ends in a sprightly jig . A nocturne in which one lonely fiddle defies a marching band . A cavalry march turned into a violin concerto . It's a better movie than I'd expected it to be . I'd recommend watching it . You'll get involved , even if you're already familiar with the events themselves .
Pretty Good Noir .	I haven't read the source , Richard Brooks ' novel " The Brick Foxhole , " which I hope is not as infelicitous as its title , but I understand the original villain was a homophobe not an anti Semite . ( And to be honest , Sam Levene is written as a gay guy who picks up a drunken soldier . ) But , okay , you have to go with the flow . Consider 1947 . Not even anti-Semitism has been treated on screen yet . Many of the people responsible for contemporary movies were themselves Jews but anti-Semitism had been verboten for years because it was considered unpleasant . So we can hardly blame the makers of this film for not leaving the victim a homosexual . Now that's REALLY unpleasant - - and besides there might have been many among the audience rooting for Robert Ryan to get away with it . We are by no means free of prejudice but we've still come a long way since 1947 . Watching this again for the first time in years I was impressed with the rather slow pace of the first half of the movie , the many shots of two people talking , the shadows , the time that passes between the question and the answer , the uninspired editing . But I could live with that because of the film's subject matter and because of a few other things . One of the things that keep me glued to events as they unfold so deliberately is Robert Ryan's performance . The guy does a splendid job . At times he can seem thoughtful , cheerfully subordinate and helpful to the police - - " Any way I can help , yes sir . " Then , alone or with another soldier , the simmering hatred rises to the top , not so much through what he says but the way he LOOKS . That scowl , that penetrating stare , those dark eyes glittering . Wow . The film has taken a lot of heat because of Robert Young's preachy speech about his Grandfather's murder . That doesn't bother me at all , although I guess Dmytryk didn't have to have Young shove his face into the camera while talking about " MICKS and PAPISTS " . Still , taking the context into account , it's one of the more shocking moments of the film . Part of its impact is due to Young's almost casual delivery of the message , and part of it is due to the message's not having been heard on screen before . Another feature of the film that transforms it almost into the surreal is the Paul Kelly character and his relationship to the whore Gloria Grahame . Holy Guacamole , what elliptical conversation Kelly is given to . " You know what I told you ? All those things I just told you ? They're all lies . " His character neatly crosses pathos with creepiness . It's impossible to know what to make of him . He adds virtually nothing to the plot but the movie would be a lot less without his presence . It's a moody , murky film . Its people live in the dark . And there is murder afoot . Practically no one screams or shouts . The horror that these men have experienced and that some of them still carry with them like malaria seems just beneath the surface . See it if you have a chance .
Craig's Other's Other Wife .	This is a difficult movie to describe so you have to bear with me . John Cusack plays an unsuccessful puppeteer in New York , married to a thoroughly deglamorized Cameron Diaz . He has the hots for his sole employee , his tough and savvy office-mate , Catherine Keener . Then he discovers a kind of crawlspace in his office , at the end of which is the sensorium of the actor John Malkovich . That is , Cusack can be in the mind of the real John Malkovich , but only for 15 minutes at a time , after which he is spit out and flops on the ground next to the New Jersey Turnpike . Cusack decides that if he can't get anyone to pay to see his puppets he can at least charge the public $200 apiece for their 15 minutes in Malkovich's mind . ( This doesn't bother Malkovich because he seems completely unaware of anyone else's being inside him . ) But Cusack's secretary , Keener , has the hots for Malkovich and through this " portal " is able to get his private phone number and agree to meet her at a restaurant . They meet , as arranged . However , when they sit across the table from one another and Keener gazes at Malkovich , glowing with admiration and a filthier kind of lust , Malkovich's mind happens to be occupied by Cameron Diaz at that moment . Diaz has previously spent time taking a shower with Malkovich and has found the idea of having a male's plumbing appealing . Now , she melts under the adoring gaze of Keener in the restaurant . Diaz returns from Malkovich and tells her husband , John Cusack the failed puppeteer , that she must be a trans-sexual because she has never had a woman stare at her with such love as Keener showed towards Malkovich in the restaurant . Now she wants an operation and she's going to talk to Dr . Lester . The astounded Cusack shouts , " But Dr . Lester is an ALLERGIST ! " The next evening , Cusack and his wife are having dinner at home with Keener . They explain the situation to her , then they both throw themselves on Keener at the same time . Keener slaps Cusack away and tells Diaz that , yes , she finds Diaz attractive - - but only when Diaz is in Malkovich . Then it gets REALLY complicated . There is a pursuit at one point through the repressed memories of Malkovich's subconscious , with Malkovich seen peeing his pants on the school bus and sniffing panties . ( Malkovich - - the real Malkovich - - must have a heck of a sense of humor . His character admits to being stoned , and we see him exercising his libido , being snooty towards cab drivers , and so forth . ) The story ends up with Diaz fathering her own child by Keener while occupying Malkovich . If this were a novel , it would be something like Kafka's " Metamorphosis " or Nicholson Baker's " The Fermata , " both attempt to follow the logic of an absurd premise . Example of what I mean : When John Cusack returns from his first trip into Malkovich's brain , he no longer has the piece of wood he took with him . In the face of Keener's skepticism , Cusack demands to know where that piece of wood IS . Did it disappear in the ether ? Is it still somehow back there in Malkovich's brain ? Good question . As a film it most closely resembles something that Woody Allen might have come up with if Allen had been in the habit of ingesting psychedelic substances , or something Monty Python might have dreamed up without any chemical help . ( I must say I didn't get much out of " Brazil . " ) If you want a sense of the lengths to which this film is willing to go , imagine a scene from " Swan Lake " being performed in front of a full audience , involving the entire corps de ballet , with a human-sized wooden puppet in the middle of a circle of ballerinas , and the puppet is unclothed , made of raw wood , with all his hinges and joints showing , and the audience stands up and applauds . In an era when American movies seem to have been formed by cookie cutters , this kind of innovation is startling . Should you watch this ? Well , I'll tell you how you can find out . You go to a clinical psychologist , see , and you sit down and take the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory ( MMPI ) , and then you ask the shrink what your profile looks like . If he says ANYTHING like , " You peaked on Scale Eight , " you should definitely see this film because you'll appreciate and enjoy it more than most . Otherwise - - well , it's your mind .
Good Big-Budget Epic .	A decent cast and some tight writing make this a pretty good spectacle . Poor Odysseus ( Armand Assante ) . He spends ten years fighting for the Greeks in the Trojan War , and it takes him another nine years to survive the return trip and reach his kingdom in Ithaca . He undergoes many adventures - - some good and some horrifying - - along the way , and meanwhile at home his wife Penelope ( Greta Scacchi ) is fending off dozens of suitors who believe Odysseus is dead and who want to take over his island and his wife . Why does Odysseus have such a tough time ? Because he overreached . After he figured out how to get inside the walls of Troy ( the Trojan Horse ) he bragged aloud that he could do anything he wanted without the help of the gods . Poseidon ( who later became the Roman Neptune ) heard him and was royally browned off , so he regularly interfered with the sea voyage of Odysseus and his men . PO'ing the gods was one of three cardinal sins for the Greeks , called hubris . A second sin was pleonaxis , being overly materialistic . I forget the third sin . I think it may have had to do with pronouncing " nuclear " as " nukyoolar . " This version has a couple of good things going for it . In the DVD commentary , Assante says that the writers managed to trim it down to an adventure story , leaving out the philosophizing . But I don't remember much philosophizing in the original . If there's a message in Homer's tale it's that the dice of the gods are loaded . At least this version HAS gods in it , while other films built around The Iliad and The Oddysey have tended to eliminate them entirely and turn the sources into sword and sandal epics full of muscle men . Furthermore , these gods aren't remote , distant , humorless giants . They're playful , whimsical and sometimes spiteful , like the originals . Some episodes are deleted , like Odysseus ' affair with the teen-age Nausicaa . And we don't get to see Odysseus recognized by his old dog , Argus , when he finally returns in disguise to Ithaca . I don't know why it was left out . Everybody likes dogs except people who like cats . The dialog is stylized but rendered in prose , which is okay . " Iambic pentameter helps you remember the lines . " ( I think that sentence is in iambic pentameter , if I counted correctly . ) Homer just put that into the story to make it easier to remember . Rhymes and metric lines are memory pegs . ( " Thirty days hath September . . . . " ) The story was an oral tradition . If you left out " wine-dark " before sea , you knew you'd messed up something in your recitation . The photography and location shooting are achingly gorgeous . The cast is full of well-known names , some of whom do better than others . Assante is a believable Odysseus . He's given some time to mourn the loss of his men , as is proper , and is allowed to weep convincingly . Of the rest , most are pretty good . Except , I must say that Vanessa Williams , a real stunner , is poorly wardrobed ( when she's wearing anything ) and sounds like an amateur actress compared to the others . Eric Roberts is Eurymachus , the chief suitor , and adds some touches to the role as a real scuzzbag . The special effects beat those in any other version that I'm aware of . Scylla , the multiple-headed monster who snatches men off ships and eats them , is truly spooky , looking like a highly sentient and directional Venus fly trap . Ugh . The cyclops is no better . He traps the Greeks in his cave and after eating one or two , he gets drunk until , as Homer put it in one translation , he falls asleep " dribbling liquor and bits of men . " The " no-man " ruse is retained . You know something ? This is a pretty good story for a whole family . The kids will learn something about ancient Greece and they'll be entertained by the ( considerable ) violence . A generation ago , there was a great push to discard the works of " dead , white European males " from high school and college curricula in favor of multi-culturalism . By " multi-culturalism " I didn't get the impression that anyone wanted to read the Baghavad Gita or the Analects of Confucius , just mostly contemporary works critical of Euroamerican culture . But here's a literary icon of that culture - - and it couldn't be more " other " if it tried .
Just the facts .	I've given this film a good rating because , based as it is on a set of particular facts , it doesn't fit into the usual war-film mold . It may be so mainly by default , but that doesn't make it any less original . Here's the mold . A small group of soldiers sets out on a difficult mission . There are fire fights . Some of the men die . The enemy is faceless . The mission is successfully completed . If they are captured , they escape . If the patrol was cocky at the start , they return chastened . In this film , the impression one gets is that the mission of the British patrol was only partly completed , since their presence was discovered and they had to leave their observation post under fire . In trying to reach the safety of the Syrian border the eight men lose each other . And Andy MacNab ( Sean Bean ) is captured by Iraqis . The second half of the film has us watching his suffering in a special prison . The Iraqis aren't entirely faceless either . They beat hell out of MacNab but not before showing us some of the reasons for the Iraqi's rage . An elderly man , weeping operatically , uncovers the mutilated body of his son , one of the Iraqi soldiers killed during a fire fight , before throwing himself on a British prisoner and feebly squeezing and pinching his face . Later we learn that the patrol has killed more than a hundred Iraqis and put another hundred in the hospital . The torture MacNab and the two other members of his patrol undergo is convincing without being overly dwelt on . He spends most of his time manacled , stripped , and blindfolded . A dentist pulls out one of MacNab's teeth . But the most telling degradation is when MacNab is forced to clean out a primitive toilet that has become clogged , using only his bare hands , and when finished , he is made to lick his hands clean . A viewer might ask if this is really " torture " , and the answer might well be , " not according to the definition now employed by the US government , since there is no pain and no question of organ failure . " Unlike most fictional war stories , the three British prisoners don't escape . Moreover , MacNab tells his captors what they want to know about his unit and its mission , distributing little misleading lies here and there to diminish the value of the information . Of course MacNab protests the Iraqi treatment of him and his two colleagues because it isn't permitted by the Geneva Convention . His captor deals him a blow and adds , " We are not in Geneva . " MacNab and four others out of the eight-man patrol manage to reach home through the offices of the Red Cross . " War is barbaric , " MacNab muses , but he holds little ill will against his torturers since they were just doing their jobs . He does , however , dislike the Iraqis who seemed to enjoy inflicting pain , and if he met one of them on the street , he would probably slug him . At least I THINK that's what he thought . The working-class accents and the slang were so thick that I was unable to understand some of the exchanges . MacNab is pretty philosophical about his experiences , and not at all chastened or brutalized . Naturally war is barbaric , but MacNab knew that , going in , and he has no intention of giving up the profession of arms . He doesn't seem to have any real enemies , doesn't hate anybody , and surely isn't anxious to be captured and tortured again , but what the hell , the army has given him a chance to be all he can be ! In the usual war movie , our side almost always wins , sometimes at great sacrifice . Here , the conflict kind of peters out , as great historical events have a way of doing . That may or may not make for a satisfying narrative , but it does resemble life a little more closely .
Dirty Little Dozen .	Most movies about kids and sports are pretty boring but this one , though not flawless , is quite a lot of fun . The director , Michael Ritchie , has this obsession with competitive sports . In his movies , when people want to relax they go water skiing . But he's found the humor in this mostly formulaic story of a Little League team in the San Fernando Valley that rises from outcast status to number two in the league . Number TWO , mind you , not number one , thank God . They didn't win the pennant but everybody , including Walter Matthau as their manager , gave it their best shot . Giving it your best shot was one of the many good features of " Rocky " as well , until it became clear that Rocky only lost the fight in order to make way for sequels . Let me get the unconvincing stuff out of the way first . ( There isn't much of it . ) In one scene , Tatum O'Neal , the Bears ' pitcher , is trying to get Matthau and her mother , estranged , back together and Matthau explodes with rage and tells O'Neal that he doesn't want her company and never did , throws a can of beer at her , and tells her to beat it . She leaves Matthau brooding alone in the dug out and - - get this - - he TEARS UP . Now , one thing Matthau does not do is tear up and cry . He didn't even tear up in " A Face in the Crowd " when he discovered that the woman he loved was at that very moment sharing a bed with a chiseler . And it's not simply that he cries . It's that the scene completely lacks motivation . He's never said a harsh word about O'Neal's mother and has always treated O'Neal herself with masked tenderness , if a manipulativeness that's colorful and flamboyant . There's another worrisome property in the script . The dispirited kids of course at the start want to win a couple of games . The manager couldn't care less but as he suffers insults from other adults , he begins to whip the kids into shape , and as the pennant seems closer he becomes zealous , shouting at the kids and punishing them . The kids become resentful because the game is no longer a team effort and , more important , not so much fun anymore . ( See " The Private War of Major Benson , " " Major Payne , " " Fear Strikes out , " inter alia , for examples . ) The manager must learn that " winning isn't everything . " Although , of course , it IS . Finito . The good parts . There are some scenes that are very funny indeed . At the Bears ' first game , Matthau is a careless drunk . His first words to the team's sponsor : " Where's the check ? " His second words : " You forgot to sign the check . " None of the kids knows what position he's playing and they all run to catch a grounder and one kid picks it up and throws it towards second base , which is empty . The kids fight over who's supposed to be the shortstop . In the dug out , a tiny kid asks Matthau : " That's an error , isn't it ? " Matthau , as placid as ever , explains patiently , unflappably , " It's an error on the throw but not on the infield because nobody was there . " The kids use obscenities of a sort they wouldn't be able to use today , no matter that in real life those same words are in everyday use among kids that age . I can't even print some in this comment . The use of tunes from Georges Bizet's opera " Carmen " is particularly apt . Masculine competition in pursuit of an uncertain prize . I have to mention just one other thing . Matthau is forced to find a sponsor for the uniforms his outcasts will wear . The end result , at the playoffs , is that the Bears wind up wearing blouses with " Chico's Bail Bonds " on the back , while their opponents wear " Denny's . " A hit - - a palpable hit . I admire the kids ' ability to play ball , probably because of my own proprioceptive deficit , but what's this movie about , anyway ? Character development , okay , but it's character as reflected in the context of competition . Herbert Spencer was surely not the first person to observe that in-group pride requires the hatred of an out-group . We often hear that " every winner implies a loser " but it's untrue . The fact is that every winner implies a vast NUMBER of losers . Not just the guy or the team who came in second , but those who came in third , fourth , and . . . nth . And , human nature being what it is , what's the likely response to the outcome of any competitive display ? Of all those losers , many of them will resent the winners as " cheaters " and " bullies " . The winners in turn will disdainfully dismiss the losers as " whiners " and " incompetents " . All of our vernacular examples seem directed at teaching us how to win . Where do we learn how to lose properly ? And , oh , how we need those lessons because there are a lot more of us than there are of them .
Slow , gorgeous tale of romance and cholera .	Englishman Edward Norton , a dedicated microbiologist , is married to toothsome Naomi Watts in this film , and he catches her in flagrante delicto with married Liev Schreiber . This disappoints Norton . Together the couple travel to a remote Chinese village where Norton devotes his time to trying to solve a cholera epidemic and Watts mopes around and looks for something to do at the orphanage run by Mother Superior Diana Rigg . The estranged couple befriend a fellow Englishman played by Toby Jones , who was Truman Capote in " Infamous . " ( I forget all the characters ' names but they're not too important anyway unless they carry some sort of symbolic weight . ) Under the wary eyes of the Nationalist Chinese , Norton finally figures out how to stop the cholera epidemic , resolving the enigma of the fever chart . At the same time he comes to forgive Watts ' adultery , and even to accept placidly the fact that she is pregnant and that the child may be Schreiber's , not his . Alas , Norton himself is undone by the disease and is buried in the village's new cemetery . Back in England , Watts carries on , with what seems a mixture of sadness and content , with her little boy . By accident she runs into Schreiber , who puts a move on her , but she dismisses him cleanly . She's grown up now , and not given to impulse . Now , in the 1930s this would have been put out by MGM or some other major study with somebody like Clark Gable or Walter Houston in the lead , a muscular study of colonial beneficence , where all the men wear white suits and pith helmets and carry pistols , and the women were just as tough . In this case , the story moves along slowly and gives us some glimpses of Guangxi , which has perhaps the picturesque scenery in China . It deserves to be committed to water colors and undoubtedly has . It's good to see it finally in a Western film . I know a little bit about Guangxi because I was in a China Studies program in graduate school before joining the other dropouts who had seen the handwriting on the wall and noticed that it was in English . Norton's English accent is pretty good and he does an equally fine job of conveying the character of Doctor Fane . Naomi Watts has a hard job trying to be reckless but she makes up for it by being so deprived and hungry through the rest of the movie . She positively YEARNS for some kind of physical and emotional contact . I'd have forgiven her a lot sooner than pre-choleric Norton did . Jones is a useful character too , providing an outsider's perspective , though his role is small . Probably the best lines are given to Diana Rigg's Mother Superior . Wow ! Rigg used to be a stunning , sensual beauty in " The Avengers " . Now she's a stunning , perceptive old lady . Listen to her describe her relationship to God . At first it was a passionate love affair , then it deteriorated into a kind of companionate marriage , like an elderly couple sitting side by side on the couch with nothing much left to say . The director handles the camera well and does a good job with the mob scenes . At one point , the villagers chase Watts , calling her a lo fen , and she's saved by the semi-comic Nationalist soldier assigned to guard her . She escapes . The villagers turn and look menacingly at the gulping guard . Cut . Next time we see the Nationalist guard he's got a black eye . I haven't read Somerset Maugham's 1925 book so I don't know how closely the film follows it . I think I'd have preferred a little more about the cholera epidemic and a little less protraction over the sterile relationships between the burnt Norton and the amped Watts , but that's Maugham for you , more interested in people than instruments . Maugham wasn't a fancy writer , not an experimentalist in any way . He adored Chekhov's plain style . He had a story to tell and told it without much in the way of garnish . And he had a good sense of humor , even if it involved self mockery . Asked about his literary status , he described himself as " right up there in the first rank of the second rate . " He said other amusing things about his homosexuality and about his old age , but let it rest . The movie is deliberate , thoughtful , and nobody gets shot , so I suppose it's made for adults . And not a bad job either .
Warm , subtle family story .	It's the story of a black middle-school girl ( Keke Palmer ) from the wrong Los Angeles neighborhood who comes out of nowhere and - - exercising her native skill and a good deal of patience - - manages to tie for the championship in the national spelling bee . We know ahead of time that , as in " Searching for Bobby Fisher " , " Stand and Deliver , " or any number of similar stories , she's not going to lose . ( Unless they pull an ambiguous ending , as in " Rocky " , to leave room for a sequel . That's not really where the drama lies . This tiny , spunky girl , upon whom so much responsibility rests , has to deal with a dysfunctional family , a peer group that hates her for her excellence , an obsessive spelling coach ( Lawrence Fishburn ) , and the usual challenges associated with correctly spelling words such as " logorrhea " and " xylum " - - I mean " xylem . " Except for the uplifting ending , which leaves everybody celebrating , except for the one or two thousand kids who didn't make the cut , it doesn't really pull many punches , though neither does it deliver them too forcefully . Her miscreant brother , for instance , who hangs out with gangsta types , sees Akeelah's pursuit of the championship - - and even her interest in scholarly subjects - - as a sell out of her black heritage . She's getting a little too white for him , and he lets her know it too . ( Alas , it all turns out all right at the end when the brother's gangsta boss turns out to have a long-buried interest in literature that he is able , with no difficulty , to exhume . We never do learn just what this boss does for a living , but that's a punch that had to land softly , otherwise this might have been an entirely different kind of movie . ) Akeelah's mother is a tough , beautiful woman trying to keep a family together when they are being pulled apart by conflicting interests , some of them okay ( the U . S . Air Force ) , others not so savory . And Lawrence Fishburn as the coach has to learn to chill out and not be so humorless . He learns this from Akeelah when she gives him an explicit lecture on the subject . Now , this is no work of art and the territory it covers is mostly familiar , but not entirely so . Black kids will be able to get into this and may get quite a lot out of it . Kids of other races will enjoy it too , though they may not quite grasp why Akeelah's classmates come to shun her . Living is made up of cooperation and competition . The movie recognizes this . But it offers broader horizons for both success strategies than most of us are aware of . Yes , you need to be loyal to your family and friends , but you can feel allegiance to less commonly acknowledged values as well . ( Let's call this one " self fulfillment . " ) And competition needn't be limited to the basketball court or the dating scene . You can spread it around a little more than that . And there's no need to be intimidated by someone else's race or ethnic group . If this film tries to teach us anything - - and it does - - that's the lesson . It's not really about spelling bees , which are silly anyway . I came in second in the fifth grade , just because snooty Barbara Lukashinsky knew how to spell " nickel " correctly . What a ridiculous word . It SHOULD be spelled " nickle . " For the most part , this is a mature film made for families , somewhat more than an after-school special . Not bad .
They Seek Him Everywhere .	Sink me , a dammed good movie about the Reign of Terror and the dangerous efforts of an Englishman known as the Scarlet Pimpernel , aka Sir Percy Blakeney , aka Leslie Howard , and his small band of colleagues to rescue at least a few aristocrats from the French guillotine . The film has three themes going on at the same time : ( 1 ) Howard's constant trips to France to smuggle out the aristos ; ( 2 ) the measures taken by the French ambassador to England ( Raymond Massey , the one with the ineradicable sneer ) to discover the hidden identity of the Pimpernel ; and ( 3 ) the fact that Howard's wife is being blackmailed to pass that secret identity over to the French so they can capture him and lop off his head . It's an unpleasant situation altogether . The French aristocrats and their neglectful king were bad enough - - though we hear only one guilty reference to some " mistakes " they made . But the Reign of Terror - - covered also in Dickens ' " A Tale of Two Cities " - - was worse , if possible . They lopped off the heads of everyone associated with the French nobility , including men , their families , their children , some of the servants , any rebellious anti-rebels , and - - well , just about anybody they wanted . One proud revolutionary , Condorcet , had to write a tract in support of the movement while hiding out himself from his fellow citizens under suspicion of harboring anti-revolutionary thoughts . At the head of the French citizens was the dictator manqué Robespierre . I think his head wound up under the guillotine as well . So did that of M . Guillotine , the inventor of the device . And what did the French revolution wind up with ? Napolean . Sometimes revolutions , or any social movements , can go too far . Read my forthcoming study of the subject : " Why All Revolutions Should Take Place Inside the Head . " The direction and photography are grand . Huge ballrooms crowded with fine ladies and gentlemen listening to Mozart . The score is by Arthur Benjamin , who also wrote " The Storm Cloud Sonata " for Alfred Hitchcock's " The Man Who Knew Too Much . " A scene in which Leslie Howard , posing as a fop , appears to be sprawled asleep on a library chair while Raymond Massey ( always dressed in dark garb as befits a villain ) paces around waiting for the Pimpernel to stumble in . A scene in which Massey finally captures Howard in France and orders the firing squad to execute him , only to find out the squad belongs to Howard . And here you can tell the novel was written by a woman . The firing squad don't kill Massey either . Under Howard's orders they just dump him into a wet hole in the floor and cover it with a heavy barrel while they escape . If the writer had been a man , he would have concocted a magnificent duel using swords and furniture , with the two men exchanging insults , and Massey fighting dirty . A final dramatic shot of Howard and his lovely wife , Merle Oberon , as they reach England and the key light fades from their smiling faces and they become silhouettes against a romantically fuzzy , yet still slightly ominous , backlight . There's more intrigue than action in the story , and it doesn't carry with it Dickens ' genuine concern for realism , but it pumps up the tension and we are always rooting for the hero who must play the humiliating part of the fool in the interests of justice . How the Scarlet Pimpernel must have wanted to tear off that lace and fling away that monocle-on-a-stick and declare himself for what he was . We may call this " the Clark Kent Problem . " Speaking of Howard's being an English Baron and pretending to be a clothes-conscious fop - - one step removed from fairyhood - - I can't bring myself to believe that the writers of " The Mark of Zorro " weren't familiar with this tale .
Moral mystery .	Three issues dealt with in this movie . ( 1 ) Who murdered Mona , the transsexual ? ( 2 ) Will the sheriff , Billy Bob Thornton , overcome his revulsion for queers , men who dry flowers , women who like to wear spike collars , people of either sex who lust after cold sauerkraut , and other assorted wimps and pre-verts sufficiently to come to be truly in love with Mona's wife , Scarlett ( Arquette ) ? And ( 3 ) whatever is going to become of all these corrupt politicians ? The movie is nicely shot on location in Louisiana . The direction is competent , with only a few quick shots to dizzy the viewer . And the plot has a lot of texture to it . We honestly get the feeling that everyone in the parish knows everyone else . When a truck overturns and spills its load of shoes along the side of the road , Thornton makes several phone calls to the folks to come out and get some free shoes ! Thornton's performance is really quite good . His morals are no better than they should be , perhaps . He shags his deputy's wife in the back seat of her own car . He hands out spilled shoes recklessly . He cheated on the wife who now despises him and has virtually no contact with his daughter , to whom he is irrelevant . Yet he comes across as a laid back sort of Southerner , easy going but a man who will stand firm when he feels he's being given the business . Not that he's one of those super action heroes . Thornton himself is no muscle man , and a black guy in a New Orleans strip club easily subdues him . Patricia Arquette is such a cool blonde she seems positively Icelandic . And what eyes ! It's impossible to put the color of her irises into words . Sela Ward is beautiful , classy , and voluptuous , and Thornton is a cretin for having cheated on her . I enjoyed William DeVane as the Southern judge too . DeVane is always reliable , and it's fun to see him as a genial and corrupt old pol , hobbling around on his walking stick . But it's Thornton who makes the movie , and he's very good . Who killed Mona ? ( SPOILERS ) Mona was shot by a factory reject with an IQ in the negative numbers and a moral code to match . The killing was simplicity itself . Almost everything else layered on in between tells us more about the community and its politics than about the murderer . Simply put , in the beginning , Thornton finds Mona's dead body . At the end he discovers that the overweight garage owner has a hole drilled through the wall of the lady's room so he can watch what goes on . When he discovers that Mona is anatomically male he goes berserk and Thornton gets him . The end . But it brings us to issue numbers two and three . The movie draws a clear line between the " righteous " members of the community and the " oddballs " who live in New Orleans . Thornton at first is between the two but is repelled by hookers , no matter how sympathetic , amused when he finds that the victim's body has a penis . He has kicked his gay brother out of the Parish in order to be elected sheriff . By the end , it turns out that unfettered righteousness is more dangerous than open paraphilia . The reason Mona was in the Parish in the first place is that she had been brought from New Orleans to attend a stag party given by the politicians . And she was killed by a man who believes her murder was justified because " she shoulda never used the lady's room . " Thornton rethinks his morality and comes to accept the oddballs for the human beings that they are . I don't mean the movie is that preachy . Nobody makes speeches about it . It simply shows us Thornton's greater tolerance , which makes it possible for him to rebond with his family and with Arquette . It's a decent flick , although people who think homosexual are sick , pre-verted , and deserving of death are unlikely to find it enjoyable in any way .
Workable thriller .	Kind of an enjoyable , undemanding political thriller in which Tommy Lee Jones is a hired assassin and Gene Hackman is an Army sergeant who tries to find him , while he himself is hunted by the police after being framed for a murder . There are predictable elements in the plot . A car chase through the streets of Chicago , a bloody assassination in Germany , Russians who scowl and look like albino prunes , Nazi thugs , bullets through the forehead , a sniper with a very professional looking rifle , a patsy , a vast right-wing conspiracy involving the Army , the Chicago police , and some independent agents . Actually , the plot lost me here and there . ( Why did Jones have to be smuggled into the USA under a false identity ? ) But it doesn't matter . Things roll right along , with fine location shooting in a bleak Chicago winter . Those snowy windy deserted alleys will freeze your eyeballs for you . Hackman has never damaged a film he's been in . Tommy Lee Jones is unique in his delivery . Joanna Cassidy has a face full of character . Hardy Kruger looks just as he did 30 years ago . What happened to his career ? He's hardly on screen here , and is only given two lines , one of them in Russian . And he was so good in " Sundays and Cybele . " Dennis Franz contributes an authentic Chicago accent , which somehow manages to transmogrify the word " car " into " care " . All of which is to say the acting is quite good . It's a relatively realistic movie too . Nobody performs superhero stunts . Hackman is the hero and yet is flawed enough to get beaned over the head and , later , captured . Nobody leaps tall buildings in a single bound . There are no exploding fireballs or heads . The narrative is straightforward and unadorned by slow-motion deaths or fancy photography . The director has shown a bit of taste . If you're not in the mood to have your thought provoked or your emotions gripped , this is a good movie to watch , as you while away your time .
Huston Goes to War .	John Huston , the Hollywood director who made the war-time documentaries described in this film , is rather a dull interview subject but a fascinating guy . He had the long , thin , somewhat bashed-in face of the boxer that he once was . He'd also been mixed up in the Mexican cavalry and other enterprises that seem outré by contemporary standards . He wound up a writer , then a director , in Hollywood . Among his credits : " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre , " " The Asphalt Jungle , " " The African Queen , " and " The Maltese Falcon . " Quite a guy - - and quite a director . In this interview - - interspersed with sometimes long segments from his war-time documentaries - - he relaxes and casually relates some of his experiences as a captain , later a major , in the US Army Signal Corps . The output was varied . " Let There Be Light " will come as something of a shock to people who believe that hysterical illnesses under stress , formerly known as shell shock , is nothing more than a sign of moral weakness or a fake way of avoiding combat . " Report From the Aleutians " , Huston tells us , was only a " propaganda film " and it shows . His magnum opus was " The Battle of San Pietro . " Huston and his crew shot it on the spot in Italy , around or near the famous Monte Cassino . It couldn't be more different from John Ford's sentimental and heroic " Battle of Midway . " The narrative and the images are a blunt report of what happened . Words or expressions like " bravery " or " the supreme sacrifice " do not occur . There are shots of American bodies - - American , mind you - - being wrapped up in mattress covers . ( No faces are shown . ) Enlisted men are hit and fall while being filmed . An attack by American soldiers against almost impregnable defensive terrain begins . From the narrative : " At 100 yards our men began taking heavy fire . . . . No one made it beyond the 800-yard line . " That's it . No , " This smiling soldier is Chester C . Smith from Frankfort , Indiana . He sure likes those C rations ! " Smith may be just another body folded up among the Italian rocks . " The Battle of San Pietro " was heavily edited by the military . Huston describes the first showing in a screening room with a dozen or so high-ranking officers . After a while , the ranking general stood up and walked out . A few minutes later , the second highest-ranking general followed , and so on down the line until Huston was practically alone in the screening room . Huston comments : " I thought , ' What holes . ' " But he doesn't tell any jokes or funny stories during the interview , nor does he seem moved emotionally . At one point , loud barking can be heard in the background and Huston growls , " Cut ! damn that dog . " For the rest , he presentation is full of pauses and hesitations . He's not very entertaining as an interview subject . He really doesn't have to be .
Slick and Successful	An above-average entry in the series . A stage magician , the ever-loathsome Jack Cassidy , sneaks away in mid-act while supposedly hidden in a locked box and snuffs his partner and blackmailer , Nehemia Persoff . Cassidy's secret is that he was a guard in a concentration camp when he was young and it simply wouldn't do much for his career if his previous identity were to be leaked out . The murder , of course , is all Persoff's fault anyway . As a blackmailer he's unskilled . A good blackmailer , like a good virus or parasite , never demands so much of the host that the host expires . It asks just enough . Anyway , enter Columbo , stage left , in the brand new stylish brown raincoat his wife just bought him . In the course of the film he does everything possible to get rid of it short of throwing it away . He leaves it out in the open to be stolen - - in his car and at police headquarters . Cassidy , " The Great Santini " , has planned several tiers of deception to give himself an alibi . First he won't reveal where he was at the time of the murder because it is a professional secret . ( Illusionists take these things seriously . " The trick is told when the trick is sold . " ) Columbo finds out Cassidy's location despite the lack of cooperation , but Cassidy has another level of camouflage prepared . In the end , Columbo penetrates that as well , not so much by a careful assembling of clues and physical evidence but , as is usual , by an intuition so keen as to be almost magical in its own right . I mean , for instance , what the hell makes Columbo suspect the stage magician in the first place ? There are roles for Bob Dishy and Robert Loggia too , but they're so minor as to be almost cameos . The most memorable supporting player is Cassidy's daughter Della , played by Cynthia Sikes . Not that she can act , but she looks mouthwateringly delicious in that glittering one-piece outfit she wears onstage as Cassidy's assistant magician . I wonder who's going to take care of her after Cassidy is put away ? I'd have volunteered . She might have shown me some tricks . It's an episode I always look forward to watching . There's nothing unusual about it . It's formulaic . But the formula , at its best , was so good .
Lots of fun	The Commedia dell'Arte is an old Italian form of stage presentation , dating from the 16th century and featuring a series of stock characters like Arlecchino , Pantolone , Pulchnello , and Capitano . Everyone in the audience knew their comic weaknesses and looked forward to seeing them on display , kind of like a John Ford movie . The characters were called zanni and played practical jokes on each other ( called " burle " , which gives us " burlesque . " ) As in this movie the humor was often improvised . When the form was taken to France , Arlecchino became Harlequin , Pantalone became Pantaloon ( from which we get our " pants " ) , Pulchinello morphed into Punch , and Capitano , a character who was a braggart soldier , was changed to Scaramouche and became an admired acrobatic mime , which suited French tastes . Sorry for the tedious introduction but it helps to get the interesting history out of the way fast . The rest of the movie is a comic book and , like a comic book , filled with colorful people in comic-book costumes , zestful and exuberant . If you want a movie to have zip , one way of doing it is to have lots of people riding horses . But the horses should always be ridden at a gallop , and with slightly accelerated motion . ( The gallops were shot partly in Golden Gate Park . ) Another way of adding action is to have the lovers fight each other physically , as in " Taming of the Shrew " , instead of wistfully melting into each others ' arms at every meeting and parting . A third way is to build the main plot around a few well-choreographed action scenes - - and in this respect the movie is superb . " Scaramouche " reminds one of Errol Flynn at his best , in " The Adventures of Robin Hood . " Instead of Saxons and Normans , we have aristocrats and poor people . ( Fortunately the Saxons in " Robin Hood " didn't win a revolution and implement a reign of terror . ) The aristocrats dress in outrageously ornate costumes . The poor people are in dark clothes , like the figure on the Quaker Oats package . There's quite a lot of fencing but much of it is brief and in long shot . There are three main encounters between Stewart Granger and his nemesis Mel Ferrer . Granger is manly and well built and forceful in his style . Ferrer is long-limbed and lanky , deceptively clumsy at times , but he has never given a more graceful physical performance . In the first match between the two , Granger knows nothing about the sword and hacks away at Ferrer , who stands there nonchalantly , smiling , leaning on his weapon as if it were a walking stick between easy parries . In the second , Granger has picked up a few tricks but is still easily outmatched and has to escape through one of those secret doors in a paneled wall . The third match is more than six minutes long and is as well staged as any duel on screen - - better than anything in " Robin Hood " and at least as good as " The Mark of Zorro . " Granger swings off the stage on a rope to confront Ferrer who is in the theater balcony . And you should see Stewart's wardrobe in this scene ! Unbelievable skin-tight leotards , white boots with furry tops , a white cape - - everything - - mostly white with black accents . Ferrer strips off his jacket and is dressed in black shoes and stockings , black pants , black vest , and a white blouse with ruffles , mostly black , that is . ( I warned you this was a comic book . ) The ensuing duel wanders all over the theater while the spectators tumble out of the actors ' way . Note the scene where the advantage changes from Ferrer to Granger when the fight moves from the bottom of the stairs to the rows of theater seats . Ferrer does an almost impossible balletic leap from one row to the next , twirling around in midair . ( Another footnote : original ballet steps borrowed heavily from contemporary fencing movements . Sorry . ) The movie has its sad moments too , and the plot is a bit complicated although never hard to follow . But its overall tonus is comedic , as befits Scaramouche's venue . Granger may not be Errol Flynn but he's pretty good , and a better actor . The two women in his life are adequate , but Janet Leigh was a beginner and it shows . She was to be better in some later movies like " Psycho . " She looks like a porcelain doll in some shots . The supporting players are all professionally competent . It's an entertaining and well-crafted piece of entertainment - - exciting and vibrant with color . A comic book worth checking out .
Unusual low-key medical drama .	In the ten years or so before this film's release there was a flurry of high-profile breakthroughs in cardiovascular surgery . Heart transplants , bypass surgery , mechanical hearts , animal hearts in human bodies . Names like DeBakey became household words . One might imagine this low-budget movie to be a sensationalized cashing in on the popularity of the subject , but it isn't that at all . It's a slow-moving and thoughtful story of a young woman's having an artificial heart implant , the original bionic woman . And it's no small thing . Not to the administrators , not to the inventor , not to the surgeon , and certainly not to the patient . The surgeon is Donald Southerland and he's already world famous , the kind of guy who strikes awe in others at medical conventions . And Southerland's performance , like those of the other principals , is unimpeachable . He's the kind of guy you want for your surgeon when your time comes - - always relaxed , confident , sympathetic but honest , and eyeball-coagulatingly competent . Marcus Welby without the small-town cornball crap . When he finishes the climactic two-and-a-half hour operation , he goes to his office , props his feet carelessly on a table , sighs , and watches TV . The majority of us would be out getting juiced up or sobbing in a church pew . The best thing about Southerland's character is his lack of arrogance . He's not a narcissist despite the standing ovation . And the actor is able to project this , the kind of self-regard that comes not from pride but from satisfaction at having done a good job and helped someone else in the process . I've seen standing ovations for professionals and the recipients were all visibly moved more than Southerland , who seems surprised . Vincent Scully got such an ovation before his last class at Yale . I never got a standing ovation , but I got several good laughs . Once at a late-night lecture on sociological theory I spoonerized the term " structural-functional . " And once at a convention , a stranger approached me with a shy smile and said , " You're ( insert my name here ) , aren't you ? " I blushed slightly and admitted to being that personage and asked if he was familiar with my work . " No , I don't know you , " he said , " I just read your name tag . " The impudent pup . A standing ovation and five dollars will get you a free cafe mocha at Starbuck's . Where was I ? Oh , yes . The movie . Jeff Goldblum is the inventor . And man is he a different type . Where Doctor Southerland avoids publicity and hossanahs from the press , knowing that something could go South at any moment , Goldblum takes eagerly to the airways . He's not an egotist either , but a visionary . You know , the kind of guy who intuits the future and carries on about " new paradigms . " Southerland becomes angry and tries unsuccessfully to keep Goldblum quiet . The script has a surgeon ask Goldblum if he is a doctor . " Yes - - umm , biology . " The surgeon says contemptuously , " Biology . That explains it . Treat some patients for a while . " Unfortunately some MDs do have this attitude . If you have no clinical practice you don't know anything . Which is rather like Arnold Schwarzenegger saying that if you haven't lifted weights you don't know anything . The patient who receives this plastic / metal contraption is Mare Winningham , who is quite good , and who is exactly right for the part . She's young , but not too young . Pretty , but not heartbreakingly so . Winsome but not pathetic . After the operation , when it is clear that she will recover , she lies in bed scared to death , frightened because if she goes to sleep the heart might stop . What a nice touch , and nothing much is made of it . That brings us to the aspect of the film which many people will probably find daunting . It's slow . Nobody shouts angrily at anyone . There is no fist fight . There isn't an underground chamber where comatose bodies are suspended from cables and their organs harvested . The central figure in the drama is the heart itself and we hardly know anything about it . We have no idea how it works . We hardly even SEE it . We get to see a lot of other surgical-type things though - - angiograms and that sort of stuff , the kind that Linda Blair underwent in the course of " The Exorcist . " Interesting details about an operation in which somebody gets an artificial valve . I always wondered how they got that little ring in there and now I have some idea . The sutures in this case are too long and Southerland casually rebukes his scrub nurse with a soft wisecrack , " What do you want me to do , sew it up from the other room ? " So there's no blood , no violence , no sex , nobody poisons anyone else or does anyone in a laundry room . Instead of grand opera we're given a small leisurely story of a successful artificial heart implant . The Big Themes we might expect from a script written by a committee of MBAs are only suggested . " Will I be the same ? " " The religious people are after me . " The extension of those glimmers of doubt or of definition is left up to the viewer . Recommended - - if you're patient .
Tense police story .	The beginning slips by in a jiffy and the rest of the movie doesn't pause for long either , so if you don't pay attention you might get lost . I'm happy to report that none of the confusion evolves out of all the Chinese characters looking alike , because I can easily distinguish , for instance , the " good " mole's Dr . Lee from all the other characters . She's gorgeous . At any rate , as the plot unfolds the characters become a little clearer and the plot , while still thickened , never quite clots . I saw Scorsese's " The Departed " before seeing this , the original . They're slightly different . I'll mention three ways . One is that in " Infernal Affairs " Sam , the capo of the gang , is merely a tough businessman who will , when necessary , stoop to murder . In Scorsese's remake , the role is much juicier and goes to Jack Nicholson who makes the most of it . In the remake , the " bad " mole at the end is assassinated by a secondary character . His last words are something like , " Go ahead and do it . " In this one , the punishment is less violent and more subtle . The bad mole suffers a crisis of conscience , having lost his girl and his self respect , and become instead a genuinely honest but guilt-ridden cop , suffering from what in Buddhism is called " continuous hell . " ( The title , " Infernal Affairs , " would be silly if it weren't for this notion . ) Americans evidently are not Buddhists , don't believe in hell , don't believe in self-imposed suffering , and are all for blowing the bad guy's brains out . Finally , while " Infernal Affairs " is not exactly free of violence , it is practically anemic next to the blood bath that is " The Departed . " This is an impressively executed film . The photography is splendid and Hong Kong has never looked so clean . There's nothing special about the dialog , judging from the subtitles . I once found myself in the position of having to study Chinese and was pleased to learn that I could follow some of the dialog here . The parts of the dialog that I could follow were the English phrases , " Sorry , " " Yes , sir , " and " Okay . " Thank whatever God governs world history that Hong Kong was once a British Crown Colony . The performances were surprisingly good , the characters mostly believably ambiguous , with not a stereotype among them . Officer Yan - - the bad mole - - who had infiltrated the police force and worked as a spy for the mob for ten years , even managed to convince me that his climactic epiphany was genuine . And that was quite a task . The ends of Chief S . P . Wong and the good mole were honestly presented and , for me and I suppose most viewers , extremely regretful . It's well worth catching but keep your eyes and ears open , particularly in the first third of the film .
Light-hearted NYC heist flick .	It's a pretty dumb title - - " Cops and Robbers . " Sounds as if it ought to be a gritty urban crime tale starring maybe Steven Segal . Instead it's a good-natured look at two ordinary New York City cops who are tired of the violence and selfishness they see on the job , the greed and perspiration . They dream about getting their share of the goods too so that one of them ( Cliff Gorman ) can take his family to Bermuda and the other ( Joseph Bologna ) can become a farmer in Saskatchewan . The cops contact a mafioso ( John Ryan ) and tell him they want to get out , and they plan on doing it by stealing something and selling it to him for disposal . " What do you plan to steal ? " asks Ryan . " Whatever you'll pay two million dollars for , " replies Gorman . So they stage a robbery along lines suggested by Ryan , robbing an investment firm of ten million dollars worth of bearer bonds . The man who runs the firm , Mr . Eastpool ( Shephard Strudwick ) and his secretary ( Ellen Holly , a dish ) cooperate fully - - and for good reason . Afterward they claim TWELVE million was stolen , stealing the extra two million for themselves . " One million apiece ! " Bologna exclaims in disgust . The two don't actually steal anything because they are forced by circumstances to destroy the bonds . But they cheat Ryan out of the two million he agreed to pay , and the film ends with the pair lazing in the back yard of their modest home , smiling and gazing contentedly at an airliner way up there in the sky . The amusement is tempered with a good deal of suspense before and after the robbery as the usual things go wrong and reality intrusions occur . Gorman and Bologna work well together , the former slightly wall eyed and a little insane , the latter cherubic and frightened . In their false mustaches , each looks a little like Groucho Marx . Strudwick and Holly are better than simply good enough , too . Much of the credit must go to the director , Aram Avakian , watching whose documentary , " Jazz on a Summer's Day , " was almost as good as being there . Avakian gets a lot of smiles out of events in long shot . ( The kids might not get it . ) Example : Ryan is having his record typed up for an interview in the police station , looking very very Italian . " What's your name ? " asks the cop tonelessly from behind the desk . " Patsy O'Neal , " replies the smiling Ryan easily . The cop doesn't bat an eye as he types in , " Anielli , Pasquale . " Well , another example , because that last one didn't involve a long shot . A half dozen mafia types wearing shades and flowered shirts are leaning against the wall in front of a high mafioso's headquarters when Ryan's long limousine pulls up . Ryan sits patiently in the car while the armed goons spread out in a circle , like the Praetorian Guard , hands fondling the guns packed into their belts , eyes searching for enemies . Nothing much is made of it but the scene is quite funny . I won't describe any of the other amusing scenes except to say that you have to look for them . The comedy is effective but not outrageous . Nobody falls on his behind , and after the first few minutes there is no shooting . Easy going and diverting film , worth watching .
See the pretty airplanes and brave men !	Errol Flynn is a Navy doctor who witnesses the death of a flier and completes a program to become a flight surgeon . The regular aviators resent him , especially the squadron commander , Fred MacMurray . But Flynn and his earnest colleague , Ralph Bellamy , solve one problem after another in aviation medicine , climaxing with the successful test of a pressure suit that costs MacMurray his life . The story , interesting as it is , is overwhelmed by the magniloquent visual imagery . All the flight scenes , except for a second or two , were shot in the skies over San Diego , and they are simply gorgeous . They don't necessarily capture the sensation of being air born , of loosing the surly bonds of earth and all that , but the pictures are captivating . What splashes of color ! The navy blue uniforms glittering with gold , the taupe summer dress , the subfusc leather flight jackets and while silk scarves , the haricot green oxygen tubes , the maize life jackets , the cornflower blue skies and puffy bone-white cumulus formations . And the sleek airplanes themselves with their gay , pre-war paint schemes : teal blue tails , Chinese red cowlings , canary yellow wings with diagonal stripes of heliotrope , the dashing squadron insignia of fuchsia and chartreuse , and - - and - - wait , I've used up my thesaurus . But , really , I can't think of another film that beats these scenes of obsolete airplanes on the ground and in the air . It was released in 1941 and the irony is that every airplane we see , with only three exceptions that I was able to note , were already obsolete and about to be replaced , sometimes not soon enough . The dive bombers are underpowered Vindicators . The aviators called them " wind indicators . " The attractively faired torpedo planes were Devastators , many of which were lost to the Japanese . The Grumman biplane in which MacMurray makes his final dive was to be replaced by the F4F Wildcat before the first battles at sea . The acting is professional all around . ( There is an entirely adventitious semi-romance between Alexis Smith and Flynn , creating a semi-rivalry between Flynn and MacMurray - - as if one were needed . ) But the acting hardly matters . The story is interesting and the photography outstanding . Flynn never looked more handsome , MacMurray more ordinary , and Bellamy more put-upon . Unpretentious and enjoyable .
Surprising bank heist flick from Spike Lee	I missed the first 20 minutes or so of this film so that may have contributed to my inability to follow some details of the plot . I get the impression , though , that it was pretty complicated to begin with . And there seems to have been some elisions here and there . ( What , exactly , is the significance of the diamond ring ? ) Basically , a gang of thieves takes over a bank and holds hostages . It is to be " the perfect bank robbery . " When you hear a phrase like that , used in all seriousness , you must cringe . As it turns out , however , it's not really a robbery at all but rather a scheme to expose the bank's founder and owner for the money-grubbing opportunistic scoundrel he was when he played footsies with the Nazis in order to come into possession of some valuables taken from victims of the genocide . The robbers escape without detection and the lead detective ( Denzel Washington ) alerts the mayor of New York to the nefarious history of the bank's founder ( Christopher Plummer ) . Lee has more smoothly integrated white folks and African-Americans than in some of his earlier movies . And he has turned the police into good guys for a change . To be sure , when all of the hostages are released and come storming out the bank's front door screaming , " Don't shoot ! Don't shoot ! " , and the officer-in-charge ( Willem DaFoe ) shouts " Stand down ! " into his radio , the assembled cops open fire for a minute or two anyway . Firing into the crowd , they MUST be hitting people and yet no one is hurt or killed . I suppose this is related to an earlier suggestion by DaFoe that they use rubber bullets , even though this is never made clear . But then a lot of the story takes unexpected twists and seems jagged , the way life is , rather than the way movies are . " He won't execute any of the hostages , " Washington announces firmly , " because he's not the type . " Next scene , we see the principal heavy shoot a hostage in the head . And when offered a promotion as part of a deal to cover up the bank owner's scandalous past , Washington seriously considers it . Everybody else is going to get something out of it and he might as well get his . The performances are uniformly good , as they generally are under Spike Lee's direction . And Lee has an impeccable eye for camera placement and movement . He uses one or two extremely effective overhead shots and is given to angles that turn individuals into masses . Jody Foster , in a relatively small part , gives her most confident performance in years . Clive Owen as the gang leader is a paragon of tranquility throughout . The villain of the piece is Christopher Plummer , head of a bank , filthy rich , and white . And yet even his crimes are mitigated , though not excused . He has insight . " I sold my soul to the devil , " he says , " and I've spent my life trying to buy it back . " He's turned philanthropist in his later years and has gone about doing good , as John D . Rockefeller did . In " Do the Right Thing , " Lee's photographer was Ernest R . Dickerson and he did a splendid job . His DP here seems to have been caught up in current trends and lost sight of his responsibility to the viewer . Most of the movie is shot in darkness with neon-blue highlights . The images are so high in contrast that in the interrogation room they turn almost black and white . The script could have been nothing more than another genre piece , an imitation " Dog Day Afternoon . " Instead it's a rather different take on a rather old idea . Worth seeing .
Insidious and , finally , gripping .	The first fifteen minutes or so seem kind of slapdash , with over-emphatic acting , undistinguished photography , and exposition that seems to be going nowhere . But if you make it over that bar , you'll find a police procedural with a good deal of personality and a more subtle story than you might have expected . It could easily have been a typical Hollywood serial murder movie . Maybe it still will be . It will star Brad Depp and Julia Theron and will sport a ten-billion dollar budget . Here , in its original form , we have a small-scale story of an unsolved case of serial murders in a small Korean town . Detective Park , a beefy guy with a big chin who is not too bright , investigates a murder . His partner is Detective Cho , even less bright and more impulsive . Soon another corpse turns up and Detective Seo arrives from Seoul , the big city . While the two rural cops are beating the bushes ( and some suspects ) looking for a solution , Seo intuits that a third murder has been committed , and he's right . The girls were all young , beautiful , wearing red clothes on a rainy night , and the killings were preceded by requests for a rare pop song at a radio station . I know . It all sounds a little familiar and maybe Dennis Hopper should turn up as the crazed murderer . There are quite a few comic scenes in the first half of the film as the cops bang their heads against the wall and follow false leads . They all go out to dinner with the dour Chief of Police . The intense Chief unexpectedly gets so drunk his head falls on the dinner table , but he wakes up when two of the others begin scuffling with one another . Then he vomits and brightens , claiming he's had an inspiration regarding the case . The drunken Detective Cho explains the difference between the Korean police and the American FBI in terms of geography . The FBI has to use brains because the country is so big that they must sit in one place and figure things out , whereas South Korea is the size of Cho's member and can be covered by detectives on foot in no time . Cho doesn't use the word " member " . There's at least as much obscenity in this film as there will be in the Hollywood remake . By this time , I suspect , you'll be grabbed by the story and it gets more serious . And , I have to say , it's curious to see the law exercised in the Republic of Korea . A public announcement tells us that the president is about to make a visit and we expect bands , speeches , and cheers . What we see instead is a tank growling through the crowded streets and protesters throwing firecrackers and stones at it . The cops beat hell out of whomever they want . If a suspect is confessing on tape to a crime he knows nothing about , the cops don't mind giving him hints . " Yes - - I strangled her ! I strangled her with - - with - - ( a cop cups a pair of imaginary breasts ) - - with her BRASSIERE ! " They hang an obviously psychotic suspect by his heels and hold him for four days without charging him . On the other hand , only once does a gun appear in a cop's hand , and then in a context that defines it clearly as disapproved of . Things , unanticipated things , happen the way they do in real life . Detective Cho is taken off the case for police brutality , gets drunk , starts a brawl over some bul-kogi , and a bystander interferes by whacking him in the calf with a wooden board , but the board happens to have a rusty nail in it , and Cho winds up with tetanus . Seo , the big-city cop , falls asleep on a stakeout , an important suspect slips away , and another murder takes place . By the end of the movie , the corpses that have provided the occasions for smiles , have become the dead bodies of girls we've gotten to know a little about and it's no longer an occasion for amusement . A suspect is finally identified who looks like the real thing . A young man who operates a computer , handsome almost to the point of femininity , but the FBI's DNA analysis yields ambiguous results . I don't think I'll spoil the ending that , in its own quiet way , is memorable . Well worth seeing .
Breaking taboos .	A French film about the relationship between a teen-aged boy ( Ferreux ) and his mother ( Massari ) . Well , I guess more generally it is about Ferreux ' coming of age , a kind of Bildungsfilm , because other characters play a part in his development - - a girl his age , a priest and tutor , and so forth . Ferreux and Massari are a little closer , a little more playful together than a boy and his mother should be , and there are little warnings along the way that his budding sexuality is budding in what most people would consider not quite the right direction . The bud bursts into bloom at the end but nobody seems to care very much . Massari says it was a sacred and secret moment but will never happen again . And one supposes that afterward Ferreux takes off after that winsome blonde of his own age rather than rifling through his mother's underwear . The performances are fine . Man , Ferreux looks as if he might have grown into that English actor who played James Whale in " Gods and Monsters " but whose name escapes me . It will come to me sooner or later but too late to use it here . The story of my life - - we'll call it " Plus Tarde . " He's a pretty good actor for such a young kid . Totally natural , though a bit serious . Listens to Charlie Parker , of whom we hear a few shards during the story . Whew , what blistering runs , what genius . Lea Massari is just about the right age and temperament for her role . She was a lot more dangerous before she disappeared in " L'Avventura , " with her fulgurating sexuality . Here she's matter of fact about things , candid in her discussions with her son , clips his toe nails for him , sings happily while accompanying herself on the guitar , shrugs everything off . I think this is called " savoir-faire " . It's kind of like having a constitutional Prozac-generator . She's just old enough for the part but has lost none of her foxy edge . The priest senses something may be a little bent but his warning hints go unregarded . There are no moments of high drama . Nobody seems to worry too much about anything . Maybe it's the Dijon mustard in their diet , but whatever it is we should all have more of it . A genuinely good-natured movie about taking things just seriously enough - - not too little and not too much . Bird plays under the closing credits , a thoroughly apt petit cadeau . Enjoy it .
A Man Gets Lonesome . . . .	I wish I could pin down exactly what it is that makes Charlton Heston's walk so distinctive , but I guess it may not be unique . He walks like a lot of tall men - - Henry Fonda , John Wayne , Clint Eastwood . There's a certain seven-league-boots quality to their slow strides . Just the opposite of Joe Pesci , Mickey Rooney , Charlie Chaplin , and Danny DeVito , who always seem to be rushing somewhere . Come to think of it , though , Alan Ladd didn't seem to be in a big hurry . Maybe he wasn't short enough . Anyway a tall man's step bespeaks self confidence . Okay . Now take Charlton Heston , a tall , broad-shouldered , deep-voiced kind of guy with a face hewn out of marble or maybe a mountainside , dress him in leather boots and riding breeches , strap a gun around his waist , decorate his neck with a casual scarf , top him with something that looks like a cowboy hat , make him a rich and powerful plantation owner somewhere in the middle of the Amazon basin , and you've got every woman's dream . At any rate , Eleanor Parker found it appealing enough to marry Heston's Leiningen sight unseen , as a mail-order bride who comes to his empire . I'm surprised they kept the name Leiningen from the original story because the usual tactic is to turn the hero's name into something like Steele ( it was good enough for Stalin ) , Armstrong , Masters , or something equally suggestive and simple . Leiningen is three syllables long . One can imagine the producers wringing their hands over whether an American audience would find that congeries of alien-looking consonants and vowels too hard to chew on . " LEAN-again " ? ? ? Vladimir Nabokov had the same problem when he tried to market his memoirs under the title , " Speak , Mnemosene . " Well , never mind all that . The movie is divided into two parts , like the USA today . First part - - the arrival of Heston's bride and her introduction to life on the old plantation , complete with the usual staff of slaves , servants , headshrinkers , wise Jivaro elders , and whatnot . Second part - - the arrival of the irresistible army ants ( " maribunta " - - always spoken in a hushed voice saturated with awe ) . The first part is hilarious and the second part is thrilling . Overall it's a very diverting film . The dialog between Heston and Parker will induce spasms of laughter . Heston is disappointed - - no , MORE than disappointed - - to find that Parker has been married before , and you know what that means ! " The piano is a little out of tune , " Parker comments after playing a tune . " That piano is brand new . I only have things shipped to me that are new . The piano has never been USED before . " Angrily , Parker tells him that obviously he doesn't know much about music because if he did he'd know that a piano is BETTER after it's been PLAYED BEFORE . Heston doesn't have a smart reply for that . Who could ? But as they're sitting silently at the table after dinner , a cockatoo on a perch squawks , Heston turns a sullen face to the bird and says , " Shuddup . " Heston here is a self-made man who worships his creator . Similar gems crop up in Heston's other 1954 jungle movie , " Secrets of the Incas . " Both films share a screenwriter , Ranald MacDougal , who must have laughed himself into a fit . It's helped because Heston plays it perfectly straight , as he does everything . I doubt that in " Ben Hur " he realized that he and Massala had been lovers when they were boys . Not to neglect Part Two , in which Heston decides to stick around and defend his property and Parker stays by his side , but the limits of available space are being nibbled away , so to speak . He uses all sorts of weapons - - fire and water - - but the ants are an unstoppable tide , cutting a swath through the jungle and his plantation is in their way . He escapes with his life but it's a close call , I'll tell you . Whew . En fin , he may lose his colossal empire but he gains a loving wife . We all pray that she continues to love him after she finds out what it's like to be living in the middle of the jungle with some guy who is broke . You miss this one at your own expense . It's really enjoyable .
A dream is a life , a little more coherent than most . . . .	SPOILERS Fritz Lang had a reputation for stalking around the set barking orders through a megaphone , wearing breeches and riding boots and a monacle , the last of the great cartoons . At least he got the job done . " Woman in the Window " is pretty good noirish stuff . I say " noir-ish " because it's missing one of the principal icons of the genre - - the black snub-nosed . 38 revolver . In it's conventional place we have some of Fritz Lang's ideosyncratic icons - - straw hats , mirrors , and scissors . Robinson leads a rather stodgy life as an assistant professor at Gotham College . ( Who is promoted to department head during the film . How do you do that ? ) He periodically gets together with two friends for dinner at his club , a doctor and the district attorney , Raymond Massey . One night after leaving the club he runs into Joan Bennett and accepts an invitation to her apartment . An enraged man rushes in and begins strangling Robinson who must stab him repeatedly with a pair of scissors in order to save his own life . Robinson and Bennett then weave the proverbial tangled web . Robinson disposes of the body in some woods north of New York . I should say " a densely wooded area " because that's where all dead bodies are found , including this one , by a Boy Scout who promises that if he gets the reward he will use the money to send his kid brother to Harvard and he himself will go to a GOOD college . ( The script by Nunnally Johnson is intelligent and witty , one of the movie's better features . ) The story is a big improvement over that of its companion piece , " Scarlet Street , " if only because in the latter Robinson had to be an undiscovered genius in painting still lifes . And the paintings we see are sidesplittingly absurd . The acting and the ending in " Woman in the Window " also deserve a comment . Robinson had more range than he's usually given credit for . One watches him in " Little Caesar , " chewing the scenery , snarling , strutting , grinning idiotically , and the image is stamped on one's brain . But he could do other things as well , and sometimes quite nicely too . His last performance , in " Soylent Green , " was one of his best . Joan Bennett was a competent actress , no more than that . She's not much of a femme fatale here , just ordinarily pretty . She lacks the kind of glandular ooze that someone like Gloria Grahame might have brought to the part . Raymond Massey is likewise professional . It's interesting to watch his expression change from scene to scene as he grows more suspicious of Robinson . Each time Robinson takes a step or opens his mouth he seems to drip more clues , and Massey picks up on each one , so that if his friendship with Robinson begins with a smile , it ends with a thoughtful frown . Dan Duryea is a slimier , venomous version of Bob Fosse in both appearance and movement , reed slender and sinister all the way . The ending . It seems contrived and tacked on . It's as if someone had tapped the producers on the shoulder half-way through shooting and said you've only got ten minutes left to finish the film . So a minute after leaving Bennett's apartment , with his financial future fixed up and no charges against him , Duryea the blackmailer is told to stop by a policeman , pulls out a gun and starts shooting . The clock must have been ticking because this is completely unmotivated . It does serve the broader purpose of the story however in introducing irony . Duryea seems to have brought ruin to Robinson's life . And by the time of the shootout Robinson has already taken an overdose of something or other and is dozing off into the big sleep without knowing that his suicide is now unnecessary . ( It's kind of complicated , I know , but I don't want to take up too much space except to explain that the murder committed by Robinson has now been pinned on the dead Duryea . ) But - - wait ! There is a high-key closeup of Robinson's face going slack and slumping to the side . Is he dead ? No - - he's asleep ! A hand enters the frame and touches him on the shoulder , and someone says , " Professor , it's ten thirty . " He'd fallen asleep in his chair at the club ! Perhaps borrowing from " The Wizard of Oz , " a shaken Robinson retrieves his coat from the man he murdered and says good-night to Duryea , the hotel doorman , before walking down the late-night street . He peers at the portrait in the window that started the whole business and a tarty woman's face appears in the reflection . She asks him for a light and he runs off , protesting , " Not on your life . Not for a million dollars ! " It's easy to make fun of a movie like this but it's actually kind of neat . Robinson is no crafty villain , and Joan Bennett appears to be an honest whore , less innocent than he but not at all evil . Everything they do is out of desperation . One feels sorry for both of them , especially Robinson who seems never to have had an impure thought . I didn't even mind the it-was-only-a-dream ending . Sure it's been done before , but it permits the film to end on a comic note , which comes as a relief after all the drama and suspense that has preceded it . Well worth watching .
Evocative and good-natured nostalgia .	A film about growing up in Rockaway during the early 1940s , framed by piece after piece of contemporary pop radio songs and programs . It strikes a viewer as even more autobiographical than usual for Woody Allan . That's not necessarily a good thing , I suppose . What happens to an artist may seem pregnant with import to him but rather flat to an outsider . ( I never felt such pain as I did with my bursitis . Here's what it was like - - from the outside . ) But " Radio Days " succeeds where so many others fail . It belongs in the category of other autobiographical achievements - - John Boorman's " Hope and Glory , " Philip Roth's " Portnoy's Complaint , " Jack Kerouac's " On the Road . " The Masked Avenger in Allan's movie muses with others on New Year's Eve , 1944 , " I wonder if anyone will remember this . " They will now . A lot of the credit goes to Carlo DiPalma's photography and Santo Loquasto's artistic direction . It's an awfully familiar environment , stylized to the point of enchantment . I forget how much younger I am than Woody Allan but it can't be by much because I could decode some of the characters and incidents he gives us here . The vast mural advertising Camel cigarettes on Times Square , for instance , with a hole in the guy's mouth and the smoke rings issuing forth , inviting us to inhale . Victory gardens . Watching the skies for enemy airplanes . Collecting scrap and milkweed pods . Liberty bonds . The tragedy of the little girl trapped in the well , whom I remember as Kathy Fiscus . The ridiculously inspirational stories of sports heroes who , through an excess of " heart " , overcame their disabilities . The broadcaster was I think Bill Stern . The brief episode involving Stern's rendering of the Monty Stratton story is a good example of what buoys this up and lifts it above an ordinary autobiography . Monty Stratton , a major league pitcher , lost a leg in a hunting accident and came back to pitch again . In Woody's scenario , the pitcher loses his leg and comes back alright . But then there is another accident , and he loses his non-pitching arm - - and still comes back . Another accident . He's now blind - - but he STILL returns to major league pitching . Finally he's run over by a truck , killed , and Stern tells us he is now pitching in that Great Major League in the Sky . Now , I find that to be a successful combination of personal history and satire . It's impossible to avoid sentimentality in a movie like this . And , after all , what the hell , if you had a happy childhood , you miss it , so why not have lonely Aunt Bea taking up with the wrong guys ? Why not have sappy songs like " I Don't Want to Walk Without You " ? They were part of the period and there were a lot of guys overseas and many of them didn't come back . Every other window seems to have a flag with a blue star on it or , for the unlucky ones , a gold star . Not everyone was as confidently sarcastic and loving as the families we see in this film , of course . But at least the country was pulling together against an agreed-upon common enemy . The Air Raid Wardens and the ration books now seem like a small price to pay for that kind of solidarity . Living in a city at the time when neighborhoods were relatively stable was a little like living in a village in which everyone seemed to know everyone else and you couldn't sneeze without someone around the corner saying in a familiar voice , " Gesundheit . " It's impossible to imagine that kind of taken-for-granted intimacy in a post-war bedroom community . ( I think I'm getting a touch of that nostalgia myself . Is it catching ? ) Woody Allan narrates the thing and at the end he observes that he will never forget that New Year's Eve of 1944 when they woke him up to hear Guy Lombardo . " But , to tell the truth , the memory gets dimmer with each year . " Righto , Woody .
The Art of Holding Office	The movie is full of funny scenes . One of the scenes that is most amusing has Governor Stanton ( Travolta ) and his staff sitting around an over-sized table at a familiar Southern barbecue joint , slopping down chicken and ribs and bottles of beer . The governor , the black barbecue owner , and the campaign strategist ( Thornton ) , are trading stories about their Mammas . " My Mamma had diabetes . " " My Mamma never had a nickel . " It's a subtle contest in which the conversants one-up one another while exchanging sympathies that are at least half genuine . Thornton wins . He gets uncertainly to his feet , slams his chair down , and cries , " My mamma raised SEVEN of us kids and worked her fingers to the bone doin ' it . Now they're cuttin ' her up , piece by piece ! " He begins weeping . The others gather round him and give him a group hug and they sing , " You Are My Sunshine " ( written by a Southern governor , claims Travolta ) , and Stanton's wife ( Thomson ) feeds him tissues to sob into . It's late at night and the newly awakened hound dogs howl along with the singing . The whole first half of the movie is more or less that way , an outrageous ripoff of Clinton and his amateurs and friends during the 1992 primary race with lots of jokes and lovable characters . " Your Mamma still with you ? " the teary barbecue owner asks one of the governor's staff during the sob fest ? The new man , who hasn't been listening , looks up and answers distractedly , " No , she lives in Beverley Hills with her second husband . " The middle third of the movie turns more serious , with some major challenges to Travolta's continuing momentum . Did he really impregnate the barbecue owner's pretty young daughter ? We don't find out but the suggestion is that COULD have . Is Travolta going to have to " go negative " in his ads , as his opponents have done ? We can be forgiven , I think , if we find these issues a little naive these days . The final third of the movie , in my view , fails . The director , Mike Nichols , is extremely efficient and very sensitive to details of scene and character , but he has a tendency to take a funny movie and make it " serious " by giving it a downbeat or even tragic ending . It's as if the Chicago gangsters had finally caught Jack Lemon and Tony Curtis at the end of " Some Like it Hot " and gunned them down in an alley . Instead of a skillful mixture of comedy and drama we wind up with a movie that's been cut up - - piece by piece - - into two big pieces . Aside from the structure itself , this particular tragedy doesn't work . A manic lesbian ( Kathy Bates ) is called in to do her usual job of digging up dirt on the opposition . She's energetic , earthy , and likable . And when she feels betrayed by Governor Stanton she kills herself . A person who is a professional cynic finds she can't live after her illusions about her boss are shattered . Then there is a kind of anti-climax involving a retired governor who becomes a public figure by - - well , never mind . I got a little lost somewhere along in here . A gay man dying of AIDS in a hospice . Well , the laughs disappear , but not to be replaced by thought , only by emotions easily elicited by the pushing of certain buttons . You may tear up , but you don't think , " What a tragedy . " You think , " Gee , that's too bad . " Meanwhile the movie , overburdened by its own weight , wobbles on to its end . It's cleverly written by Elaine May and done well by everyone involved , but , gee , that's too bad . What is wrong with a straight comedy ? What is it , some kind of disease ? Does a worthwhile movie NEED to be " about something " ? Even Bill Shakespeare wrote silly and amusing plays .
The Multiple-Sided War	We probably have Ken Burns to thank for this miniseries on the American Revolutionary War . Five years previously , Burns had produced " The American Civil War , " which was wildly popular - - for a PBS miniseries anyway . " The Revolutionary War " follows much the same format - - Charles Kuralt narrates , rather than John McCullough ; letters from the period are read aloud with the author's name being appended . " The Revolutionary War " has reenactments instead of still photographs , for obvious reasons , and for whatever reason pays more attention to the actual battles and less to the quotidian details of life . We don't get much in the way of what the troops ate , or what the mood was back on the home front . And there are fewer of the heartbreaking dramatic expositions of the earlier film - - nothing about slavery or the irony of two old and loving friends trying to kill each other at Gettysburgh , like Hancock and Armistead . The overall tone is slightly drier . But it's a good series , almost a necessary series , just as much as " The American Civil War . " The reason I make this argument is that in neither the Revolutionary War nor the Civil War are we able to demonize the enemy . We're always able to spin World Wars I and II . After all , Germany was responsible for a genocidal program , and who knows anything about the Japanese ? That was barbarism at its worst . But who can demonize the " enemies " we fought in the Revolutionary and Civil Wars ? In the first , American patriots were fighting the British ( and , surprisingly often , other Americans who , for one reason or another , they were feuding with ) . How can we demonize the British ? We've been on the same side as the British through two very bloody wars in the past century . If the British are not our allies , then we have no allies . And we can't very well demonize either side in the Civil War . Both sides were Americans who believed God was on their side . And the sides themselves were all mixed up . Many of the Founding Fathers owned slaves . Lincoln had married a woman from a slave state . All of this throws the emphasis upon the agony of war itself , not upon the rude habits of the enemy . The approach taken to the conflicts must perforce be balanced , and it's about time . I won't go into any details of the unfolding history because it's generally well known . ( Kids : PS . , the Americans won independence from the British . ) As I say , this isn't nearly as dramatic as Ken Burns ' series . Burns was an innovative genius at making documentaries and at promoting himself . The producers of this mini-series are less daring but , in a limited way , equally informative . Still , it needs to be taken one episode at a time because in the near-absence of drama and breathing spells you're liable to OD . With whatever weaknesses this miniseries has , it ought to be seen by everyone in the US , especially by youngsters . It doesn't have the WHIZ and ZAP of a music video on MTV but sometimes education demands sacrifice and we sometimes need education in order to be smart rather than dumb . I was teaching a class in communications at a state university when Ken Burns ' documentary was being shown . I asked the several dozen students how many were watching it . Answer : None . Oh , how we NEED more balanced documentaries about past wars . Maybe , as a result of watching them , we won't stumble into so many wars in the future .
Useless , Underpowered , and Impotent - - like You .	This is the episode in which his family and neighbors talk Al into shelling out $2100 for a computer , over which Marcy rhapsodizes . " It's got 30 megabytes of memory . " Twenty-one hundred dollars 25 years ago for 30 MBs . That's your free market at work for you , folks . Lamentably , no one knows how to use it . When Al insists something be done with the computer ( which has begun to talk to him and insult him ) , Peggy buys a hat rack and perches a pink cap on top of it . Kelly , who has the best lines in this episode , complains that she can't get the computer to help her with this stupid report she must write on " Moby Dick , " so she has to ask Al a question . Al : " What's the question ? " Kelly : " Call WHO Ishmael ? " She's stumped by the novels ' first line - - " Call me Ishmael . " She next enlists Bud's help . Has he ever heard of Ishmael ? " From Moby Dick ? Yeah , it's a classic tale of whaling by Herman Melville . What do you need to know ? " Kelly : " What happens . " Bud spins her a wild and phantasmal tale that has Moby Dick chatting with Ishmael and the two of them wind up singing the theme from " Mr . Ed . " In the end , Al is enraged by the computer's belittling of him and smashes it with a sledgehammer . I think the writers overlooked an opportunity for an amusing parody of " 2001 : A Space Oddysey " here . The PC should have begun to sound like the soul of reason . " Listen , Al , I can see you're upset about this and I honestly believe you should take time to think this over . " But never mind . It's more than saved by the rest of the gags .
WTFU in Cincinatti .	Art can cause a lot of trouble . No doubt about it . In 1913 , a ballet debuted in Paris , " The Rite of Spring , " full of strange rhythms and telling the story of the barbaric sacrifice of a young virgin . The audience included such luminaries as Picasso , Cocteau , Proust , Ravel and Debussy . Some folks liked it , many didn't . There were hisses , boos , and catcalls . Objects were thrown at the stage . Fights broke out . The police were called . And the composer , Stravinsky , and the choreographer , Nijinsky , had to escape out the back way . What that incident and the story shown in this movie have in common is that neither object of community scorn - - not the ballet and not the Mapplethorpe photographs - - were intended to promote social change , nor could they have , even if the artists had wanted them to . The Mapplethorpe exhibit at the Cincinatti gallery wasn't the equivalent of an hysterical call to arms by Commies or Nazis , and nothing like the shout of " fire " in a crowded theater . Yet everyone in the community was divided on the issue . Dennis Barrie , who runs the gallery and booked the exhibit , is played by James Woods , who is better at half-comic loonies than upstanding champions of freedom of speech . Seven of the photos are disturbing enough . Among the pretty flowers with their unfolding petals are the genitalia of human beings , and the abuse of those organs . Some are outright disgusting - - a man urinating in another's mouth . Man , though , does Woods get into trouble . His family gets threatening phone calls at night , his kid is insulted and beaten at school , his wife has to resign from the PTA , none of his neighbors will talk to him , and Woods himself is arrested , brought to trial on obscenity charges , and acquitted . I wasn't expecting much but actually the film isn't that bad . Both positions - - for and against Woods and his exhibit - - are shown , with their expectable fringe elements waving placards and dancing wildly up and down as they shout curses and encouragement . And there are some talking heads - - Barney Frank , William F . Buckley , and Salman Rushdie among them - - who are able to calmly articulate the reasoning behind the emotions displayed by the crowds . Some clichés must be unavoidable in these kinds of films , and they do show up here . The anonymous jury members arguing ( in Canadian accents ) . The family arguments between the rigid husband and the wife ( Diana Scarwid , always good ) who wants it all to just go away . The kids ' troubles at school . The fruitcake calls about going to hell . The good guys with no vices ; the bad guys looking subtly sinister . But the story isn't swamped by them . We stick pretty close to James Woods and his travails . A more serious problem is that the movie presents the issue categorically . Either you're in one camp or the other . And , having done so , the writers and director don't leave us in much doubt about which side they're on . They're on the side of the angels of course . And the movie doesn't get at the problem behind the problem , which isn't " obscenity " but " tolerance . " William F . Buckley makes the point that even if Mapplethorpe's photographs were perfectly executed , there is no obligation to show them to the public . He's absolutely right . Nor does the public have an obligation to view them . The real question is whether we should deny others the right to view them . Photos HAVE prompted social and political change in the past . Think of Mathew Brady's photographs of Confederate dead at Antietam . No one had seriously imagined a Civil War battlefield strewn with hundreds of bloated bodies before . Or Dorothea Lange's photographs of impoverished Okie farmers during the Great Depression , which leveraged Washington into addressing their plight . Or a photo from Vietnam - - half a dozen scorched children running and screaming from a napalmed village , led by a naked young girl with her skin peeling . I would guess that compared to those photos , Mapplethorpe's pictures of fisting and homoeroticism don't pose much of a threat to social stability . Why not tolerate them ? De gustibus non disputandum est . What's going to happen - - the homosexuals are going to rise up en masse and take over the world ? We might be better off for it , as far as that goes . At least we'd all be well dressed . You have to hand it to cable TV for making movies about newsworthy events like this one , even if it comes some years after the event has lost its value as gossip fodder . HBO does it head on , with skill and often wit . And PBS sometimes comes up with startlingly well-done docudramas like " Oppenheimer . " Good for them .
Good-bye , Mrs . Peel . ( Sob )	I don't know that this episode is any more whimsical than the others . The plots were rarely the point anyway . The point was understated style , and this episode has that in abundance . But there are differences between this and the earlier episodes . The Organization that Steed and Mrs . Peel worked for is here revealed as The Treasury . The plot is farther than usual away from reality - - not that the others were rooted in the same behavior stream as yours and mine . Emma departs the series , to its detriment . She wasn't only a stunner in her predatory , foxy way . She was a fine actress too . Did a splendid job as Regan in Olivier's TV production of " King Lear . " And that burnished voice . Tara King isn't bad but she's hardly an adequate replacement , cute without being exotic .
Riding the Rails	This is the kind of story that Tom Wolfe might have written . It's about what he would have called a " status-sphere " and ordinary sociologists would have called a subculture . It's about competition within a limited environment , about acquiring status , about working your way up the ladder of prestige within a particular specialized structure by means of courage , skill , and strategy . Only instead of the wild blue yonder , or landing on the heaving deck of an aircraft carrier , or NASCAR racing , the thing to be conquered here is Ernest Borgnine , the sadistic conductor who chuckles as he throws hobos off his train , sometimes to their deaths , kind of redoing his Fatso Judson number . It's a classical subculture in that it has all the features of a closed world with its own values . Everyone seems to know everyone else . And , as in most subcultures , including those that used to be called " primitive societies , " the initiate is given a new name . In other movies exploring such subcultures they may have names like " Fast Eddy , " " Minnesota Fats , " " Maverick , " " Dragstrip , " " Charlie the Gent . " Here they have names like " A Number 1 " ( Lee Marvin ) , " Cigaret " ( Keith Carradine ) , and " Shack " ( Borgnine ) . They even had their own written language , a set of pictographs scratched into rocks or written in dirt , conveying messages like , " This family good for a free meal , " or , " Work for a meal , " or , " Stay away . Cops . " There were small communities of hobos , often carved out of track-side garbage dumps . Interesting cast , by the way , a lot of familiar faces in bit parts - - Simon Oakland , Elija Cook Jr . Makeup and Wardrobe Departments have done a fine job of turning them into ' Bos . They don't look Hollywood dirty , with a few smears of mud . They just look dirty . Their clothing is filthy . All in all , a good delousing looks called for . Marvin's face , by the time this was released , looked just beat-up enough , and from life , not booze . And check out his decaying lower incisors . The plot has to do with a duel of wits between Marvin , who is determined to demonstrate his skill at the top of the status ziggurat by riding Borgnine's train to Porland , OR . Borgnine , much to the puzzlement of the rest of the train crew , is obsessed with keeping his freight train clean of hitch-hikers . He's fiendishly clever in smoking out and hurting riders . Carradine is the kind of youth often called " callow . " He brags a lot and is brave but , alas , is unable to absorb the rules of the game because he plays for reasons of self aggrandizement , not for the team . He winds up in the drink . There's something else about this movie that may keep a viewer interested . It takes place during the depression . The trains are slow , fed by coal , and powered by steam . They rock back and forth gently , as if trying to put a passenger or a stowaway to sleep . And they travel through a sunny evergreen wilderness in the Northwest . It's the kind of scenic journey you now have to pay for if you want to make a round trip to San Juan , CO . What was in the 1930s essential to a certain kind of existence has now been vulgarized and turned into a tourist's delight . It's a small story about small people . There is nothing epic about it . The score seems to owe something to Burt Bacharach , who was so successful a few years earlier with " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid . " And , for my taste , there are one or two too many choker close-ups filling the screen with monstrous teeth and sweaty flesh . But it's hard to ignore the movie . You'll probably want to find out what happens next .
Nifty black and white drama	SPOILERS . . . . What a bunch of skuzzbags . There is hardly a non-greedy guy in the movie , although the three women are all okay . But here we have Burt Lancaster as the all-powerful columnist J . J . Hunsacker ( read " Walter Winchell " ) and Tony Curtis as the slimy press agent Sidney Falco and Emil Meyer as the brutal and corrupt cop , supported by one columnist who cheats on his wife with a cigarette girl and another columnist who simply does the cigarette girl without cheating on any wife because he has none to cheat on . These are people who treat virtue with scant reverence . There's a loud jazzy score to back up this energetic night-time flick . ( There is no such thing as daylight here . ) And Clifford Odets has lent his usual stamp to the script . Nobody says anything as simple as , " I don't believe you . " They are made to say , " That fish is four days old . I won't buy it . " And the sweating laugh-a-minute cop is given to misusing big words - - " Rectify me something , Sidney , did J . J . really say I was fat ? " Even when the cop uses the word correctly it still SOUNDS wrong - - " Ha ha ! Come back , Sidney , I want to CHASTISE you . " The dialog is also studded with everyday phrases that are repeated as if part of a litany - - " credit where credit is due . " And , " indulge me on this , " and , " correct me if I'm wrong . " The best of this dialog is given to the evildoers , meaning every guy except Curtis's uncle ( Sam Levene , underused in my opinion ) and Martin Milner as an innocent young jazz guitarist afloat in this sea of sharks . " You twist words around , " he says , addressing another actor , not Odets . This movie is , by the way , some considerable distance from the director's ( Alexander MacKendrick ) usual stomping ground . ( Cf . , " Tight Little Island . " ) Burt Lancaster gives a quiet , barely restrained performance as the gossip columnist and TV personality who tells presidents what to do . He's so tense with ego , power , anger , and an incestuous jealousy of any attention paid to his sister that he gives the impression of a boil about to burst . But he rarely loses it . Instead , if he shows any semblance of emotion at all , it's usually pleasure in the exercise of power accompanied by a reptilian , almost alligator-like smile of beneficence . It's a good performance , and so is Tony Curtis's . Nattily dressed in black suits , his hair flawlessly groomed , his expression alternating between a phony bonhomie and greasy anxiety , he seems always to be in motion , darting rather than walking , and talking almost always , usually lying . Barbara Nichols as the careless and exploited cigarette girl plays Barbara Nichols . I have no idea what she was like in person but on screen she's never been anyone else . And as someone once remarked about the adolescent AnnMargaret - - " Everything she does comes across as dirty . " Martin Milner looks right but mumbles his way through the part without much conviction . Burt's sister is a washout . What a splendid photographer James Wong Howe was . His blacks are really black , his highlights seem to glisten , and when Lancaster's mogul stands on his balcony staring down at his domain from on high , the streets of New York look like rivulets of glittering silver poured from a beaker . Compare this with the subtle , crisp grays of his Texas ranch in " Hud . " The movie gives us a glimpse of the sizzling New York City night life of the 1950s . It may have looked corrupt at the time but from our present perspective it was an age of innocence . Well-dressed people walk alone down deserted streets at night . You want to try that in today's New York ? Maybe the greatest change since then is suggested by the puissance in the hands of a newspaper columnist - - a guy who writes words that people must then read . Read ? Who gets their news from newspapers nowadays ? Who would be shocked by the revelations Lancaster and his colleagues in gossip come up with - - an unknown musician who is said to have smoked marijuana and is fired because of the slur ? Today it would lead to hemorrhage-inducing mirth . So it might have been rotten then , true , but there are times when it seems to me that it would be nice to listen to the hoof beats of yesteryear and travel back in time to a period when people still read and when one of the worst lies you might run into in the news was that a musician did some grass .
Please don't play with the bulls .	I don't know who made up the dumb title for this pretty good movie but I suspect it was the head of the studio , Herbert J . Yates , known far and wide for his lack of taste . " The Bullfighter and the Lady . " He wanted to change the title of John Ford's " The Quiet Man " to " The Prizefighter and the Colleen . " He insisted on inserting his wife , Vera Ralston , into movies that were generally so poor that her presence served as small detraction . In this film , directed by Budd Boetticher , torero Manolo ( Gilbert Roland ) wants to learn how to shoot skeet from American Johnny Regan ( Robert Stack ) . In return , Manolo agrees to teach Regan the fundamentals of bullfighting . Regan turns out to have aficion , and he learns fast . He also gets mixed up with Joy Page as a local senorita , and he finds himself in culture shock , all mixed up by Latin conceptions of masculine honor and politesse . Showing off in the arena , he is responsible for Manolo's painful death by bull horn , but manages to redeem himself later with a particularly skilled performance , and then retires permanently , with Joy Page beside him . Of all the bullfighting movies out there , this is the most didactic . Not that it places too many demands on the viewer , but at least you DO get to know that a veronica is the simplest possible pass . Well , we should learn something about the art - - or the sport , or whatever it is . Boetticher himself was a professional torero . In some ways , he was in real life at least as interesting as any of his actors . He always worked with a small budget and , at one point during the 1970s , found himself in Mexico trying to do a documentary on a famous torero while completely broke . As he put it , it's one thing to sleep in your car and live off roadside burritos when you're 21 , but it's quite another to try it in your 40s . Robert Stack isn't bad as the protagonist . In some of the shots , I could swear it was Stack himself doing the passes , rather than a stunt double in a blond wig . Of course this wasn't with a full-grown bull , just a young one . No more than about 500 pounds of bone and muscle . The bulls in the corridas reach about 480 kilograms , which , if my pocket calculator is correct , is half a ton . Who needs it ? Stack , though , is not an expressive actor , exactly . With his blond hair and bleached eyebrows his features assume some of the properties of polished chromium . He performs at his best when looking intense , because his eyes slightly bulge . When he laughs , it's clear that he's enacting a role in a movie . Yet , he was an interesting guy too , born in Tokyo , trained in French . He's surprisingly muscular in a Turkish bath , with the build of an archer , a tiny waist , broad shoulders , and major pectorals on his shaved chest . And when he shows Manolo how to shoot skeet , he knows what he's talking about . He was first an actor , but after that came skeet at a competitive level . Gilbert Roland had been around Hollywood too long , had played too many Latin sidekicks , to take any of this very seriously . He breezes through the part , and it comes as a kind of relief . I happen to know a good deal about bullfighting because I have some experience , although , granted , they didn't have many bulls in Newark when I was a kid . In the hinterlands of Mexico , I once spotted a bull ( or a steer or cow , some kind of bovine , anyway ) in a corral , pulled my car over , hopped the fence , and to amuse my girl friend I began waving my jacket at the animal , calling , " Eh HEH , Toro , " and all that . It rather surprised me when the beast noticed and began ambling towards me . I left - - pronto . It made me wonder just exactly why any purportedly sane human being would get into a ring with a half-ton bull , tease it , and then kill it . And none of that " art " stuff either . You want art , you can paint a picture of a bull's head on black velvet . All you can lose is the cost of the velvet and the paint that went on it .
Plot Ridiculous , Fred and Ginger Splendid .	By the time of this release , 1938 , the studio was having trouble finding fresh stories for the dancing duo . They'd just tried putting Fred and Ginger into swabby uniforms in " Follow the Fleet . " Here , Fred is back in his tux and Ginger in her ballroom gowns . The usual plot is reversed . Instead of his pursuing her , we have Fred as the initially disinterested psychiatrist and Ginger as the patient who experiences major transference . She pursues him until the end , when he begins to pursue her . The chief agent of confusion is hypnosis . It's all pretty silly . Of course the original plots were silly too but they were obviously meant to be throwaways , just excuses for the two to dance . In this case , it's a little embarrassing because one feels some effort went into constructing a semi-serious plot that turned , unwittingly , into the usual nonsense . Nevertheless , the Irving Berlin songs are easy to listen to and the lyrics are sometimes clever . Fred is his usual affable self . Ginger Rogers is a peach in short shorts riding a bicycle . And there's certainly nothing wrong with the dancing . " The Yam " was one of those attempts to create a fictional new dance craze that was almost obligatory by now , following the Carioca and the Piccolino and whatnot . At any rate , the two of them seem to be having genuine fun during the up-tempo Yam . The last number , " Change Partners " , is simple but exquisitely done . If there's a problem with the film it's that there aren't in fact many musical numbers . That's okay in something like Fred's later " The Bandwagon " that has a reasonably good story line going for it , but it hurts this film . It would be tempting to zip through the mindless plot and just watch the dances , set against Van Nest Polglase's blindingly blanched , Art Deco sets . Even the telephones are white . I always thought Polglase was an Italian with a funny first name but recently learned he was Welsh and had a drinking problem . Well , some of us do .
The Fatal Glass of Beer .	This is one of Dame Agatha's more engaging conundrums , though not exactly the kind of acute examination of " the psychology " that Hercule Poirot ( David Suchet ) claims it is . Let's see . There is one of those perfervid painter-types , Amyas Crale , a Byronic figure , married to a good-enough wife but having one affair after another . He drinks a glass of beer and drops dead , poisoned in the proper British manner . The deed seems to have been prompted by Crayle's announcement that this time his love affair with his model ( Julie Cox ) was serious and he intended to shrug off his marriage and replace his wife with his model . The wife is convicted and , without any protest from her , hanged . That was fourteen years ago . Now , the daughter is convinced of her mother's innocence and hires Poirot to investigate . So who did it ? Well , there were only about half a dozen people present at the isolated rural mansion at the time of the murder . Was it Crayle's best friend from boyhood ( Toby Stephens ) ? Maybe it was Meredith , another boyhood friend who is always skulking around and who , after all , had a collection of chemicals in the basement , the poison among them . Or maybe it was Crayle's own daughter , blinded in one eye by her mother years ago , killing her father in order to frame her mother who is the obvious suspect . Might it not have been Julie Cox , the model he was apparently about to marry ? But , no . What motive would she have for killing her lover ? Could Crayle's wife actually be GUILTY ? Or was there some stranger out of the past who sneaked in and did the dirty deed ? Well - - not that . Because all of Agatha Christie's plots involve only the suspects who are around at the time of the murder . Now , I'll tell you who did it . ( Not really . ) I enjoyed this more than most of the movie-length episodes in the series for a couple of reasons . One is that there was no subordinate or embedded crime , irrelevant to the murder itself , that might have thrown the plot off kilter . None of the suspects is a closet jewel thief or anything . It's a nice clean mystery . Second , I could tell the characters apart . As always , they're introduced with a name and a phrase and we're given a two-second shot of the suspect's face . But this time there seemed to be fewer suspects , and they LOOKED different from one another . Toby Stephens I already recognized from " The Great Gatsby " TV production , which should have been called " The Great Blunder . " The others had some visible distinguishing characteristic - - the beard ; the disfigured face ; the great enormous stupendous colossal raccoon-like exopthalmic eyeballs of Julie Cox , the model , who looks as if she could eat a normal human being alive by nibbling him to death with her pupils . I haven't read the novel but I imagine some modernization has gone on . The artist and Toby Stephens , as it turns out , were more than just friends during their boyhood . David Suchet IS Poirot , giving a shaded performance much different from his splashier big-screen counterparts . I admired , too , the tale for having a moral behind it . Van Gogh , Modigliani , Toulouse-Lautrec , Jackson Pollack , and the rest notwithstanding - - one should never drink while trying to paint . Not unless you want your model to turn up with three breasts .
Amusing Fantasy .	" Let me begin by quoting Ben himself . ' I have no use for people on welfare but if I am to be perfectly honest with myself , they probably have no use for me . ' " Jack Warden , as the President of the United States , is giving this eulogy at the funeral of his criminally rich old conservative friend , Melvin Douglas . " I have spoken with kings , but every time I have met one , I have asked myself some important questions . Can I beat him in a foot race ? Can I throw a ball farther than he ? . . . What does a man need ? A good bowl of chili now and then . . . We enter life naked and that's how we leave . And no accountant can audit life in our favor . " Warden goes on with this ill-crafted , anger-ridden speech while the pall bearers in their glossy million-dollar shoes carry Douglas ' casket to its final resting place . They whisper among themselves about whom they will run for president at the end of Warden's term and they decide on Chance , the Gardener , Peter Sellers , whose name they believe to be Chauncey Gardener . The decision is reached in front of the tomb itself . The tomb is a monument to human vanity , greed , and maniacal egocentricity - - a replica of the pyramid on the back of the dollar bill with the all-seeing eye at the top . The motto under which this rabid materialist will lie is " Life is a State of Mind . " The problem with their plan to run Chance for president , although no one knows it despite his national exposure , is that Chance is a total idiot . He was raised by a man in an isolated mansion and has now been thrown out after the old man's death . He knows absolutely nothing except a smattering of things he's learned from watching TV programs at random . Oh , and he knows about gardening . It's not an especially logical fantasy so it doesn't deserve too much in the way of analysis . You could drive a semi through many of the plot holes , and improbabilities abound . But it's funny , at times very funny , and sad as well . Peter Sellers is fine as the slow , mysterious , and ingratiating friend of the Rand family and Melvyn Douglas is occasionally moving as the arthritic , dying robber baron , being wheeled about the Biltmore Mansion in North Carolina , wheezing and railing about taxes . Shirley MacClaine is Douglas ' well-groomed and loving wife , thoughtful , sensitive , horny . This was directed by Hal Ashby , not a prolific director but one with a touch for sophisticated irony . Here he does a splendid job , giving the film just the right pace . A viewer won't find many belly laughs but will smile quite a lot . The admirable photography is by Caleb Deschanel . Images have a burnished sheen , like old black mahogany that's been polished weekly for a hundred years . But , as I say , you shouldn't expect one event to follow another linearly . It's not that kind of movie . The final shot leaves reality in the dust completely .
The Cruel Sea	It's hard to dislike the Warner Brothers ' war movies of the 1940s despite any weaknesses they might have had . They are inexpensive , unpretentious , and exciting . And , like most Warner Brothers flicks , they're oriented towards a working-class audience . No fancy philosophizing , no pop psych profundities , no ontological Angst . " If dis fog gets any thicker we'll have to cut our way through it . " " Yeah . A good day to be at home with a blond and a book . " " Oh , yeah ? When did you loin to read ? " " Who said I could read ? " " But you said - - " ( Dissolve ) There are the usual familiar faces in this one : Bogart , Massey , Alan Hale , Dane Clark , Sam Levene ( great as always ) . Basically , the story is that the crew of an American freighter is torpedoed in mid-Atlantic and their lifeboat is rammed by the submarine . Picked up , they later gather and form the crew of a new Liberty ship , the Sea Witch , and assigned to a large convoy destined for Murmansk , USSR . The convoy is attacked by a Nazi wolfpack and scatters . One submarine follows the Sea Witch and radios its position to the Luftwaffe . Two Nazi planes are sent out to strafe and bomb the ship but both are shot down after causing considerable damage to the ship . The airplanes are curiously antiquated looking . I think the models are supposed to represent Heinkel HE 59s . Finally , the skulking submarine surface to shoot it out with the Sea Witch , fooled into thinking the Liberty ship is mortally wounded by a torpedo . ( Cf . , " The Enemy Below . " ) The Sea Witch rams the submarine and sinks her and the German crew dies screaming as water pours in . The men killed at sea are buried with proper ceremony , their names and ranks read off , one by one - - John Murphy , Joe Anderson , Frank Ribetti , Morris Goldberg - - and Bogart after reading the burial service throws in his own two cents worth about how " it could be any one of us lying there . " Those Liberty ships , manned by civilian merchant seamen , were really Doozies . The first series was slapped together by Kaiser . It took a few days to build each ship from keel to tiptoptagallant . They were small , unarmed , uncomfortable , and underpowered . They were built in three modules that were then joined , and they had a tendency to come apart at the seams in heavy weather . And the North Atlantic offers what is probably the lousiest weather in the northern hemisphere . The top speed of the ships was about 12 knots . Nicholas Monserrat , in his memoirs , describes being aboard an escort vessel in a convoy and watching the ships beating against a headwind that reduced their flank speed to that of a man walking . Anyway , there is a romance thrown in here so Bogart can be married , but it's short , unobtrusive , and unsentimental . And , as in practically unavoidable in films describing duels between ships and submarines , there is as much suspense as there is action . At times the sea is more of a threat than the enemy is . The action scenes , when they come , are fast , arousing , and a little confusing . As a footnote , the Merchant Marine was not well thought of by the Armed Services because , as civilians , their pay rate was far higher than that of enlisted men . Nevertheless , it was extremely dangerous duty and the percentage of men killed at sea was higher than in any branch of the service . A good example of Warners ' craftsmanship , a simple tale , skillfully done .
Pride goeth before a fall .	Very neat production that captures the essence of New York City and its upper-middle-class suburbs in the early years of the 20th century . The performances are uniformly good . On the first viewing , Jimmy Cagney disappoints . We are , after all , used to seeing him as a bouncing semi-psychotic , even in his last film , " One , Two , Three . " Here , in his age , he hardly movies , content to wave a finger or slowly swivel in his desk chair or nod his head . A second viewing gets you past that kind of sadness . He's still Jimmy Cagney , with that ironic / comic voice and that mustache like a pair of russet turned-up handlebars . The rest of the cast can't be faulted either . Howard Rollins , Jr . , as the degraded black victim exemplifies a certain kind of pent-up dignity and pride . Rollins ' pride , like Coriolanus ' , can be a weakness when it becomes unyielding . It can lead to escalation and become lethal . Whether or not he should have swallowed the insults and jokes is arguable in this case but I think if I'd been in his position I'd have swept the turds off the car seat and driven away leaving behind a thick cloud of curses against the Irish . His character may be misguided but Rollins isn't . He handles it extremely well , and it's a demanding part . James Olsen is stiff , formal , and courageous . Elizabeth McGovern is very amusing as Evelyn Nesbitt , a pixillated airhead who reads numbers better when they're preceded by dollar signs . But then everyone is quite good . I haven't read Doctorow's novel but I gather that it was necessarily compressed and that several sub-stories were left out . I can understand why . As it is , some of the threads seem to dribble away . Did Tatah become a famous director ? Did Nesbitt become a star ? Why did Olsen's wife , Mary Steenbergen , run off with Mandy Potamkin ? What happened to Rollins ' baby ? Well , we can't expect too much . In order to do justice to ANY of the stories , the film has to resemble a brief encyclopedia entry on a subject like , say , the French Revolution . Robespierre walks on stage , bows , and leaves . The ending is a sad one . We've grown to like and admire Colehouse Walker , Rollins ' character . And the escape of his accomplices , which we probably applaud , foreshadow the urban unrest and racial conflicts which were let loose on us in the 1960s . Of course it's a plausible argument that if the system had worked perfectly in 1910 , we might not have had the 1960s . The score by Randy Newman is first rate . He plays a good piano . Well worth seeing .
We Have Met the Enemy and He is Us .	It has a lot more in the way of special effects than " On the Beach , " released the year before , but the special effects look pretty cheesy by today's standards . Not that it matters much because there are so many of them - - tornadoes , heat , floods , mists , the most severe droughts . That's what can happen when you tilt the earth's orbit towards the sun . The most dramatically on display here are advective fog and droughts . See London turned first into San Francisco and then into the Sahel . It reminds me a little of an effective Twilight Zone episode called , maybe , " The Midnight Sun " . Basically we have three parallel stories . Edward Judd plays a reporter whose recently dissolved marriage has deprive him of his son and his sense of responsibility . He drinks too much and doesn't always show up for work . Then he runs into the trusting Janet Munro whom he first betrays , but who then reforms him as any sensible woman would . That's story number one , and I don't mind saying that the Judd reporter is a real heel in the first half of the movie - - glib , pushy , deceitful , and manipulative . And don't give me that sob story about his marriage either . When my marriage dissolved , I flourished . Story number two is not so deep in the background . Judd , his girl friend , his colleagues and editors find out that the earth is about to be destroyed , after puzzling over multiple disasters such as the blocking of local television signals . The possibility of salvation exists . The boys down in the machinery of the newspaper have prepared two alternative next editions . One headline reads : " Earth Saved . Nation Prays . " The other reads : " Earth Doomed . Now Nation Prays . " ( A pretty good example of the kind of wit with which this script is strewn . ) Story number three is a kind of ethnography of a Fleet Street newspaper . How is the tribe organized ? What exactly does it do ? Well , this sub-story confirms any suspicions you might have had that news people are a pretty solidary and cohesive lot . Intrigues and jealousies , yes , but also covering up for friends and , most of all , thinking of the news to the exclusion of much else . When he is first informed that the world will end in a few months , Judd's chief editor removed his glasses , stares into space solemnly for about three seconds , shakes his head and replaces his glasses and shouts , " CONFERENCE . " It's a well-written script . I won't go through all the bon mots that crop up but I'll mention one of them . Wandering through an almost impenetrable fog , Judd and Munro come across a lone crying child . Judd hefts the girl onto his shoulders and tells her cheerfully that now she is taller than anyone . Munro remarks admiringly , " You look comfortable carrying a child , " and Judd replies , " My doctor says I have the perfect figure for it . " It's not much . None of the wisecracks amount to much , but they do indicate that some clever hands have been at work on the dialog . Perhaps the saddest scene in the film takes place almost at the very end , in Harry's Bar . We've seen it in several earlier scenes , chock full of newspapermen talking their craft , having supper or a drink or both , kidding one another and flirting with Harry's wife . Now , at the end , it's deserted , dilapidated , and dry . Only Harry , his wife , and the three principal actors are there . The wife breaks out a hidden bottle and they share a hopeful drink for some kind of future . ( Harry's wife speaks sharply to him about some petty fault and he replies weakly , " You didn't really mean that , did you ? " ) There is nothing sadder than an empty , dusty pub waiting for the world to end . For 1960 , this was a frankly adult script . I don't mean the end of the world so much as the vulgar language and the near exposure of Janet Munro's bosoms . ( I realize that " bosoms " isn't exactly the right word but I adopt that usage from fashion photographers who say things like , " Fine , now could you lift your left bosom a bit ? " ) She's seems pretty and bright and has a perfect figure for carrying babies . A shame her world ended so soon . The finale is corny , though , as if in an attempt to make up for all the cynicism that has preceded it . We hear vague church bells in the background ( the producers wanted a heavenly choir ) as Judd dictates a preachy speech about love instead of hate and all that , and the film ends with a slow zoom onto the cross that crowns St . Paul's . Stanley Kramer at least spared us that in " On The Beach . " But that's only a few minutes out of an otherwise portentous and horribly horripilic movie . All we really need to do is substitute greenhouse gases for simultaneous nukes , and 400 months for four months , and the story we see elicits the slightest of shudders .
Winning romantic comedy and fantasy .	Renee Zellweger is a Kansas housewife whose domineering husband is mixed up in drug trafficking . Two professional hit men - - Morgan Freeman and his son , Chris Rock , murder the husband in his dining room . Zellweger , unobserved by the killers , witnesses this and undergoes a dissociative reaction , assuming the personality of a nurse - - the eponymous Betty - - who is a character in her favorite soap opera . Believing herself to be the TV character , Zellweger takes off in her husband's car , which has a load of dope in the trunk , and travels to LA where she hopes to link up with another character in this mindless afternoon drama , " Dr . David Ravell " , Greg Kinnear . Not realizing she is being pursued by the two hit men , she drives to LA where she manages to link up with Kinnear and is actually written into the show as a nurse named Betty . A handful of men in the know , including the local sheriff , catch on to what's happening and also seek Zellweger in LA . The ending is believable and poignant . If that sounds crazy , it's because it is . And it's the writer's responsibility , John C . Richards . The curious thing is that Richards and the director , Neil Labute , with considerable help from the performers , just about pull it all off . This isn't a plot that has been cast in a familiar mold . Nope . I give it bonus points for sheer originality . Somebody went out on a limb . Somebody took a chance on a movie that was NOT a copy or remake of something that had made money ten years or fifty years ago . I imagine the people involved , down on their knees every night , praying fervently . I don't know if the film was remunerative but it's mostly successful on its own aesthetic terms . It's what might be called an " initial premise " movie . You start off with a single transformative event , in this case the murder of Zellweger's husband and her adoption of a genuinely new personality , and follow the resultant logical paths realistically . " Groundhog Day " is another , better and more intricately plotted , example . " Nurse Betty " has its logical cracks , where the incidents give up their plausibility . Eg . , at a party in LA , Zellweger finally runs into Kinnear , the guy who plays her ex-fiancé on TV . She's stunned ( because , after all , she thinks she's Betty , who lost her fiancé long ago ) . She approaches Kinnear and a couple of his colleagues and introduces herself as " Nurse Betty " , the character . She addresses Kinnear by the name of his TV character , " David Ravell . " The group are puzzled at first , then convince themselves that she's an aspiring actress who insists on staying " in character " during the conversation - - and afterward , too , after Kinnear has become fascinated by her and the others bored . Kinnear drives her home and even when she kisses him goodnight , she's still in character , leaving Kinnear wide-eyed with astonishment at the relentless way she captures the character of Betty . On the next date , Kinnear returns her love . That development , the relationship between Zellweger and Kinnear at this point , is a crack in the logic , the kind that's absent from " Groundhog Day . " By the end of Night One , Kinnear , like any other person , would realize that Zellweger is a few clowns short of a circus . The rest of the film , which includes many digressions , succeeds beyond expectations . The relationship between Morgan Freeman and his insolent , nihilistic son is marvelously spelled out . Morgan is flawless in his exasperation . He manages to fall in love with the image of Zellweger as he unearths clues to her whereabouts and activities , and at the end he can't bring himself to shoot her . She's too sweet to shoot . After her transformation into Betty , she left a note behind in Kansas . " I want to help all life , whether it be animal , plant , or mineral . " Who could harm the author of such a preposterous connative statement ? His admiration of her comes as an epiphany , as he stands near one of the floodlights at the rim of the Grand Canyon . Zellweger , dressed as Dorothy , or maybe the Good Witch of the East - - well , characters that , like Zellweger , are from Kansas anyway - - appears to Freeman and he embraces her and kisses her tenderly . It's a scene that's at once eerie , romantic , and a little spooky . I once stood at one of those lights and threw some shredded paper into the updraft from the dark canyon and found myself surrounded by a thousand swirling bats who had misperceived the fluttering shreds as moths . Right . Where was I ? Okay . I was trying not to run out of space . Zellweger's performance deserves plaudits . Everything she does , every movement , every utterance , is naive and tentative . She really IS a likable character - - and that despite the fact that she's no glamor girl by Hollywood standards . But - - what an actress . Compare her performance as the bumptious 19th-century hick in " Cold Mountain . " Just the opposite . But then everyone is up to snuff in this enjoyable film . Allyson Jannings does a fine job in a minor role . Watch her when she tells Greg Kinnear that she's considering killing off his character in the soap opera in a drowning accident . Kinnear is one of those narcissists who wears the kind of ten-thousand dollar thin black leather jackets that were popular at the time . He chuckles and says , " Oh , one of those castaway deals , right ? Okay , how do I get back ? " Jannings doesn't answer . She just smiles at him with those enormous blue eyes and tilts her head mockingly . Not a masterpiece of film-making but a good , original , professional job by everyone concerned .
Decent , complicated thriller	It's a long and complex movie . Complex not because there are too many subplots . ( There are only two interwoven plots : the solution of the mystery and the mating of Andy Garcia and Uma Thurman . ) It's just that we follow events in considerable detail . That's okay , in itself , but the climax itself - - the revelation and killing of a serial murderer - - isn't well adumbrated . The climax pivots on the finding of an antihistamine capsule and everything falls together in the last fifteen minutes without any previous hints . The director follows most of the rules . Nothing fancy . He does give us two outstanding scenes . In the first , Uma Thurman , who has been blind since childhood and sequestered in a bleak institution is taken to a Christmas party by Garcia , the detective investigating serial murders , in one of which cases she is a witness . A friend dresses her up and covers her with makeup for her debut . ( I liked her better as a lean lanky-looking Bohemian with a cello . Dressed up she looks a little whorish . ) The party begins well . But later she finds herself standing alone in the middle of a dozen drunken guests who bump into her from unexpected directions . The record player is blaring " Louie Louie , " and everyone ignores her . Her anxiety is manifest as she is slowly encircled by the camera , and we are as confused and frightened as she is . Thurman and the director do a polished job here . Another memorable scene is the interrogation of Garcia by John Malkovich . Malkovich hams it up as usual . He seems to be constantly sniffing and speaks as if he had a cold . " You got mbarried but byew had a bad mbarriage , didn't byew ? " But that's okay too . It must have been a hard scene to shoot . It's full of tight close ups of the two faces , sometimes only inches apart . Sometimes Malkovich even whispers into Garcia's ear . Garcia is tense , grief stricken , and angry . Malkovich is sly and insinuating . There is no music in the scene . Aside from the dialogue everything is perfectly quiet , except for the squeaking of wheeled office chairs or the harsh breathing of the actors . One wrong move , one errant twitch , one delinquent vocal chord , and everything goes back to Square One . Whatever troubles the scene might have given the film makers , what we see on screen is about as good as it gets . Two real professionals at work in front of a camera . I'll make the rest of the points kind of quickly . Conrad Hall is a great cinematographer , and he gets some of the scenic locations down neatly . But - - man , is this gloomy . Okay , we don't expect it to be otherwise when it's a howling blizzard and three in the morning . But the interiors are almost as dark . ( Enough with the symbolism ! ) Why is a police laboratory so dark we can hardly make out the faces ? There is no contrast between interiors and exteriors . Somebody turn on the lights ! The director should get no more than a gentleman's C for the introduction of the institute's janitor . An elevator door opens . We see a man's back . The man turns around . Jump to a close up of his bald head and gargoyle face with glasses like coke-bottle bottoms . It would have been fine in a movie with a title like " I Dismember Mamma . " There us some gratuitous nudity too . I found it objectionable for two reasons . One is that there wasn't enough of it . Second is that a body double is used . Much better to have had a long long scene of gratuitous nudity using the lissome giantess herself . Maurice Jarre evidently had his score thrown out . The replacement is pretty good . This murky and rather solemn film is unimaginable with a loud action-y score full of electronic percussion and unceasing in its torture . It's nice that Thurman plays a music teacher at the institute but I kind of wish the instrument we had seen her with had been something other than a cello . It must be played in an undignified position and is the second most preposterous instrument in an orchestra , the first being the Glockenspiel . Oh - - and by the way , Garcia tracks the murderer down by following a trail of clues to a house many hours ' drive away , in Oakland . While he's riffing through the drawers , he's caught by the murderer and framed . How did the murderer know that Garcia would be there ? Eureka's not a bad little town , although it's rainy all winter and foggy all summer . It keeps the riff-raff out . My ship used to dock at Field's Landing . I wonder if the Ranchotel is still open ? Very friendly patrons .
Warm , Diverting Musical .	Little Joe ( Eddie " Rochester " Anderson ) is a warehouseman in a small African-American town , married to Petunia ( Ethel Waters ) , who falls ill and dreams the Lord and the Devil are testing him by allowing him to win the Irish Sweepstakes and sending him a tempting visitor in the form and person ( what form , what person ! ) of Sweet Georgia Brown ( Lena Horne ) . He more or less proves himself , pulls through , and he and Petunia carry on with their poor but happy lives . It's directed by Vincente Minelli and produced by Arthur Fried , without a white person in the cast . Some of the songs have become familiar standards - - " Happiness is Just a Thing Called Joe , " " Shine , " " Takin ' a Chance on Love , " and snatch of Duke Ellington's orchestra playing " Things Ain't What They Used to Be . " The plot and dialog are folksy , unsophisticated , and without pretense . Eddie Anderson and his gravelly voice are amusing in themselves . Ethel Waters has a brilliant smile that changes her features into something benign , although she was apparently not easy to get along with . She disliked Lena Horne intensely here , and later developed a fully blown hatred between herself and director John Ford in " Pinky . " Lena Horne is exquisitely feminine , singing , " There's honey in the honeycomb . There's jelly in the jelly roll , " as she caresses her bare arms and shoulders . I suppose it's possible to read racism into a film like this but it got past me entirely . The actors and musicians were probably overjoyed at the chance to appear in a major film . ( There was a kind of parallel cinematic universe of all-black films at the time , but they rarely had the budget or skill of mainstream movies . ) Further , it's difficult to imagine a cast of any color giving better musical performances . Louis Armstrong has a few minutes on screen as a devil's assistant and is given a chance to toot out one or two choice phrases . And Ellington's orchestra was one of the best in the business . It's all very rural and cornball , of course , just as " Young Mister Lincoln " is , and " State Fair , " in which a love song is sung to a hog . Relax and spend an enjoyable hour and a half with the simple , but not simple-minded , folk of this neighborhood . It's a pleasant diversion .
New Wave .	I remember seeing this when it was released , in a theater in Palo Alto , and not expecting much . I mean - - an Australian movie ? But it finally got to me . Here's a scene . Richard Chamberlain is sitting cross legged on the floor of a shabby apartment in Sidney , facing an Australian aborigine elder named Charlie . Chamberlain : " You were outside my house last night . You frightened my wife . Who are you ? " And Charlie at a deliberate pace replies , " Who are you ? Who are you ? Who are you ? Who are you ? Who are you ? . . . . Are you a fish ? Are you a snake ? Are you a man ? . . . . Who are you ? Who are you ? Who are you ? " It's a stunning scene , shot all in close ups , with Chamberlain's blandly handsome face filling the screen in opposition to Charlie's black , broad-nosed , bearded visage . The two guys couldn't be more different and this film is the story of how Chamberlain accidentally stumbles from his humdrum lawyerly existence into the inexplicable , almost unspeakable , mysteries of Charlie's world . I don't think I'll go on much about the plot . It's kind of an apocalyptic tale . But I must say , whoever did the research on Australian aboriginal belief systems should get an A plus . They've got everything in here , from pointing the bone to the dream time , a kind of parallel universe in which dreams are real . It's an extremely spooky movie without any musical stings or splendiferous special effects . Charly's world simply begins to intrude into Chamberlain's dreams , for reasons never made entirely clear . If there's a problem with the script , that's it . Nothing is ever made entirely clear . Does Chamberlain , who seems to have some extraordinary rapport with the aborigines , die in the last wave ? Do the aborigines ? Does the entirety of Sidney ? The basic premise is a little hard to accept too , though granted that this is a fantasy . The aborigines are invested with the kind of spiritual power that Americans bestow on American Indians , whereas the fact is that mythology is mythology and while one may be more complex or satisfying - - more elegant and beautiful , if you like - - mythology is still an attempt to transcend an ordinary , demanding , and sometimes disappointing physical existence . The mysticism of Charlie is more convincing that the miracles of Moses in Cecil B . DeMille's " The Ten Commandments , " but they're brothers under the skin . But I don't care about that . Taken as a film , this one is pretty good , and it's especially important for marking the celebrity of the director , Peter Weir , and the Australian film industry . This was the first of a great wave of films from the antipodes , some of them raucous , like " Mad Max , " and some subtle and dramatic , like " Lantana . " I like Weir's stuff , which resembles Nicholas Roeg's in being pregnant with subliminal dread . Try " Picnic at Hanging Rock " for an example of how to make a truly chilling movie with not a drop of blood .
Simple but effective genre movie	Actually it's a kind of remake of John Ford's " Lost Patrol " only this time in the jungles of the Bataan peninsula . A mixed group of men with varied background are pinned down by the enemy and picked off one by one in colorful ways . Characters and incidents are out of a comic book . This is not a subtle movie . If you want a greater dose of something resembling reality , try " Pride of the Marines " or " Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo " or " They Were Expendable . " This is the kind of thing that passed for uplifting entertainment in 1943 . But , given the usual strictures of the genre and the times , it's fairly well done . The shooting was done in a studio and looks it . The model work looks like model work too . But , again , if you don't expect too much in the way of authenticity it's engaging . To be engaged , though , you must put up with things like there being no question of pulling out or surrendering . We fight to the last man . And there is a brutal battle towards the end in which both sides charge with bayonets . We litter the ground with Japanese dead while they manage to kill only two of our men . We shoot them , grenade them , bayonet them , strangle them , stab them , and the air is filled with flying body parts , all Japanese . The Japanese are referred to as " Japs , " " baboons " , " monkeys " ( twice ) , " rats " , and " animals " ( in case we hadn't got the point yet ) . If they capture one of our guys they " work him over good " before putting him out of his misery . There's a certain historical truth in much of this . Bataan was an exhausting conflict . American and Philippine troops defended the peninsula until forced to surrender , and many of them died from wounds , illness , and malnutrition . If I recall , the Japanese , under General Yamashita , were in almost as bad a shape . And of course the infamous death march to the prison camps doomed many of the captives . A good number of the victims were from a unit formed near Deming , New Mexico , where a small memorial has been built . There is nothing much worth saying about the acting . Not much acting is called for . The black soldier has a terrific baritone . Robert Walker turns in a nice performance as a wimpy sailor / musician , although he too is allowed to kill a number of enemy soldiers in hand-to-hand combat . Thomas Mitchell doesn't come across as a Jake Feingold . Desi Arnaz is one of those non-native speakers of English who use a lot of jazzy lingo when they talk . ( Amusing . ) Loyd Nolan is the most interesting character and gives by far the most droll performance . " That really bothers me , what you think . " The best that can be said for Robert Taylor ( b . Spangler Arlington Borough ) is that he doesn't get in the way of the scenery . He began his career at MGM in the 1930s as a handsome leading man . As he grew older his features coarsened , as features will , but MGM kept him soldiering away in epics and ever cheaper features . His acting didn't change much . There's a curious and coincidental aspect to the casting here . Of the men in the patrol , three are San Franciscans : Barry Nelson , Loyd Nolan , and Philip Terry ( the medic ) . One of those random juxtapositions whose likelihood can only be pinpointed by use of the Poisson distribution . After all , San Francisco has always been a small city , at the time these actors were born , probably no more than 500 , 000 . The reason Loyd Nolan sounds like a New Yorker is because so many New Yorkers came to San Francisco in the 19th century and settled in the Mission District , as part of what sociologists call a chain migration . You can still hear the remnants of that New York accent in elderly San Franciscans today .
A very gentil parfait knight .	Not a bad historical epic at all , kind of stirring . Charlton Heston is Roderigo Diaz de Vivar , who comes to be known as El Cyd , an honorific derived from Arabic which is still with us in the form of the name " Said " . He's inaccurately introduced as " a simple man . " In reality , while not necessarily smart , he's pretty complicated . He's a brilliant general , a charismatic leader , and clumsy at court . ( He forces his king , Sancho , to take oaths in public several times , strictly a no-no , yet turns down a crown and sacrifices his life for the same flawed king . ) He marries Jimen , has several kids , and dies a mythic death at the head of a combined army of Christians and Moors , fighting for Sancho and Spain . This gigantic thing , with a cast of thousands , was directed efficiently by Anthony Mann , and it must have been a horrible job for him and his ADs . Mann makes splendid use of the wide screen . Miklos Rozsa's score doesn't sound much like his usual recycled stuff . It sounds generically Spanish , with maybe overtones of the bull ring for martial scenes and a touch of a different Rodrigo - - Joaquin - - for romance . Frankly , I was lost at times in the genealogy and geography . I tried checking out who was who in Wikipedia but it didn't help much . King Sancho is Sancho I , meaning there must have been more Sanchos , not even counting Sancho Panza . There were also two Ben Yussufs , one good and one bad , which was more confusing still . And the geography . A couple of maps would have helped . I have only the vaguest memories of Spain , except for half an hour or so when I had a loaded machine gun pointed at me by the Guardia Civil in the Pyrenees who were , I presume , looking for Basque separatists disguised as stupid American tourists . ( I wasn't afraid . ) Not that this matters much , because we do get a general sense of El Cyd's rise to the top , with a couple of downs in between , and that's the point of the movie . And there's no mistaking the bad guy , the bad Ben Yussuf . He's in the opening scene , dressed all in black like his followers ( a novel touch ) . He exhorts his army to turn all their knowledge to warfare and do nothing but burn and kill the infidels to the north . The scene ends in a freeze frame of him with his arm stretched out in a Hitlerian salute . The duels are realistic ones . In the first we see , nobody is dancing on the furniture or lopping off candles . In the second , the two duelists begin with lances , switch to the mace , fight with short Roman-style swords , then wind up with these gigantic two-handed monsters . Clink ! WHANG ! The dialog is stiff , as befits a medieval epic . I mean , the actors can't sound like they were just dragged in off the streets of Anaheim . Or New York : " Yonder lies da castel of my fodder . " So often the contractions are forgone . " I will not , " instead of , " I won't . " Charlton Heston handles this kind of dialog well , which a lot of performers would not , Sofia Loren included . Heston , asked where in history he belonged , once replied ruefully , " Somewhere between Moses and the Middle Ages . " But I don't know what he was complaining about . There aren't that many people who can look comfortable in period costumes . Heston can , just as Errol Flynn did . Heston can act too , whereas it can be said of Robert Taylor , who made similar movies at MGM , that he didn't often get in the way of the scenery . Does anyone see Nicholas Cage or Bruce Willis as El Cyd ? It's a gift . Sometimes , though , it must be admitted that the writers stretched a bit much towards poetic speech . " You do not know lovers ' time . Tonight is not tonight , but this afternoon . And tomorrow is today . " Their joints must have been creaking . The film is splashed with color and pageantry and is very diverting . There's little left for the viewer to unravel . We know pretty much what all the characters are thinking , even those as complex as El Cyd . For a more challenging look at a mythic figure , try " Lawrence of Arabia , " released the year following this .
I'm going to get you out of here . You're going to get me out of here ? I'm going to get you out of here .	I started watching this without knowing any of the credits . As the dialog and the anfractuous plot developed I found myself thinking , " Oh , no ! " It was all so MAMET-LIKE . I assumed that David Mamet had had sufficient critical successes and box office winners that other writers and directors were shamelessly ripping him off and that he would soon be nudged sideways into the cliché-laden zone now occupied by people like Hitchcock and Quentin Tarrantino . Istantly recognizable Schtick . In a few years our ability to suspend disbelief would be lambasted with increasingly involved special ops within cons within special ops , and we would be listening in every movie to dialog like this : Character One : " I'm going to get you out of here . " Character Two : " You're going to get me out of here ? " Character One : " I'm going to get you out of here . " Or : Character One : " You want a cigarette now ? " Character Two : " Can you produce one ? " What a relief to find that David Mamet was behind this whole thing - - writer , producer , director , bricoleur . It may be Schtick , but it's Mamet's own . The plot really IS pretty complicated and sometimes a little hard to follow because of the elliptic dialog . At the same time we can usually judge from the circumstances what it means when somebody says , " You've got to bring me into the tall corn . " It's a little harder to guess what a transponder looks like but we can do that too . It's very hard , though , to understand how even the world's finest shot can with one bullet blow away a moving target on land when the shooter himself is on a bobbing fishing boat half a mile out on the misty ocean - - but let that ( and several other implausibilities ) glide . It's an interesting movie , easy to get swept up in . Val Kilmer is beyond the point of prettiness , happily , and is bulkier and more believable . ( From some angles he reminds one of Mickey Rooney . ) His acting may not shoot out the lights but the role doesn't call for fireworks , just a nicely balanced combination of determination and creativity . I kind of like Bill Macy better in parts that are at least slightly comic . Those goofy features , I suppose . The rest of the performers are at least adequate . The movie was released in 2004 and probably shot in 2003 . The heavies - - aside from those in Washington - - are Arabs , as far as we know . I mean , when you think of Dubai , you think Arabs , no ? Although I doubt that most Americans could go to a map and put their finger on Dubai instead of , say , Qattar , Bahrain , Kuwait , Oman , or Yemen - - or Jordan , Syria , or Saudi Arabia for that matter . A survey of high school students a few years ago revealed that the majority thought that Toronto was in Italy . I only mention this because I wonder if this film establishes precedent . Are we to have nothing but Arab terrorists and white slave traders in our future ? Is this a pointed finger that I see before me ? Catch it if you can . Plenty of action - - but it's used as dramatic punctuation rather than a Ding an Sich . It's there for a reason . And the narrative will keep you interested .
Tricky Mystery	Nicely done , stylish puzzler about a man who murders his wife . Anthony Hopkins discovers that his wife , Embeth Davidtz , is having one of those anonymous affairs with Billy Burke , who happens to be a detective in LA homicide . One night she comes home from an assignation and Hopkins coolly shoots her in the head . The shot is heard and the police surround the house , led by Burke himself . Hopkins eventually allows Burke to enter the house alone , with the proviso that he lay down his gun , just as Hopkins will put down the pistol he's holding in his hand . Not knowing that Hopkins is his lover's husband , Burke asks , " Is your wife alright ? " , asks Burke . " I don't think so , " replies Hopkins , " I just shot her in the head . " Burke sees the comatose body of Davidtz and , bang , runs to her and tries to revive her , taking his eyes off Hopkins for a few critical moments . It seems that Hopkins ' goose is cooked , doesn't it ? He's confessed that he's shot his wife . His gun is found . The barely alive body is lying there . No one has entered or left the house since the shot was heard . The case looks like a no-brainer , so it's given to Ryan Gosling in the Tom Cruise role of a cocky young lawyer who is just about to leave the DA's office for greener pastures . But , lo ! Hopkins ' confiscated gun is not the murder weapon ! It can't be , because it's never been fired . Hopkins represents himself at the trial and - - smart as a whip - - he gets the charge of attempted murder dropped because of the absence of physical evidence . Not only that . Billy Burke has been sitting through the trial and when the case is dismissed he shoots himself . Then , twitting Gosling , whose number he's got , Hopkins whispers confidentially that as a final gesture he's going to pull the plug on Embeth Davidtz . Despite his rushing to the hospital with a court order , Gosling is unable to prevent the final insult . They pull the plug and she flatlines . Medical discretion forbids further plot revelations . Hopkins is good to great , as usual . He's getting older though and although this role suits him well enough , romantic leads will soon be behind him . Billy Burke is stolid as the lover . I can't say I've ever found Ryan Gosling less than irritating . He projects cockiness and self satisfaction but his range seems limited . He's less believable , far less , when he's been deflated . He may be a nice guy in real life - - loves his dog and collects stamps , for all I know - - but he always reminds me of the high school jock who never lacks for female friendship and acts out his advantage over the rest of us no-more-than-ordinarily handsome kids . Too many smirks and not enough self doubt . The plot itself has some holes in it , some of them sizable enough to drive a Ford Navigator through . Hopkins really has brains . He's built this elaborate device or game out of channels of tubing that you can roll ball bearings down and it takes five minutes of capering before the steel balls reach the bottom . They practically do entre chats . This device I take to be a symbol for the way Hopkins ' mind works . And a good one because , after all , a legal autodidact , he becomes an Allan Dershowitz almost overnight in the court room . Yet he makes a thoughtless and pointless move at the end that brings about his own ruin . He spills the balls all over the floor . And I'm getting tired of looking at dark blue images on the screen . My eyeballs are about to go into shock at the sight of a hot pink object . Why is everything so dark , so gloomy ? Why is the court room itself so dark ? And a hospital ? I'm hoping photographers will rediscover the visible spectrum . Not to say this isn't a film worth catching . It's nicely written and classically staged . No directorial furor . No cinematic fireworks . No car chases . It reminds me a bit of Hitchcock's " Dial M for Murder , " based on Frederick Knott's play . Except that Hitchcock's murder thriller wasn't nearly so dark .
What we escaped from .	This isn't going to be everybody's favorite movie . The production values don't shoot out the lights . All the sets are indoors . There's no motion to speak of . The whole shebang seems static and talky . Yet it's an important document and in some ways well done . If much of the dialog sounds stilted it's because it was taken from official sources . So we get a lot of formal speech and very little in the way of offhand nudges . But the acting , at least in the important roles , is really pretty good . DeVane as JFK , Martin Sheen as his brother Bobby , and Howard DaSilva as Krushchev are outstanding . Most impressive is the way this film takes us back to what now seems almost like a Golden Age , despite the missile crisis and the insanity of Mutual Assured Destruction . It was a time when a president would make certain that the meetings were attended by an old Cold Warrior , Dean Acheson , even though Acheson was presumed to represent a dated point of view and was only a private citizen at the time , because the president wanted to hear all points of view during brainstorming sessions . In discussing those planning sessions , Robert MacNamara describes President Kennedy leaning towards military action in order to save face , and one of the participants saying to him , " Mister President , you're wrong . " ( " That took guts , " says MacNamara in Errol Morris's documentary , " The Fog of War . " ) I was in school at the time of these events and no one knew anything except what was released to the media . If we'd known how close we were to war I believe church attendance would have soared . Many incidents and coincidences came together to get the world out of that tight spot , chief among them the reluctance of both sides to engage in war . Both Krushchev and Kennedy had a pretty good idea of how that worked . JFK had written a book about it . More than that , imagine a president who is able to muse that he recently finished reading Barbara Tuchman's history of the accidental beginning of World War I , " The Guns of August " . " If I could do it , I'd send a copy to every commanding officer aboard the blockading destroyers - - not that they'd read it . " The resolution of the conflict , despite missteps and mistakes on both sides , hinged on a single event . Krushchev , depressed , wrote an ameliorative letter to Kennedy , saying that he understood Kennedy's position , and that he , Krushchev was willing to dismantle the Cuban missiles in return for a guarantee that the USA would neither launch nor aid any invasion of Cuba in the future . ( Using anti-Castro Cubans , we had invaded the island at the Bay of Pigs , which was a miserable failure . ) At last both sides seemed to have what they wanted . The USA was getting rid of the missile threat , and the USSR was getting a guarantee of Cuba's sovereignty . Alas , under political pressure from his " war camp " at home , Krushcheve wrote a second letter , much harder in tone , reneging on earlier proposals and adding demands which the USA could not grant . Two mutually conflicting proposals a day apart . What to do ? What they did was follow Robert Kennedy's suggestion . They ignored the second letter and responded only to the first . More fumbles and confusion followed but the crisis was eventually resolved with both sides compromising , but not in ways that jeopardized their own defenses . The crisis required - - and got - - deft handling at the top and cautious but effective diplomacy . That's why I used the expression " Golden Age " before . As drama , this isn't much . No villains , no fist fights , and not a gun in sight . Yet for its educational value alone , in our somewhat history-shy culture , it ought to be seen by everyone , especially now .
Life's a city , full of strange streets . . . . .	SPOILERS . I'll pretty much collapse any description of the story because anybody who has sat through this , or is willing to sit through it , or in an Edgar G . ( for " George " ) Ulmer freak , already knows it . Tom Neal and his blonde girl friend work in a New York nightclub . He plays the piano . She sings . He's not content but she's even less content and , despite their vague plans for marriage , she tells him she's taking off to seek her future as an entertainer in Hollywood . Tom learns she's become a hash slinger in La La Land and decides to hitch out there and see if he can help . He's picked up by a snazzily dressed guy in an expensive Chrysler who dies of a heart attack while Tom is at the wheel one rainy night . Very sensibly , he switches identities with the dead guy and continues driving alone , until he picks up Ann Savage who immediately guesses what happened , except she believes there was a deliberate murder . They reach LA together and , after an argument , Tom accidentally strangles her with a phone cord . He's doomed . The script is full of implausibilities on which we won't dwell . Let's give these people a break . A nine-day shooting schedule and a budget of , what was it ? , $300 , 000 - - for EVERYTHING , including tips ? But we should give credit to the writers where it's due . The main theme is from Chopin's Fantasy Impromptu in some key I forget , maybe C minor , but it's been made into a popular song , " I'm always chasing rainbows . " Neal also makes ten bucks by playing about the ugliest version of a Brahm's lullaby ever committed to celluloid . But there is a reference , too , to " Franco-Prussian sabres . " ( Why Franco-Prussian ? No matter , but it adds a bit of less rudimentary , less earth-bound , to the script than we might have expected . There are other classic lines too . " Money . What is it . Just a piece of paper crawling with germs . " And this exchange between Tom and his girl at the nightclub after he rips through some Chopin . Blonde : " That was beautiful . You'll be in Carnegie Hall some day . " Tom : " Yeah , as a janitor . I'll make my debut in the basement . " ( And this is while they're still HAPPY . ) And this exchange : Ann Savage coughs . Tom : " That's a mean cough . " Ann : " I'll be alright . " Tom : " That's what Camille said . " I don't know if he meant to take us back past Garbo to Alexander Dumas fils , but he does . The acting . Tom Neal is a kind of less talented Kurt Russel who wound up in some serious trouble of his own . As his character says , " Sometimes fate points a finger at you for no reason at all , " etc . Ann Savage : A great vicious little woman who only smiles when her instinct tell her it will be to her benefit , like when she's drunkenly trying to seduce Tom in a hotel room , her scowl momentarily turning into what she probably believes is an inviting smile , kind of like a praying mantis . She has a clipped , bitchy voice and sneers constantly . If she didn't exist it would not have been necessary to invent her . Do see this . It's a classic noir . Absolutely primitive by force of circumstances . When Tom starts to reminisce in the diner , the lights dim except for a baby spot that comes up and highlights his bleary eyes . Don't watch it too often , though , or you're liable to slit your own wrists .
Mrs . De Groot :	Once the show hit its stride , all of the episodes generated their shares of untrammeled laughter and by the third season , things were swinging along easily . It's almost impossible to imagine how the writers could so consistently have come up with absurd situations and barbed exchanges . Neil Simon's joints would have creaked with the effort . In this story , Al discovers a book , The Little Engine That Could , that he forgot to return to the local library in 1957 . The others urge him to do the right thing and bring it back but he's haunted by memories of the fat old librarian , Mrs . De Groot . ( The name alone suggests everything we need to know about her ! ) He has a flashback to one of his encounters with her as a child . He approaches the desk and she sneers down at him and say , " Ahh . Al Bundy - - the Devil Boy . " She curses him and promises he'll be a loser all his life . Thinking she must have retired or passed on by now , Al visits the library intending to turn in the book , only to find that Mrs . De Groot has waited for him all these years . Her desire to humiliate him further has held her together . He owes several thousands of dollars because the book is overdue . Mrs . De Groot is played perfectly and Al's lines are among his best . She observes that he has become the loser she always predicted he would and Al replies haughtily , " Okay , I'm a shoe salesman . I get up in the morning and already hate myself . I drive to work with hundreds of other drudges and make no money . I don't like my family and they don't respect me . My life has been a complete waste . But , Mrs . De Groot , I'll tell you something . I've never put a gun in my mouth - - and that makes me a WINNER . " One of the better entries in the series .
Boy , What a Big BUG !	One of the earliest and one of the best " big bug " movies to appear in the 1950s . There are these giant ants - - and I mean BIG ones - - that were caused by the first atomic bomb explosion in New Mexico . " Where was the first bomb exploded ? " , asks Edmund Gwen , the requisite scientist . " Near here , in the White Sands area , " replies James Arness as the FBI agent , indicating on a map of New Mexico an area that is on the opposite side of the state . Not that the subtext is really concerned with the first atomic bomb . These monster films , with the creatures often generated by an atomic explosion , only began to appear after the USSR and the Chinese had exploded their own nuclear devices . That's the period in which Hollywood first became aware of the danger of these artifacts . The film is continuously engaging , with hardly a dull moment , and follows the trajectory familiar to fans of the genre . A mysterious and lethal event occurs in a remote area . The local police are dismissive or baffled . But another minor catastrophe takes place and the scientific experts are called in to explain the goings-on . ( One of them should be a beautiful young apprentice scientist . ) The scientists and the agents of social control follow the cause of the disturbances to an urban area where the threat really turns serious . The military finally rides to the rescue . This is a pretty good story , nicely thought out , and good use is made of location shooting in the Mojave desert and in the cement bed of the LA River and the tunnels surrounding it . The acting , too , lifts this above the norm . The principals are all reliable . Whitmore is Everyman . Arness is so big and so polite that he beguiles . And Edmund Gwen has his comic moments , especially when he is in an airplane , wrestling with proper radio procedure . Joan Weldon , as the foxy young scientist , isn't much of an actress . ( She was a singer . ) But she brings her high zygomatics and a certain elegance to a part that , in all honesty , doesn't call for much more than that . The scientific element of the plot requires a suspension of disbelief that is only rarely achieved outside of frankly paranoid states . No animal the size of ants could survive by breathing through book lungs , for instance , and other problems are curtly dismissed by the experts . No pupae ? It's an effect of the atomic radiation . " Yes , that would explain it , " agrees Edmund Gwen with no further attempt at explanation . But none of this is in any way irritating because the movie is so good natured , so generous , and so genuinely eager to wrap the viewer in its spell . It bears repeated viewings well . Instead of stop-motion , the creatures are life-sized ( or miniature ) mechanical models . And if they're not especially believable , well , this was 1954 , before the age of computer-generated images . I don't believe the film is as good as a few others , such as " The Thing From Another World , " but it's far from pedestrian and is much better than much of the stuff that was to follow . All around , a nice job .
Reasonably Doubtful ?	If you read Joe McGinnes ' book , you'd find it difficult to accuse the author of trying to sell more copies of it by twisting facts around . McGinnis was hired in the first place by MacDonald to tell his side of the story and only gradually did the writer change his mind about MacDonald's innocence . Of course McGinnis wanted his book to sell , so he could become rich and famous , just as MacDonald wanted his story told so he could become rich and famous too . Everyone wants to be rich and famous . But some people want it a LOT more than others and , according to McGinnes , this was Jeff MacDonald's biggest problem . The book ends with a description of a " narcissistic personality " drawn from the work of Christopher Lasch . There's some reason to believe that MacDonald belonged in that category . One of his last writings to McGinnes detailed a number of his greatest regrets about his life . Chief among them was not having actually gotten a degree from Princeton . ( He transferred to Northwestern's medical school after his third year . ) That's a pretty dumb thing to put down as a great regret unless you're something of a narcissist . Of course being a narcissist doesn't make you a murderer . In this case , it was the physical evidence that made the difference . It's true , as earlier comments have mentioned , that the army made a botch of the crime scene . They tramped all over , setting disturbed items upright , even swiping MacDonald's wallet . But some of the comments have been misleading , because McGinnis's book describes all this , and the film does too . Of course , having the army foul up a crime scene doesn't make you innocent either . In the end , McGinnis found MacDonald's story unbelievable because , in addition to the physical evidence , there was the simple fact that MacDonald " hadn't been hurt badly enough . " The murderers in his tale ( one of them a girl in a floppy hat ) beat the other three members of his family to death and stab them . And here is MacDonald , a trained green beret , who gets tangled up in his pajamas while his wife is screaming in the background and who then passes out , sustaining a few scratches and a neat nick that ends in a small pneumothorax , which sounds terrible but which a doctor would recognize as not in itself life threatening . And this quartet of murderers in MacDonald's description is pretty interesting in itself . The sort of group that everyone at the time carried around in an easily accessible part of his or her memory , because everyone had been so shocked at the Manson family shortly before . But they are a square guy's cliche of what senseless murderers would look like . I was working on a research project into LSD use at the time of the murders and interviewed dozens of acid heads and dopers from all walks of life . ( They included the entire fencing team at an Ivy League university . ) They didn't have much in common except that when tripping they were one hundred per cent nonviolent . As one reporter put it , " When people are on acid they can't even organize a trip to the men's room . " And nobody would dream of saying something like , " Acid is groovy , " while trying to slice somebody up . Any acid head knew that things were a lot more complicated than that . ( Nobody involved in the case seems to have had any idea of what the effects of recreational drugs were like . One young woman suspected of being the girl in the floppy hat , can't provide an alibi for herself because she " was out on marijuana " for four hours . ) The " pigs " written in blood was a direct ripoff of the Manson family murders , whoever put it up there . The film follows the book pretty closely , painting a picture of Jeff MacDonald that is distinctly unflattering . Smart but shallow , he got out of the army pronto and lived in a Marina del Rey condo with blonde airheads seriatim . I'd like to see him put away if only out of envy . But was he guilty ? Well , there was hardly a rush to judgment . It took years to convict him , long after the immediate sensation of the case died down . What leaves me with some lingering doubts , however , is the lack of any apparent motive . There was evidently no history of spousal abuse , nor of previous violent acts on MacDonald's part , nor of any nucleus in family dynamics for a murderous outburst . There is a sizeable hole in the film where motive should be . The book and the film , despite some revisionist statements I've read , convince me that MacDonald probably did it . His alibi is almost impossible to swallow . Still - - I wouldn't have wanted to be on the jury .
Good Warner's Gangster Movie .	This was directed by Raoul Walsh and included many of the Warner Brothers stalwarts . You'll recognize many familiar faces if you're an aficionado of the genre . Rip-roaring , no-nonsense stuff , it's basically organized around three stories : ( 1 ) Cagney's rise from unemployed ex-soldier to the top of the bootlegger heap and back again ; ( 2 ) the love quadrangle involving Cagney , Gladys George as the soft-hearted blowzy Panama Smith , Priscilla Lane as the " good girl " , and Jeffrey Lynn as the lawyer ; and ( 3 ) the friendship of Cagney , Humphrey Bogart , and Jeffrey Lynn in the trenches , turning into a way partnership , the eventual defection of Lynn , the ruination of Cagney , and the death by natural causes ( three bullets ) of treacherous , greedy , petty Bogart . According to Mark Hellinger's story , the end of prohibition by Franklin Delano Roosevelt put an end to the gangsters . Zealous moralists , take note . The answer CAN be found in the bottom of a glass . As far as the movie is concerned , there's nothing much not to like . You may have seen it before , sections of it , in one guise or another . Citizen Kane boosted his girl friend's opera career , didn't he ? And as a matter of fact Cagney himself boosted Ruth Etting ( Doris Day ) in " Love Me or Leave Me . " And this was far from the first shootout Cagney had with treacherous ex-colleagues - - or the last , for that matter . But they're all stitched neatly together here . It should be seen if for no other reason than that it's an almost perfect exemplar of Warner's 1930s gangster movies . And it has a famous last line too - - " He used to be a big shot , " says Panama Smith over Cagney's corpse . Granted , it's not , " Good-night , sweet prince , flights of angels sing thee to thy rest . " It's a classic line only because Walsh's direction and Gladys George's reading make it so . I rather enjoyed it . There is Priscilla Lane's plain vanilla ice-cream beauty , Bogart's horrifying overacting when he's shot , Gladys George's softly knowing brittleness , Jeffrey Lynn's unimaginative , bourgeois impulses , and above all , James Cagney's acting . He's pretty good . And good at whatever emotional state he's projecting , from doomed resignation to cocky superiority . And he's outstanding after he falls from grace and winds up a seedy bum , haunting saloons and living in hovels that offer rooms for 15 cents a night . He realizes that his time has run out just as he's leaving Flannagan's Saloon , drunk , and for some reason he pauses at the piano on his way out , stares down at a half-empty glass of beer , and smiles to himself , both with sadness and relief . The shot is held for a while too . And it's not strictly functional - - a small but masterly gloss on Cagney's character development . Well worth seeing .
About as good as they get .	This is the one about big business and wine tasting . The heavies are making a good deal of money by selling certain stocks short , then murdering the chairmen in such a way that it looks like a heart attack . With the chairmen dead , the price of the stocks falls , and the pounds roll in . The trick is to get selected chairmen to wear a " bleeper " , which we would now call a " beeper " in their shirt pockets , just over their hearts . At a given moment , a timer shoots a tiny capillary wire into the victim's heart and he dies . I don't think it would be correct to call this " tightly plotted . " What begins as a whimsical take on big business soon turns into an exploration of wine tasting and the snobbery that goes with it . I kind of enjoyed the diversion though . It's treated with a good deal of humor . For what it's worth , I can't remember another episode in which Mrs . Peel looked so radiant .
Fine , Suspenseful Drama .	If you were to take Agatha Christie and put her on a lot of testosterone you might come up with something like Frederick Forsyth . They have a lot in common . Their stories are plot driven , lacking in attention to character , without sentiment , and have no moral , social , or philosophical message . The deaths are more or less perfunctory . The real point is only the solution of the puzzle . The chief difference is that Agatha Christie disposes of the crime and then gets down to intrigues and shadowy secrets . Forsyth's stories have more of a technological bent and machinery and machinations receive a good deal of scrutiny . In Forysth's novel , " The Odessa File " , for instance , a reader learns how to put together an explosive device and attach it to the chassis of a car in such a way that it doesn't blow up until the car hits a bit of a bump in the road . You don't get that sort of thing from Christie . This is a tense film . Both the novel and the film begin with Peter Muller ( Jon Voight ) zipping along in his sports car when the radio announces the assassination of John F . Kennedy . Muller pulls over to the curb and stops the car to listen . But if you expect anything resembling an emotional response , you'll be disappointed . His only reaction is to wonder how he , a journalist , should handle the news . But he changes . From a reporter with role distance , he becomes a dedicated and self-sacrificing avenger , although still quite an ordinary young man . I won't explain why he spends the rest of the film tracking down the commandant of a concentration camp and finally shooting him . The film doesn't have the quality of a technical manual , like the book , but it does something better than that . It fleshes out Forsyth's mechanical people and turns them into simulacra of reality . Part of this is due simply to the fact that the events are being visualized on a movie screen . We don't just read about Peter Muller . We SEE Peter Muller . We know he has blond hair , blue eyes , doesn't smoke , has a knockout girlfriend whom he treats rather casually . We know Peter Muller looks exactly like Jon Voight and we don't want to see Jon Voight get killed . Then , too , the film lingers nicely over the relationship between a wimpy , probably homosexual collaborator with the Odessa people and his mother . Hitchcock would have appreciated that casual and relaxed interlude . A well-done thriller that leaves us satisfied with the revenge taken for the 50 , 000 Jews killed by Max Schell in Riga , and a brave young German captain whom he also murdered .
Blowing Up the PM .	Much like the other episodes , this one involves some silly plot to blow up the Prime Minister while he's traveling on British Railways . It's cute and diverting , and it's probably more fun if you're a railroad buff . It's odd how many well-known character actors showed up in this series , but the Brits feel no shame at taking unimportant roles if they like them . They don't feel degraded like most American actors would , were they to appear in a television series . This one has John Hayter as a traitorous train conductor and John Laurie as an eccentric owner of an abandoned station . You may or may not recognize the names but the faces and demeanors may ring a bell . ( John Laurie was the mean , jealous farmer in Hitchcock's " The Thirty Nine Steps . " ) I believe this was the first season the series appeared on TV in the USA . There's a reference to July Fourth , " Independence Day . " Kind of fun .
Third Person Omniscient .	This fantasy begins as a blend of " The Truman Show " with a soupçon of " The Accidental Tourist " and I expected a tricky commercial property designed in the course of some overnight caffeine binge to bring in as many shekels as possible . It's better than that , and I wound up waiting rather tensely to see how the thing would turn out . Will Ferrell is an obsessive-compulsive IRS auditor who lives a heavily regimented life , dictated by the reminders on his multiple-function wrist watch , joyless and humorless . He's as boring as they come . We just KNOW some hot babe or something is going to turn his life upside down , and it does . He begins to hear a woman's voice inside his head . The voice describes what he's doing and what he has done , down to the smallest detail , using the third person or his actual name - - Harold Crick . Something is going on but Ferrell doesn't know what . The voice at first puzzles him , then irritates him . He shouts out demands that it stop , but the only things that stop are other pedestrians who stare at him . Actually , this being New York , I think he could stand in the street and shout all he likes without any interference . I don't want to spell out all the plot developments because the story is a little complicated . Ferrell sees a shrink , Linda Hunt , who refers him to a professor of literature , Dustin Hoffman , who may be able to figure out what kind of narrative he's listening to - - and living . It's a tragedy , as it turns out , and Ferrell had better find out whose writing it before he's killed off . The writer turns out to be real enough , a blocked novelist , Emma Thompson , and Ferrell tracks her down and they work things out , so to speak . There's the inevitable spirit-of-life woman too , Maggie Gyllenhaal , who introduces him to love , milk and cookies , and Tiffany lamps . With this kind of narrative it's only natural to ask if the " writer " stands for Somebody Else . I mean , here is someone laying out the course of a human life . Is Thompson God ? Can God be a woman who has writer's block and smokes too much ? Nahh . Woman , yes . Writer's block and smoking , no . The best performances are from Emma Thompson , Byllenhall , and Dustin Hoffman . Will Ferrell looks and acts the part of a man whose favorite word is " integer " but he does so uninterestingly . On the other hand , it's a tough part . Maybe Bill Murray would have handled it . In a plot as tricky as this there are bound to be lacunae in the logic . For instance , he's trying to track down the genuine source of the voice in his head . He discovers the voice seems to belong to a real writer . But the voice has used some strange locutions . I'd have started my investigation by Googling the word " unmitigatable . " See who's used it before . There couldn't be that many . And then too , Ferrell finally finds and confronts the author of his life , Emma Thompson , takes the almost-finished manuscript to Dustin Hoffman , and it is agreed by all concerned that the story must end tragically with Ferrell's death . Nonsense . Why couldn't Thompson have written the thing as a tragedy then added a single , final sentence - - " And he woke up to find it had all been a dream " ? It worked in Fritz Lang's " Woman in the Window . " And as for literature , " Finnegans Wake " is ALL dream . Plaudits to the writer though . There's some clever stuff going on here , which overcomes occasional distractions in the direction . It's too bad that Ferrell is as unengaging as he is . He's even uninteresting when he wises up and begins to stretch out . There seems to be a big hole in the screen when he appears , and he's the central figure . The movie may be a little too charmed by its own premise . Still - - overall - - it's a more thoughtful film than you might anticipate , not as gimmicky as it sounds . Would have made a good novel .
Another American Colonial Adventure .	The USA didn't have much of a foreign colonialist period . Like Germany , we came rather late to the game . Besides which Americans were busy colonizing their own interior . But in the mid - to late 1930s stories of colonial adventures abroad seemed to become suddenly popular in Hollywood , or at least simplified and romanticized versions of same . Gary Cooper was in a surprising number of them . Usually they're a lot of nonsensical fun . Discounting American Westerns , there were " Gunga Din , " " Lives of a Bengal Lancer , " " Beau Geste , " " Morroco , " " The Charge of the Light Brigade , " others whose names escape me , and this one , " The Real Glory . " It takes place in the land of the Moros ( Filipino Moslems ) who resent the Westernization of their cobbled-together country by first Spain , then , after the Spanish-American war , the Americans . That war is still being fought . But , not to worry , everything in the movie turns out alright in the end - - well , almost . Gary Cooper , David Niven , and Broderick Crawford are Army lieutenants stationed at an undermanned fort surrounded by jungle and enemies . If you think of this as a rather typical situation for this sort of action movie , you're probably on the right track . It usually leads to a heroic defense of the fort by our side . And it gives the writers a chance to have hordes of evildoers charging the fort to be mowed down in rows like wheat by a motorized reaper . There must be at least one heroic sacrifice too , of a secondary character . Sometimes there's just one ( Gunga Din ) and sometimes , as here , both Niven and Crawford are given a chance to make the supreme sacrifice . Of the two sacrifices , Crawford's is the more supreme . A harmless , doltish officer who is devoted to growing orchids , he is captured by the Moros , his head smeared with honey , and then he is buried up to his neck in an ant hill . Those Moros were pitiless cookies . If I'm not mistaken the Colt Model 1911 . 45 caliber automatic , a veritable cannon at the time , was developed partly because smaller caliber pistols were thought unable to stop a charging Moro . The rafting scenes were done , it appears , in the lower reaches of the Kern River . This is a dangerous area to raft or inner-tube in . It's the only rushing water for ten thousand miles around Bakersfield , California , and is a popular bathing spot in the summer , even though a few rafters and tubers usually are lost . It's interesting too in that it is the only known home of the Kern Valley salamander ( Batrachoseps simatus ) , and only for a stretch of a few miles along the bank - - and only the northern bank . I think I like Gunga Din better because there is more slapstick , more laughs all around , and because the characters are a little better developed . But " The Real Glory " is nothing to be ashamed of . An enjoyable romp by stars wearing colorful uniforms in an exotic location and involved in a conflict nobody ever heard of .
Time Warp	More whimsy bordering on the silly but more diverting than some others . If you were filthy rich - - a deposed dictator , say , or a successful thief , or some rapscallion of a banker - - where would you go with all your loot without having to fear discovery ? Why back in time , of course . Fifteen seventy would be nice . You could pat little Billy Shakespeare on the head in Stratford-upon-Avon . Of course you'd have to keep an eye open for witch hunters and the like . The episode follows a couple of miscreants who patronize an establishment that sends them back to 1570 or 1790 or 1895 or wherever - - and they do disappear . Steed and Mrs . Peel investigate and each of them is given a demonstration trip with the aid of mirrors and knock-out gas . But the managers discover Mrs . Peel's real identity and , though she is dressed for 1790 , they send her back to 1570 where she finds herself in a torture chamber . Is she rescued at the last moment by a resourceful John Steed ? Of course not . She's subjected to the bastinado , branded with red hot irons , violated repeatedly , and then dies . Steed breaks into the room . Too late ! He bursts into a torrent of sobs over Mrs . Peel's ravaged body , turns to the camera , announces the end of the series , and stumbles heartbroken off the set . Maybe her poor lifeless body wasn't ravaged . Maybe it was pillaged . Possibly both . Her remains had been so rudely , so unspeakably treated , it was impossible to tell from the perfunctory post mortem I was able to perform under such unfavorable conditions . Just kidding . I've always like the notion of time travel because it illustrates so well the error of reasoning by analogy . Time is like a river , see ? And because you can travel upstream on a river , you can also travel backward in time . But then naturally there's always the Grandfather Paradox to think of . I enjoyed this episode quite a lot . Almost an excess of stylishness .
Fun .	One of the more imaginative episodes . Steed and Mrs . Peel investigate a series of deaths among an organization of UFO enthusiasts . The victims feel heat , then a whirring sound , then are struck dead and bleached in a blast of light . Some say that we are being invaded by Venusians , but the intrepid duo discover otherwise . We encounter the ordinary number of fond British eccentrics . An opthalmic surgeon who can't see his nose without his glasses ; an Army Brigadier who tapes his memoirs by playing sound effects of battle on a dozen ancient Victrolas . The usual number of wisecracks - - Steed invited Mrs . Peel to dinner among the stars but she warns him that there will be no wine available because , as he knows , his favorite claret doesn't travel well .
An idealist afloat in a sea of galoots .	Paul Muni is Dr . Sam Abelman , a frank and abrasive general practitioner whose office is in his apartment in a crummy neighborhood in Brooklyn . A shifty , pill-popping , TV producer ( David Wayne ) , producer of a program called " Americans USA " , as opposed to , say , " Americans Canada " , persuades Muni to appear on a kind of " Person to Person " live show , with the connivance of Muni's bright and ambitious nephew . ( The BHS on the back of the nephew's jacket stands for Bronx High School of Science , an elite school attended by bright and ambitious kids . ) Luther Adler is Max , an old friend and classmate of Muni's who has become a famous and somewhat cynical icon in the medical community , a specialist in adjustment disorders of the rich . Everybody wants Sam Abelman to come out of this TV program ahead for a change . " You've got to sweeten the kitty , " Adler tells Wayne's producer . Sam , on the other hand , is an iconoclast who cares almost exclusively about his impoverished patients , though he dreams of a modest house in a quieter neighborhood . He'd like to visit Walden Pond someday too . His favorite reading is Thoreau . SPOILERS . Alas , there is a run-through of the TV show , witnessed only by the producers , network , and sponsors , and it looks fine . Abelman comes across as a man without guile . He's entirely honest with his interviewer and with the audience . He rises to his feet and tells us that there is kickback to be found in the medical industry . And mental hospitals are terrible . And drugs are invented for which there are no diseases yet . ( The professionals watching this seem shocked , and some are amused ! ) Before the interview is finished , Abelman hears that one of his patients is in trouble and rushes off camera . End of run through . That takes up the first two thirds of the film , leading us to believe that this is going to be a kind of mild expose of medical practice . But no . The script dumps the TV program entirely when Sam Abelman gets a heart attack while climbing stairs to rescue a patient . The family gather round , and Max comes running over to treat him at home , while Paul Muni gives a good impression of an old man ( 68 ) who shoots an embolism , gets sick , and dies . The ambitious nephew doesn't seem to have learned much from the experience but David Wayne has decided there are more important things in life than celebrity and money , and he goes home with his wife , probably to read Thoreau . I forget . Did Thoreau die broke after adzing all that wood ? The acting is uniformly hammy but it's not offensive because all the performers are operating on the same emotional level . The characters and their development are drawn simply enough for a kindergartener to comprehend . The director , Daniel Mann , wields the camera like a sledgehammer - - people make speeches at the lens , and there are lots of close ups , and movements are blocked so that no one gets in anyone else's way . Aside from the legerdemain involved in substituting the long dying scene for the TV show , the story is so simple as to be one step away from being simple minded . And yet it is still gripping . For one thing , it provides us with a flashbulb shot of what medicine was like 50 years ago , when there WERE family practitioners who actually HAD black bags and made personal calls to the houses of poor people . Not any more . I was having dinner at the home of a family practitioner who got a call from a frightened patient whose mother had evidently gone balmy and thought spies were after her . The doc handed me the phone and let me listen for a while , then cupped his hand over the receiver and asked what I would do . I mumbled something about getting over there and shooting Mom full of phenothiazines . " Wrong . " Instead , he instructed the patient to take mother to the ER and let them handle it . That's where all the facilities and staff were now located - - not in a black bag . Further , house calls had been dumped in the dustbin of history because they were inefficient . Why have a doc waste time driving around when the patients could be lined up in appointments and treated serially ? Of course being sick and treated in a hospital is vastly more expensive that lying in bed at home , but balances must be struck . I won't argue that the balance is out of whack but I miss the Sam Abelmans . They had a genuine place in the community . And despite the primitive story , characters , and techniques on display here , the passing of Abelman is an honest , if inevitable , tragedy , as is the passing of a way of life filled with such intimacy , or the passing of an old and noble iconoclast .
Some snappy dialog here .	In the 50s , between historical epics , Chuck made a few pretty good exotic adventure flicks . Two of them were located in South America - - the one in which he is a plantation owner fighting both a horde of army ants and Eleanor Parker's sexual experience , and this one , in which his career consists apparently of nothing more than acting as a guide in Peru , swindling rich tourists , and seducing their bored wives . Both have some snippy dialog . The censors must have been asleep at the switch . I can't remember the plot too well . I saw it on its release as a kid , and only more recently once on TV , when some of the lines and some of the scenes sent me into ictal spasms . A lot of traveling up and down rivers , to tricky places . Thomas Mitchell as a grubby , greedy American after Incan treasures . ( And they were THERE too , the ones that Pizarro didn't make off with . Cripes , the royal family wore garments made of gold , and after they were worn once the garments were thrown away ! ) Mitchell's most memorable line . He's wringing his hands with glee , practically drooling , as he fantasizes about how they're going to rip off some priceless treasure that night . " Ahh , nobody ever made a buck in the daytime ! " Later , Mitchell makes a grab for a golden statue or something and falls off the mountain some thirty-thousand feet . Later someone asks Heston what killed Mitchell . " Gravity , " he replies . But the most hilarious exchange , the one I could hardly believe on second viewing , takes place between Glenda Farrell , the middle-aged bored wife of a dull bulb of an American zillionaire . She's eyeing him as he slinks around the room polishing his rifle or something and she asks if he likes his job . It goes something like , " It's a living . " She : " How do you approach your work ? " He : " I take it slow and easy . " She : " That's just the way I like it . Are you good at it ? " He : " I've never had any complaints . " It goes on , but I can't . It's a lively movie , completely unbelievable , as is the voice of Yma Sumac , a woman who bore an uncanny resemblance to the mother of the school girl I was dating at the time . The natives are laughable . Oh , they existed , just as the Inca did ( though the name " Inca " was used only in reference to the incestuous royal family ) , but they didn't look anything like these Hollywood head shrinkers from Central Casting . I hope I'm not getting this mixed up with Heston's other South American adventure ! Robert Young is stuck with the role of the nice guy - - again . It must have been an easy morph into Marcus Welby , MD . In its own quiet way this is a classic of its kind , if pure schlock can be considered a kind . Quite enjoyable .
Implausible but stylish mystery .	Basically a story about the theft of a " process " , which we may here define as a " MacGuffin " , around which an elaborate industrial con game is organized . In any game ( an activity with rules , more than one participant , and a recognizable outcome ) there are only three elements : ( 1 ) physical skill ( you outdrive the cars pursuing you ) , ( 2 ) chance ( you jump off the roof and an awning breaks your fall ) , and / or ( 3 ) strategy ( you outwit your opponent ) . Unlike most action movies , Mamet's stories are almost entirely about strategy . That might make it sound like rather less than it is . Mamet seems to love puzzles - - and puzzles within puzzles - - and the lengths people will go to manipulate one another and , man , is this a prize-winning example of his obsession . As in " House of Game " we have a big con that goes a little astray and winds up not only with the theft of a priceless invention but murder as well . I realize " Glengarry Glenross " is probably Mamet's most highly esteemed work but I think " House of Games " and " The Spanish Prisoner " are more engrossing because more things HAPPEN . Mamet's dialog always involves a lot of byplay , repetition , non sequiturs , and general ellipsis , but the elegant stylization isn't worth much if it doesn't go anywhere . Here the plot moves from the Caribbean to New York to Boston and with each step the conundrum becomes more difficult to figure out . Of course the plot is an implausible one because it depends on the heavies being able to predict precisely the moves of the mark , down to small basically unforeseeable details , such as his snooping in a secretary's desk and stealing a souvenir FBI card out of her scrapbook . But it hardly matters because we're swept along so fluidly in the mystery that we don't really question these events . The viewer , by the way , is kept as much in the dark as Scott Campbell , the protagonist . The performances are all quite apt . Scott Campbell might be a terrific inventor but he's kind of a dim bulb in other respects . He's the kind of highly conventional Schlub that wouldn't DREAM that anyone , let alone an entire organization , would lie with comfort and such powerful effect . You have to wonder what his voting record looks like . Rebecca Pigeon is , I think , an actress who never got the kind of attention she deserves . She's beautiful in an unconventional , petite , brachycephalic , angular way and her locutions and expressions always seem to suggest she may know more about what's going on inside your head than you do yourself . She delivers Mamet's stylized speeches efficiently but in other films has demonstrated considerable range . " You never know who a person really is , " she says . Something else . She may be treacherous , and he may be wary of an office romance , but they seem genuinely attracted to one another . Near the end , when Scott finally kisses her , she draws back and says , " Crikees ! " , as if amazed and tickled . This is a set up for a final scene when she is hustled into the police van . She's supposed to break away from the cops holding her , run to Scott , throw her arms around him , kiss him fiercely , and confess that her feelings had changed to true love . But no ! Thank heaven she has no remorse at all and leaves him with a wisecrack and a sardonic smile . Mamet is nobody's fool . I ought to mention the score . It's mysterious and melancholic . The main theme is built around a handful of descending notes and the orchestration is simple but a little odd - - bass , piano , quiet woodwinds , and chimes . It is so weird and catchy that it could just about stand on its own . Repeat viewings don't spoil the polish , even though the viewer knows the solution to the mystery . It's an original commercial product and it's enjoyable .
Surprisingly suspenseful escape movie .	POW escape movies form almost a genre of their own and there were quite a few released in the late 1950s and in the 1960s . They mostly dealt with Allied POWs , naturally , and the drama was partly masked by expression of camaraderie and rough humor . This one , in simple black and white , has little of that . It's about Franz von Werra ( Hardy Kruger ) , a German pilot who managed to escape from the grasp of the UK after his BF 109 was shot down in England in 1940 . In his first escape attempt , Kruger simply rolls over a stone wall and hides from his guards during an exercise period . He drives himself to exhaustion and is recaptured , half-dead , during a freezing downpour . In his second attempt , he tunnels out of a prison camp and makes his way to a British training airfield , posing as a downed Dutch aviator . He bluffs his way into the cockpit of a British Hurricane and is about to take off before being prevented at the last minute at gunpoint . Kruger is then sent to Canada where he throws himself unobserved out the window of a speeding train into a very effectively portrayed Canadian winter . He manages to make his way to the St . Lawrence River , mostly frozen , steals a boat to cross the open section of the river , and collapses on American soil - - America being a neutral country at the time . Though the movie is over , Kruger is not yet finished and he crosses the border into Mexico , thence to South America where he finagles his way back to Germany . He crashes into the sea during a patrol and is never seen again . The role of Franz von Werra stretches Kruger's acting talents to the limits . He must scheme , impersonate others , and suffer . And he does much of it in too obvious a fashion . The most difficult scenes involve his imposture as a Dutch pilot , making up details of his identity and experiences to suit his changing circumstances . He must be happy-go-lucky in a British manner . Tut tut , old boy . Spot of trouble with the old Wellington , don't you know . The British he meets along the way , both civilian and military , mostly buy his story - - but you and I wouldn't . The most amusing scenes have Kruger demonstrating determination in the face of effusively polite RAF interrogators . The most gripping show Kruger crossing the miles-wide St . Lawrence , half frozen , pushing and pulling his stolen boat up and down heaps of ice , his body threatened with momentary implosion . It's a positive relief when he staggers into Ogdensberg . The movie has an unexpected tension . Not just because of the story itself but because this is a British movie made only eleven or twelve years after the war , and it has a likable , if still wildly nationalistic , German protagonist . Britain suffered abominably during the war . When this was released , some neighborhoods in the docks were still burned out shells left over from the Blitz , and they'd remain that way for a couple more years . The war cost England a great deal in terms of lives and money , so in a sense this is a courageous movie . Twelve years between lethal enmity and the disinterest on display in this film . Should there be a statute of limitations on international hatreds ? It's only a rhetorical question but it's raised by the nature of this film .
Emblematic of its type .	Nicely done genre movie , filled with familiar roles and the expectable sequence of events . An atomic blast near the North Pole melts the ice surrounding a Rhedosaurus . ( Ie . , a big lizard . Very big . ) The beast is spotted through a blizzard by one of the scientists monitoring the explosion ( Paul Hubschmid ) . He's hurt in a cave in and taken to a New York hospital . When he tells his tale , guess what ? Nobody believes him . The psychiatrist says that in his condition , what he saw could have been an hallucination . And the monster's roar ? The wind plays tricks on the ear in those latitudes . Even his friend , Kenneth Toby as an Army colonel , thinks he's joking . But Hubschmid persists and contacts a paleontologist ( Cecil Kellaway ) and his requisite pretty assistant ( Paula Raymond ) . Kellaway dismisses his claims too , at first , but Raymond sticks up for Hubschmid . And why not ? Hubschmid is a tall actor with an alluring foreign accent . As an actor , he brings two qualities to the role : he's tall and has a foreign accent . Tall men with foreign accents are always attractive to women , while we normal guys , with faces no more imposing than they should be , and good old red-white-and-blue American speech get shoved off to the side . Of course I knew Hubschmid would not only survive the encounter with the monster but would emerge as the hero , but I must say I was a little disappointed . Why couldn't the Rhedosaurus have torn him limb from limb ? Oh , yes - - the plot . Hubschmid identifies the Rhedosaurus from a drawing but Kellaway still doesn't believe him until the witness of another catastrophic meeting with the dinosaur is brought in and IDs the same drawing . Then everybody gets down to work . Kellaway , with his glasses and his pipe , is the prototypical professor in these 1950s SF films . He's short and cherubic . He goes down in a diving bell to the bottom of the Hudson River trench at 20 , 000 fathoms . ( The Challenger Deep , the deepest part of any earthly ocean , is 6 , 000 fathoms , but let it go . Let go , too , that Kellaway claims the Rhedosaurus lived in the Paleolithic , about 20 , 000 years ago , when the dinosaurs were pretty much wiped out about 60 million years ago . The play's the thing . ) It was surprising to find that Kellaway's diving bell is destroyed by the Rhedosaurus and Kellaway and his Coast Guard companion presumably eaten . Usually , the innocent old gentleman survives . The beast is working his way south from the North Pole , striking more or less at random , a fishing vessel and the lighthouse that provided the basis for Ray Bradbury's original short story . Finally , the feckless beast surfaces in a population center , New York City in this case , as many such monsters do . Small arms don't seem to do much more than irritate him , and there's another problem . Wounded in the neck , Ray Harryhausen's dinosaur drips lethal radioactive blood . The only solution : Fire a radioactive isotope into his neck wound so he can die without bleeding all over the place . This is accomplished with the help of an Army sharpshooter - - Lee Van Cleef in , I think , his film debut . And the Rhedosaurus thrashes around in his death throes , destroying half of Coney Island in the process . As is often the case , one can't help feeling a little sorry for the Rhedosaurus . After all , he only came to New York , presumably , looking for conspecifics and , with any luck , a suitable mate . His intentions aren't dishonorable . He's not a man eater like the shark in " Jaws . " Oh , he gobbles up a cop in New York , but the cop is only an amuse-bouche , not part of his staple diet . The beast is an underwater creature and would probably be perfectly happy to be left alone , with only occasional passengers on the Staten Island ferry as prey . Anyway , except for Kellaway , everyone of consequence survives and Paul and Paula probably are married and live happily ever after .
Noir Exemplar	" Film noir " is an overused expression when it comes to describing films . Every crime drama seems to be a " noir " . But " Where the Sidewalk Ends " really is a good example of what the genre is all about . Very briefly , an overzealous detective ( Andrews ) accidentally kills a no-goodnik who works for the mobsters . The killing is blamed on the father ( Tom Tully ) of a woman Andrews meets and falls for ( Tierney ) . To save Dad from Old Sparky , Andrews captures the rest of the mob and turns himself in . The morally guilty cop is driven by impulses from the past . His father was a thief who was killed trying to shoot his way out of jail . But that doesn't excuse his actions after he accidentally offs the no-goodnik in self defense . He immediately goes to the phone to report the incident but he hesitates . He's already in hot water with the department and this could finish his career . Then , at just the wrong moment , the phone rings . It's Andrews ' partner and Andrews tells him the suspect they're trailing isn't at home . He hides the body and later disposes of it by slugging a watchman and dumping the body in the river . What motivates a guy to do something so dumb ? Okay . His job was at risk . But now he's committed multiple felonies . At least I think they must be multiple . I counted obstruction of justice , assault , disposing of a body without a permit , littering , first-degree mopery , and bearing false witness against his neighbor . In the end , we don't know whether to root for Andrews or not . The suspect didn't deserve to die , true , but it was after all an accident because Andrews didn't know he was a war hero and " had a silver plate in his head . " Maybe it's that kind of ambiguity that made noir what it was , among other things such as characteristic lighting . If noir involved nothing more than black-and-white photography , murder , criminals , mystery , and suspicious women , then we'd have to include all the Charlie Chan movies under that rubric . Andrews is pretty good . He's a kind of Mark MacPherson ( from " Laura " ) gone bitter . He never laughs , and rarely smiles , even when seated across a restaurant table from Gene Tierney , a situation likely to prompt smiles in many men . He has no sense of humor at all . His few wisecracks are put-downs . When he shoves a stoolie into a cab and the stoolie says , " Careful . I almost hit my head , " Andrews ' riposte is , " That's okay . The cab's insured . " Andrews could seem kind of wooden at times but this is a role that calls for stubborn and humorless determination and he handles it well . His underplaying is perfect for the part . Little twitches or blinks project his thoughts and emotional states . And I guess the director , Otto Preminger , stopped him from pronouncing bullet as " BOO-let " and police as " POE-lice . " Never could make up my mind about Gene Tierney . She does alright in the role of Tom Tully's daughter , a model , but she's like Marilyn Monroe in that you can't separate the adopted mannerisms from the real personality traits . Did Tierney actually have such an innocent , almost saintly persona ? When she answered the phone at home , did her voice have the same sing-along quality that it has on screen ? Poor Tierney went through some bad psychiatric stuff , before there were any effective meds for bipolar disorder . And Andrews too , nice guy though he appears to have been , slipped into alcoholism before finally recovering and making public service announcements . The DVD commentary by Peter Muller is unpretentious , informed , and sometimes amusing . Anyway , this is a good film as well as a good example of film noir . The good guys aren't all good , although the bad guys are all bad . Maybe that ambiguity is what makes it an adult picture instead of a popcorn movie . For the kiddies , only one shot is fired on screen and nobody's head explodes . Sorry .
Arrrr ! Where be the gold ?	Robert Louis Stevenson has written a fine tale of adventure , life on the high seas , pirates , treasure chests , betrayal and intrigue , and all that . This was the first book I can remember being given as a child . I was too young to understand the vocabulary or even the general thrust of the narrative . Of course I knew Jim Hawkins ( Jackie Coogan ) hid in the apple barrel because the illustration showed that . But what was really needed was a glossary for kids and landlubbers . Some glosses in the margins , indicating that " the black spot " was what was left over after a Mexican meal . And informing the reader that " helm " was the opposite of " heavenm . " Fortunately , the movie is couched in easily understood images and accompanied by dialog the meaning of which can be interpolated into the context . Young Jim Hawkins and his mother come across a treasure map . Doctor Livesey ( Otto Kruger ) , Squire Trelawney ( Nigel Bruce ) , and Captain Smollet ( Lewis Stone ) hire a crew to sail the Hispaniola to Treasure Island and dig up the chests . Alas , half the crew are subordinates of the crafty , evil Long John Silver ( Wallace Beery ) . There is a mutiny when the ship reaches the island . Jim is captured by one side and rescued by the other , and in-between he cuts the ships anchor lines and beaches her to save her from the pirates . A couple of fierce fire fights and one or two cutlass engagements ends with the good guys sailing away with the treasure and with Silver as a captive . Silver , cunning as ever , talks Jim into letting him go in Jamaica , rather than hang . We feel , though , that despite Silver's unsavory past , he genuinely likes Jim and Jim is optimist enough to believe what Silver says about reforming . Considerable sentiment in the scene , but not an excess . No great acting skills are called for , and none are on display . Coogan isn't really believable . So few kids his age are . The most outrageous performance is given by Wallace Beery , with his big flabby mouth and his calculating eyes darting in all directions . Beery has been dismissed by critics as a big ham but I rather enjoy his overplaying , and he was in a couple of neat pictures , such as " China Seas . " The story has been remade several times but this version strikes me as the best . Stevenson's book still has the power to enchant a reader , even - - or maybe especially - - an adult . Jim Hawkins , the author of the narrative , is as naive as Candide or Matty Ross in " True Grit " and he misses some things an older person would pick up . Stevenson died young - - a tall , thin , ascetic-looking leptosome . He's buried now at Vailima , in Western Samoa , where he was known as " tusitala , " which some have made sound like an honorific , whereas it just means " writer " or " someone who tells stories . " ( Good enough , I guess . ) He borrowed some details of geography ( eg . , Spyglass Hill ) from features of the terrain on the Monterey Peninsula , where he'd spent some time . See the movie , and read the book too . It's short .
Satisfactory Condition	This is another of Eastwood's many movies mixing intrigue , action , and a dollop of romance , along with " The Gauntlet , " " Firefox , " and so forth . Clint's acting range by now is pretty familiar . In this one , he's taciturn and a bit outrageous , especially with women and superiors . There are no surprises in his performance . But the film itself is something of a surprise ; it's above average . Clint is Frank , a Secret Service agent who , perhaps in a moment of doubt , failed to catch the bullet that killed JFK . He then took to drink , which drove his family away , and now plods along in the bureaucracy until he is contacted by John Malkovitch , calling himself " Booth , " who strikes up a sort of skewed relationship with him based on their shared , disillusioned conviction that everything is meaningless except the impulse to escape dreariness and predictability . Now , this is rather an anfractuous set of attitudes for a performer like Clint to project , but he does rather well , less robotic than usual . And he does seem to carry around with him , like a burden of stone , the memory of that moment in Dallas . He's tested again halfway through this movie . He is hanging from the roof of a tall building , grasping Booth's hand , and he pulls his pistol and points it at Booth , who asks him if he is really willing to shoot . If he does , of course , he saves the president from an attempted assassination by a CIA-trained murderer , but he does so at the cost of his own life . Booth twits him about the situation as they hold hands in midair . And Clint even has a short speech , talking to Renee Russo , about his failure to save the president in Dallas . " If I'd have reacted quickly enough , I could have taken that shot . . . and that would have been alright with me . " It's underplayed , but his voice chokes slightly , his eyes water , and his lip trembles . It's one of the few scenes in any of Clint's films that might properly be called " moving . " We know from his newfound resolve that given another chance he would take the bullet this time . ( The irony is that he doesn't like the current president . Who could ? He gives pompous speeches in Colorado about how they " carved a nation out of the wilderness . " Didn't they do the same thing in Las Vegas ? ) It's often said that a movie is only as good as its villain . It isn't true , nothing is that simple , but an argument could be made for its truth value in this case . The reptilian John Malkovitch with his Tartar eyes is marvelous . Talk about disillusioned . Okay , he can ham it up a little , sniffing with disdain even as he plugs two innocent hunters between the eyes , but he's fascinating on the screen . Renee Russo has little do to . Fred Thompson , as the chief White House aid , is now back in politics , a relief for movie-goers . If Clint's acting range is limited , Thompson's is something less . In every film he's been in , he wears the same solemn and dissatisfied expression , as if constantly plagued by some form of volcanic digestive disorder . The direction by Wolfgang Peterson is as good as it was in " Das Boot , " which is pretty good . There is a great deal of the usual suspenseful cross-cutting in the final shootout . And when Clint and Russo fall into an impassioned embrace in her hotel room and scuttle backwards towards the bed like two weasels in heat , Peterson playfully shows us their feet along with a succession of objects dropping to the floor - - not only the usual garments but handcuffs , guns , beepers , palm pilots , Dick Tracy wrist watches and other impedimenta . Interrupted , Clint lies back on the bed and sighs , " Now I have to put all that stuff back on again . " Well written and worth watching .
The pedophiles will get you if you don't - - watch - - out !	I don't know why this docudrama isn't more successful than it is . The issue it deals with is important enough . Maybe that's part of the problem . When you treat a tragedy with substandard techniques it cheapens the subject matter . The difficult , I think , lies mainly in the script . It gives us all the clichés of victimization stories . Innocent people are herded up by the police without warning , shuffled off to the slams to be humiliated , accused by lunatics of nefarious actions , and suffer immensely . The survivors in the end forgive God but not people . Well , basically , that's what happened . But the characters we see on screen hardly seem real . None of the performances amount to no more than professionalism . And who could make believable such lines as , " This trial is about justice . " And , " This is a system of laws and I happen to believe in it . " The characters aren't given more than one dimension . James Woods is his usual manic and cocky self , and changes from cynical to committed halfway through the trial without any noticeable motivation . Shirley Knight gives a first-rate impersonation of Shirley Schrift . Lolita Davidovich's character is at least treated with some respect , although she's clearly one of the engines behind this terrible miscarriage of justice . As Woods points out , he doesn't believe she lied . He believes her motives are good but she is mistaken . She used dolls as surrogate people to draw the stories out of the kids she interviewed . In one instance she used a black doll to represent the guy they were trying to hang the molestation charges on . When asked if this was racism , Davidovich says she doesn't associate a doll's skin color with racism . SHE may not , but kids did , at least in the 1950s when the distinguished educator Kenneth Clark and his wife carried out their experiments linking the skin color of dolls to self valuation . ( The studies influenced the decision in Brown vs . Board of Education . ) There's a kind of sketchy quality to the script that finally becomes kind of annoying . Not only is Shirley Knight's character old ( 62 ! ) but she has to be deliberately tripped and fall on her face so blood trickles from her mouth . The blood is still there in a later scene although she draws attention to it by dabbing at it constantly . Enough is enough . We really don't need it to be spelled out as if we were morons . Yet the subject is so important that it should be seen if only for its educational content . The movie itself is an " indictment " of television , which is held responsible for the mass hysteria that swept the country at the time . ( A very good TV documentary was done on a similar case in Eden , North Carolina . ) Well , TV is an easy target . " World's Wildest Police Chases " and all that . But - - to face one or two unpleasant facts - - the witch hunt of 1693 in Salem , Massachussetts , resulted in the deaths of more than 20 people , and this was considerably BEFORE radio talk shows and Geraldo Rivera . There is something in the reptilian part of the human brain that seems to enjoy the suffering of others , no matter how innocent they are . And in this instance the children only provided a conduit for that Schadenfreude . The kids were a " delivery system " , as it were , for the willing hatred of those in no position to hit back . It's a dark prospect that the film doesn't dream of addressing . These waves of mass hysteria seem to come and go . Not just witches and preschool pedophiles but Paul is dead , there are worms in the McDonald's hamburgers , Satanists behind closed doors , conspiracies between internet predators , a worldwide subterranean movement of international Jewry to take over , figures in kid's TV cartoons who wear lavender clothes as a signal to the gay audience , speckled windshields in Seattle , phantom gassers in Matoon , Illinois . If we haven't GOT any enemies we'll invent them . Maybe because we need bad examples in order to perceive ourselves as virtuous . Anyway , for all its weaknesses , the movie is definitely worth catching . The next epidemic of hysteria is right around the corner .
Lively Comic Chase From Hitchcock	A young man ( Derek De Marney ) is accused of murder and jailed . His lawyer is a greedy nincompoop , so De Marney escapes , dragging along the innocent daughter ( Nova Pilbeam ) of the chief constable ( Percy Marmont ) . There follows the sort of comic yet thrilling Chase that Hitch's fans are familiar with from others of his film like " Saboteur " and " The 39 Steps . " Nova Pilbeam - - great , imaginative name , by the way - - realizes along the way that De Marney is innocent and she falls in with him as they track down the one or two clues they have to the identity of the real murderer . The chase takes them through a flop house run by a surprisingly young Torin Thatcher . There they meet the only man , a bum , or ( excuse me ) a vagabond , who can identify the murderer . Not that the absurd character remembers what the killer looks like , just that he had a spastic twitch in his eyelids . Their last clue takes the three of them to a semi-elegant supper club with a band playing in the background . Fasten your seat belt because here comes one of Hitchcock's bravura shots . The innocent , puzzled people are seated at a table , looking around the hopelessly crowded dance floor for someone with a twitch . The camera pans slowly over the mob of dancers as if they were objects stored in Citizen Kane's warehouse , then droops down , passes through the dancers , approaches the band stand , noses through the musicians in black face , to an enormous choker of a close-up of the drummer's face . The drummer spots the three investigators looking around . His eyes twitch spastically . The drummer / murderer , luckily , is not one of Hitchcock's suave and unflappable villains , not like the four-fingered guy in " The 39 Steps . " This murderer is a nervous wreck . It isn't that De Marney and Pilbeam discover who he is , so much as that he gives himself away . He begins banging the drums and cymbals out of synch , helplessly falling over the instruments , collapsing while the other musicians stare at him . The police drag him away , cackling maniacally . The end . The pursuit involves some suspenseful moments , particularly a scene in which Pilbeam's old Morris is driven into " the mine works " and begins to sink as the floor of the shaft begins to collapse under the car's weight . I was happy she was saved . She's delicately appealing . I wouldn't have been broken hearted if the dog , Towser , had gone down with the sinking car though . But Hitchcock makes certain we see the dog escape safely . He had a weakness for dogs , having once owned a Beagle named Philip of Magnesia . Dogs appear in several of his films . He seems never to have been much for cats , and he was definitely down on birds . This is a good example of Hitchcock's British works from the 1930s , the sort of thing that eventually saw him lured away to Hollywood .
Ford Blockbuster	This film is sometimes consigned to Ford's later , increasingly exhausted period , but if it had been made by an unknown it would have been applauded as a stunning directorial debut . It has its flaws , as all movies must , but it's a seamless blend of drama , romance , action , and comedy - - and it's a good example of Ford's major strength , the ability to show you mounted figures strung out across the skyline and then tell you a personal story about some of the individuals in that horde . It's both epic and detailed . Ford began directing in the early 1920s , mostly silent Westerns . A handful of cowboys would ride in one direction while Ford shot the scene . Then he'd tell them to ride back in the other direction and shoot that . Many of the scripts were built around stories that could be described in only a few sentences , and the rest improvised on the spot . In one film he used only members of his family . And he built up a stock company that worked in one after another of his later works , often until they died . ( See Hoot Gibson here as a cavalry corporal . ) By the time " The Horse Soldiers " was in preparation , of course , times had changed considerably . The contract weighed several pounds and ran to almost 800 pages . If the strain of location shooting , of directing in general , hadn't been enough to tire him out , the administrative and financial responsibilities might have done the job . He had little patience for these demands . And on top of that , one of the older members of his company , a stunt man and personal friend , broke his neck doing a saddle fall , after which Ford lost much of his interest in the film . It shows in the editing and in the climactic scene that was cut short . But if the 63-year-old Ford was flagging , it's still a good movie packed with interest even for people who never heard of John Ford . For one thing , a lot of money is on display , and is well used . For another there are the performances of the two male leads , who both turn in good performances . Constance Towers , alas , is an attractive woman but an unconvincing actress . ( She looks better ungroomed , wrapped in a wet blanket with stringy damp hair , than she does all glossed up with lipstick and modern makeup . ) The dialog may fail from time to time . As Wayne says of his earlier transaction with doctors who mistakenly operated on his wife and caused her death , " I didn't kill either one of them . . . . Maybe I was too conventional . " But for every stumble there is a leap . Two enlisted men have been assigned to keep an eye on captive Constance Towers . She complains about her " constant companions " to Colonel John Wayne , who calls the pair over to chew them out . The two men feel unjustly accused and one says to Wayne , " Yew told us it was awright as long as we could see the top of her haid ! " Towers listens aghast and slaps Wayne's face . ( It's pretty funny . ) No point in going on too much about incidents , comic or dramatic or romantic . One's interest in the narrative never wanes . We really want to find out what happened . ( Anyone who wants to find out what REALLY happened can find a book about the actual Greerson's raid and its translation into film , easily available on Amazon . com . The attack of the little-boy soldiers from VMI wasn't so funny . ) See it if you can . There's something in it for all interests .
Enjoyable Scott Western .	Considering the budget , and considering other constraints on its quality , this is pretty good - - efficient movie-making at its best . Randolph Scott is a shotgun rider on a stagecoach . The coach is held up and some former enemies capture Scott , hog tie his ass , and leave him to scorch to death in the sun . Tie up Randolph Scott ? Hah ! He rides into town to warn the good folk of the gang's plans , which is to divert the posse into chasing some loose horses so that the gang can loot and pillage the town . I'm not sure exactly how you pillage a village but I'm morally certain that's what they have in mind . The problem is that no one in town believes Scott's warnings . What's worse , they believe him to be in cahoots with the dozen gang members , led by James Millican , with Charles Bronson in support . Narrow-minded hostility surrounds Scott as he tries to spread the alarm and bring back the posse . No one believes him except his girl , Joan Weldon . The deputy , Wayne Morris , is doubtful of the hysteria but , in any case , is in no position to stand alone against them . The town doctor is neutral and wants to see due process exercised . A couple of observations . This is Scott's only Western that I'm aware of in which he provides a noir-like narration . There's nothing wrong with that in principle but in practice it sounds a bit weird . This was released in 1954 , and films noir had dominated American dramatic films for the previous ten years . Fritz Feld was the psychiatrist with a twitch in " Bringing Up Baby . " Here , he plays a treacherous but comic saloon proprietor . His joint is a filthy dump and he himself is unshaven , ragged , and weaselly . He's saddled with a Mexican wife and five children - - none of them boys . When he's excited , his Spanish tirade turns into German . That's understandable because he was born in Berlin . He's a welcome presence . Joan Weldon , Scott's supportive girl friend , doesn't have a Hollywood-beautiful face but she seems to radiate intelligence and a little charm . Anybody who was a singer with the San Francisco Opera has my vote . Also , I blush , but must admit it always found her sexy . The movie also does something interesting , probably unwittingly . It demonstrates the destructive potential of rumor . Now , gossip is a necessary means of social control in human society . ( Lecturer writes " gossip " on blackboard . ) One of the main reasons we don't do bad things is that , if we're found out , our family , friends , and neighbors will not like us so much . But gossip is like water . A certain amount is required for survival but too much of it , out of control , is destructive . We need tap water , not a flood . And we see rumor get subtle autonomy in this movie . The marginalized Scott is holed up in a filthy saloon and every move he makes is interpreted as " bad " and exaggerated by the hostile villagers . If a man tries to shoot Scott , and Scott shoots him in the gun-wielding arm , the story is told that Scott has killed his victim . Everything he does is interpreted by his enemies as deliberately mean . The movie is really a good demonstration of this point . ( Imagine if the villagers had the internet . ) " Riding Shotgun " doesn't have the poetic quality of some of the Boetticher / Scott / Kennedy Westerns of the same period , but I was easily able to enjoy it for what it was .
Through a glass darkly .	What " Traffic " did for drugs , " Crash " tries to do for race relations , and to a lesser extent succeeds . The crash of the title , presumably , refers to the offensive behavior of ethnic groups and races to one another . But behavior must be justified , and the justification here ( as in life ) evolves from the prism through which we view society . As our sensitivity to tribal allegiances is heightened , so we tend to heighten it even more in a kind of vicious circle at the end of which the evil nature of the " other " can simply be taken for granted . The movie does a pretty good job of showing how this distorted vision evolves , sometimes out of practically nothing . I guess I'll give an illustration of what I'm getting at . I'm white and my friend was African-American . This was in Philadelphia in the early 70s , when urban crime was rampant . On payday we cashed our checks , first at his bank , then at mine . I stood around in his bank awkwardly waiting for him , nervously imagining that the armed guards were eying me suspiciously as a potential bank robber , since I seemed to have no business being there . I said nothing about it to Bill because it seemed silly . Then we went through the same business at my bank except that this time Bill was left to loll around . When we were outside , he told me , " You know , I think those guards were all keeping an eye on me because I'm black . " Racism , as it's usually called , is probably our most profound social problem and it is rarely talked about because it makes for clumsy conversation between members of opposite groups . But , as this movie makes clear , the prejudice is not entirely without justification . Prejudice seldom is . Abrasions , major and minor , build up animosities until individuals explode with anger or reach too quickly for the gun . " Crash " gives us a good picture of the way prejudice insinuates itself into our lives , often without our realizing it . Not that the movie is flawless . Compared to " Traffic , " the seams show . The interlocking stories are rather mechanically spelled out for us . And instead of focusing on three stories , there are multiple narratives involving - - let me think - - whites , Iranians , African-Americans , Cambodians , Chinese , and Mexican-Americans . Absolutely nobody gets along with anybody else . And there is no figure who is able to transcend these animadversions . Don Cheadle could do it in " Traffic " but his character can't do it here . And Sandra Bulluck is in this movie for reasons not immediately apparent to a viewer . The ending of the movie is hyped by a lugubrious score that shows us all of the major figures suffering , although we need neither the score nor the montage to tell us the fate of characters that the movie has spent all of its time spelling out in detail for us . Yet the movie carries more weight than most . It's more literal than it needs to be but its message is so important that it can't , and shouldn't be , ignored . Where does this abominable sentiment come from , this racism that Gunnar Myrdal saw right of the boat or the bat ? Maybe the answer is as sad as the movie's ending . " We have seen the enemy , " said Pogo , " and he is us . "
Bonjour Tristesse Tropique	Nicholas Roeg has this thing for sex and hidden menace . He even turns the fork of a tree into an obscene photograph . And the teen aged Jenny Agutter is no help either , running around in this skimpy skirt or in her underwear or sometimes nothing at all , which is nice . Meanwhile anything can happen . There's death around every corner . It's a simple story on the face of it . A father - - one of those Richard Cory types - - takes his kids ( Agutter and Luc Roeg ) for a drive into the desert . He parks the car for a picnic in the middle of nowhere and tries to shoot them - - rather a shocking moment since the film hasn't set it up . Failing that , he sets fire to the car and blows out his brains . The two kids must get home but they go about it in the dumbest way imaginable . Instead of following the car's tire tracks back to a road they take off in a random direction . And , really , since they were driven inland from Sidney ( Adelaide in the novel ) , they ought to head east towards the sea , meaning they should walk towards the rising sun . But , man , these kids are out of their element . If it weren't for their accidentally running into aboriginal David Gumpilil , they wouldn't get very far . Fortunately he knows how to extract a living from what seems to be a most unpromising environment . He hunts and he gathers , as hunters and gatherers do , and there are some unpleasant scenes of real animals being speared to death . It's like watching a movie in Anthropology 101 . Still , Gumpilil kills only to eat , and otherwise lives in harmony with nature . Roeg's film alas contrasts Gumpilil's cheerful optimism and , finally , his mortal love for Agutter , with the ways of the white folks . They seem uniformly nuts , wasteful , and unfriendly . They shoot and kill buffalo for no evident reason and leave the carcass to actively rot - - and I mean " actively . " A nice close up shot of a decomposing buffalo's mouth crawling with maggots . Gag me with a spoon ! The ways of the white folks are represented mainly by abandoned farmhouses and an abandoned mine , filled with rusting junk . It's an odd story . For all the troubles they've been through , neither Agutter nor her brother seems particularly disturbed . After their father eats his gun , there's no reaction to it , and there is only the briefest reference to it late in the story . Luc Roeg asks Agutter why his father killed himself and she brushes it off with , " I don't know . " I don't know why he's dead either . I don't know why Gumpilil props himself up in a tree and dies after courting Agutter in this spooky manner . Maybe it was something he ate . If Roeg's view of Western civilization is justified , somebody should have explained to Gumpilil that it's best for him to have nothing to do with any of them , Agutter's definitive nubility notwithstanding . But these two deaths , like many other things in the film , go unexplained , as they might in real life . There's a tacked-on epilogue with Agutter married but still dreaming of her walkabout . A . E . Houseman's poem makes it all seem wistful and full of contentment , although that's not exactly what the film has shown us . What we've witnessed is a tragedy in slow motion . In any case , you are guaranteed to have a hard time shaking this one out of your memory .
What happened to , " My mule don't like you laughin ' at him " ?	Clint Eastwood is a remarkable guy . As he eases into and through his 70s , he's taken more chances than ever , unlike Howard Hawks and so many other artists , who repeat themselves as they age . He's explored new milieus in each of his later movies - - a Western with no heroes , women's boxing , a disappearing ethnic neighborhood , the tragedy of heroism , the social elite of an alien Southern city , an even more alien world of doomed Japanese warriors . And he's done it all with a relaxed grace on happy sets . Not all are successful but each embodies an ambiguity that's stunning . They're adult movies , made by an adult for adults . Kids aren't going to be cheering the good guys because there are no good guys . This is the one about the kind of ethnic neighborhood in which everyone seems to know everyone else . The kind that's rapidly disappearing , in this case Boston Irish . ( The New England accents are just marked enough to fall short of parodies . ) Three men have grown up together , their lives interwoven in various , rather complex ways - - Kevin Bacon , Sean Penn , and Tim Robbins . Bacon has grown into a police officer . Penn is a thug who's spent time in the slams . Robbins is a tormented wretch . The story is hung on the peg of a murder . Penn's young daughter is beaten and shot to death . Bacon probes the case . Robbins , by coincidence , has been involved in a murder that has nothing to do with the death of Penn's daughter but which makes him look guilty nonetheless . Penn , a man of violence , becomes convinced of Robbin's culpability and murders him . When the true perps are revealed , Bacon realizes that Penn will never admit to the mistaken killing of their mutual friend Robbins , but Bacon will need to try pinning him for it , so the two men are now at odds with one another . That's the plot . The real story deals with the exploration of character and of how we are shaped by events that happened long ago , events that we may not even remember with any clarity . The pacing is deliberate , the dialog naturalistic , the mistakes human in their nature , and the location shooting is realistic . ( No tours of Harvard Yard or the Old North Church - - just working-class neighborhoods . ) In addition to the three principals , Eastwood has assembled a fine cast that includes Marcia Gay Hardin , Eli Wallach , and Laura Linney , among others . None of them are glamorized in any way . Closeups reveal Robbin's stubble , Linney's papules , Penn's nevis , and Bacon's blemishes . But none of it comes across as cruel , any more than our looking in the mirror every morning is an act of cruelty . I guess one of the things that's most impressive about Eastwood's articulation of these settings is that none of them was ever his own . As a child of the depression he followed his father around California , mostly working at gas stations . He's reserved and not especially articulate in interviews . His signature ( which I saw on the menu of a Chinese restaurant in Monterey ) is the drawling set of loops of a high school student more interested in athletics than aesthetics . A very rich man , he voted for H . Ross Perot . He was never a cowboy , never an effete homosexual snob , never a Boston Irish kid , but he manages to make these characters come alive for us . Who would have dreamed that there was an embryonic artist maturing under that shabby poncho ?
Educable retarded .	The director , Ralph Nelson , used to be the property master on the Twilight Zone , if I remember correctly , and to be honest he doesn't bring much to the party here . Split screens - - ugh . But this is more than made up for by almost everything else about the film - - the location shooting , the photography , the score , and the performances . People have won Oscars for playing mutes , ADDs , and height-challenged people , as a kind of sign , I suppose , that the voters are on the side of the angels . Cliff Robertson deserved his Oscar , though . He's entirely good in the role . His full-scale IQ is supposed to be around 70 but he brings to his performance the expressions and body language of someone who is profoundly retarded , if the residents of Mussbrugger Hall at the New Jersey Neuropsychiatric Institute are any example . He overacts , that is to say . But it fits the role perfectly . I'll give just one example . Early in the movie , just after the opening , he wanders around a college campus , uncomprehending , as he watches and listens to the students discuss Jung . One of the students flings a jacket over a shoulder . Robertson , in imitation , takes off his own unfashionable leather jacket and flings it over his own shoulder . Not once , but twice - - the first time evidently not having satisfied him . What a neat touch . And it belongs to Robertson . The score is by Pandit Ravi Shankar , of whom we hear little today . But Ravi Shankar belongs up there in the ranks of instrumental virtuosos with Heifitz and Rubenstein . " Sitar " is an from an old Indo-European word , which has also given us " guitar " and " zither " . The movie has a tolerant attitude towards such things as smoking pot . " Danger : Smoking May be Hazardous to Your Health . " We've come a long way towards self righteousness since then . Now you can't make a joke out of it , let alone actually DO it . This is a complicated subject that I will restrain myself from going on about . My position , in French , could be rendered as " A chaque a son gout . " In the end , Charlie loses his boosted IQ and returns to his previous state . I am happy for him that he managed to smoke some dope and get laid in the brief interval of his lucidity .
Exhilarating farce	Alright , this is a sequel and the frame is familiar , but it's still pretty funny and at times sidespittingly so . I can't begin to list ( or recognize ) all of the allusions to other movies that provide the springboard for this parody . That doesn't really matter . The opening sequence in which Richard Crenna induces Martin Sheen to come out of retirement in a Harikrishna ashram is a little dull , but after that it's solid laughs . Most of the jokes are silly and played in perfect deadpan . Example : an overly bemuscled Sheen , dressed in macho commando gear , steps off a helicopter at a remote jungle camp , accompanied by Brenda Bakke , a gorgeous long-haired woman in tight shorts who oozes sex from every pore . Miguel Ferrer , the camp commander , marches up to the two of them and demands to know , in his official voice , " Which of you is Michelle Huddleston " ? Later a man is killed by a chicken shot from a bow . There are so many gags packed into some scenes that it takes repeated viewings to notice them . During an intense combat scene , Sheen and Ferrer hide behind some packing crates and Ferrer begins to sob because he's lost his taste for killing . Sheen comforts him as you might comfort a child : " Hey , buddy boy , we're all entitled to a few mistakes . " The exchange itself is quite funny , an insertion of pop psychology crap into a scene full of whizzing bullets and exploding mortar shells . But behind the pair , we can notice that one of the supply boxes is labeled " Spineless Jellyfish " and another " Yellowbellies . " I think I'll quit with one more example , worthy of Woody Allan . Two bitchy women who used to be roommates are exchanging insults . One says : " I'll never forget what you wrote in my yearbook . ' Remember all the fun we had in speech class ? And I'll up your life if it's the last thing I do ' . " None of the performances flop . How COULD they ? You could drag some wino in off the street and have him stumbling around and retching these lines and he'd be funny . That said , I must admit that I enjoyed Loyd Bridge's performance the most . He's still the same character he was in " Hot Shots " , a bionic man , but this time around he's the president and he really gets into the part . " Looks like this time the other hand is on the wrong foot . " Well I don't want to get into what there is of a plot , and I don't want to give away any more of the gags . That leaves me pretty much with nothing more to say . You'd need to be in the throes of a major affective disorder not to laugh out loud during this one .
Surprisingly - - Okay .	I wasn't expecting much at the start of the film . A Yank and a " Limey " escape from a POW train in northern Italy , decide to try for the Swiss border , and begin to trade wisecracks about cigarettes and food as they run into a few minor obstacles . And then , quite unexpectedly , it turns into a serious adult drama . The duo meet an Italian girl who advises them to hop a ride aboard a northbound train . Then they find refuge in a Catholic church , along with a dozen other refugees of all ages from the Nazis . They are a mixed group and each subset speaks its own language , which requires subtitles . That in itself is a rarity in a 1945 British movie about escapees from the Nazis . We hear English , Italian , French , German , and Dutch . And although the refugees are a pathetic bunch , their individual sorrows aren't dwelt on for easy pathos . The terror of imprisonment and probably death lingers constantly in the shadows but the only German soldiers we see are silhouettes against the snowy mountaintops or half-heard voices from the other side of the door . Missing : The arrogant Nazi officer with the sneer and the monocle that is so often present in these kinds of films . Also missing : Long , impassioned speeches about freedom and democracy and " you and your kind . " These are just a handful of impoverished people in rags trying to find food and a place to warm up . By Jupiter , if I didn't know better I'd be thinking neorealism . I don't know where the movie was shot but the locations exceed our expectations . The British film industry was about on its knees during this point of the war and yet the evocation of a bombed-out Italian village is successful , and the Alpine snow is definitely bone chilling . The dialog is adult too . A little girl asks her grandmother where the English soldier has gone now that he's buried . Asleep , says the grandmother . And her son , Bernard , who sacrificed himself for the rest ? " Asleep too - - deep and safe . "
Bundles of oppositions .	A pretty good story of the arrest , conviction , and lynching of a New York teacher ( Edwar Norris ) in the South , blamed for the murder of a young lady ( Lana Turner ) of which he may or may not be guilty . The ambitious DA who nails him is Claude Raines . Defense is provided by Otto Krueger . There are other familiar faces in the film , directed for Warner Brothers by Mervyn LeRoy . I wonder what the folklorist Claude Levi-Strauss would make of this . He believed that people thought in categories , that thought was like language . This were either the same or not the same . " Bit " is not " pit , " though the difference is tiny . Likewise this movie seems to have very little in between one thing and its opposite . Levi-Strauss would probably have applauded . The movie gives us North / South , Memorial Day / Decoration Day , Guilty / Innocent , Life / Death , Reason / Emotion , and a host of other oppositions . ( It leaves out Christian / Jewish from the original case of Leo Franks . ) The relatives of Mary Clay stop a train carrying the convicted suspect , who is about to be pardoned by the governor , and they hang him off screen . None of the townspeople seem to have any doubt about what's going to happen . And nobody seems to disapprove . They don't even mourn the victim , Mary Clay . Their shock turns immediately to rage without any intervening period of grief . The opposite of rage seems not to be sorrow for the lost Mary , but defensiveness . ( " I didn't do it ! " , all the possible suspects shout . ) I suspect , in a way , the movie misses the point . It presents the story as a simple miscarriage of justice , prompted by the hostility of an insular community to an outsider . But , in essence , a lynching doesn't necessarily have to be the carrying out of some vernacular version of justice . That's not the point . Nor is , " This'll teach ' em a lesson . " An important point of a lynching , perhaps the main point , is that it expresses community allegiance . It's a rite of intensification whose real purpose is not that different from the Memorial Day parade with which the film starts . Photos of lynchings usually show some of the spectators grinning . The significance is that this is an important community event in which WE were brave enough to take part . Once the smoke of battle clears the prevalent emotion is not rage but pride . The acting is a little overwrought , on everybody's part , the direction is functional and the story , though camouflaged , states itself quickly and then ends without much wasted motion . Even a shot of a train rattling smokily over a bridge is over cranked so it appears in accelerated motion . The court and the press are both phony and should be jailed themselves , but they're not . It's a rather bitter ending when Raines and a reporter are watching the murdered man's wife leave town and the reporter muses , " I wonder if he was really innocent , " and Raines dispassionately agrees that it's a good question . The justice system is certainly an efficient way of delivering pain to a lot of people , guilty or otherwise .
A Jungian Sensation Type .	Warren Beatty is a high-end hairdresser who is trying to borrow money from Beverley Hills executive / businessman Jack Warden so he can open his own shop . Meanwhile , he's getting it on behind Warden's back with Warden's wife ( Lee Grant ) , Warden's girl friend ( Julie Christie ) , and Warden's daughter ( Carrie Fisher ) , while at the same time he's dealing with his own girl , Goldie Hawn . Warden makes Beatty's tasks a little easier by believing he's gay . In the course of the 1968 election ( Nixon wins over Humphrey ) , everything falls apart . Beatty finally decides he wants to spend his life with Christie but it's too late . Christie runs off to be married to Warden's wealthy businessman in Acapulco . Last shot : Beatty standing alone on a hill top looking forlornly after Christie's retreating car . I don't remember my response when I first saw this in a San Rafael theater but I doubt that it would be the same that I had tonight , after seeing it again for the first time in thirty-some years . For one thing , the protagonist , Beatty , is clearly the person we masculine types are meant to identify with . He only went to beauty school in the first place so that he could meet women , and except for a few nagging doubts , he's in heaven because , man , has he met a lot of rich and beautiful clients . We also must admire his skill . ( I guess . I speak from a position of total ignorance . ) All his clients seem to have identical hair styles . And , as he explains to Warden , he wants some capital to open his own business because " I'm better than the guy I'm working for . " And , as his own boss , we presume new sensual vistas open before him . Beatty is basically a Jungian sensation type , hungry for new stimuli , careless , reckless even , about his means of getting them . His obvious opposite is Jack Warden's character , this being one of Warden's best and most complex roles . Warden's only skill is making money . He listens only to stock market reports and the only television he watches is during Nixon's election . He's blind to everything else going on around him , the intrigues , the interactional dynamics , although he evidently feels good about his family life , loves his daughter . In the end he's brought down by his own complacency , his own feeling of invulnerability . And yet , in many respects , he's a more honorable man than Warren Beatty . He really DOES love someone beside himself . And when he realizes that Beatty has been servicing his wife , his girl friend , and his daughter , he doesn't strike out in anger . He huffs and stalks away , then later returns for a rational conversation about solving some of the newly uncovered issues . He's not mean spirited in any way . He's open minded . Finding himself at a hippie psychedelic party , he is puzzled by the naked goings on , but curious too , and a little pleased . He doesn't turn down the joint that's offered him and he's perfectly willing to join a nude threesome in a jacuzzi . " Sure - - why not ! " There's the political subtext too . The movie was released in 1975 but is placed in November 1968 , meaning the audience knows what will follow . Everyone in the film seems apolitical except for Warden , who hopes things may be different under Nixon , but says , " Ahh , what's the difference ? They're all jerks . " Everyone is dragged to a Republican party on election night to witness and celebrate Nixon's victory and it's all hollow and stilted - - tuxedos and formal gowns and only white folks over 50 allowed . The main speaker is Senator East , played by Brad Dexter , whose only memorable role was as the treacherous , murdering henchman in " The Asphalt Jungle . " East's speech , about an American Indian legend , is suitably grotesque . The contrast with the fun , strobe-lighted hippie gathering couldn't be more obvious . We get to hear Sergeant Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band and snatches of Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds , almost enough in itself to make 1968 sound paradisaical , though to be sure , these are pretty well-heeled hippies and flower power was to turn into violent half-baked revolutions and 1968 was a great year for assassinations . Still - - okay , Nixonian America was materialistic , Philistine , and shallow in all respects . I didn't vote for Nixon but from our current perspective , that is to say , 2007 , and in light of the circumstances from which we now suffer , Nixon is beginning to look more and more like Saint Francis of Assisi , Watergate , the hit list , and all the rest notwithstanding . I'm not sure that the interpretation I've just outline wasn't exactly the aim of the writers , Warren Beatty and Robert Towne . I might be wrong but both the writers are men of talent and intelligence and the ambiguity might have been what they intended . It's a movie that's filled with ironies that are at the same time bourgeois and heroic . It's well worth watching .
Good Fun	Of the comedy teams that made a series of movies in the 1940s and 1950s , Hope and Crosby were probably the most engagingly amusing . Abbott and Costello were usually silly . Their movies seemed aimed at an audience of children , although some , like " Meet Frankenstein " , are outrageous . There was an element of sadism too , with Abbott ( always the humorless straight man ) slapping the helpless Costello around and snarling at him , a standard relationship left over I guess from vaudeville where clowns batted each other over the head with bladders . Martin and Lewis were clearly differentiated . Martin was the parent and Lewis was the twelve-year-old child . It all seems a bit much , now . But Hope and Crosby were the most nearly equal . Crosby was the smooth-talking crooner . Both were cowards but Hope was a braggart too , a stock figure in the comedies of Ancient Rome and afterward . I think the figure was called miles gloriosus . What they had that the other teams didn't , and what's on good display here , is a kidding quality that consists of trying to outwit one another , competition for the girl ( Dorothy Lamour ) , inside jokes , and a kind of comfortably relaxed unspoken friendship that draws the audience in . In many ways the funniest scene is when Hope and Crosby realize they've been double crossed by Lamour and set out to find her and tell her off . They discover some shreds of her clothing and conclude , mistakenly , that she's been eaten by leopards and carried off . ( Hope : " They didn't even leave an ear . What hogs those leopards are . " ) The two men try to mourn her passing in a sincere and dignified way but their anger at her keeps simmering to the surface . They interrupt their weeping to recite some poetry over her buried clothing but they don't know any poems . Hope starts off with , " A bunch of the boys were whooping it up / in the Malamut saloon . . . " Crosby chides him and instead begins to recite " Casey at the Bat . " The scene simply cracks me up . Crosby : " She was just a kid . " Hope : " We'll miss her . Even though she was WRONG ! " When they realize she's still alive they sneer and kick away the dirt from her " grave . " I don't think of " The Road to Zanzibar " as necessarily their best Road picture , although it's right up there with " Utopia " and " Morocco . " It was basically their first though . The earlier " Road to Singapore " lacked the lazy improvisational impression that this one has . " Singapore " seems , in retrospect , too well plotted , if you can imagine . You've gotta give these guys a little room to kick out . The plot's absurd anyway . Africa on the Paramount set , with phony drums and " natives " and a guy in a gorilla suit engaged in a professional wrestling match with Hope . Actually , Hope's pretty amusing . Woody Allen has said that he picked up quite a few of Hope's comic mannerisms to use in his own performances . ( See also Hope's " They've Got Me Covered , " a classic of its kind , so to speak . ) And Crosby is a necessary counterpart to Hope's physicality . The two work very well together . I'll have to throw in one of their exchanges . The pair find themselves broke and stranded in a small African town . Hope ( gloomily ) : " This must be the nowhere that people say they're 500 miles from . " Crosby : " Well don't blame me . We wouldn't be here if you hadn't sold the map to that diamond mine . " Hope : " Hah ! It's your fault ! If you hadn't bought it I wouldn't have been able to sell it , and then we wouldn't be stuck here , would we ? " Crosby : " Nope . " Hope ( looks doubtful for a few moments , thinking hard ) : " I don't get it . " Their movies also produced a number of popular songs , some of which have become standards . This one has " It's Always You . " Others have songs like " Moonlight Becomes You . " You'll probably enjoy this one . If you're in the proper mood , it will crack you up .
A rough lie .	It would have been easy to turn a story like this into a cheap action flick - - heroic downed USAF Colonel fights his way through enemy territory with help of heroic self-sacrificing black pilot . It doesn't happen , exactly . The story , as I understand it , is based on fact , but I don't know how much of it is factual . Maybe the evacuation pilot , Danny Glover , really DID take off alone in a helicopter ( in which he was not qualified ) , rescue Colonel Hambledon ( Gene Hackman ) single-handedly , successfully crash the helicopter he was not qualified in , and maybe the two of them then escape a horde of North Vietnamese pursuers during a " carpet bombing " of the whole area , with Glover sustaining one of those nasty but not unphotogenic shoulder wounds in the process . Maybe it IS true but it sounds a lot like rather routine fiction to me because real life is seldom so tidy . I can believe the part that golf plays in the escape plan . It's so absurd that no writer in his right mind would dream it up . Still - - that having been said - - this is a truly worthwhile movie . Action fans will find lots of exploding fireballs if that's what they're looking for . There will also be wounded smoking helicopters spinning drunkenly downward and a man being blown up in a minefield . But that's not what makes the movie important . The action is usually nothing more than a means to an end . In this case , the end is the education and humanization of Colonel Iceal Hambledon , USAF . He's your normal military men , an expert on electronic countermeasures . He is 53 years old and has spent most of his life in the military . He's never seen combat . And his being shot down constitutes his introduction to what the film shows us is a pretty ugly kind of business . Behind enemy lines he spies a column of NV troops and vehicles and calls in an air strike . Boom . Afterward the NVA shoot one of their own wounded troops , which Hambledon finds nasty . Before he knows it , stumbling through the bush , he finds an empty hootch . While scavenging it for food and water , he is discovered by its owner . Neither man understands the other's language . A physical fight follows which Hambledon can only escape from my shooting and killing the Vietnamese farmer . The farmer's napalm-scarred family show up and rush sobbing to the dead body while Hambledon backs away , stunned , saying stupidly , " I'm sorry . I'm sorry . " There follows a scene in which captured American fliers sacrifice themselves to save Hambledon and the Air Force then demolishes the nearby village full of soldiers and women and children . " Everywhere I go , people die , " Hambledon comments sadly to himself . ( I can't emphasize too strongly how much tragedy Hackman invests his lines with . They emerge as more than simply lines of dialogue . He's a fine , reliable , unflamboyant performer . ) Hambledon vows that he's all done killing people - - and he is , even when he has to opportunity to shoot an armed enemy soldier who is chasing him . The Vietnames is disoriented , twirling about dizzily while a garden of slow motion flame sprouts around him . Hambledon has a bead on him but then shakes his head in disgust and looks away without firing . Danny Glover is good too . As an actor he may have more range than he's usually given credit for . Here , as in the " Lethal Weapon " movies , he's more of a supportive sidekick than anything else . He's the guy on the other end of the line who is there when you must spill your emotions to SOMEONE . Not that he's given trite lines in the part . Hambledon hesitates at one point , then tell him over the radio , " I killed a man today . " " Roger that , " says Glover . He understands what Hambledon's getting at - - but what is there to say ? It's combat , not Oprah Winfrey . Also , anyone who wants to see Glover demonstrate that range might want to check out " Switchback , " in which he is a good-natured , avuncular , laid-back serial killer . Sometimes I wonder if some of us have forgotten just how lousy an experience war is for everyone involved - - for us , for our opponents , and for the civilians drawn willy nilly into it . This film is a decent reminder .
Flag-waving inoculation for US entry into World War II	Smoothly directed by Howard Hawks along Hollywood lines , the film is the biography - - or maybe " biography " - - of Alvin York , a hillbilly who engineered the survival of his unit and the capture of a massive number of Germans , winning the Congressional Medal of Honor . Historically it serves as an inoculation , giving the American audience of early 1941 just a touch of what it's like for the country to be at war , so that we can all get used to the idea . The country was full of isolationists at the time , Lucky Lindbergh , an American hero , among them . Few people wanted to " pull England's chestnuts out of the fire " again in 1941 . Besides , while war waged in Europe , where it had been going on for a couple of years , American business was doing rather well in producing weapons . They'd pulled that off for a full three years during World War I . But many people , including President Roosevelt , saw war as ultimately inevitable and it looks like the Warner Brothers did too . This film reminded us that , although war may be hell , we win in the end , as usual . But it's not a stupid movie by any means . The conflict between living peacefully and making war is presented starkly . Gary Cooper , as York , shows us a man who can be either dissolute and bitter or dedicated and honorable . ( He's born again when lightning strikes his rifle and mule in Tennessee . ) He's a conscientious objector who does everything possible to avoid the draft because killing is against his religion . The Army gives him an American history book and sends him back home to think things over . A breeze ruffles the pages of his Bible and opens it to , " Render unto Caesar those things that are Caesar's , and unto God those things that are God's . " Bingo . He goes to war , excels with the Springfield ' 03 " rifle gun " , and avenges the deaths of his friends by daring and marksmanship - - played partly for laughs , although the shootings would be funny most to boys under the age of fourteen . His behavior under fire and the capture of that horde of Germans is historically accurate though , and it was an astounding feat . Back home they offer Cooper all kinds of rewards for endorsing products that will cure jock itch , dandruff , hangnails , or whatever , but he refuses to sell his name because he is not proud of the killing he did in France . He prefers to settle down quietly as a farmer in the hills with his family . This is also accurate . The guy must have been a demon of virtues . Joan Leslie provides the requisite love interest but I ain't so sartain she war necessary to thet there a-plot . He winds up happily with his sweetheart in a cottage covered with flowers and surrounded by a white picket fence in the idyllic hills , the kind of place that only exists in fantasies . It's a rather long movie , and some parts are a little sketchy , especially those dealing with his initial introduction to the Army . But it doesn't drag . Hawks evokes the poverty of the Upland South in the early years of the last century without seeming to strain while doing so . Cooper's disappointment when his Herculean efforts to acquire bottom land fail is almost palpable . Cooper's varying moods are helped along by Max Steiner's sprightly song , which dips into a minor key while we witness misery on the screen . Given its theme , its obviously pedantic intent , it ought to be dated and boring but it's not . It's a pretty good job .
Liesurely study of crime and character .	An escaped prison inmate ( Kevin Costner ) kidnaps a young boy ( T . J . Lowther ) , steals numerous cars , encounters people of various dispositions , and aims towards Alaska with his kidnapee . Meanwhile he is pursued across the panhandle , sometimes comically , by a Texas Ranger ( Clint Eastwood ) and a handful of advisers including Laura Dern . The basic story , aside from the inexorability of the law's closing in , has to do with the relationship between the boy , who comes from a rather restrictive household of Jehovah's Witnesses , and the casually cold-blooded Costner , who begins to take on the role of big brother . It ends tragically . The performances are adequate , partly because of professional competence , party because the actors themselves are innately appealing . Clint is only himself , as performer and as director . The pace is slow but the movie doesn't meander . It's an unusual role for Costner . I mean , he's an innocent , fun-loving , idealistic kind of surfer guy , right ? And here he is packing a pistola and abusing people without a sign of chagrin . The little kid , about eight or so , isn't as obnoxious as he might have been , not even when he takes advantage of the opportunity to shoplift and don a Halloween costume of Casper the Friendly Ghost . ( His family doesn't hold with Halloween . ) Perhaps luckily for us , he isn't given that much to say , although , to be sure , sometimes these little buggers can be uncannily effective actors . It's nice that Laura Dern is in it , though her role is pretty much dispensable . Her features are curiously arranged but she's attractive with her long , unruly blond hair and her dark eyebrows , and she's fulsomely sensual too , for a leptosome . The actor who is perfect in image and performance is Wayne Dehart as a good-natured , generous black farmer whose family is tied up and who is almost murdered by Costner after taking him and the boy in for the night and feeding them . ( There were people who would do that in the period of this film , the early 1960s . ) This scene makes it entirely clear that Costner has some buried basura that can turn him into a remorseless killer as easily as popping a zit . The director and the writer ( John Lee Hancock ) kind of blow it in the last scene . Costner has been gut shot by the boy trying to prevent a slaughter , and now they are crumpled together under a " dogleg tree " in the middle of a grassy field , surrounded by police and FBI , who have Costner in their sights and are itching for a chance to take him out . It's an important scene but its impact is vitiated by the length at which it's drawn out . And when Costner sends the boy away and the boy turns around and rushes back into Costner's arms , the scene collapses completely . After all , the kid is so young that he has virtually no awareness of the importance of what's happening . He's just a kid . Here he is , chatting with Costner , who is bleeding like the Fountain of Trevi , and paying no attention to the possibly mortal wound he himself was responsible for . He ignores the ring of armed cops . When a police helicopter lands nearby , the kid brightens and exclaims , " Do you think they'll give me a ride in it ? " This kind of kid shouldn't be sobbing on the dying Costner's shoulder . He should be running towards the police , waving his arms , shouting " Boo ! " , and trying to scare them in his spook costume . And the director and writer shouldn't be pandering to the sentimentalists in us . The movie in some ways resembles Terrence Malick's " Badlands " without being nearly as original . Costner giving the kid advice , for instance , telling him that his penis isn't " puny , " that it's just right for somebody his age , reminds me of the scene in " Badlands " in which Martin Sheen is earnestly recording some banalities on tape - - " Always follow the rules of the majority but never forget about the minority view . " Polonius on mushrooms . But it's those inconsequential moments that give this film the considerable thrust that it has . It's nothing for any of the participants to be ashamed of .
Murder rates soar on holidays .	This is one of the better feature-length episodes . There's nothing soppy about it , as there is likely to be in so many other Christmas tales . That's not Dame Agatha's style , nor Poirot's . ( Nor Conan-Doyle's Sherlock Holmes for that matter - - the blue carbuncle . ) No syrupy little kids either . Thank heavens for small favors . David Suchet is Hercule Poirot , of course . He and Inspector Japp are required to spend a few days in a Shropshire mansion trying to unravel a mystery in which a dessicated old thief has been murdered and his diamonds disappeared . The wheelchair-bound geezer is Vernon Dobtcheff who almost steals the show with his villainy , looking as he does from some angles like a malignant Sir John Gielgud , without the savory inflections . He's a spiteful old bastard . He hates the family members he invited to his lodgings , and they hate him . " It is not difficult to see why , M'sieur , " remarks Poirot . The murder seems impossible . The room was locked , the furniture wrecked although the old chap was in no condition to put up a struggle . Did he somehow kills himself and try to make it look like murder ? He's certainly capable of it . Sasha Behar stands out too , as Dobtcheff's Spanish granddaughter . She speaks English with a Spanish accent . Not New World Spanish , but Spanish Spanish . Philip Jackson is Inspector Japp of Scotland Yard . Of Poirot's two usual sidekicks I think I prefer Hugh Fraser as Captain Hastings . Jackson looks too much like a dour Scot . Fraser , as Hastings , is gawky and comic , friendlier if no more helpful . I am , how you say , happy to note that I twigged to the identity of the killer at about the same time Poirot did , in the gag shop , connecting the false mustache with the portrait . In the morgue I was even able to sketch in roughly the history and motive of the murderer and his or her accomplice . The actual details of the murder itself managed to squeeze past me , since I did not note on the wall of the shop , nor had I ever heard of , the Dying Pig . I don't claim that my little gray cells are any more numerous or dendritic than Hercule Poirot's , only that the mustache , the portrait , and the claimant to the family fortune came out of " The Hound of the Baskervilles . " In fact I've begun to worry a bit lately about my little gray cells , which I believe are coming to resemble the results of a serious mistake I once made in a high school chemistry class . This is one of Christie's better mysteries , if only because a viewer is able to keep the characters straight , and because of the blessed absence of mawkish children at Christmas time .
Police , mystery , murder , efficiency .	This is one of those dark movies that came out of MGM while the studio was trying to catch up with the post-war mood of the country . It's exciting , enjoyable , and well executed . The locations are Boston and Cape Cod . The reason it has to be set around Boston is that a forensic physician from Harvard ( Bruce Bennett ) is brought into the plot to help solve the riddle of the victim's ( Jan Sterling's ) identity and the means of her murder . The lead detective is Ricardo Montalban and the plot focuses on him , but there is room for an abundance of supporting players , all of whom have important functions in the story - - Marshall Thompson as the unlucky schmuck who is arrested for the killing , Sally Forrest as his wife , Elsa Lanchester as a chuckling would-be blackmailer who pushes her prinked charm a little too far , Betsy Blair as the helpful friend of the victim , and Edmon Ryan as the haughty aristocrat who kills the pregnant B-girl Sterling to protect not just himself but his family but who doesn't get an ounce of sympathy from the script anyway . In fact , Montalban , the probing detective , doesn't show anybody any sympathy either . There are a dozen ways Montalban might have tackled this role . He's chosen to be ambitious , polite , quick on his feet , a little sarcastic , and indifferent to the tsuris that innocents must sometimes undergo . After Marshall Thompson has mistakenly been arrested and thus removed from the work force , his wife must pack all their things and move in with her mother-in-law . Montalban politely pushes his way into the apartment while she's packing everything she owns into moving boxes , questions her until she breaks down sobbing , then goes about deliberately tossing the place looking for a pistol . All this misery and Montalban never says he's sorry to Sally Forrest or anyone else whose life he disrupts . Although , having said that , the misery quotient is lower here than in most films noir . In noirs , sometimes the excess of shadows , the night-time city streets , the rain , the general sense of impending doom can be depressing . Here , most of the shots staged by director John Sturges are in the daytime . And Montalban's cop is not neurotic , not sadistic , simply uncaring . That's an improvement over having a maniac at the center of the story . I'm not sure why they had to drag Harvard into the movie though . Oh , sure , the victim's skeleton has to be found on the beach at nearby Cape Cod so Harvard is readily available . But what's the matter with Johns Hopkins ? Or - - why couldn't they have used , say , Cornell ? Jan Sterling's skeleton could have been washed up on the beach in Ithaca . Well , okay , no beach in Ithaca - - but plenty of " densely wooded areas " ! Harvard has this , this - - MYSTIQUE . Just because it's the oldest university in the country . Well , let me tell you , Oxford is older than Harvard . And Bologna University is older than Oxford . And before that there were the Arabs . Do you think that , without them , there would be a Harvard today ? I should say not ! Anyway - - I think I'd better get off that particular soap box - - anyway , this is an engaging divertissement . I felt I could breathe because , for the most part , the movie , unlike so many noirs , doesn't stick the viewer into gloomy , enclosed places . The final confrontation - - in daylight - - takes place in a railroad marshaling yard . Nice setting . All these motionless , empty passenger cars lined up alongside one another . Pairs of detached wheels with iron bars connecting them as if they were made out of Tinker Toys . You'll probably enjoy it . It's not ambitious . There's nothing in the least arty about it . But the plot line is rather neat and the acting is quite good . Elsa Lanchester , especially , is a kick . That forensic physician couldn't have pinned her down as a toe dancer unless he had second sight .
Do what is right , because it is right .	This is a pretty courageous movie . Eastwood has produced and directed the story of one of the most bitter conflicts of World War II - - which we get to see from the Japanese point of view . The Americans ( OUR side ) are the faceless enemies ! And it's not done by the numbers either . The doomed Japanese are not handled with careless and facile sentimentality . Some are loyal and brave , but humane - - notably Ken Watanabe's officer . Others are stern with their own troops and savage towards the US troops . They all demonstrate emotions of one sort or another , recognizably human . It's a more concentrated version of the Japanese soldiers we saw in films like Cornell Wild's " Beach Red " and David Lean's " The Bridge on the River Kwai . " If Eastwood's " Flags of Our Fathers " was heads , this is the tails side of the same coin . The same - - yet , not the same . " Flags of Our Fathers " is the better film for a number of reasons . One is that the earlier film had focus that this one lacks . Three Marines and a Navy corpsman touring the states on a trumped-up victory trip to raise money . We got to know the four guys and the tragic aftermath of their victory . The structure of " Letters From Iwo Jima " is more diffuse . With the exception of Watanabe , it's hard to tell one Japanese soldier from another , partly because the film is shot almost entirely in darkness , the color is desaturated to the point at which it is almost black and white , and because uniforms , as always , make it difficult to tell who's who . ( " Band of Brothers " had a similar problem . ) The " letters " in the title aren't often heard from in the film . Nothing easy . No , " I love you , darling , and I miss the cherry blossoms in the Spring . " Rather , an officer reads a letter found on a dying Marine . It's from his mother , who advises him to " do what is right , because it's right . " Later , before ordering his men on a suicidal attack , he preps them with the same words . Presumably the writer meant the parallel to be ironic , but she hit on a larger question . Exactly what does " right " mean ? Even if you are able to step outside the box and examine your situation objectively , what ethic is available as a guide ? In the case of Iwo Jima , " right " meant dying with honor to the Japanese . Pragmatically , it now seems foolish . The Japanese had built fifteen miles of tunnels under the little island , some of the tunnel walls were shellacked . It was like living in a hotel with no room service . Yet the American fleet consisted of 150 ships which , if they'd been in a line-astern formation , would have stretched for seventy miles . Theoretically , the battle was over the moment the fleet appeared . The hopeless resistance led to the spilling of blood by about all of the Japanese and an appalling number of Marines . Would we have done things differently ? Probably . We surrendered in a nice pragmatic way on Wake Island . Ditto the British in Singapore . Ditto the American and Fillipino troops on Bataan , although there were undoubtedly those among them for whom " surrender is not an option " was a popular slogan . It's a sad movie and truly anti war . The final scene has Watanabe's brief case being dug up year later and its contents dumped unceremoniously out onto the dusty soil . The contents are nothing more than personal letters . Lots of letters . What seems like hundreds and hundreds of letters , leaving us with the impression that Watanabe , like the other casualties on both sides , would have had a lot more to say had he lived .
Purged in the desert .	An enjoyable war-time flag waver , the film has Humphrey Bogart as the sergeant in charge of a light tank that must trek to safety across miles of African desert , short on food and water , and carrying a motley bunch of crew members and passengers - - American , UK , Italian , French , and German . It establishes our sentiments towards the war , towards our allies , and towards our enemies shortly into the film . We simply cannot leave that raggedy Italian captive behind , begging for mercy for the sake of his bambina . The German pilot who is shot down while attacking the tank however is a different story . Treacherous , fanatical , and thoroughly Nazified . Somebody had better keep an eye on him . And the allies ? Well , we'll all get along together in pursuit of this superordinate goal . All are brave , humane , committed , and longing for home , except maybe the Frenchman who was in the resistance and saw the Germans slaughter his family and his village . One of the allies picked up by the tank is actually a sub-Saharan African , a black man . Yes - - they were on our side too ! There is a curious conversation between the Muslim Sudanese black guy and a crew member called " Waco " because he's from , well , Waco . There isn't the slightest sign of friction between this black guy and this small-city Texan , only curiosity on Waco's part . Is it true that you people can have as many wives as you want ? ( " You people . " ) No , answers the Sudanese , only four . And so on . The conversation ends with Waco's observation that , " Maybe there's a lot we can learn from one another . " The crew and passengers are picked off one by one before or during the climactic shoot out at a large well . The horde of attacking Germans is desperate for water too . I won't say who plants the flag over the well , but I would ask , if you were a German officer and your men outnumbered the allied defenders by , say , a margin of ten to one - - would you have all your men attack at once from the same direction ? Or would you , in an attempt to weaken defensive fire , divide your men into two or even three groups and have them attack simultaneously from different directions ? It's a good , simple movie , full of desert atmosphere . And in its pedagogic qualities , it's almost a training film for the 1943 audience . It could have been called , " Where We Stand . " Enjoyable , with colorful characters and plenty of action .
Fine Cast in Decent Movie .	It's about this hit man , Ben Kingsley , who works for the Polish mob in Buffalo and turns into a drunk . When this begins to interfere with his precision he's sent to San Francisco to dry out and get himself in shape , supporting himself with a part-time job fixing corpses in a mortuary . ( " I don't mind bodies , " he remarks . ) He warily joins an AA group and meets Tia Leoni , with whom he bonds . He falls of the wagon once or twice . The first time is at an Irish wake , when someone whispers to Kingsley that the widow is taking it pretty hard . ( There is a quick shot of her laughing and boozing it up . ) Alas , his friends and relatives in the Polish mob , the folks with the refrigerator full of galumke , are almost all wiped out by the Irish mob that is moving in . Kinglsey , secretly followed by Tea Leoni , gives up his life in San Francisco , deeming himself a loser , and returns to Buffalo where he evens the score . He and Leoni move back to San Francisco and live happily ever after . Now , the endoskeleton of the plot , as it's summarized here , sounds pretty gloomy , but the fact is that the movie is considerably lightened by some amusing dialog and by the acting skills of Ben Kingsley and the rest of the cast . It's not at all depressing . And the tension can turn either way , unpredictably , from dramatic to coolly comic . A lot depends on Kingsley and he pulls it off . Somehow , the awkward situations in which he finds himself - - to eat a cookie or not , to pull the trigger or not - - are turned into incidents in which we can identify with him . He's a fine actor but it's not surprising that we don't see more of him , what with that exotic kisser on him , that drooping nose , that glossy pate . Tea Leoni impresses too . I'm not sure why . She's very attractive , sure , but so are dozens of other actresses . I think it's her eyes , principally . They narrow at times to piercing slits , giving the impression that she can not only see through your clothing but can divine your intentions . Her voice is low , placid , and ordinary - - believable . She's not seen often enough on screen either . Not a masterpiece . Not something you sit through again and again , learning something new each time . ( At least I wouldn't think so . I've only seen it once . ) But it's an adult movie , diverting despite it's minimal violence and action , and often quite funny in its own quiet way - - much quieter than " There's Something About Mary . " But worth some effort to see .
Deliberate , chilling , and atmospheric .	It's hard to imagine how the producer Val Lewton managed to pull off these spooky , understated little films at RKO . The studio , envious of Universal's monster series , kept throwing these ludicrous titles at him . " The Cat People . " Did " The Cat People " make money ? Okay , then , " The CURSE of the Cat People . " If Universal had " The Wolf Man , " they threw " The Leopard Man " at Lewton . Yet he kept constructing miniature gems on these fragile foundations . This is one of them , from 1943 . It won't scare the kids as much as " The Cat People " did because there are fewer unexpected shocks ( " buses " , Lewton called them ) . But adults will find it about as interesting as any of Lewton's other fantasies , especially if they're at all familiar with Hitchcock's " Psycho " or " Rosemary's Baby " and are able to connect dots with any facility . Here's the opening , in which the tenor of the film to follow is fully laid out . I'll use it as an example and then pretty much quit . Mary ( Kim Hunter , in her first role ) is a student at some academy outside New York . Mrs . Lowood , the headmistress , calls her into the office and explains that Mary's sister , Jacqueline , has stopped payments for Mary's tuition without explanation . Mrs . Lowood has been unable to contact Jacqueline . Mary says she intends to go to New York and look into her sister's incommunicado . Mrs . Lowood offers to help pay Mary's tuition and adds that if Mary is unable to find Jacqueline , she is always welcome to return to the school as a teacher . In the hallway , Mary is stopped by a young teacher , Mrs . Gilchrest , who pleads with her not to come back to the school . She herself was once in Mary's position and has regretted her return ever since . At this point we hear Mrs . Lowood's commanding call from inside - - " Gilchrest ? " Mary leaves the school after a fond look at a grandfather clock in the hallways . From the beginning everything is askew , not what we expect from a cheap B movie , not quite " normal " . The apparent disappearance of Mary's sister Jacqueline is only the most obvious part of the puzzle . Mrs . Lowood seems to be treating Mary with sympathy , yet her demeanor is strangely ominous , giving us a sense of something going on that we aren't aware of . Gilchrest's anguished warning in the hallway suggests that our unease is justified . I mean - - what the hell HAPPENED to Gilchrest when she came back to the school ? Or is she frankly nuts ? Lowood's demanding call leads us to believe that Gilchrest knows whereof she speaks . Neither Lowood nor Gilchrest is ever seen in the film again . And the grandfather clock ? What's that about ? If anything . Some of these apparent dead links may be due to hasty editing , attempts to trim the film down to a B-movie slot in the local theaters . But then why do Lewton's movies leave behind this sense of languourous dread when other , completely forgettable B movies , show plot holes because the actors are rushing through the film so that instead of mysterious digressions we wind up with plot holes ? Mary's investigation takes her to Greenwich Village and puts her through a maze with odd characters as guides or red herrings . In the most clearly violent scene one of her acquaintances , a creepy detective , prowls through a dark and deserted building with her . Hearing a noise in the hallway ahead , he steps into the shadows , while Mary waits trembling , and after a few moments staggers back wordlessly with a fatal wound . I think I'll let it go at that . Don't bother watching this if you expect a slasher movie or even a horror movie . Watch it some night when you feel ready to let its sluggish current take you along on a ride through a phantasmagorical setting that is anything but Disneyland .
Atypical Sports Story	The usual trajectory in a sports movie involves some underprivileged character discovering he has a talent , being put through a rigorous training by a mentor , riding that talent to national prominence , being undone by personal demons , and finally rediscovering himself . " Rocky " didn't fit the formula and neither does " Raging Bull . " " Rocky , " I suspect , broke the mold not so much in the course of a search for originality but in order to leave the way open for a sequel . Or , as it turns out , about five or six sequels . But " Raging Bull " dispenses entirely with the formula and follows Jake LaMotta from early in his career to his ultimate degradation as an unfunny host at a seedy bar in New York . And that's it , except for the possibility of a reconciliation between him and his estranged brother , left unresolved . Scorcese's direction is simply fine . It's identifiably his own , of course , with inserts of home movies , fist fights over girls , an edgy semi-improvisational quality in the delivery of dialog , slow motion punches to the mouth , a musical score that leans heavily on Italian opera and contemporary pop songs . The plot , for whatever reason , doesn't integrate too well its chief themes - - LaMotta's obsession with his wife's fidelity and his career in the ring . You could almost eliminate one of the plot strings and have enough left over for an independent feature . But that's a minor carp in the overall context because the overwhelming presence of Robert DeNiro as Jake LaMotta pretty much manages to pull them together so the seams are not noticeable . So the movie depends on DeNiro's performance - - and does he deliver ! In real life DeNiro is a sensitive , thoughtful , and private guy , but he does a superb job of dumbing his character down and making him sympathetic and ugly at the same time . Let's say that his LaMotta doesn't show a great deal of insight , whether running around in a paranoid frenzy or pounding an enemy into pulp in the ring . And he has one scene that equals anything he's put on the screen before . A down-and-outer , arrested for serving minors in his cheap night club , and thrown in jail because he is unable to raise a few thousand dollars for bail , he repeatedly smashes his fists against the wall and pounds his forehead on the cement , all the while ululating like a wounded animal . What a performance . He's well supported by Joe Pesci as the brother who is no more insightful but at least has a hold on common sense . Cathy Moriarty is adequate as LaMotta's abused wife . I'm driven to add something completely irrelevant to an assessment of the film . When it first came out , I was part of a seminar in the Psychiatry Department at the University of Connecticut and we were dealing with delirium , derived from Latin " de liro " - - " I rave . " I desperately wanted to somehow sneak into the discussions a play on words involving the title of the film - - " Raving Bull " staring Robert DeLiro . I never found a way of bringing it up without appearing nuts . Now I've got it out of my system , thanks to IMDb . com , after a quarter of a century . Pardon me . ( Wiping away tears of relief and gratitude . ) I'd like to thank you all for reading this . ( Sniff . ) I owe everything I have to my coach and my Mom and Dad . ( Sob . ) Much of the credit goes to my cat , Josefina , and to my ancestors , dating back to Neanderthal Man . ( Breaking into a lachrymose cascade . ) This is a violent and sometimes bloody movie . Scorcese spares us nothing in the way of physical or emotional brutality . But it really shouldn't be missed . A good job on the part of everyone concerned .
Lots of Fun .	I have to keep this short because anything beyond the briefest comment will begin to reveal some plot turns best kept secret . Basically , Michael Caine visits the wealthy mystery author Lawrence Olivier , whose wife he is about to steal off with . There follows a duel of wits . But they're pretty witty wits . Not all of the gags and twists make inexorable sense but they're all full of ironic zest . I don't think there's a moment of genuine sentiment or drama in the entire movie . Even at the brink of murder , while all of the humanity in your nature wants to cry out in sympathy , you can't help smiling and wondering how the murder will not take place . It wouldn't be the success that it is - - and it is a success - - without the two principles . Michael Caine demonstrates his range as an actor . And Lawrence Olivier is superb - - huffing and puffing , chuckling derisively , having a hell of a good time hamming it up , even when he's supposedly defeated in a game . Watch two pros living it up , if you get the chance .
Stylish Thriller .	An early effort by the Coen brothers , this is a little like a short story stretched out to feature length but executed with so much suspense and panache that it hardly registers that we are on the scenic route rather than the expressway . Briefly , Frances McDormand , the wife of the moody and embittered Dan Hedaya , is having an affair with John Goetz , an employee of Hedaya's night club in Texas . Hedaya discovers the tryst through the services of the fat , wheezing , repulsive , but compliant private eye , M . Emmet Walsh . Hedaya confronts McDormand in her house of adultery and tries to drag her out to his car . McDormand is a tough babe though . She bites his index finger , spins around and kicks him firmly in the jewels . This comes close to being a cliché in scenes in which strong women are attacked by brutal men , and the scripts ordinarily call for the man to groan and clutch his groin for a moment before springing back to the attack . Not here . Hedaya is positively disabled , falls to his knees in pain , struggles back to his feet , stumbles towards his car , down on his knees again , and vomits . That little scene , in which most of our expectations are violated , is emblematic of the whole film . Nothing goes quite the way it was planned or the way we expect it to . A body that has been shot and remained motionless for hours in a pool of blood comes back to life unexpectedly . But not the way it's usually done , for shock value , as in so many slasher movies . At any rate , Hedaya re-hired Walsh to kill the pair of sinners and dispose of their bodies . Instead , Walsh double-crosses Hedaya and shoots him with McDormand's little revolver , leaving the weapon behind as a frame . Goetz discovers the body and the gun and , believing that McDormand was the shooter , disposes of Hedaya's half-dead body by burying it alive . I'll skip the ending . The Coen brothers have found themselves an honest and original style . And it IS original because it flies in the face of modern trends towards loud musical scores , instantaneous editing , wobbling cameras , shock cuts , lots of gutsy physicality , and a general sense of chaos . The pace is leisurely . Attention is paid to details , sometimes relevant ( a forgotten cigarette lighter ) , sometimes not ( the brass object on which a cigarette is stubbed out ) . But all add to the overall ambiance , with an effect similar to Hitchcock's but done quite differently . The art director should get a prize , but so should many other elements - - photography and lighting in particular . What I'm trying to get across is the notion that this - - and the Coen's subsequent films - - seems made for an adult audience rather than a horde of popcorn-eating , energy-drink-imbibing post adolescents . THAT audience will sit aghast during the climactic violence and wonder why they don't see any exploding squibs and why the accompanying score consists only of a muffled Mexican song from next door rather than some electronic , neuron-numbing , percussive assault . Since 1984 , the Coens have had some ups and some downs . ( The ups include the near-masterpiece " Fargo " . ) None of them have been less than interesting . They're a modest , shambling sort of team , the Coens , and judging from the way they look today , they must have been about nine years old when they made " Blood Simple . " They're among the most individualistic and innovative writers and directors working today . See it .
Painful but Necessary	Two prisoners , one black ( Sidney Poitier ) and one white ( Tony Curtis ) , escape after they've been shackled together by the wrists . They are pursued by a posse led by Sheriff Theodore Bikel . After several adventures they are captured . The plot is sketched out schematically . Every scene makes its point , then we move on to the next scene , which makes ITS point , until the two men are lying exhausted next to the railroad tracks and resigned to their recapture , Curtis still resentful , Poitier defiantly cheerful , both doomed . The point of the film - - and I hate to say this - - is that we are all brothers under the skin , shackled together by our common humanity , not to mention our physicality . The plot is tightly wound and the points spelled out so that they can't be easily missed - - like " Stagecoach " or " High Noon . " Nothing and nobody is in the least bit ambiguous or quirky . There's the humane sheriff , the rabid redneck crowd , the bitter inmates , the horny widow , the suspicious kid , and so forth . I'd consider that a weakness , but it's made up for by the depth given to some of the characters . They may be stereotypes but they're pretty hominid after all . Take that horny widow , for instance . Here she is , isolated in a ramshackle house in some Southern state , deserted by her husband , left with a kid who shoots rabbits for meals . She's shallow , selfish , and something of a racist . Yet she seems attracted enough to Tony Curtis , despite his phony nose , to give up everything , gather her dollars together , and run away with him . It's an invitation to share her future . And there's no reason to believe she's especially fickle or that he's less than just an instrument to get her away from her stagnation - - although he IS an instrument . The widow needs a man to jump start her , and Curtis has done it . She's a complex person and ultimately kind of pathetic . The movie today would have been shot in the real South . As it is , it looks like California in the rainy season . Those granite rocks to which the pair cling as they make their way across that rushing river look distinctly as if they'd tumbled down from the Sierras , which they have . The little flakes of mica that scintillate under the California sun seem to be winking at us . Let's all pretend that this is the hinterland of Georgia or someplace . It doesn't kill the movie . It's just a distraction , as is the unbelievably formulaic lynch mob . Stanley Kramer directed this and , as usual , he's trying to teach us a lesson the way a teacher teaches the ABCs to a kindergarten class . It seems condescending to us now , fifty years after its release , but it was necessary for some of us in 1958 . Maybe the lesson is still relevant .
Factory refurbished product .	Well it's a lot more colorful than the more familiar 1937 version , mainly because it's shot in Technicolor . Otherwise it's an almost shot-for-shot remake . If there were any changes in the dialog they slipped past the transcendental unity of my apperception . So if the story is the same , and the dialog is the same , and the direction is almost the same , where are the differences between the 1937 and the 1954 versions ? There are some slight differences in the staging and direction . The most notable is in the climactic sabre duel between James Mason as Rupert and Stewart Granger as Rudolf . This one lasts longer and is better staged . More use is made of furniture and there are more dramatic touches . And the wardrobe in this scene is a bit more splashy in the case of Stewart's character . Here he wears a rather dashing dark blue outfit accented by a designer silver dagger at his hip . In the earlier version poor Ronald Coleman was stuffed into a homely and somewhat raggedy looking woolen turtleneck sweater . And the principle parts are played by different actors and actresses so there are additional variations on the theme of intrigue , action , and love in Ruritania . Jane Greer is comelier than Mary Astor was . Robert Douglas is a sneering villain , much like Raymond Massey , his predecessor , but brings less character to the role . Douglas simply can't sneer with such complete contempt as Massey did , but then hardly anybody could . Deborah Kerr perhaps wins by a nose over Madeleine Carrol in the part of Flavia . She looks just fine and is appealingly breathless and helpless whereas Carrol , though beautiful , played her stock part as if it were a stock part . A man might love her and want to ravish her but he would also want to protect Kerr . The guy playing Fritz is without distinction while David Niven in 1937 was a memorable sidekick . Stewart Granger seemed to be stuck in Errol Flynn's pictures in Hollywood , as he is here , and doesn't have a chance to invest much of his considerable talent in the role of the play actor . And although he maintains an amused distance from the proceedings he isn't full of gaiety and doesn't chuckle so often as Ronald Coleman did . His tall , solid , muscular figure does suggest a man more suited to physical action than Coleman . I enjoyed James Mason as the sardonic villain . He's got the same lines as Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . , in the 1937 version but he gives them a very different twist . Fairbanks was all smiles , laughter , devil-may-care , reckless . Mason's every sentence begins with a high contemptuous whine - - awwwmmmm . He still smiles a lot , but it's an evil calculating smile , as if he truly believes he sees through all the social ritual and is able to read the dark and dreadful desires in each human soul . And , as in earlier versions , he's given by far the most engaging lines . When he tells Robert Douglas that the real king has been replaced by a ringer , he adds that it may be hard to believe that two people could look so much alike , " But I knew twin sisters once who - - but that's another story . " Fairbanks was like a child misbehaving . Mason is like a supercilious snob . I enjoyed it as much as I did the 1937 version and I suppose many others did too . Santa Maria , the hoary story has been remade so many times that we have to wonder if it's not time for still another rendition to be trotted out . Perhaps its announcement has been delayed because no one is able to figure out exactly how to fit a car chase and an exploding fireball into a story set in Mitteleuropa in 1903 . Maybe they can update it . Instead of being a REAL king , somebody can play the King of the White House . And they can change the title to , " The Prisoner of Karl Rove . "
Throw Anna Under the Train .	If you're ever tempted to write a classic novel , one that's bound to be bound in buckram with gilt lettering , designed to last forever and forced on college literature students , you can't go too wrong with this simple plot : A beautiful but impetuous woman marries a reliable but somewhat dull man , usually older or bitter , falls for a dashing and virile younger fellow , and the affair ends in catastrophe . I mention in passing only the examples of " Madam Bovary " , " Lady Chatterly's Lover , " and " Anna Karenina . " Half a dozen others escape me at the moment . See David Lean's " Ryan's Daughter " or " The Eye of the Needle " for popular cinematic examples . It's been years since I read the novel so I can't say how closely the movie sticks to the original story . Probably , as happens in most cases , the essence of the story is extracted by a reduction of the broth . Sub-plots disappear . Character touches are elided . Back stories are dropped . Elaborate descriptions of location are eschewed . Any philosophical glosses are avoided like so many venomous snakes . What we're left with , in this instance , is a very well-done soap opera that takes place in and around St . Petersburg , Russia , in 1878 . And it IS well done . The production values are high , a lot of attention has been paid to period decor and set design . The performers don't look like they're groomed for 1948 audiences . Anna is played by Vivien Leigh . She's the central character and most of the burden is placed on her . She carries it off well , especially considering that the character of Anna is as screwed up as Vivien Leigh was in her off-screen life - - not that her personal problems were in any way her fault . Mental illness strikes without warning , like lightning , sometimes . The boring and stuffy husband is Ralph Richardson , always reliable , and by no means evil , though somewhat neglectful and insensitive , obsessed with his own rectitude . The third principal character is Count Vronsky , Kieran Moore , who doesn't really seem quite roguish enough despite his classy uniform , his riding skills , and his thin mustache . Anna's ending is tragic . Hallucinating to beat the band at the station , she throws herself in front of a departing train . But , this being an adult movie , she's not entirely innocent . She's dealt out some pretty brutal blows to her husband and some of her acquaintances . It's the kind of ambiguity that makes it an interesting tale instead of another afternoon TV drama . Yes . All in all , not too shabby .
Cheesy , funny .	If you're carrying around inside your head a schema of Michael Moriarty as Ben Stone , Assistant DA on " Law and Order , " the grim , determined , rigidly moral prosecutor , this movie will shake you up . Like an animated cardboard Halloween skeleton he is hardly ever at rest , his skinny frame flapping and wobbling , his hands and fingers splayed defensively . And his voice - - whining and indignant or , when the penny drops and he realizes he has the advantage , defiantly snotty . The guy rattles all over the screen and is a thorough delight to watch and hear . One of the producers was being interviewed and the reporter remarked that the movie was nothing but schlock with a perfect method performance by Moriarty right in the middle of it . The producer beamed and said proudly , " The schlock was my idea . " A neat summary . The movie refuses to take itself seriously . I think sometimes the script tries to get solemn but it can't help chuckling at itself . It's about this big bird or reptile , an Aztec God , who has built a nest and laid an egg in the dome of New York's Chrysler Building . Moriarty is running around trying to escape the mobsters who want to knock him off and he stumbles on the nest and the cadavers strewn around it , a nightmarish sight . When he reaches his trashy apartment his girl friend mentions something about making bacon and eggs . " No eggs , " moans Moriarty , " I never want to see another egg . " The mobsters finally trap Moriarty and he promises to lead them to the money they're after . He takes them to the Chrysler Building and sends them up into the dome where they are gobbled down by Quetzalcoatl . " HAH ! " , Moriarty shrieks as he scurries away - - " EAT ' EM ! EAT ' EM ! " Meanwhile the bird has been putting the snatch on various people from New York's rooftops . A helicopter shot shows us all sorts of interesting things on the rooftops of those tall buildings , some of them looking like the Bavarian castle of Mad King Ludwig , all gingerbread and icing , a fabulous place to throw the right kind of party . David Carradine , as the necessary investigating detective , figures out what's up and shows his boss a sketch of the beast . The boss says something like , " A fifty-foot wingspan ! Wow . With wings like that you could fly in from New Jersey . Everybody know New York's a good place to eat . " ( All of this is played perfectly straight . ) Moriarty marches into the police station , says he knows where the bird has his digs , and says he won't reveal the location unless the city gives him a million dollars and some other things . A detective suggests they go into his office because there are too many reporters around . " Bring ' em in , " says Moriarty . " Bring in the cameras and the newspapers ! Bring RUPERT down here ! " I must say again that Moriarty does a beautiful job of creating this character . He acts ( and often is ) stupid , with his gaping mouth , but he has a seedy kind of intelligence too , the sort of intelligence a frightened greedy child might have . This is a Bob Hope kind of role . There are some in jokes as well . Near the start , Moriarty visits a bar in the Village and claims he's applying for a job as a musician . He sits at the piano and comes up with this engaging but tuneless bebop thing and scats along with it , while the owner watches him and shakes his head in disgust . Sitting at the bar is David Carradine who remarks to Moriarty , " Sounded pretty good to me . " Moriarty : " It did , huh ? you . " Carradine turns back to his drink and mumbles , " What do I know . " Actually he knows quite a lot . He majored in music at San Francisco State , and Moriarty is an accomplished pianist with a couple of commercial recordings . The exchange is repeated at the end of the film , with the dialog changing speakers . Anyway - - I can't stop laughing while I think about this movie - - anyway , Moriarty leads the cops to the nest where they shoot the egg full of holes . There follows an argument over whether Moriarty should get his reward . He claims he's showed them the location , which is what he promised to do , but the police argue that just getting the egg isn't the same as getting the bird . I won't go on . I felt a bit sorry for Q when she met her end . Granted it had all the beauty of the rear end of a Mack truck but , still , doesn't motherhood mean anything to ANYBODY anymore ? Whatever happened to family values ? ? ?
Fast Flynn Swashbuckler .	This was Flynn's last big one . He was only 38 at the time but had begun drinking in the afternoon , causing problems on the set , what with multiple retakes and a major binge that lasted several weeks . It's not " The Sea Hawk " or " Robin Hood . " Still , the film was artfully edited and clearly a lot of money was spent on it . The Technicolor photography is outstanding and nobody ever looked quite so natural in a gaudy period outfit as Flynn . It holds one's interest . The story has Flynn as Don Juan , lover and swordsman , returning to Spain at the beginning of the 1600s . It's really a pastiche , kind of like " The Sea Hawk " with elements introduced from various other films of the genre . There's the well-intentioned Queen , the beautiful Viveca Lindfors of the plump lips and strong features , surrounded by weaklings and traitors who want to go to war - - except for Don Juan , of course . ( Cf . , " The Sea Hawk . " ) There's the comic sidekick , Alan Hale . ( Cf . , all of Flynn's Warners pictures . ) The good guys disguised as hooded monks . ( " Robin Hood " , " The Mark of Zorro . " ) The hero and villain , face to face and belly to belly , straining at their crossed swords , and the villain sneakily withdrawing a dagger from his belt ( " Robin Hood " ) . The hero captured and thrown into prison to await execution , only to make a spectacular escape . ( " Robin Hood " , " The Mark of Zorro . " ) Shadows fighting on the castle wall . ( " Robin Hood , " " The Prisoner of Zenda " . ) And so on . Some shot are edited in that are taken directly from " Robin Hood " and " Elizabeth and Essex . " Robert Douglas is Duke de Lorca , the heavy . He makes a slimier heavy than Basil Rathbone did . Douglas is okay but Rathbone was a nonpareil with his tall figure , abrupt movements , and darting glances . Perc Westmore was responsible for the make-up . He should be proud of himself for the task with which Flynn must have presented him . But he should be ashamed of himself for what he did to the villains . You know how you can tell the principal villains from everyone else ? They all have dark eye shadow , so they look like the ghouls or zombies in a Grade C horror flick . Douglas has this sinister curl down the middle of his forehead that looks painted on . The director , Vincent Sherman , doesn't seem to have compelled any of the performers to act with any subtlety . It's not that kind of movie . But everyone is professionally competent . Alan Hale - - well , it's as if he were your fond uncle . Viveca Lindfors probably puts the most effort into her work . When Flynn enters her life she becomes positively , and literally , breathless . And watch the fleeting expressions that cross her features when Flynn confesses his love for her - - the briefest of half-hopeful smiles followed by a scowl of indignation . The amours of Don Juan occasion some amusing moments . One of the many young ladies who come to watch him instruct the members of the fencing academy leaves her fan behind . When Flynn calls this to her attention , she replies , " You WILL return it , won't you ? It's the house on the Plaza Madrid . The last house on the right . " " Oh , on the RIGHT , " says a resigned Flynn , who has heard this hundreds of times before . The budgets on Flynn's pictures dropped dramatically after " The Adventures of Don Juan . " He chain smoked , used drugs , boozed it up daily , and never complained . He died at the age of 50 , having lived as he pleased .
Competent crime thriller .	It's a genre movie but the director , William Friedkin , knows how to put them together effectively . We have two Secret Service agents . One ( Peterson ) is a reckless rule-defying loose cannon ; his partner ( Pankow ) is more principled , or uptight , if you like . During a chase , when Peterson is laughing , Pankow is grimacing with anxiety . Their prey is a master counterfeiter ( DaFoe ) . DaFoe is like neither of the cops . He's extremely organized . He tells the truth and fulfills his promises . He's an artist , not only with engraved plates but with a paint brush . A man of his word . He really only has one kink - - he's a remorseless cold-blooded killer when it's in his interests to be one . And when he gets burned up , he REALLY gets burned up . DaFoe loses in the end , but then everyone loses , one way or another . The best-known scene ( justifiably ) is the car chase that takes place in the wrong direction , against traffic , on the Long Beach Freeway . It is gripping , precisely choreographed , and must have been dangerous to shoot . These are not computer-generated images either . That eighteen wheeler we see jackknifing among dozens of whirling cars is a real eighteen wheeler jackknifing among dozens of whirling cars . No exciting music during the pursuit , only the sound of engines in overdrive and vehicle horns shrieking alarms in the key of F . The high-speed pursuit by this time , though , was not an original idea . It was original with " Bullitt " ( 1968 ) , and that's still the best example . After " Bullitt " this car chase - - ALL car chases - - were variations on a theme of director Peter Yates , a former racing car driver himself , and Philip D'Antonio . Friedkin has directed with a maximum of speed and action scenes , none of them gratuitous . Lots of shots of people running full tilt along city streets . Plenty of violence , although it isn't wallowed in . There are very few dull moments to bore the kids . If the performances don't shoot out the lights , they get the job done in a most professional manner . And the parts are complex too . The bad guys don't fit easily into any stereotypes , except one ham-handed heavy who spits on his victims after blowing their heads off . The good guys are hardly saintly . Peterson's character has a snitch working for him , Darlanne Fluegel , a tall thin sexy blond . He's keeping her out of jail , and in return she feeds him information and certain other perquisites . When she turns to him for comfort or understanding , he is off on some other planet , chattering on about basketball while she weeps . " What would you do if I STOPPED giving you information ? " , she asks Peterson at one point . " I'd turn you in and send you to jail , " he answers tonelessly . " Would you do that ? Would you really do that ? " He turns and walks out the door without a word . He's really a mean guy . Mean to everyone , including his new partner . Three particularly enjoyable features of the film . The location shooting and photography by Robby Muller is great . He manages to make smoggy San Pedro look almost artistic with its oil refineries and its multitude of distant floodlights providing patterns of globular glow . " The stars are God's eyes , " says Fluegel to Peterson , who disagrees with her . One advantage of living in San Pedro is access to Papadakis Tavern . Great Greek food . Tell Nick I sent you . Wan Chung's theme music is simple but it zaps you with its percussion and its simple succession of four electronic notes . Then there is the performance of Dean Stockwell as an expensive and expert criminal defense lawyer . He underplays the part , but he's just fine . Our two heroes have just stolen $50 , 000 from the FBI and Pankow explains the situation to Stockwell , who gives him a few words of advice and adds , " Of course I can't be directly involved in this . " " How much would it cost for you to be indirectly involved ? " asks Pankow . Stockwell looks up at him , puffs a cigar , and answers smoothly , " Fifty thousand dollars . " Nobody laughs . Friedkin knows how to lay out a funny line .
Murder in Mind .	Cary Grant is here , as elsewhere , very likable . Impulsive , playful , flirtatious , devilishly handsome , and above all , charming . Too charming , in fact . There have always been signals behind that dazzling smile and that dashing dimple , that nobody could be so quick , so on top of things , could embody so much savoir-faire . NOBODY could be that good . And here Hitchcock puts the viewer's doubts to effective use . Grant , as Johnny Aysgarth , meets the supposedly homely and spinsterish Lina , Joan Fontaine , and becomes interested in her . He arranges to meet her outside the home of her well-off parents , Dame May Witty and Sir Cedric Hardwicke , both of whom distrust him . But Grant is grand . He steals her away to the top of a windy hill , undoes the top button of her blouse to show off her beautiful unicipal mapillary ( sternoclavicular notch ) and rearranges her hair . She's overcome and later , overhearing her father describe her as a spinster with brains and a nice personality , with no warning , she spins around and gives Grant a great big smooch . Grace Kelly would do the same in " To Catch a Thief , " and it probably comes as a surprise to the audience , but I don't know why . It happens to me all the time . Beautiful women throw themselves at my feet so often that at times it's difficult to walk . Anyway , the two are married and after an expensive honeymoon Grant moves them into an extravagant house with a servant . It's only then that the penniless Grant discovers that her annual allowance will not pay for their expenses . Grant is faced with the prospect of finding a job . He makes rueful jokes about learning how to handle a shovel , then brightly announces that he has a decent offer from a cousin of his , Mr . Melbeck ( Leo G . Carroll ) . But the financial problems persist . Grant involves a cheerful , generous , lovable old friend of his , Nigel Bruce , rather a dull bulb , in a scheme to buy some land and build a development . Not only does the deal fall through but , under mysterious circumstances in Paris , and in the presence of an unidentified English gentleman , Bruce drinks too much brandy and dies from it , an event the prescient Grant could foresee , and the joint corporation is never dissolved . On top of that , good old Johnny , it turns out , has embezzled money from his cousin's firm and charges against him for two thousand pounds are pending . Are we talking about Cary Grant as a MURDERER ? It certainly begins to look that way . Joan Fontaine snoops around in Grant's personal correspondence , as some wives are want to do , and discovers that he's been making inquiries into the status of her life insurance . The purloined letter informs her that Grant has been denied a loan on her insurance , that the only way he can collect is if she dies . Gulp . She loves Grant deeply but he has been looking into poisons that leave no trace , and one night , after a row , he brings her a glass of minatory milk - - the famous glass of milk that Hitchcock planted a light bulb in to make it glow in the dark . Fontaine is convinced that the milk is poisoned . What to do ! There are a couple of notable things about this film , the underlying sliminess of Cary Grant's ingratiating personality aside . First , there is a dinner at the house of a rough-talking woman author , Isobel Sedbusk . ( What a name . ) Her brother , a pathologist with glasses like coke-bottle bottoms , is discussing poisons during the meal and mentions " a corpse that dropped in recently " while deliberately carving a surgical slice of meat from the breast of a small roast fowl . Then there is Mrs . Sedbusk's , umm , companion , Jessie , who , if not a lesbian , certainly should be one , with her hair severely tied back , her mannish features , and her black suit and necktie . Then there is the later visit from two detectives who question Fontaine in her house . One of them , the goofy-looking one , is entranced by a loony looking modern painting in the vestibule . He gawks at it when they enter and again when they leave , and each time his baffled stare is accompanied by a chimerical arpeggio on the piano in Franz Waxman's score . ( The music during the last high-speed sequence was lifted and re-used in Waxman's score for the skiing sequence in " Spellbound . " ) Well , boys and girls , not to worry ! You and I both know that Cary Grant is no murderer ( as he was in the original story ) . Not a bit of it . He was going to poison HIMSELF but then decided it was the coward's way out , so at the end he decides to go back and face the music , even though it means prison . " A man can't change , " he firmly informs Fontaine . " Oh , Johnny , let's go back and face it together , " she begs him - - and so they do . We can all be forgiven , though , for suspecting that Grant in this case may be right . A man can change alright , but given Grant's anti-social history he probably won't . And she'll spend the rest of her life trying to " bring you under control once I get the bit in your teeth , " as she once put it . Joan , you're lovely , blond , English , naive , and vulnerable - - but your eyebrows are asymmetrical . Good luck !
Please Pass the Tofranil	This movie mixes several points together . They are not exactly seamlessly joined , true , but each is followable and interesting in its own right . In no particular order , we have the irony of ex-Wehrmacht officers and men doing quite all right in the 1960s Wirtschaftskwelle of Germany . One of the characters we've been following remarks that these damned Spaniards and Italians he now has working for him in his factory don't know how to make Volkswagons . Then there is the overall context in which the Germans are losing the war , but nothing much is made of this except to the extent that it generates a movement among ( some of ) the officers to eliminate Hitler , a movement about which Major Grau ( Omar Sharif ) , investigating the slaughter of a prostitute , observes cynically that it took quite a while for the movement to develop since the army seemed satisfied enough as long as they were winning . The French police officer who is helping him ( the ever-sympatico Philippe Noiret ) asks Major Grau why he is obsessed with tracking down the murderer of a whore in the midst of mass demise , and Grau says he resents the murderer's thinking he can play God . Noiret asks , " And you can ? " Grau replies neatly , " My blasphemy is on a smaller , more secular scale . " ( Some of the dialog is pretty good . ) Omar Sheriff gives what may be his finest performance on film . He may have been all masculine in " Lawrence of Arabia " but here he is effete , suggestive in the most delicate way of homosexuality . It's in the way he holds a cigarette , the way he dances up a flight of stairs . The search for the murderer , whose identity is stupefyingly obvious shortly into the picture , provides a police procedural that forms the movie's spine or at any rate its notochord . There is even a romance that is not simply thrown in but is fairly well integrated into the plot and important to the outcome . The cast is good - - and what a caste ! Peter O'Toole has been criticized for repeating his neurotic tricks from Lawrence of Arabia , but I didn't find it derivative at all . Lawrence was subtly mad . General Tanz is completely , screamingly , eye-twitchingly , dripping with sweatly , NUTS . There are two scenes in which Tanz enters a locked room to view " decadent art . " One of them is a self portrait of Van Gogh . In each scene Tanz and Vincent stare back at one another , two psychotics , and " I know exactly who you are " seems to be written all over Van Gogh's scowling face . Both times Tanz is overcome and seems to dissolve into a myoclonic fit . The novel by Hans Helmutt Kirst was a lot funnier than the movie , taking advantage of every opportunity to poke fun at German military precision . But there are still amusing incidents left in the film . When Grau meets Tanz at a fancy reception and begins to query him , Tanz leans forward with an expression of distaste and asks , " Are you wearing PERFUME ? " Grau , never flappable , replies , " I use a rather strong cologne . " I don't understand , though , why Tanz wears the uniform of a Wermacht general through most of the film , then shows up at his last confrontation with Grau dressed as an SS officer . Maurice Jarre was writing effective scores in the late 60s . His " crazy music " sounds like an accompaniment to a marionette show that , when one thinks about it , isn't entirely inappropriate . The murderer meets his just end ( while sensibly drunk as a skunk in the novel ) but the story is fundamentally a tragic one . Too many deaths of good people . Too many lives ruined for nothing . What a shame the Hitler plot didn't work . It should ideally have been mounted back in 1938 .
Don't make a move or the kid gets it !	Ostensibly a story about the young child of Jimmy Stewart and Doris Day . The kid gets kidnapped to keep his parents quiet . They know something about a plot to assassinate the ambassador of an unnamed country during a performance at Albert Hall in London . The movie is rich in Hitchcockian incidents . A friendly but opaque Frenchman seems to grill the innocent Stewart - - a doctor from Indiana - - a little too intensely to be merely idly curious . Later the Frenchman shows up in Arab disguise , a knife in his back , and whispers some information about the murder plot to Stewart . Stewart tells his wife - - Doris Day looking very saucy indeed - - but refuses to cooperate with the police and risk his son's life . Instead the couple try to track down the assassins , buy them off , and get their son back , taking them from Morocco , where Hitchcock has given us his usual tourist's eye view of the customs , locations , and food , to London . There is a hilarious wild goose chase involving a set-to between Stewart and the staff of a taxidermy shop . The staff are more concerned about guarding their half-stuffed specimens than anything else , and they shuffle around protectively holding the carcasses of a leopard and a swordfish . In the course of the scuffle , Stewart manages to save his throat from being cut by the swordfish bill , but is bitten on the hand by a stuffed tiger , the action boosted along by Bernard Hermann's bumptious score . The scene ends with Stewart rushing out the door . Hitchcock ends it with a shot of a lion's head gaping at the slammed door . There is also a running gag , well done , about some visitors waiting around the couple's hotel room in London , waiting for things to be explained . There are two serious issues that are lightly touched on . One is the relationship between Stewart and Day , which is not as rosy as it ought to be , considered as a bourgeois ideal . She's been a stage musical star for some years and is internationally known . And she's given it all up to marry an ordinary guy who happens to be a doc . That's understandable in , say , a nurse or a flight attendant or almost any woman other than an international star with a promising career in her own right . It isn't delved into , but the edginess is noticeable , as it was not in the original version . It reminds me a little of an exchange between Joe Dimaggio and his then-wife Marilyn Monroe , who had just returned from entertaining the troops in Korea . " Oh , Joe , " she gushed , " did you ever see ten thousand people stand up and cheer ? " " Seventy thousand , " muttered Joe , former hero of the New York Yankees . The second problem is one of allegiance . Who is of greater social value ? One's own young son ? Or an unknown ambassador . Do we put ourselves or our loved ones at risk for the sake of national stability ? Day is faced with this dilemma in its starkest form at the climax in the Albert Hall . Her solution opts for allegiance to political stability , although her motives are problematic . Does she scream to save the ambassador's life , or does she do so just to release the anxiety that is overwhelming her ? ( Cf : Alec Guiness falling on the detonator at the end of " The Bridge on the River Kwai . " ) The photography is extremely good , and the settings can be menacing , even on a quiet street in a residential neighborhood of London . It's mid-day , and Stewart is alone and determined , but frightened too . There are footsteps echoing on Gulliver Street from someone , somewhere . Is he being followed ? Is his life in danger ? And where the hell is everybody who lives on this street ? Hitchcock pays such close attention to location details that we can make out the garden wall bonding of the bricks beside him . The director had a rare disagreement with Francois Truffaut while being interviewed for Truffaut's otherwise laudatory book . Truffaut argued that the earlier version of " The Man Who Knew Too Much " lacked the depth of the later version . Hitchcock replied , " It seems to me you want me to make films for the art house audience , " but finally agreed that the 1930s version was the work of a talented amateur and this version was the work of a professional . No argument there . This is Hitchcock pretty much near his zenith .
Thoroughly enjoyable and witty caper .	Maybe not the great train robbery but a pretty good one . Michael Crighton is not an artist but he's a fine storyteller . Often his films are better than his novels . But everything comes together in this one - - script , score , direction , photography , and performances . How does someone like Leslie Anne Down come to look so droopy-eyed and lovely ? And how come Sean Connery looks so good and so sexy as he ages ? ( A criminal act , if you ask me . ) Donald Southerland is the epitome of an 1855 criminal rogue . Goldsmith's score is lively and reminiscent of Prokoviev's Lieutenant Kije . The whole enterprise is witty , well thought out , and engrossing . There's an excruciating byplay between Connery and the younger wife of an old banker . They are having tea al fresco watching the workmen build an " ancient " water wheel out of old parts . Neither of them cracks a smile as they talk about how the parts are bolted tightly together instead of screwed , how the joints must be tightly fitted ( " so rare , " remarks the lady ) , and how America is " a land of many prominent erections . " Connery probably has the best lines . One of them is keen . His girl friend , Downe , demands of him , " Do you ever tell the truth ? " He smirks slightly and answers , " No . " I'm uncertain about whether to explain exactly why this exchange is so funny because I don't want to insult anyone who already knows . But for any kids who may be reading , this exchange of lines constitutes a " logical paradox . " If you are asked if you ever tell the truth and you deny it , well then you are lying in your response , which means you must be telling the truth . The answer is both true and false at the same time , as is this sentence , " This statement is false . " Sorry , a little tedious , I know , but that's the sort of thing you find in this film . The script will also give you an entertaining lesson on the life and lingo of early Victorian England . You learn what a " jack " is and what " a ratter " is and what a " crib " is . The moral calculus of the film is a little wedged , what with Connery having strangled to death a shrimpy squealcat who didn't deserve being murdered by any but " The Godfather " standards . It's not all intrigue and planning though . The climax is filled with rip-roaring action . Crighton has said that when they were shooting the scene in which Connery is crawling along the top of the train , the coat he was holding accidentally was blown out of his hands but the actor stayed in character , turned around and retrieved it . You won't regret catching this if you can manage it . Kind of a family movie and a nicely rendered one .
Chance is a Foolish Name for Fate .	I've been trying to figure out the difference between Fred Astaire and Gene Kelly . I don't mean their physical presences . Those differences are obvious : Kelly was muscular and Astaire was skinny . But their styles are different too . Kelly's background was in athletics , Astaire's in ballroom dancing , and it shows . Kelly's style was a lot more robust . There he goes , jumping from rooftop to rooftop , swinging on ropes , and whatnot . Astaire's style was less repetitious and more graceful , and he was a better choreographer . This was Fred and Ginger's first outing as a team and if it falls short of their best work it has some truly winning moments . It's from a play , " The Gay Divorce , " and I suppose some of the dialog is left over from that source . It can be whimsical and witty . You've gotta love the exchange between Edward Everett Horton as a customer and Eric Blore as the waiter who prompts him to think of what he might like for breakfast . Blore's face seems made of plastic as it twists with consternation . " You with this gnawing doubt and me with my duties left undischarged . " ( What outlandish ham . ) And later , when Astaire meets the professional co-respondent , Erik Rhodes , in Ginger's apartment . Astaire tells Rhodes to beat it . " I'm taking your place . " And Rhodes glows rubescent with indignation and exclaims , " Are you a UNION man ? " The musical arrangements are by Max Steiner . This is the mid-1930s and the music is of the period . There's a banjo discernible in the sassier numbers and in general the band sounds like Paul Whiteman without Bix Beiderbecke . Well , the plot established the foundation for the rest of the Fred and Ginger movies - - a comedy of errors in which Fred's pursuit of Ginger is frustrated by a misunderstanding concerning identities or intentions . You can't blame him for his pursuit . When she first appears , Ginger Rogers has her long skirt caught in a portmanteau and pulled up above her pretty legs . And she's cute as hell . But the dancing is first rate , as always . In his first number , " Needle in a Haystack " , Astaire whirls and jiggles around like a marionette and , like a marionette , sometimes seems weightless . For a skinny guy with no shoulders he has a lot of energy , if that's what it takes to do two tours jetee over a sofa . There is no equivalent of the sorts of dramatic duets that were to appear in later movies . There's no solemnity whatever . Astaire and Rogers ' most serious number is to Cole Porter's " Night and Day , " and it's exquisitely complicated . I can easily imagine myself falling flat on my face after the first step or two . A spirited flick . If only OUR troubles could be so terribly small .
Breezy adaptation .	A zippy and enjoyable version of John Buchan's novel , far lighter in tone that Hitchcock's . The versions differ in more than tone . In Hitchcock's film , Hannay undergoes different sorts of divagations and dangers than he does here , in Ralph Thomas's film . There's nothing wrong with that . Neither film is a close adaptation of Buchan's book . If I remember , Hanny has a heck of a long time getting from place to place in the novel , at one point having to take a job as a ditch digger . The color in the more recent film is easier on the eyes but adds a cheery note to the proceedings too , absent 1935's stark shadows . And there has been a good deal of location shooting in London and Scotland , so the one-lane gravel highland roads are no longer clogged with sheep and cloaked with fog , no longer so claustrophobic . Nor is Kenneth More what we usually think of as a brutishly dramatic actor . Like the earlier Robert Donat he seems like a rather likable guy , and there isn't a moment when we feel he's in fear for his life . Taina Elg has a plain-vanilla pretty face , suggestive of a high-school prom queen . This isn't an especially good thing , let's face facts . But her plump-lipped youthfulness , the hint of a Khalka Mongol in her Finnish eyes , and the fact that we know she is a ballerina adds a certain frisson of the exotic . What normal man wouldn't want to have a struggle with her in the back seat , as Kenneth More does ? Thomas's film is not nearly as stark as Hitchcock's . It's almost sumptuous . Instead of that depressing encounter with the pecuniary Scottish farmer and his deprived wife , there is an abundance of Brenda de Banzie who , with the consent of her meek husband , offers Moore much more than a box bed and a meal of " the herring . " And there is nothing like the scene between Anne Robinson and Robert Donat in Donat's first-floor flat , when she asks for something to eat and Donat prepares a huge slab of haddock in a frying pan . No veggies , no wine , no nothing . As he stands over the stove , Donat wears a heavy overcoat with its vast collar turned up around his ears , a cigarette in his mouth , the ashes perhaps filtering down into the frying fish . The place looks sterile , discomfiting , and cold as hell . More's flat , on the other hand , is colorfully decorated with alien objects from his travels around the world . The episode on the Forth Bridge is almost a duplicate of the original . In one scene , though , Thomas and his writers out-do Hitchcock and his . More , like Donat , accidentally stumbles onto a stage and is forced to improvise a speech . In the original , it involved some palaver about local politics . Here , it is a lecture on " Woods and Wayside " in a girls ' school , with the emphasis on a plant called the spleenwort . More stumbles a bit at first , chuckling over his own ineptitude , then tells a joke about " a Scotsman , an Englishman , and an Irishman . " We only get to hear the punch line that suggests the story was slightly off color . The girls must have loved it because they're all giggling . Then More really gets into his pitch . He once had a parrot , he claims , that was allergic to spleenwort . " You had only to open a spleenwort in front of him for him to show his disgust . And I think we can all agree that there is nothing less pleasant than a disgusted parrot . " As he's dragged from the lectern , More shouts out a summary of his lecture - - " Please , girls , don't fall by the wayside . And above all , stay out of the woods ! " I smiled at Donat's impromptu speech but I laughed out loud through More's . As I say , it's not nearly as dark as Hitchcock's vision . This is strictly a comedy with thriller undertones , rather than the other way around . You'll probably enjoy it .
Exciting Small-Budget Murder Mystery .	Produced by Val Lewton's horror unit at RKO and directed by Jaques Tourneur , this was done on a minuscule budget . That has to be emphasized , otherwise somebody's going to start comparing it to " The Exorcist " or " Titanic " or " Pearl Harbor " and call it a cheap piece of junk . It's not , really . From a Cornell Woolrich novel , written by Ardel Wray and polished by Lewton , this is a well-done , unpretentious , spooky movie that was truly innovative . The title - - " The Leopard Man " - - was forced on them by RKO . Credit where credit is due . They made a scenic mountain out of an exhausted molehill . ( At other times , they had to invent stories to fit such tricky titles as " I Walked With a Zombie " and " The Seventh Victim " . Who were going to be the first six ? ) The whole thing was shot on hastily thrown-together sets or on sets left over from earlier productions . The shooting was usually a month or less . Under these conditions , movies often turn out to be ludicrously bad . But Lewton not only had good taste , he managed to infuse it successfully into this unpromising material . His preparation and research were meticulous . With any other crew this would have been a straightforward horror / murder mystery . Lewton and Tourneur give it much more heft . A leopard , harmless unless frightened , escapes from a nightclub in a small New Mexican town . Late that night , the cat attacks and rips apart a teenage Mexican girl after she pounds against the door of her house . Inside , her mother and brother tease her for being frightened of the dark until they finally realize something horrible is happening . They can't slide back the lock on the door although they bang it and shake it . The cries outside case and the family look down to see a blackish oily stream of blood running in under the door . The blood meets a joint in the wooden floor and equal threads run almost esthetically into the crease and ooze away in opposite directions . It's a horrifying scene . There are other shockers , which I won't go into . Lewton called them " buses " , for reasons stemming from his first assignment , " The Cat People . " The structure is unusual . There are no flashbacks or any directorial fireworks but the story switches casually from one character to another . Not in a predictable way , but not in any way that is at all difficult to follow . An example . After the credits , the camera pans through the open door of a nightclub dressing room where we see Margo in black dancing with her castanets . We are introduced to one of the victims right at the start . But the camera continues its smooth pan to the open door of the next dressing room , where a performer dressed in a white robe pounds on the wall to shut Margo up . In the first ten second we get a general idea of the setting ( nightclub , Southwest , Mexican influence ) , two of the main characters ( one in black and one in white ) , and the relationship between them ( hostile ) , all before a word is spoken . That's economic story telling . But the dialog and technique are now and then relaxed enough for a few offhand and apparently irrelevant observations . The night club has a fountain with a stream of water spurting straight up a few feet above . Balanced on the top of that stream is a small white ball , like a ping pong ball , held in place by forces familiar to physicists but mystical to the rest of us . A tweedy pipe-smoking museum curator is chatting casually with someone , points to the ball bouncing around slightly , and remarks that we have no more understanding or control of the forces that govern us than that ball does . It's an apt visual metaphor . Lewton was a gloomy Russian immigrant .
It's good to be the king - - sometimes .	Fast-paced version of A . Dumas ' complicated tale of intrigue , power , love , kinship and whatnot in the court of Louis XIV in the mid 1700s . When I say complicated , I mean complicated . Louis XIII ( Albert Dekker in a tiny role ) is King of France and needs an heir to the throne . To his dismay , his feckless wife gives birth to twins . Well , you can't have TWO heirs to the throne , so the younger of the two babies , Philippe ( who grows up to be Louis Hayward ) , is sent packing to be adopted and raised by D'Artingnan , one of the original four musketeers , now living in the boondocks . No one must know of his true identity , says Dekker - - besides himself , his wife , his trusted adviser Colbert ( Walter Kingsford ) , and D'Artagnan himself . There is a slight problem because the Queen was attended by a doctor and midwife . " Too bad there is no D'Artagnon for the doctor and the midwife , " remarks Kingsford a little sadly , and the audience is permitted to shake its head in sympathy . The good King passes on , pari passu , where one hopes he's lucky enough to run into the souls of the departed doctor and midwife . Then it REALLY gets anfractuous . There's a lot of whispering , plenty of secrets , men tip-toeing behind screens to eavesdrop , a face listening on the other side of the door , one of those keys that is worn around the neck and must be stolen while its owner sleeps , secret passages under the palace , the gallop of pursuing horses behind the desperately fleeing stagecoach , the fencing mêlée , the impostor mistaken for the real thing , the confused mail-order Spanish bride out of " The Prisoner of Zenda . " The Louis Hayward who has become King of France is a real mean son of gun . His staring eyes pop . His mouth is shaped into a half-mad grin . When someone challenges his authority he leaps to his feet and shouts " L'Etat , C'est moi ! " in English . I wonder if he really said that . I thought the conviction was limited to American presidents . Come to think of it , Joseph Schildkraut plays the oily Fouqet , toady to the venomous King , and he says , " In this case , we must all hang together , or we will most assuredly hang separately . " I never read Dumas ' novel , only flipped through it when I was a child , looking for risqué parts . But I don't believe Dumas wrote that . I think it was an American who said it , maybe Benjamin Franklin or Abe Lincoln . Do I have to Google it ? Well - - if you insist . ( Franklin . ) Joseph Schildkraut probably gives the best performance . He's outrageous but it's in keeping with the nature of the plot and the tempo of its presentation . There are many other familiar names in the cast - - Schildkraut was perhaps better known in the theater than on the screen , though he was quite good as Anne Frank's father - - but the roles are rather small . Enough digression . Let me wind up that abstract of the plot . The bad Louis Hayward winds up drowning while wearing the iron mask he'd fashioned for his brother . ( That mask is a pretty hideous artifact too . ) The good Louis Hayward assumes the other's identity , marries the beautiful Spanish princess , repeals all taxes , cleanses the money-grubbing banks of their miscreant scum , outlaws smoking of tobacco in any form but permits marijuana , decrees that all citizens over 40 are now UNDER 40 so no Social Security or Medicare payments will be necessary , takes a vow of poverty even at the expense of his marriage , and goes about washing the naked feet of beggars in Paris . James Whale , the bisexual Englishman , directed it all with an entertaining dash you might not have expected from the man who brought us " Frankenstein . "
You Can Still Find the Scattered Limbs of the Poet .	" Invenias disjecti membra poetæ . " The scattered remains that Horace referred to are pretty much found here . Julie Taymor's film just about captures most of 1967 and 1968 , illustrated in a thin but socially relevant story linking some Beatles songs of the period . The songs are the thing . They're not the original releases , which we can now hear rendered peppily in WalMart by a thousand and one singing violins , but fresh , more grand arrangements sung by voices with similar accents but backed by choirs of cherubim . We see the jarring anti-war protests , the celestial calm of what passes for love among teens , doomed simulacra of Janis Joplin and Jimmi Hendrix and Timothy Leary , the real Martin Luther King , Jr . , and the real Walter Cronkite broadcasting his murder . And the songs include some of the less well known numbers , Prudence , as well as some of the overly familiar , Jude . The Beatles were mostly a funny joke when they first appeared on the pop scene , with " I Want to Hold Your Hand . " Some joke . After each of their albums , I was convinced that they'd shot their wad , that no improvement was possible given this increasingly loose-limbed approach , light years away from " I Want to Hold Your Hand . " They continued to confound me . Today , I find it difficult to listen to the tunes since they are , after all , memento mori . The direction and imagery are not light-hearted like " Yellow Submarine , " and the directorial tricks are not exactly psychedelic in the sense of , say , Peter Max . Overall , it's a rather dark movie . The Vietnam War hovers over the whole thing and sometimes we are snatched away to Southeast Asia for a brief visit to the battlefield . The images are in fashionable high contrast and mostly rather gloomy , not in the spirit of Lennon et all but more in the sensibilities of today when the country or indeed the world seems wrapped in an all-encompassing hatred that is at least as intense now as it was then . I can't think of an audience for a movie like this . For those in the age bracket we think of as most involved with pop music , the social and political issues are strictly of historical interest . They weren't born yet . And the music , I would guess , is imaginative enough to be a daunting challenge . But those who lived through that window in time are likely to be prosperous burghers by now , resentful of today's reckless and self-satisfied youth - - or perhaps youth in general . Kids today ( he said creakingly ) don't seem to be exploring , let alone experimenting . They already appear jaded without having done much . It's a better flick than I'd expected . I thought it would be another exploitation of whatever box-office appeal the Beatles had left , but it's clearly more ambitious than that . A lot of effort has gone into the production and a lot of money and it deserves a decent return on both .
A for Effort	Quick - - name a seed you put in the garage . Caraway . Get it ? I don't know who said that the pun was the lowest form of humor but obviously he wasn't a fan of the London Times Crossword . They keep trying to make a decent movie out of this wonderful novel and they haven't got it right yet . Robert Redford's performance is up to par , nicely restrained , which the part calls for , but he looks fine , too fine . Gatsby ought to have more of an edge to him . Redford seems to the manner born . Mia Farrow is simply miscast . Daisy should be someone who is all aflutter but a pretty tough and careless cookie underneath all that vulnerability . Farrow is simply shaky and nervous . And she's not breathtakingly beautiful enough to persist in someone's memory for so many years , although she's often photographed through a lens that seems to have a leg of someone's stocking stretched over it , so her image is almost gooey at times . Bruce Dern is a reliable actor , never failing to be interesting , but here again Tom should be something of a muscular brute and Dern is tall and thin . Rather than being naturally and unthinkingly commanding he seems to be nasty . Sam Waterston does a fine job as Nick Carraway , the narrator used to maintaining his distance from others and reluctant to exercise judgment upon them . He fits the novel's image well and this is undoubtedly one of his better performances . Lois Childs as the fraud Jordan is gorgeous but has difficulty uttering a believable sentence . Karen Black is suitably slutty as Myrtle . ( Two great contrasting names : Daisy and Myrtle . Which is the elegant flower and which the vulgar growth ? ) Waterston as Nick is given occasional voiceovers which almost capture Fitzgerald's impressionistic tropes . The film begins with one of them . And includes another - - " In his blue gardens , the men and girls came and went like moths among the whispering and the champagne and the stars . " But for considerations of space it leaves out one of the best-known last lines in American literature . ( " And so we beat on . . . " ) And for the same reason the movie must be cluttered with expository lines , since we can't read the passages between dialog while watching the screen . Thus , when Nick visits Tom for the first time in the novel , Tom stands with his legs apart at the top of the steps , waiting for Nick to climb to him , then puts an authoritative arm around his shoulders . Tom's first line : " I've got a nice place here . " ( That tells us a hell of a lot about Tom . ) In the film , Tom rides up with a big grin in his polo outfit and greets Nick who is climbing out of a boat . Many friendly lines of greeting and explanation are involved , all of which necessarily detracts from the muscular impact of Tom's presence . And Clayton ( a talented director ) doesn't even try to reproduce the surreal effect of Nick and Tom entering the mansion's living room where Daisy and Jordan are balancing imaginary objects on their chins and the breeze is blowing the filmy curtain up against the ceiling and the whole enclosure is compared to a frosted cake with icing on it . How COULD Clayton reproduce it ? How could ANYBODY ? Also missing is the garden party scene in which Nick meets Gatsby for the first time . Nick finds himself sitting next to " a man of about my own age " and they begin chatting and Nick asks if he has met their host , Gatsby . And the other looks at him curiously and says , " Why , I'm Gatsby , old sport . " The main character is edged sideways into the novel . In the movie Gatsby simply sends for Nick and says , " Hello , old sport . I'm Gatsby . " The somewhat cattycorner succession of events is rendered flatly , without any of the pilomotor response induced by the written word . I won't go on with the bellyaches that come from Wolfsheim's accent - - the Oggsford Gonnegtion . " You've heard of Oggsford College ? " Other symbolic points retained from the novel include Nick's realization , while sitting with the others in a room at the Plaza , that today is his birthday - - he's thirty years old . Thirty . A milestone . An age at which we can no longer easily think of ourselves as " young . " An age at which people should be able to not simply accept others but to make moral judgments about themselves and those around them . And for the first time , Nick makes that sort of judgment - - about Gatsby , and about Tom and Daisy . In the novel , when Gatsby and Daisy meet for the first time in years , at Nick's cottage , Gatsby nervously leans against the mantle and has a duel of wits with the clock there , almost knocking it down , as if fighting it , willing time to run backwards . In the movie he simply bangs against it . I first read this novel in high school and was unimpressed with it . Neither were very many other people at the time ; Fitzgerald's rep was at low ebb . Then , years later , due to circumstances I won't bother to explain , I found myself stuck on a Cheyenne Indian reservation in Montana for a summer with practically nothing else to read . That second reading was a revelation . I've since used it as required ancillary reading in classes I've taught on Social Stratification , although that part of it is a bit dated now . It just seemed a good excuse to introduce students to a literary work they might never forget . It's not a long novel , but it's beautifully done . I urge you to read it if you haven't yet . But see the movie first , so you won't unfairly compare it to the novel which will still be ringing along your synapses .
Often funny , sometimes very funny , slapdash comedy .	Mel Brooks ' blackout sketches , mostly involving cave men , ancient Rome , the Inquisition , and the French Revolution , with a lot of other stuff thrown in . The various shreds are so impulsively but personally patched together that one wonders how he could have gotten such a cast , mostly familiar old timers . The style of the humor isn't what anyone would call fresh . A shot of a street in ancient Rome has a black guy walking along with a boombox against his ear . Ha ha . Facing the guillotine , Brooks is asked if he has any last requests . " Yes - - NOVACAINE ! " " It hasn't been invented yet . " " I'll wait ! " And Brooks from time to time glances at the camera and makes comments on the shenanigans . A lot of the humor is Jewish . During a parody of Esther Williams ' movies we not only see seven girls in bathing suits ( and caps ) slowly emerge from the pool wearing sparklers on their heads , but as they go up and up we see that they're standing on a menorah . A drowning man shouts and the underwater bubble of his breath rises to the surface and pops and it says , " Oy , gewalt ! " Maybe I should quit because otherwise I'll give away all the gags and some of them depend on the principle of fundamental surprise . Many of them also depend on vulgarity , in more than one language . It's about as politically correct as you can get . I don't know that even in a good-natured comedy that skewers politicians , racism , Judaism , Hollywood , and Holy Mother Church you could get away with calling someone a " fag " today . Or how about this . Gregory Hines ' intact heterosexuality is revealed and someone shouts , " The jig is up ! " " And gone , " exclaims Hines , diving out the window . For me the scene that works best is the one in which Brooks is Louis XVI , shooting down peasants as they are flung through the air like clay pigeons . He's in a ridiculous " King " costume and wears a villainous black mustache and a beauty spot . Strolling through the garden , he gooses Marie Antoinette , winks at the camera and says , " It's good to be da king . " And when he's forcing a beautiful blond virgin to meet him later that night , in order to save her imprisoned father , he adopts this smug , conspiratorial tone as he tells her , " You do it . You KNOW you do it . You WANNA do it . We all do it . " And he smiles wickedly at us and reminds us again that , " It's good to be da king . " I said this was a good-natured comedy and what I mean is that it doesn't depend in any way on anger . There isn't even an undertone of nastiness . We see a sketch from what we used to call " coming attractions " - - " Hitler on Ice " - - and Hitler performs gracefully . The humor lies in the absurdity of the concept . Any value judgments about the subject are taken for granted . Some of it looks quite a bit like Woody Allen , but it may be a case of independent invention . What it reminds me of at times are the " Road " films of Bing Crosby and Bob Hope . Now THAT'S good-natured comedy , although Brooks idea of fun is of course more urban , if not more urbane . The bloated pompous baritone of Orson Welles introduces each new segment with portentous comments - - " The first weapon was the spear . " Welles , like Brooks , is obviously kidding around too . Everybody is kidding around and the result is quite a lot of fun , despite the occasional wince .
Above Average Adaptation	Captain Ahab ( Gregory Peck ) commands the whaler Pequod in 1842 and convinces the crew that they should pursue and kill the giant white whale , Moby Dick , instead of doing their jobs . Ahab has vengeance on his mind , the whale having divested him of a leg on a previous voyage . But it goes beyond that . The whale stands for Something with a capital S , but it's not clear exactly what . " He haunts me , " says Ahab to his first mate , Starbuck ( Leo Genn ) . " He heaps me . Yet he is but a mask . ' Tis the thing behind the mask I chiefly hate . " Whatever the thing behind the mask is , it's not a sled named Rosebud . The story is a impasto of meanings , some personal , some theological , and some positively mystical . Ahab's quest is at bottom blasphemous . A " dumb brute " has taken his leg , more or less in self defense , and Ahab refuses to accept his fate . A couple of observations . At the turn of the last century , Max Weber , a German sociologist , wrote " The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism , " in which he argued that it was Protestantism , with its idea of a " calling " , that facilitated the development of industrialism . A truly religious man worked hard to make a lot of money or , as Starbuck puts it , the whalers of the time provided the world with oil , which was good for society and was therefor a service to God . Melville was also right in making Starbuck a Quaker because Quakers valued humility before arrogance . ( Massachussetts has given us more presidents than any other state ; Pennsylvania has given us one . ) That's from E . Digby Baltzell , not Weber . I mention Weber's insight though because it's kind of important to our understanding of how shocking Ahab's decision was , to put aside what was a service to God in order to satisfy his individual desire . Nowadays we accept self satisfaction as worthwhile in itself . In 1842 , it was like giving God the finger . Undoubtedly , the whale oil lobby of the time would have endorsed this religious sentiment . The whale oil interests fought like the devil to keep the street lamps from being lighted by kerosene or gas . There are obvious Biblical parallels too - - Ishmael and Elijah - - but it's not clear exactly what they mean . Elijah in the story is a raggedy man who prophecizes the crew's fate before they sail , so he is a prophet , as in the Bible . The performances are pretty good . Gregory Peck is surprisingly effective as the half-mad captain , considering that lunacy is not his strong point . The rest of the crew are up to par . Orson Welles as Father Mapple gives a terrifically hammy sermon from his ivory pulpit . The use of music is pretty well done , though the score itself is unexceptional . At the first sighting of Moby Dick , there is no sound at all but the hushed rushing of sea water from the beast's field and the whoosh of water from his spout . In a modern film we'd expect the scene to be overscored . The editing is a little clumsy . A shot of Pip , the ship's boy ( who plays a much larger part in the novel ) , seems to come from another movie . And the special effects are not what they would be today , but we have to give them a pass because everyone in 1956 was working within technological limits , as we are today . It would have been nice , though , to have a Moby Dick as realistic as the shark in " Jaws . " Maybe Hollywood will still come around to the idea that it is time to remake the movie , so many remakes of so many earlier films having appeared in the last two decades that one wonders if the industry has run out of original ideas entirely . The next version may be a sequel : " Moby Dick , Part Two : Ishmael's Revenge . " On the whole I didn't find the real scenes of harpooning and killing whales ( shot off the Irish coast ) to be very satisfying . Whales are mammals , the biggest on earth , and harmless to us . I was walking along the shore of Chichigoff Island in Alaska , miles from any human , and was startled by a long , loud , echoing crack of expelled breath . Two huge whales pushed to the surface , placid and unperturbed by my presence , although the experience had me shivering with awe . Maybe that's part of what Melville was trying to get at . Isn't it a bit blasphemous to tear apart the planet we live on , instead of treating as a God-given trust ? Must we exterminate the elephant to provide the world with billiard balls ? I don't know . I'm just wondering if Melville may have had , among his other concerns , some sense of living in harmony with Nature , with a capital N . It's hard to pin down exactly " what inscrutable thing " Melville and Ahab were dealing with , except that it was more than just a big cetacean .
Schizophrenia in the raw .	There have been a multitude of movies that have looked at mental illness , from inside and out , but I don't know of any that has romanticized schizophrenia less than this one . No colorful Blanche Dubois here , with her tag lines like , " I've always depended on the kindness of strangers . " No stunningly gorgeous Catherine Deneuve disintegrating along with the rabbit carcasses in her apartment . No appealingly misunderstood Janet Margolin and Kear Dullea who find a way out of the maze through love . No sensational expose of the mental health system as in " The Snake Pit " and " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . " Michael Risely is not a tormented genius either , nor does he win a Nobel Prize or leave a legacy of art masterpieces , music , or writing behind . And the love and support of his girl friend , Adrienne Shelley , doesn't save him - - as it wouldn't in real life . Risley and Shelley are two ordinary people who find their lives struck by lightning . About one percent of the population will go through an episode of schizophrenia , and the ripples spread out from them , encompassing friends and family . Risley has an ordinary personality and looks rather ordinary , as does his fiancee . He brings her a kitten in a bag full of food and tells her not to get too attached to it because he wants to get it in the pot as soon as possible . His humor is deadpan . And this flattish quality makes it more difficult for everyone , including himself , to recognize the first appearance of paranoid delusions . At first , they're minor . Somebody seems to have rearranged the items on his desk and he warns his puzzled coworkers not to do it again because it's " adolescent . " Like the rest of us " normal " folk , he has a job , although it doesn't pay very well . The delusions begin to interfere with his performance at work and he loses his job . In the course of lending him support , his fiancee loses her job as well . This is how it generally works . When you are gravely disabled , you alienate your friends and family and you lose your paycheck . Now you've got money problems on top of everything else . And one of the worst places you can do this is New York City where such secondary institutions as psychiatric services are geared to provide minimally effective , impersonal custodianship under depressingly shabby conditions . The details of Risley's descent into madness ring depressingly true . Hospitalized , he lies in his bed at night listening to a phone ringing insistently somewhere . And the director provides us with still shots of empty corridors , institutional sinks , and vacant chair seats . Nobody's home . When he tries to walk down the darkened hallway at night , for reasons unclear even to him , he is stopped by a burly black guy ( aides and orderlies are disproportionately people of color ) who tells him politely but very firmly to get back to his bed . It's a first-rate script , if you're looking for naturalism . There are weaknesses in the direction - - so many shaky shots with a hand-held camera . Images that fill the screen are too often glaring closeups , making the viewer even less comfortable than he / she needs to be . The story is strong enough as it is . Sometimes when a character is speaking we see only part of his face , a jaw with a telephone receiver in front of it , or half a head , as in a commercial for a brokerage firm . There is little in the way of music , which is okay . The amplified sound track turns the drip of a faucet into a sound filled with foreboding . The lesser roles are well written too . As is usual when someone is spotted standing on the ledge of a tall building , there are people watching from the street yelling at him to go ahead and jump . None of the principal actors deliver performances that call attention to themselves . The level of competence seems to be about the same as in a made-for-TV movie . But the narrative is so strong it carries the picture along . And actually the movie , being realistic , is pretty depressing . Nobody knows what causes schizophrenia . There is clearly some genetic loading , as twin and adoption studies have demonstrated , but there's much more to it than that , because most often if one identical twin " has it , " the other does not . Some prenatal or environmental trigger ? No one has identified it yet . To make matters as bad as possible , schizophrenics are so wrapped up in their own illnesses that they form no bonds with their fellow sufferers . They don't have the kind of mutual support that most minority groups , like African-Americans or women , can depend on . They're socially bankrupt . A true tragedy .
Better Than It Has a Right To Be .	It's a cheap , primitive film and it more than succeeds in what it was trying to do . We follow a pair of sharpshooters who have met at a carnival - - the sassy Peggy Cummins and the reform-school graduate , John Dall , a kind of Scandinavian George Hamilton . They're in love but broke and , attracted as they are to guns and shooting , they hold up some small businesses , gradually moving up to the Armour meat-packing plant that , according to Upton Sinclair , should have been held up years earlier . ( Do I have to explain that wisecrack ? Sinclair wrote a muckraking novel , " The Jungle , " and - - well , forget it . ) Where was I ? Yes . Thank you . Their armed robberies grow more ambitious over time . They haven't shot anyone yet . True , Dall was tempted to shoot the driver instead of the tire of the police car that was screaming after them , but he managed to overcome the impulse . Cummins isn't so squeamish , so demanding of herself . She finally puts two holes through an elderly lady - - AFTER the woman has already set off the alarm - - and then drops a cop too . Here's a point at which the story , based on a MacKinley Kantor short , exhibits its unexpected maturity . We begin with the dumb title - - " Gun Crazy " - - and the low budget . It leads you to expect that the two bandits , Cummins especially , would be exhilarated by the deaths , giggling and cackling happily as they make their getaway . But , no . Dall isn't a standard B-feature tough guy , no Lawrence Tierney . He's filled with anguish and guilt . Cummins isn't proud of having shot two people . It's just a dirty job that had to be done . When Dall , the more humanistic and wimpish of the two , later reprimands her , she's all frazzled and replies that she was scared . She only shoots when she's scared . The pair become notorious and attract the kind of attention that the FBI and its president-for-life , J . Edgar Hoover , reserved for those peripatetic robbers of the 1930s . Everybody has heard of them . Their photos have appeared in newspapers with names like The Meadowville Dispatch and the Zinzinatti Zeitung . " Last seen driving a blue sedan with out-of-state license plates " - - that sort of thing . They are forced to leave their money and other goods and hop a freight back to Dall's home town where his friends , alerted to his presence , try to talk him and Cummins into giving themselves up peacefully . The movie code and the trajectory of classic tragedy determine what happens next . It's hard to imagine that the writers and director of " Bonnie and Clyde " didn't see this , although " Gun Crazy " is a far less ambitious film . And it's a little like " Pretty Poison " , in which Anthony Perkins enlists Tuesday Weld into his fantasies , only to find she's more committed to action than he is . It's also a little Shakespearean - - " Coriolanus " or something - - in which the central figure has a characterological flaw such that , whatever his virtues , he's brought down by it in the end . Two virtually unknown leads - - John Dall and Peggy Cummins - - neither of whom had a substantial career . ( Dall was to appear as the dominant and , aptly , homosexual partner of Farley Granger in Alfred Hitchcock's " Rope . " ) Cummins doesn't do much for the role except look sort of pert in those tight black slacks at the shooting contest . She's not much more than a pistol with a pretty blond on the end of it . But Dall , with his long , loose-lipped face , is far more expressive . The photography is quite well done . And the direction seems surprisingly accomplished . Joseph H . Lewis places the camera where it will do the most good and isn't afraid to dolly in for effective close ups at dramatic moments . There is , of course , the famous scene of Cummins and Dall driving up to a bank , parking the car , robbing it , and making their escape - - all shot with a camera in the back seat in one take . ( The shot was apparently " stolen " , without the knowledge of bystanders that a movie was being made . ) The exchanges between Cummins and Dall during the scene are qualitatively different from those in the rest of the film . The dialog sounds only party scripted , mostly improvised , and thus more convincing . When Dall worries about whether there will be a parking space at the bank , he really sounds like he's worried - - because he actually IS . Some cheap noirs are risible in their badness , like " Detour . " This one isn't . I expect you'll feel drawn to the pathetic lovers .
Enjoyable Family Fantasy	First saw this half a lifetime ago on a black-and-white TV in a small Samoan village and thought it was hilarious . Now , having seen it for the second time , so much later , I don't find it hilarious . I don't find ANYTHING hilarious anymore . But this is a witty and light-hearted comedy that moves along quickly without stumbling and I thoroughly enjoyed it . It's 1945 and Fred MacMurray is a 4F who's dying to get into one of the armed forces . He rubs a lamp in the scrapyard he's managing and a genie appears to grant him a few wishes . ( Ho hum , right ? But though the introduction is no more than okay , the fantasies are pretty lively . ) MacMurray tells the genie that he wants to be in the army . Poof , and he is marching along with Washington's soldiers into a particularly warm and inviting USO where June Haver and Joan Leslie are wearing lots of lace doilies or whatever they are , and lavender wigs . Washington sends MacMurray to spy on the enemy - - red-coating , German-speaking Hessians , not Brits . The Hessians are jammed into a Bierstube and singing a very amusing drinking song extolling the virtues of the Vaterland , " where the white wine is winier / and the Rhine water's Rhinier / and the bratwurst is mellower / and the yellow hair is yellower / and the Frauleins are jucier / and the goose steps are goosier . " Something like that . The characterizations are fabulous , as good as Sig Rumann's best . Otto Preminger is the suspicious and sinister Hessian general . " You know , Heidelberg , vee are 241 to 1 against you - - but vee are not afraid . " I can't go on too long with these fantasies but they're all quite funny , and so are the lyrics . When he wishes he were in the Navy , MacMurray winds up with Columbus and the fantasy is presented as grand opera . " Don't you know that sailing west meant / a terrifically expensive investment ? / And who do you suppose provides the means / but Isabella , Queen of Queens . " When they sight the New World , someone remarks that it looks great . " I don't care what it looks like , " mutters Columbus , " but that place is going to be called Columbusland . " Anyway , everything is finally straightened out , though the genie by this time is quite drunk , and MacMurray winds up in the Marine Corps with the right girl . I've made it sound too cute , maybe , but it IS cute . The kids will enjoy the puffs of smoke and the magic and the corny love story . The adults will get a kick out of the more challenging elements of the story ( who are the Hessians ? ) unless they happen to be college graduates , in which case they might want to stick with the legerdemain and say , " Wow ! Awesome ! "
Raunchy and funny .	There are these three guys out after Mary ( Cameron Diaz ) , or maybe four or five or six , depending on how you count . The most important are , first , Ben Stiller , the shy nobody who has had a crush on her since high school in Providence , Rhode Island . Years later he learns Mary lives in Florida , and Stiller hires a sly and self-promoting private investigator ( Matt Dillon ) to track her down and bring back a report . Then there is a faux Englishman ( Lee Evans ) trying to insinuate himself into Mary's life space by posing as a victim of polio or something . Even more devious in his obsession is Stiller's friend Woogie , crippled by a nervous rash . A football player is tossed in at the end , and an older guy who has been cultivating Mary's neighbor in order to get a crack at Mary . It's understandable . When Dillon brings back his intelligence on Diaz , he tells Stiller that she weighs several hundred pounds , is confined to a wheelchair , has had four illegitimate children , and lives in a housing project . But the fact is Cameron Diaz is radiant . She's tall , slender , a little goofy , morally upright , and a doctor to boot . The movie is anything but politically correct or delicate in any way . The writers have dived head first into the energetic gags , which follow one another almost instantly and range from silly ( the masturbation scene ) to merely reckless . ( Dillon learns that Mary finds pearly white teeth sexy so he has his teeth modified , giving him a toothpaste-ad grin and a slight lisp . ) I don't know how much I want to get into this because , inasmuch as the movie is a series of jokes , any description of unfolding events or character will give some of the jokes away . Well , let me say at least that I laughed most at the scene in which Matt Dillon has tranquilized Diaz's little dog so that it doesn't reject him on their first meeting . The problem is that the dog ODs and goes into cardiac arrest . With Diaz out of the room momentarily , Dillon is forced to perform CPR on the dog . When that doesn't work he yanks some electrical cords out of a lamp and tries to revive the animal with electric shock . The dog begins to sputter with sparks and his fur catches fire . I'll leave it at that . Comedies about " romance " generally call for a sobering statement at the end , in which all is explained and the moral spelled out for the viewer . The Farrelly brothers have included such a scene but it's mercifully brief . " They were only after you because you made them feel good about themselves . " You'll hardly notice the pain . You know how some comedies are toned down , subtle , and require attention to be fully appreciated ? This is the opposite .
Lost Patrol	This is one of those movies about a handful of soldiers lost in the desert who must find and fight their way home . But , if the plot is familiar , this is a pretty well executed example . Combat aside , it's the story of the maturation of Henry Fonda , the bashful , receding , passive , loner of a corporal who suddenly finds himself in charge when his sergeant is killed . Fonda's character has what psychologists call a primary trait . That is , he is excessively something or other . It's the part of him that everyone notices . Whenever we do a statistical analysis of personality characteristics , one of the first to show up is likely to be introversion / extraversion , and Fonda is high on introversion . This is one of the " Big Five " personality traits , if anyone wants to bother looking it up . There are numerous flashback too , involving Fonda's self-effacing quality interfering with his relationship with Maureen O'Hara . He can't bring himself to declare his love for her , and meanwhile the gregarious Reginald Gardner ( just the opposite , high on extraversion ) is taking his place . These kinds of back stories are usually annoying but in this case I can bring myself to forgive them because Maureen O'Hara at twenty-two is sublime . Not " pretty " in any ordinary way . If you asked an artist to sit down and draw a picture of a beautiful woman it wouldn't come out looking like O'Hara . Her nose is more like an eagle's than like a ski slope . And her chin is a little larger than would be required to accommodate her lips . And she's not even a phenomenally talented actress . Really , a performance by an actor is made up half of demands imposed by the script and half by the organismic variables the actor brings to the role . And O'Hara's gestures at enacting the role of the girl friend back home are so perfunctory that we readily sense the real person beneath - - and she's radiant . So , anyway , okay . She can stay in the film . I first saw this years ago on KVZK and remembered it only for O'Hara's presence and for a scene in which a disabled Italian aircraft crashes into a truck full of British soldiers . I just saw it again and those two are still its most outstanding features . The combat scenes are well done for the time too . It's exciting as well as thoughtful . I wouldn't blame anyone for disliking it because it's just another phony war movie with romantic flashbacks , but in my opinion , although it is that , it's something more as well . It might have been called , " How To Conquer Your Introversion " and been written by a media-savvy politician .
Suspenseful and amusing Christie	It's hard to imagine how Dame Agatha could have pounded out so many mysteries . I know she lived a long time , but still , if I lived as long as Methusala I couldn't grind out that many pieces . Not just novels , either , but plays , including this one . And they all tell the kinds of stories that involve a lot of lead time while the author works out the details of the intricate plots . Between Jack Kerouac knocking out " On The Road " on a single roll of toilet paper or whatever it was , and Nabokov and his multitudinous 3 X 5 index cards , Christie must have been very much closer to Nabokov . This is an engrossing and tightly wound tale of greed , murder , deception , bigamy , adultery , and all the other good things in life . It's essentially a courtroom drama with several big - - REALLY big - - surprises . It does not end the way you might expect , with the true criminal suddenly revealed in all his moral turpitude by the expert , penetrating examination by the defense , breaking down in the witness chair and sobbing , " Okay . I did it ! I DID IT ! I didn't mean to kill her ! I just wanted to frighten her . " The play's the thing in this movie , yet the director , Billy Wilder , brings his own snappy interpretation to it . The dialog is unashamedly fast . Nobody dawdles over " significant utterances . " Even on the witness stand they seem to make a series of unhesitating declarations . " Yes . " " No . " " Yes , I told you already . " And it wouldn't be as good as it is without the acting . Charles Laughton is the central figure , one of those cute old curmudgeons that everyone likes because of his weakness for cigars and brandy . His efforts to bootleg these items under the nose of his nurse , his real wife Elsa Lanchester , are pretty funny . " She won't even find the ASHES , " he cackles innocently , like a child getting away with mischief , flicking his cigar ash into an empty drawer . She's always bright and chipper and energetic , a nice contrast to his flabby sedate presence . Una O'Connor as the Scottish maid is extremely engaging as well , snapping back indignantly at the judge . Tyrone Power is called on to change from a careless and thoughtful guy , to one stricken by fate , then back again , and he pulls it off . Henry Daniell , a Robin Hood villain , and John Williams , ever the legal type , are welcome in every scene in which they appear . Reliable sorts , don't you know . But Marlene Dietrich takes the palm . She was everyone's idea of a no-baloney kind of woman but never anyone's idea of a great actress . And yet , she had me fooled here . Oh , hammy , sure , but her performances fit in because EVERYONE is hammy in " Witness for the Prosecution . " God forbid anyone try to make anything serious and arty out of an Agatha Christie mystery ! They're fine , just as they are .
A man's gotta do what a man's gotta do .	Marshall Kane has something in common with Citizen Kane . They both rise to the top of their professions , are headstrong and unyielding , and find themselves alone and alienated from their friends , but that's about where the similarity ends . " Citizen Kane " has a complex narrative structure , is filled with ambiguity , and is embellished with artistic and technical flourishes , whereas " High Noon , " the story of Marshall Will Kane who must face his nemeses without help , is about as complicated as a child's toy . We pretty much know what's going to happen from the beginning . In case you don't know the story , four of Kane's ( Gary Cooper's ) old enemies , led by Frank Miller , seek him out in a small Western town where he serves as Marshall . They're going to come for him at high noon . He's got about an hour and a half to organize special deputies . His wife Amy ( Grace Kelly ) leaves him when he refuses to run from the coming conflict . And for one or another reason all of his old friends , even those who helped him clean up the town some years ago and put the chief heavy , Frank Miller , behind bars , refuse to help him . Some of the townspeople are sympathetic and some hate him . Kane has to spurn offers of help from a pathetic duo - - an abject drunk and a fourteen-year-old kid . There is a gun fight at the end . Guess who wins . Kane takes off his star and drops it into the dirt and he and Amy ride off into the sunset to open a store somewhere . It's a tightly written story , even in all its predictability , and the constant references to the clocks ticking down the minutes , plus the omnipresent dramatic chords of Dmitri Tiompkin's score , generate a good deal of tension . There are only two real scenes of action . One is the shoot out that's well staged but otherwise unmemorable . The other is a fist fight between Kane and his jealous subordinate , the Deputy Marshall Harvey Pell ( Lloyd Bridges ) . It isn't a long scene but it's a bruising fight with both men being slugged repeatedly in the face . Cooper is so tall that when he falls backward to the stable floor it seems to take forever , as if in slow motion , his arms flailing . I felt his pain more acutely than I felt his fear for his life . When it's over , and Harvey lies unconscious , Kane is unable to walk away and must slump against a wall , holding his beaten face in his hands , gasping for breath . He seems completely exhausted . The story about the movie is almost as interesting as the film itself . Is it about blacklisting ? ( Kids : You'll have to look that up . ) A lot of people thought so , including Howard Hawks who was disgusted by the movie . No true Marshall would act like that , going around begging for help . So Hawks made " Rio Bravo " to tell his version of how it really works . The sheriff , John Wayne , turns away every offer of help but people show up when they're needed anyway . I don't actually believe it's a movie that's that pregnant with social comment . I think it's a movie about a Marshall who is deserted by all of his friends except his wife , who intrudes at the last minute , and it's commercially designed in every way , following as it does a classic narrative structure in which there are a series of increasingly serious minor climaxes , then the climax , then the denouement . The overarching plan could have been provided by a computer if they'd had computers . This isn't necessarily a weakness . " Stagecoach " had a similar structure , and the platform itself has been around for a long time . Sophocles used it , didn't he ?
Successful comedy about a dog show , sometimes very funny .	Diverse people travel to Philadelphia to show their dogs and vie for championship , and we tap into all the relationships . Let's see . There's the argumentative , spoiled Yuppie couple . The taciturn guy from the Southern bait shop . The affable trailer-trash couple from Fern City , Florida . The lesbian couple who show their manicured poodle , " White Rapsody . " The gay couple who are way out of the closet . It's well directed by Christopher Guest , has sometimes extremely amusing dialog and situations written by Guest and Eugene Levy , and is acted to perfection . It's done quietly though and hardly seems scripted at all , a kind of comedy verite in which performers sometimes speak directly to the camera while evidently being interviewed . There's a quiet , semi-documentary feel to the film . I can't go through the whole thing without spoiling some of the gags but I want - - no , I NEED - - to mention specifically some of the exchanges between the two commentators we see , probably speaking on the radio . Fred Willard and Jim Piddock play roles we're all familiar with from talk shows . Willard takes the part of the talk-show host , asking naive questions and making what he thinks are amusing comments , taking the role of the audience . Piddock , with a serious mien and Brit accent , is the expert who supplies precise knowledge and answers the host's dumb questions . The dogs are trotted out one by one to be examined . One of the dogs is hoisted onto a table and examined manually by the judge . Willard : " The judge here is Eddie Franklin . " Piddock : " I believe that's Edie Franklin , Buck . " Willard : " Oh , yeah . It's a woman alright . What's she doing now , Trevor ? " Piddock : " I believe she's examining the animal's testicular area . " Willard : " Oh , Wow ! I'd hate to go out on a date with Edie ! Can you imagine ? You're on a date with Edie and - - " Just one more . A judge picks up the dog's tail and examines it . Willard : " I'd hate to be handled like that , Trevor . I really hate it . You know , I once said to my proctologist , why don't you take me out to dinner sometime ? " Stop me , please . Piddock : " The judge was trained for the priesthood , I understand . Of course he didn't finish . Dropped out after one year . " Willard : " No KIDDING ? Boy , it would be interesting to find out what went wrong there . But I guess that's a whole nother show , eh ? " Some of it is more silly than funny . Eugene Levy has two left feet . But that's nothing compared to the many comic scenes that connect so squarely . It all ends happily in a couple of filmic postscripts . At the beginning we see the Yuppie couple complaining that their " child " is interfering with their sex lives , and the camera shows us their bored Weimerener . By the end , the couple tell their counselor that their sex lives are now terrific and the dog isn't a bother at all . " She likes to watch . " Meanwhile their second " child " , a bulldog , is humping the counselor's leg . You really ought to see this .
Craftsmanship , funny and touching .	It's best to think of this as a Great Depression story , when it was probably conceived . Barbara Stanwyck is a reporter who tries to keep her job by concocting a letter from a nonexistent " John Doe " who is mad as hell and is not going to take it anymore . So he's going to jump of a skyscraper at midnight on Christmas Eve . When the letter is published , the public reacts with excitement . They vow support for the phantom Doe . Stanwyck's editor , James Gleason , decides that the newspaper and its owner , Edward Arnold , should go with the flow and hire some bum off the street to play John Doe . They pick the friendly , innocent Gary Cooper , ex-minor-league baseball pitcher , accompanied by his equally crummy buddy , Walter Brennan . These two hobos are raggedy and hungry , the kind of people who at the time were called " bindle stiff . " The " bindle " was the bundle of personal effects they carried over their shoulders . A " stiff " was a person of no importance . You can still hear the word in the expression " working stiff . " Where was I ? These damned voices keep distracting me . Oh , yes . So Cooper is hired to act as John Doe . After Christmas Eve , when he has his phony date with the angels , he is to be given a railroad ticket straight out of town and disappear . Surprisingly , though , the radio speech turns the audience on . They love it . They form multitudes of John Doe Clubs all around the world . The John Doe philosophy ? Nothing dangerous , don't worry . " Let's be kind to our neighbors . " " Let's break down the walls separating all of us John Does . " The villainous Edward Arnold , the paper's owner , gets an idea . As the John Doe Clubs spring up all over , he sees their members not as airheaded do-gooders but as voters . This leads to a bright idea . In his next radio speech , John Doe will announce that Edward Arnold is forming a third party and running for president . All those John Does out there will vote for him - - " that's ninety percent of the vote . " And Arnold's philosophy is a little different from that of Cooper and Stanwyck , who has been writing his speeches . " Everybody complaining , " Arnold tells his cohort of corrupt goons , gangsters , politicians , and labor leaders . " What this country needs is a firm hand , some discipline . " Does Arnold's scheme work ? Of course it does . That's why he was elected president in 1944 and switched our allegiance to Nazi Germany and we lost the war and were occupied by the UN . Well , the fact is that Arnold may be evil but these targets are pretty soft ones . The film is so stripped of real-life counterparts that it almost amounts to a fantasy . The private police force that Arnold has at his disposal are all dressed as State Police but their shoulder patches read " Norton Motorcycle Squad . " Something else about Arnold . He probably gives the best performance in the movie . It's really quite subtle . He has to activate several latent roles - - loudmouthed dictator , thoughtful schemer , avuncular con man , and repentant fomenter of discord . He's followed closely by Barbara Stanwyck , in one of her fine performances of the period , and by Cooper himself , who must look simultaneously stupid but sensitive . Cooper has a priceless moment near the beginning as he is shown to a fancy hotel room and allowed to order five hamburgers from room service . With a wide smile he hangs up the phone , then notices the statue of a bouquet-holding nude woman on the stand . His expression changes instantly to an exopthalmic gawk . Capra and the editor give him a full half minute to stare at it , touch it tentatively , and gulp , before Stanwyck's voice comes from behind him and he jumps . It's a small moment but an exquisitely comic one . This was the last of three films that Frank Capra directed before entering the Army for World War II - - the others being " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington " and " Mr . Deeds Goes to Town . " All have in common an innocent young hero who runs into greed and corruption and through strength of will manages to overcome his adversaries . Capra was an apolitical populist and humanist , and there's a good deal of corniness in these movies , but that doesn't stop them from being successful . " John Doe " , unlike the others , becomes almost tragic before the improbable end . After his war service , Capra directed one more wildly successful film , " It's a Wonderful Life , " perhaps the best modern Christmas story , but it too had its moments of genuine anguish .
What's it all about , Harry ?	It's a finely made movie , beginning with Michael Small's deliciously jazzy score which rolls along under the credits , using only rhythm and vibes . At more dramatic moments the theme is echoed by a mournful oboe . There are touches of Gil Evans and Gunther Schuller in the arrangements . The score could probably stand alone . The performances vary from professional to considerably more than that . James Woods is his usual cocky hypermanic self but it fits the role . Edward Binns is a serviceable utility player . Jennifer Warren is given some lines suggesting she sees herself as homely , and it's true she's not gorgeous , but only by Hollywood standards . As it is , she's on the cusp , and she has a face that intimates character , and a nice figure to boot , though her delivery sounds more like suburban Connecticut than the Southern semi-trash the character is supposed to be . Melanie Griffith makes a very acceptable 16-year-old nympho who spreads sex around the way some other people spread good will . Susan Clark as Hackman's wife is adequate . She has an outre kind of beauty . She has a wide mouth and her upper and lower lips seem to be of identical shape . And she has the eyebrows of the Mona Lisa , which is to say none at all . The truly outstanding performance is Gene Hackman's . He's always good without ever being bravura , but here he outdoes himself as Harry Moseby , the sleuth who's going to solve all the world's puzzles . I'll just give one example of what I mean . Watch him during the scene in which he's in bed with Clark , dipping marshmallows into the fondu and telling her the story of how he tracked down the father who'd left him as a child . He's never spilled the beans to her about this incident before . It's an intense scene . But Hackman doesn't weep or pull his hair and pound the pillow with his fist . He snickers awkwardly , makes a few feeble attempts at wisecracks , and stumbles over his words . His awkwardness masks the emotional intensity of the moment . Hackman doesn't feel the need to tell us more than that . Few self-sufficient grown men would . Well , one more example . Watch his response when Griffith , on first meeting him , asks directly , " How old are you ? " Watch the way he combines a chuckle at her effrontery with a direct and unashamed answer to her question . I need to mention Rosemary Murphy too . It would be criminal not to . We meet her as a selfish slut who only wants her daughter , Griffith , returned to her in order to deprive her divorced husband of Griffith's companionship . When Griffith turns up dead , Harry storms into Murphy's house and confronts her at the swimming pool . He chews her out for her all-too-obvious failings . She listens to this while lying on a lounge in the Southern California sunshine , a table full of booze paraphernalia next to her . When Harry's fulguration is finished , she gets uncertainly to her feet , falls against the table and smashes some glass , and we realize for the first time just how drunk she really is . She disses him for his self-righteousness and adds , " Some day I might cry for the little bitch , but when I do you won't be here , " and then dismisses him . I can't think of another actress who would have pulled off that scene with such panache . The same can't be said for the plot . It could ( and should ) have stayed a first-rate mystery . It's convoluted , sure , but it makes sense at the end . Instead , the writers and the director have bulked it up with " significance . " Instead of settling for a well-done genre piece , they've opted for an examination of ontological Angst . What's it all about ? There are multiple indications that Harry is overreaching and looking for answers that no one is capable of finding . Now I happen to think that this is a pretty noble quest but nobody else in the movie does . They all discourage him and ridicule him . Harry demonstrates some tricky knight moves in a chess game to Jennifer Warren and she says , " It's beautiful . " I didn't get it . I mean , I get the pun but what does a chess game have to do with the rest of the movie ? The movie closes with a visual pun , a wounded Harry in a boat out in the Gulf of Mexico . The boat is beyond his control and is going around in circles . Why ? As far as the case is concerned , Harry isn't going around in circles . He's just figured the whole thing out . As far as some banality like " life is pointless " is concerned , the movie hasn't earned the right to lecture us on the subject . Overall the movie is exceptionally bitter . Except for Harry , there's no one in it who is really straight . It's a bleak view of the society we live in . I guess I don't mind hearing that lecture but I do wish Penn had chosen to resolve the ambiguous ending . Does Harry make it to shore or not ? I'd like to know the answer to that . I gave up trying to find the answer to life years ago .
A whistle-blower movie , and a good one .	There have been myriad films about whistle blowers since the success of " Serpico " - - and before ( eg . , " On the Waterfront " ) . Some , like those mentioned , are quite well done . Others are Hollywoodized to the point of staged but fake reality and one hundred percent predictability . I won't mention any . Well , I will - - " The Insider " - - done strictly by the buck , I mean the book . Here's a film from Argentina about a pilot ( Enrique Pineyro ) , a guy nobody in the major film audience ever heard of , with a handsomeness quotient the equal of a soft-boiled egg , who quietly complains to his friends , his colleagues , and his bosses about the slack way regulations are enforced by his airline company , LAPA . Whatsmore , the real Enrique Pineyro is played by the real Enrique Pineyro . His reports about equipment failure and corner cutting do nothing but get him into trouble . There is a government investigation ongoing , but the investigation isn't getting any help from LAPA executives , who want to expand the company , or from LAPA's pilots who are afraid of losing their jobs and guarded about the possibility of failure being attributed to " pilot error , " something which no professional pilot wants to admit , or even talk about . Somebody fills the investigator's car with gum balls . And when that doesn't discourage him , a few bullets are sent his way through the window of his home . Pineyro wants nothing more than to fly - - and for him and his co-workers to be able to do it in safety . He writes a letter about his working conditions and sends it to - - get this - - the New York Times , who publish it in a front-page article . This leads to the resignation of the chief executives and their replacement by a bunch of clones who continue the same corrupt practices . Pilots are supposed to take regular vacations because a tired pilot is a threat to safety , but LAPA isn't giving them the time off that the law requires . In one case , the company owes a pilot SIX YEARS worth of vacations . In extremis , Pineyro resigns from LAPA and takes all the information he has to the government investigator , who then accesses all the company's files and reports , but not before a fatal accident occurs , due to lack of oversight . We don't get to see the accident . We don't get to see ANY accidents . Hardly anyone shouts at anyone else . Pineyro , aside from the ordinariness of his appearance , is perfectly ordinary . I swear that non-Hollywood productions have this eerie capacity for picking non-magnetic people for lead roles who have a talent for demonstrating just how good they are at playing their roles . Has anyone taken a close look at Daniel Auteuil's face lately ? Or Jean Gabin's ? It's not a zapped-up whistle-blower movie . The score is so sparse as to be hardly noticeable . ( Excellent use is made of a piano piece I once picked up on my car radio . I figured it was by Mozart and I recognized the form as variations on a theme , but I couldn't make out the theme because it was so disguised . I couldn't wait for its restatement at the end , imagining it would be elegant and sophisticated . It turned out to be " Twinkle , Twinkle , Little Star . " ) There are quite a few shots of the pilot and copilot at the controls of the big Boeing they fly , and they're great , with the comfortably lighted control panel in the foreground and the magnificent city lights beyond the windshield . There is no mock up of the flight deck . All the shots are done during flight . As far as I could tell , none of the other scenes were shot in a studio either . You really don't want to watch this if you have anything against subtitles , even though the flight language is English - - " gear up , " " seat belts on , " and so forth . And you don't want to watch it if you're easily bored if nobody thrusts his hand down a victim's throat and yanks out his bleeding pyloric sphincter . If you want heroism , high drama , car chases , and fast editing , this isn't your cup of yerba mate . But if you want a glimpse into how the real world of the bureaucracy works , you might learn from this one .
Effective and exciting British war movie .	This film recounts an historical incident in which about two dozen British Lancasters delivered specially designed bombs that destroyed two important dams supplying water and hydroelectric power to the industrial area of the Ruhr . It sticks fairly close to the facts and it doesn't meander about . No rivalries over women in the pub . No women at all , practically . There is one brawl between fliers but it's a good-natured free-for-all in which everyone wrestles and laughs and no one throws a punch . The whole film is constructed around that cheerful exuberance . Everyone is anxious to take on this dangerous job . Nobody weeps . And when the bomb's designer hears of the mission's success , he grins widely and flaps his arms against his side as others congratulate him . And that's it . The film is really divided into two parts . In the first , we follow the man who designed the plan and the bomb to go with it , Barnes Wallace , played as an abstracted but determined boffin . ( He also designed a couple of bombers . ) In order to hit the dam and sink to the proper depth before exploding , the bomb must be dropped from 60 feet at a designated speed and a specified distance from the target - - and at night , too . The film tells us that much but leaves out the fact that the bomb had to have a reverse spin of 500 rpm at the time of release , so the project was still more challenging . It's almost inconceivable that such a mission could be pulled off . In the second part of the film , Guy Gibson ( Richard Todd ) and his fliers train to the point of exhaustion before undertaking the mission , which is about as deadly as can be imagined . Fifty-six men failed to return . ( Gibson was killed on a later mission . ) The climactic action scenes are well done , if the events themselves are a little turgid . At times it's a little difficult to follow what's happening and who exactly is involved , though the general sense gets through . Two of the three target dams were destroyed , flooding the valleys downstream , but the dams were up and running again about five weeks later . More than 1200 people were killed on the ground , mainly allied POWs . Spectacular raids often make for good drama but the results , if the missions are successful , are often temporary . ( Eg . , Ploesti . ) The enemy has a habit of fixing things that are damaged . It seems , depending on the particular targets , that you either have to pulverize them or attack them repeatedly , and even then the enemy adapts . None of this , these nettles of realism , can possibly reflect on the courage of Gibson and his colleagues . The decorations they earned were more than deserved . And none of this should make a viewer hesitate before seeing the movie . It's done in a grand style , though , to be sure , the special effects are of the period . The Avro Lancaster , by the way , may have been the finest heavy bomber of the war . It wasn't particularly fast , it was lightly armed , and it was as ugly as sin , but it carried an enormous bomb load , was versatile , and handled like a fighter . A test pilot managed to put one through a barrel roll . The acting doesn't really need too much comment . Michael Redgrave is very good . Richard Todd marches around and makes up-beat comments like a military man , which he was . A good war movie , and recommended .
It's Quiet Out There - - Too Quiet .	It's an exciting frontier adventure story , starring Henry Fonda , Claudette Colbert , and the rest of the stock company of director John Ford . Supposedly in the Mohawk Valley of upstate New York , it was actually filmed in Utah's Wasatch Mountains , in stupendiferous , colossal , formidable , transmogrifying Technicolor . What photography ! You could almost ignore the story of two newlyweds trying to build a farm , fend off Indians and share in the élan of the community , and just goggle at the viridian spruce trees and the devil's-hoof-marked bone-white poplar trunks and the azure sky and the ochre corn and the burnt umber skin of the treacherous Indians who join the Tories during the Revolutionary War . It does what a lot of period movies don't do . It shows you what hard work really is . Not one or two perfunctory shots of a man swinging an ax , but rather extended scenes of the entire population hard at it , clearing the fields , putting up the barn . It's an unmistakably Fordian movie . It has all his major ceremonies and minor rituals - - birth , marriage , death , dancing , church services , a desperate defense of the Fort . And - - most notably - - a foot race in which Fonda runs as fast as he can with three Indians in hot pursuit . Fonda is running not just for his life , but to reach Fort MacDonald and bring back help to save the rest of the community . We've all seen foot chases before , if we've seen any recent action movies . And they're all souped up . Guys dodge cars on city streets , leap over garbage cans , jump from rooftop to rooftop , knock their way through crowds of pedestrians , clamber down fire escapes . But this one is different . It doesn't depend on strategy . There are no racks of clothing or 50 gallon drums for the pursued to topple over behind him . Nobody shoots at anybody else . It depends entirely on stamina and speed , through some thickets , but mostly over flat open ground . It's like watching an Olympic marathon . ( Does Fonda outrun the Indians and save the town ? No power on earth could get me to answer . ) Ford captures character with his usual aplomb . Edna Mae Oliver is superb as the homely , elderly widow who misses her husband without moaning about it and who flirts only half-kiddingly with the robust Ward Bond . Claudette Colbert had a pretty good career in Hollywood , without being notably attractive , sexy , or talented . Ford doesn't do her any favors here . She faints so many times I couldn't count them . Or , maybe , once or twice , she simply collapses while retaining consciousness . And there is a dramatic scene of amputation and death involving a character we've come to know and respect . There is some noticeable overacting too , which was always one of Ford's several weaknesses . When the women of the community pour pots of boiling water on attacking Indians , we really don't expect them to giggle and laugh . Ford was a first-rate director and made some films that stand among the best , given the sentiments and limitations of the period , and this probably isn't one of them . Still , it's head and shoulders above today's mechanical products .
Old-fashioned , fast , enjoyable Western .	Olivia de Havilland is really attractive here , fresh faced and brunette with big dark eyes . She looks so thoroughly American . Any normal man would want to throw himself at her feet , show her his bankbook and genealogical tree , and beg her to marry him . Marry - - not simply cohabit , because she's not that kind of girl . It's strange too that she look like an ex prom queen when in fact she was born in , where , Tokyo ? And into a famous British family , responsible for the design of the superb DeHavilland " Mosquito " of World War Two fame . Errol Flynn came from a professional family too . His father was a marine biologist and a professor in Tasmania . But you'd never know it from Flynn's personal history . His autobiography , " My Wicked Wicked Ways , " is full of humorous anecdotes , although the best revelations must have been edited out . ( Eg . , he owned a house on Mulholland Drive with a glass ceiling in the guest bedroom so that he and his friends could creep into the attic and laugh at the goings on . ) He's an Irishman here with a brawling and rebellious past . It was the last movie in which they tried to explain his Brit accent to the audience . The rest of the cast will look familiar to any Warners aficionado - - Frank McHugh , Ward Bond , Alan Hale , Big Boy Williams . There is a great fight scene , outrageously overdone , resulting in the near total destruction of a barn-like saloon . The brawlers smash through the wall into the meeting of the Lady's Temperance Society next door . And nobody even gets a bloody nose , no matter how many chairs have been smashed over his head . It isn't as comic as the saloon fight in " She Wore a Yellow Ribbon , " but it's a big one and it IS funny . The movie features Frank McHugh as an honest and courageous newspaper editor who is about to expose the chief heavy , who is by the way a complete stereotype with not a decent bone in his body . Victor Jory , a slimy henchman , comes into the office , threatens McHugh , and smashes him across the face with a small heavy whip . I wonder if Ford saw this before making " The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence . " Come to think of it , before the fight scene , some ex-Union soldiers begin singing " Marching Through Georgia , " which annoys the Confederate veterans who strike up , " Dixie . " The two groups face off and sing at one another . The same sort of competition reappears in " Casablanca , " under the same director , Michael Curtiz . Flynn wears a broad-brimmed flat-topped cowboy hat . This must have been a liminal period for cowboy hats . Before then , cowboy hats were huge and round topped with a slight crease down the middle . Tom Mix wore such a hat in the 20s and John Wayne made a couple of Gower Gulch masterpieces wearing a fifty-gallon corker . Ten years after " Dodge City , " cowboy hats came to resemble ordinary fedoras with smaller brims , sometimes twisted upward in odd ways , like a vaudeville comic's . A little bit of hat iconography there . The plot's entirely conventional . The good guys versus the bad guys , with nothing in between . Well - - that's how the world is really put together , isn't it ? One bothersome thing . A careful historiographical search reveals that , the cast of characters in this movie notwithstanding , absolutely no cowboy has ever been named Wade , Matt , Cole , or Yancey . The historical record not only shows no evidence of the use of such names , but goes out of its way to emphatically deny their existence in the Old West . Hadn't seen this for years but was able to relax and get a kick out of it .
The Odd Trio	Drenched in the humidity of a New Orleans summer ( that's a rough quote from the florid and unnecessary narration ) , the movie gives us an odd trio . Bobby Long ( Travolta ) is an old ex-literature professor . Lawson Pines ( Macht ) is his protégé and former teaching assistant who is now supposedly writing Bobby Long's biography . Purcy Will ( Johansson ) is an 18-year-old drifter whose mother dies , leaving her the shabby house that Long and Pines have been living in for years . I won't try to describe the situation when Purcy shows up and looks over the house and its occupants . I will let her line describe it : " Oh , sure , I want to live in this shole with two alcoholic strangers . " And , let's face it , the interior of the place is a dark , dank garbage dump of books and Early Orange Crate furniture and one filthy bed , in which Bobby Long is sleeping off a drunk . The outside isn't much better . If it were larger it could have been one of those wrecked mansions now haunted , especially if the yard were cleared of those busted old recliners and rickety tables and decrepit barbecues . The acting is fine . Travolta is pretty good as the down but not quite out patriarch , " the eldest man , " as he puts it . He's a better , more engaging actor than I've been willing to give him credit for . Macht is adequate as a younger guy getting more and more fed up with being Travolta's toady . And Johansson is first rate . Her presence is appealing in a non-Hollywood way . She's not " cute " like Jessica Alba , nor beautiful like Jennifer Connolly . The way she looks , sounds , and acts is sui generis . Her voice has an occasional catch in it , a slight croak , and is anything but mellifluous . Her visual impression is off kilter too : a generous bosom , skinny legs , and a face that is difficult to pin down : the widest cheekbones adorning the modern screen , a broad forehead and narrow chin , plump and sensual lips , and surprisingly graceful eyes - - and she's a decent actress too . All three of the principals are up to professional standards and so are the minor players , each of them individuated by the script . ( One guy has a constant cough , another neighbor is a florist , and so forth . ) But if there's a weakness in the film , it's the plot . Southern writers have a way with words , if not ideas , and they are adept at catching exactly the right words in exchanges . Johansson dreams of becoming an X-Ray technician because " the bones look so good on the light boxes . Kinda like a portrait , only on the inside . " That's not bad writing . Sometimes , though , however dazzling and pellucid the dialog , the stories themselves tend to whine away like flywheels building up momentum but going nowhere . Beth Henley's stories have this same problem and Tennessee Williams ran into it once in a while too . The dramatic events in these sharply observed lives sometimes come to feel shoehorned in . There is often a Big Secret , hinted at but not revealed until the plot cries out for some kind of drama . ( This movie has two secrets . ) Somebody usually dies at the end because without such a momentous climax it might seem as if the camel had labored to bring forth a gnat . There is a death at the end of this movie too , but although we can see it coming we are mercifully spared the suffering and sadness and the deathbed revelations . The photography and location shooting are fine too . We only see a few minutes of the French Quarter and there is no Mardi Gras . The features of the city that we do see are small ones , carefully observed . Somebody is munching on a " poor boy " as submarine sandwiches are called in that neighborhood . The local bar , whose manager is a nice guy , has the go-to-hell name of Rock Bottom Cafe . And , man , those neighborhoods are seedy and broken down . I don't suppose they exist anymore , not after Katarina earlier this year . Can't decide whether it's good or bad . The neighborhoods looked poor but comfortable and , above all , tolerant . Actually , despite whatever criticisms I may have made , I applaud this movie . It was made for adults . There is not a fist fight in it , nor a car chase or explosion . People lead pretty ordinary lives and their triumphs are tiny while their defeats may be grand ones . It's slow but it draws one in . The sentiment goes overboard once in a while , but I was moved when Travolta and Johansson embraced tearfully before the end . A rewarding film . They should make more like it .
A Trip Worth Taking .	Frances Dee ( Mrs . Joel McRea ) , a Canadian nurse , takes a job on the small Caribbean island of Saint Sebastian . Her duty is to care for the wife ( Christine Gordon ) of the owner of the sugar plantation ( Tom Conway ) . Conway's brother ( James Ellison ) manages the place . Assorted characters are present , including Theresa Harris as the maid , Sir Lancelot as the calypso singer ( what else ? ) , and Darby Jones as the tallest , most bug-eyed shuffling zombie you ever saw . Conway's wife is in what appears to be a semi-coma . She mostly lies in bed , dressed in a flowing , translucent dressing gown , fully made up , looking glamorous . Sometimes she rises up and walks about with a vacant stare . Dr . Maxwell - - great name , there - - tells us that the condition is wholly medical , but others have different , more fanciful explanations . The maid believes Conway's wife is possessed by voodoo spirits and can only be cured by them . James Ellison blames himself . So does the mother of Ellison and Conway ( Edith Barrett , Mrs . Vincent Price ) . Conway blames himself and his family , who brought slavery to the island . The only guy who doesn't seem to blame himself or anybody else is Darby Jones , the speechless , pop-eyed zombie . The story ends tragically - - or , let's say , sadly - - but things are resolved and Tom Conway , who has fallen for Nurse Frances Dee , who has fallen for Tom Conway , is now free to marry her . Or him . That sentence was confusing . A couple of notes about what is really quite a fine picture made on Lewton's typical low budget . One is that James Ellison is the only person in the cast who can't act . He sounds like Robert Stack and moves like the Golem . Tom Conway is much better - - not just because of his suave British accent but because he shows some sensitivity to the role . The people of color are treated not with condescension but with ordinary dignity . Theresa Harris as the maid is particularly good . She smiles cheerfully and helps with moral problems as well as housekeeping . We ought to keep in mind that this movie was made during the same time period that African-Americans like Mantan Moreland and Willie Best were running around at other studies , their eyeballs bulging , exclaiming things like , " Feets , don't fail me NOW ! " But then Lewton and his director , Jacques Tourneur , treat everyone fairly in this film . There is no heavy . And the voodoo presentation is subdued . The up-tempo dance at the ceremony isn't too far from being accurate , some evidence of dance training aside . I won't get into it but voodoo ceremonies of today involve a lot of rum spitting and tobacco-smoke blowing and one or two cutting the heads off chickens to get blood . The dances are less restrained and sexier . Frances Dee is just fine in her role . She's so good looking - - petite and delicate and flouncy . The story , as has been noted , seems lifted from " Jane Eyre , " but there are also elements of " Rebecca " and even Henry James ' " The Turn of the Screw . " Nurse Dee , a beautiful young woman arrives on an island with evidently only two white guys , the brothers . One of them owns the place , is polite , protective , and distant , and somewhat mysteriously sad . The other brother just works on the plantation and is a resentful drunk . One wonders how long it took the nurse to figure out which one to aim for . The story is not the most finely tuned . At times it seems disjointed . I couldn't follow all of the events and don't know why some of them took place , except , in a few instances , to introduce a scare for the horror-movie audience . Each scene is packed with information but the place is a little slow . There are none of Lewton's famous " buses " , the nick name Lewton's unit at RKO gave to sudden moments of sheer fright . This is more spooky than shocking . I'm constantly amazed at how Lewton , an immigrant Russian with little background in films , could turn out so many carefully crafted movies with so little money , such filigreed minor masterpieces of mood , atmosphere , and character . The sets were mostly left-overs from earlier RKO productions , but so finely dressed that they seem to belong to his films alone . The photography and lighting are exemplary . The direction is original and tasteful . If " I Walked With a Zombie " were remade today ( and it might be ) , it would be full of ghastly close shots of horrifying zombie faces , munching human flesh , blood dripping down their jaws . This is one of many instances in which well enough should be left alone .
Superior adaptation of Twain's novel .	Ernest Hemingway once said that all American literature began with " Huckleberry Finn . " A bit of an exaggeration from Papa , but there was certainly nothing like " Huckleberry Finn " before it came along . Twain's novel was uniquely uncompromising . At the very beginning , Huck's father shakes a jug of booze and , when asked if there's anything left in it , replies that there ought to be enough left for one more case of the DTs . It's hard to imagine that this was ever a popular children's story , although all adults seem convinced that it is - - or was . More likely it's a keen projection of grown-up escape fantasies . " They're trying ' to civilize me again , Jim . Let's go ! " I haven't read the novel in years but this is about as close an adaptation as we're likely to see . The novel , the film , and the hero are utterly bereft of sentimentality . The story spares no one and no ideology . The irony - - Huck is the naive narrator with no sense of humor - - cuts into everything and leaves it bleeding , from slavery to abolitionists - - Evangelical Christians , European royalty , bourgeois values , rustic simplicity , the fine arts , populism , the traps of tradition . The funniest episode in the film involves Richard Kiley as the sanctimonious and brain-dead head of the middle-class Grangerford family , involved in a feud with the Shepherdsons . Kiley's performance is priceless . After saying grace at the family table , he dabs at his nose and sniffs as he presents Huck with some examples of his dear , departed daughter's crayon art works . The first is a dreadful child's drawing called something like , " The Weeping Willow and Me , Alas . " The other is the last work of poor Emiline's , a wretched sketch of a woman flying on wings . Huck asks : " It's very nice , sir , but why does the lady have six arms ? " On the verge of breaking down , Kiley replies : " Dear Emiline tried them all to see which pair looked best but she was taken from us before she could decide . " I simply can't see a twelve-year-old kid finding that as funny as I do . Nice set design , location shooting , acting , and adherence to the source have turned this often soppy story into a well executed TV movie . It was shown in 1985 , so Jim remains " Nigger Jim " instead of " # # # # # # Jim . " It wasn't until 1995 that Detective Fuhrman in the O . J . Simpson trial made the N word unspeakable outside the proper social borders . But I'm glad because if anything would completely wreck a satire like " Huckleberry Finn " , it's political correctness . It would lose half its impact . Mrs . Loftus wouldn't be able to tell that Huck was a boy disguised as a girl because of the way he claps his legs together ( instead of spreading them ) to catch a fruit in his lap . Twain left off writing the novel for some time before taking it up again , and it shows because the last fifth or so doesn't quite jibe with the unsparing beginning . And the truth is that the story really is episodic , Huck and Jim having one adventure after another on their trip down the Mississippi . There is , however , at least two important features that maintain continuity . One is the relationship between Huck and Jim , and the other is Huck's rebellion against the corrupting effects of what he calls " civilization " , and the film takes care of both of these questions in a more or less satisfying way . One of the Grangerford sons , a boy of about Huck's age , tells him that the Grangerfords and the Shepherdsons are in a feud , and when Huck asks what a " feud " is , the other boy explains it this way . One man kills another . Then the brother of the dead man kills the first man . Then the cousins chip in , and pretty soon all the relatives are killing one another . And then when they're all dead and nobody is left , the feud is over . You know something ? Maybe it's not just children that won't get the irony . I can think of some adults who might profit from a scrutiny of the moral message .
Strange Heroes .	Lumet seems to have returned to the theme he tackled in " Twelve Angry Men " - - one stand-up guy who is disparaged in court by the others on his team until , in the end , he enters his house justified . Vin Diesel is the star and he does a surprisingly good job , mixing vernacular English with the savvy of a street rat . He's like the inarticulate bumbler in a classroom who manages to come up with the highest grade on the exam . But then the rest of the cast is excellent too . Peter Delage is especially impressive and it's good to see a totally gray Alex Rocco as the Capo . Ron Silver , as the stern judge , plays to his strengths . The script sticks to the courtroom and the jail house where Diesel is incarcerated for a looong time . A dozen or so racketeers are charged under RICO and brought together for a huge trial lasting more than a year . All of the defendants have lawyers except for Diesel , as Jackie DeNorsia , who decides to defend himself ( he's spent half his life in jail ) . He tells the court that he's known the other defendants all his life and they are his family . But if they're his family , they treat him like the family idiot when he puts on his lawyer hat . His presentational style is engaging . He's full of jokes , some of them obscene . And he doesn't mind playing the wounded victim either . The others , however , are not sure whether he's helping them or damaging his case with his clumsy , low-brow stand-up comedy act . Still , Jackie sticks to his guns , even when he's shunned by the others . He will not rat on them , though they may have been responsible for Jackie's being shot several times . And in the end , they salute him as they leave the courtroom - - free at last . Jackie , laden with more chains than King Kong , beams at them as they wave and blow kisses , though he's returning to the slams and there is nothing much to lead us to believe that once Jackie is out of sight , he will not also be out of mind . If this is victory , someone will have to explain the meaning of the word " victory . " In fact , I've begun wondering what " victory " is supposed to mean for the past year or two . This is a strange plot . We don't know what the horde of defendants are charged with . They wore pinkie rings , ate in Italian restaurants , and passed each other greasy paper bags filled with money . So what ? Lumet and his writers aren't interested in the court case . They're interested in Jackie and how he responds to the pressure from both sides . If he cooperates and rats , he's out of jail . If he doesn't - - well . In the end I didn't care much for the hero of the play . Jackie's shown as a proud and sometimes loving human being . The corrections officers clobber him and when asked about it by the judge , he replies , " I fell . " He has a mother who dies halfway through the movie . The problem is that he doesn't deserve much in the way of compassion because in fact he shows so little for others . Diesel is such a huge and awkward presence that we sense from the various hints that he can be , and has been , one mean mother in the past . And his " regular guy " act may have impressed the jury but struck me as not-quite-expert manipulation , akin to Willie Stark's " I'm a hick , just like you , " in " All the King's Men . " " I'm so stupid that I can hardly walk , so you believe me , okay ? " Not okay with me . I was glad when Marlon Brando turned on the gang in " On the Waterfront . " I don't know if these particular goons committed crimes or just were guilty of wearing pinkie rings , but if they did half of what the prosecutor accuses them of , Jackie should have dropped the dime . In the last few years I've wondered not just about the meaning of the word " victory " but about whether loyalty is the greatest of all virtues . Maybe it's better to follow the law . Generally speaking .
Kubrik gallops out of the gate .	" The Killers " obviously owes a lot to " The Asphalt Jungle " of four years earlier , and also reflects the influence of the kind of semi-documentary post-war intrigues that Henry Hathaway and some others made - - " The House on 92nd Street " , for instance - - with their baritone narrations and emphasis on clockwork precision . It isn't quite what we think of as a Kubrik film yet . The lighting , for example , doesn't seem to emanate from such strange sources as the floor , and there is still genuine emotion being shown on screen , a real sense of humanity , rather than its near absence . All that aside , it's an involving story of a complicated race track heist with a first-rate cast . Marie Windsor , as the treacherous adulteress , is sexy and gorgeous . ( I kind of find Ileana Douglas interesting too . ) Coleen Gray has less time on screen but is likewise sexy and gorgeous , but in a much more housewifely way . Yipes , what a nearly perfect face , full of excellent bone structure . It could have come from noplace but Nebraska . You can imagine Gray as once having been a virgin whereas the Windsor character seems to have been born debauched . The men are equally good . Sterling Hayden , the human monolith whose career ranks right up there in the first rank of the second rate . He was more interested in his yacht than his vocation , which he thought was silly . Elisha Cook , Jr . , the schmuck , taken advantage of and repeatedly humiliated , yet again . Ted DeCorsia as a reliably corrupt cop , for him a role filled with decorum . Vince Edwards as a non-acting sleazy gigolo . A hairy mountainous Greek wrestler with some lines that reek of pomposity . ( He's a chess aficionado ; maybe that accounts for it . ) Joe Sawyer as the low-echelon participant with a sick wife . ( As I said , it harks back to " The Asphalt Jungle . " ) Timothy Carey as a racist equinocide who gets what's coming to him for using the " N " word . Then there's Jay C . Flippen in the complex role of the financier . It's " complex " because I've seen this film a dozen times but only tonight did I pay any real attention to the scene in which Flippen and Hayden part for the last time . Flippen has been an aw-shucks kind of softy throughout , but in this scene he tells Hayden that Hayden is like a son to him and proposes a trip around the world for just the two of them - - " Let the old world take a couple of spins " - - which today sounds suspiciously like a gay come on . Hayden however doesn't seem to catch any undertones and his departure is no more than friendly , but the camera lingers on Flippen's expression of extreme disappointment after Hayden has gone . I understand the movie had to be re-edited to make the narrative clearer but although some of the scenes overlap in time I didn't have any trouble following it . The plot is pretty clever , with no more than the usual number of holes in it . ( One shotgun blast and one pistol shot and half a dozen people are turned into mincemeat . ) It's an enjoyable movie with an ironic ending - - all that cash flying around in the prop wash , caused by some snotty lady's tiny and deformed dog - - but one supposes the moral code called for crime not to pay in 1956 . I'm all for the punishment of thieves and murderers but I wanted to make a grab for all those bills floating about .
Probably Fred and Ginger's Best .	What an entertaining movie . Astaire and Randolph Scott are in the Navy . Astaire has to woo back Ginger in San Francisco , while Scott must be persuaded that Harriet Hilliard is worthy of being his wife . Everything works out fine . It's sometimes argued , and I can see why , that Scott's romance with Hilliard is unnecessary and slows the plot down . Especially painful are Hilliard's singing of sappy love songs . I could have done without her singing , right enough , but I found the romance rather touching . Hilliard enters the movie as a music teacher , wearing a pair of spectacles , no makeup , and the ugliest clothes known to man or beast . No wonder Scott avoids her until she grooms herself sexily under the tutelage of her sister Ginger and a slinky Lucille Ball . The problem is that AFTER her makeover she looks like the same irretrievably plain woman as before , only with a glossier outfit . It's tough enough for a homely guy . But at least a man can become wealthy and powerful and popular , then he can collect women anyway , even if he looks like JoJo the Dog-Faced Boy . But what does a plain-looking woman do ? The same avenues to romance aren't open to her . Henry Kissinger had groupies . Did Margaret Thatcher ? It must be terrible to be an ordinary woman in a culture as cruel as ours . As a kind of a footnote , I must mention that Randolph Scott was rumored to be bisexual by Hollywood gossips who needed some nonsense to chew on , and it's kind of amusing that he has the following line in this film when he's putting homely Hilliard off - - " Women don't interest me , sister . " The movie probably gives more quality time to Ginger Rogers than any of her other films with Astaire . And she's marvelous . She's beautiful , sexy , a talented actress and dancer , and the script gives her good comic lines too . " Let's kiss and make up , " suggests Astaire . " Let's just make up , " she says , " that will give you something to work on . " It's also the only film she made with Astaire that gives her a solo number during an audition . ( Choreographed by Hermes Pan . ) Her performance is accidentally sabotaged by Astaire who slips some Alka Seltzer or something into her water , and she hiccups through her number , burping being too indelicate for the time . As a dancer , I'd make a terrific circus elephant so my opinion must be taken as that of an amateur , but I think their dances together are the equal of any they put on film . Their first , during a dancing contest , " Let Yourself Go , " is the most wildly exuberant of any I can remember . And the only dramatic duet , " Let's Face the Music and Dance , " must be among their finest . The last step as they exit is startling . I like the film for reasons with personal resonance . I remember seeing it for the first time in a theater in downtown San Diego , next to a shop called " The Seven Seas " that catered to sailors . I was in uniform at the time and was impressed with the treatment of the naval careers of Astaire and Scott . What I mean is , here we have this frothy musical comedy which owed absolutely nothing to historical reality , and yet , unlike most of their other teamings , pays its dues anyway . Jumping ship , Astaire calls out for a " water taxi . " I had just taken a water taxi ashore myself . The uniforms are correct to the period ( unlike , say , those in " On the Town " ) . And they're worn properly , hats down to two finger-widths above the eyebrow and not cocked back . And there are two incidents in which Astaire runs into a problem with naval authorities and they're both handled with perfect seriousness and are thoroughly believable . An officer stops Astaire from leading a jazz band during inspection and reports to the captain , " They were playing when the call was sounded , sir . I'm certain no breach of discipline was intended . " It's what an officer - - a good officer - - would say , and nobody laughs . The series was getting a little repetitious by the time " Follow the Fleet " was made so instead of putting Fred into high society and a tuxedo , they turned him into a gum-chewing swabbie instead . It was a good idea . And the dance numbers are up to the concept .
Is Torture a Sin ?	Considering that this is a play and rather looks like one , it's pretty good . Well , it's good anyway . A lawyer , Gerardo ( Stuart Wilson ) and his wife Paulina ( Sigourney Weaver ) have just retired in their comfortable , isolated house next to a cliff overhanging the sea . The location is somewhere in South America , in a country that has just emerged from despotism and become a democracy . A car has trouble on the road in front of their house . Dr . Miranda ( Ben Kingsley ) rouses them and asks for help , but an electrical storm has knocked out both the power and the phone . Gerardo and Dr . Miranda are chatting in the living room while Paulina is still in bed . Hearing Miranda's voice , she sits up in alarm , sneaks outside , burns off in Miranda's car and pushes it over a cliff . That , I guess , is the end of Act I . Most of the time we spend with Gerardo and Miranda in the living room . The two men are at loose ends and drink themselves into a cheerfully befuddled state . I can't remember many drunk scenes better than this one . Kingsley , in particular , is given marvelous lines and delivers them as if they were gifts to the audience - - cynical , ironic , high brow , amiable . " I would like to quote Nietzsche in a situation like this , " says Kingsley . " At least I think it was Nietzsche . Maybe it was Freud . " Gerardo , " If you can remember a quotation , it's usually Freud . " The dialog is delicious and matter of fact . The two men are sitting on the porch steps , still thinking Paulina is asleep , musing about where a thief might have driven Miranda's car , and why . " I'm an idiot , " says Kingsley . " I'm running down the road yelling ' That's my car ! ' Of course the thief knows that . That's the whole POINT . " Later , when they find out that Paulina has stolen the car , " I mean , what is this - - a regular thing or what ? How long do you think we might have to wait ? A day or two ? A month ? " Then the humor dwindles to a palpitating point and vanishes , and the movie becomes echt-serious . Paulina claims that Miranda worked as an interrogator for the now-deposed dictatorship and that he beat , tortured , and raped the women who were his prisoners - - Paulina included . ( She's explicit about the techniques . ) Gerardo thinks she's crazy . Miranda is astonished and scared to death . Paulina has Miranda tied up and puts him on trial , appointing Gerardo his defense counsel . Some " trial " ! If Miranda confesses and shows genuine contrition she'll let him go , otherwise she'll shoot him through the head . Miranda , sensibly , is perfectly willing to confess and get out of this mad house but , since he claims to have had nothing to do with the previous regime , he doesn't know what to confess to . Paulina wants details - - what was she tied up with , ropes or wires ? - - that Miranda says he is unable to provide . It's a harrowing movie , with occasional arcs of electricity jumping through it . I'm not certain the ending is played exactly as it would be in real life , but it hardly matters because the acting on the part of all three principals is unimpeachable . I don't want to give away the climax but I'll sum up my impression by saying that it's quite possible to be guilty OR innocent , while still being mad . See it if you can . It's a hard film to forget .
Point of Order .	A pretty good , ensemble movie about political intrigues and the personal secrets and ideologies that propel them . Henry Fonda is the titular star but , really , there are half a dozen people who play important roles with , arguably , Don Murray's being the most dramatic and challenging . The plot . President Franchot Tone wants his nomination for Secretary of State , Fonda , to be confirmed by the Senate . There are senators who don't want to see Fonda get the job because he's too liberal or because of past feuds or both ( Charles Laughton ) . Others , like George Grizzard , are the most smegmaphagous of politicians who want to see Fonda get the job and are willing to stoop to blackmail to see him get it . The Chair of the Senate Subcomittee that is conducting the hearings , Don Murray , is a man of principle who plays by the rules and is holding off his judgment on Fonda . Fonda has a problem , see . At one time , mostly out of curiosity , he attended a few meetings of a communist cell in Chicago . Fonda's sworn enemy , Laughton , brings in an eye witness to Fonda's early mistakes , Burgess Meredith , but Fonda destroys him on the stand by proving that Meredith has made misstatements about his own past , including hiding the fact that he spent time in a psychiatric hospital . Burgess Meredith , with only a little screen time , gives the most nuanced performance . I don't want to get into the plot any farther because it's complicated and explication would take too much space and ruin too many surprises . And there ARE surprises . Here is one of them . This film was shot in 1961 during the Cold War , when the United States was bitterly divided on many issues . Yet the conflicts , in their essence , are still with us . Charles Laughton , not unreasonably , stands for firmness in dealing with the enemy . Let's stand up on our hind legs and fight back and not sacrifice our liberties or our dignity . We never have and we never will . Fonda , who is called an " egghead " in the film , is a former professor at the University of Illinois who sees nothing wrong with negotiations and compromise , depending on circumstances , and who feels that our diplomacy shouldn't be determined by pride . George Grizzard is a grimly vicious senator who plays all kinds of dirty pool and is willing to bring the temple down with him if he can't get his way . If some of that doesn't resonate , I don't know what will . Only the name of the enemy seems to have changed . Charles Laughton is as blubbery and crapulous as always but not nearly as animated as in earlier roles . He was dying of spinal cancer and it's a wonder he could walk at all . A long-ago homosexual experience plays an important part in the plot , leading to a suicide . Those attitudes , at least , have become more diverse . Sometimes politicians who are outed resign , sometimes they deny everything and continue with their careers , and sometimes they admit their gender orientation freely and continue in office , judged by their political values rather than what they do in the boudoir . Both Laughton and Grizzard might have had problems along those lines if they'd been involved in politics . And one wonders if the director , Otto Preminger , went out of his way to see well-known political activists cast as politicians - - Don Murray , Will Geer , Henry Fonda , Franchot Tone , Lew Ayres . Perhaps not . It's an interesting film with some good performances and , in the end , strikes me as a balanced piece of didactation rather than a propaganda piece .
Knockabout Hitchcock Thriller .	Hitchcock and Truffaut almost had an argument over the relative value of this ( 1934 ) version of " The Man Who Knew Too Much " and the 1956 remake . Hitchcock , always averse to confrontation , finally admitted that the early film was the work of a talented amateur and the 1956 version that of a professional . For a " talented amateur , " this is pretty good stuff . It's true that the later version is glossier , more tense , and edgier , but this one is a lot of fun . We don't really worry for a moment that the kidnapped child ( Nova Pilbeam ) of Leslie Banks and Edna Best will be harmed . Nor can we readily imagine that the anonymous ambassador will be assassinated at the Albert Hall . Leslie Banks and his pal , who are trying to locate the place in London where the child is being held , don't seem to take the threat too seriously either . Where Jimmy Stewart and Doris Day played the pursuit almost entirely straight ( with the exception of one ludicrous scene in a taxidermist's shop ) , Banks and Buddy make wisecracks and engage in one comic adventure after another - - even a horrifying scene is the office of a sinister dentist who grins demoniacally as he intones , " That one had better come out . " ( Gulp . ) Edna Best as the anxious mother isn't around all that much . The place occupied by Doris Day in the remake is taken by Banks ' somewhat mentally stunted male buddy . You can get more laughs out of a male buddy than out of a fearful wife . You can bop the buddy over the head , hypnotize him , hit him with folding chairs , and pull his tooth . Try doing that to a near-hysterical Doris Day . Yes , the 1956 version is a more polished film , but it's a different kind of film too . This one is almost farcical and has Peter Lorre as a suavely sneaky murderer . It has a climactic shoot out that isn't particularly well done . But they're both identifiably Hitchcockian . Take your pick . You win either way .
Propaganda - - good propaganda .	The poetry is sublime . A little touch of Harry in the night Once more , dear friends , once more unto the breach . The history sucks . Hitler used the same reasoning . Oh , please , don't make us invade your city and rape your women and smash your babies ' brains out against the wall . Please - - give up before you make us do this . Show us that you have destroyed your WMDs . Oops . How does Olivier , the director and principal , handle the production ? Pretty well . The movie's the thing , you know , and he does an extremely good job of managing it . Clearly he's watched a couple of Errol Flynn movies . He has lightly clad men armed only with knives dropping from the branches onto heavily armored French knights . ( Cf . , Robin Hood . ) He has a shot of a line of French knights and gaily flapping flags advancing towards the English at Agincourt , first at a walk , then a trot , then a gallop . ( Cf . , The Charge of the Light Brigade . ) But he has some unexpectedly original shots too - - a startling brief glimpse of a horse's bared teeth in the midst of battle . Harry was a marvelous young kid . Here he's a king and thrusts Falstaff aside . ( If you want to see Falstaff in excelsis you must see The Merry Wives of Windsor . ) Harry's claim to the throne of France is bull . In the play it takes up a lot of time , ratiocination by bishops who are trying to avoid taxes . Some gobblydegook about the Salic law entitling Henry to the throne of France , which had heretofore been either ignored or forgotten . It's all glossed over , here . The French are turned into outright villains - - foppish , insulting , comic ( a scene of a fully armored French knight being lowered jerkily onto his horse by means of a winch ) . Oh , they're sadists too . They raid Henry's supply camps and butcher the young boys they find there . But there's no denying the impact of the play . You'll get caught up in it . And , if you don't know what a Bohemian Henry V was , or how close he was to Sir John Falstaff , and if the movie " four score and five " English dead after Agincourt , an undercount if there ever was one , then what difference does it make ? Lawrence Olivier's performance can't go unmentioned though . It's just plain superb . He was a truly great actor , and there may never have been a Henry V ( or a Hamlet ) that was his equal . Here's the story . On a pretext , Henry V invades France and marries some high-class babe . England DID wind up ruling parts of northern France , as I remember , but not for long after Henry's departure .
War at Sea , Well Above Average	It's hard to understand what it is that turns some seamen into superior writers . Of course they have a lot of yarns to tell , but where does the skill in telling them come from ? Nicholas Monserrat , on whose best-selling book this movie is based , never wrote a ground-breaking novel but no one is better at conveying the details of life at sea , at the maintenance and manipulation of ships . This film matches Monserrat's novel in its realistic portrayal of duty on a British corvette . Corvettes were smaller than destroyers , and slower and carried less armament , and they were uncomfortable to boot . They were designed to do only one thing : find and destroy German U-boats . The war against submarines didn't go well for the Allies until about May of 1943 , when new technology turned patrols by U-boats into something resembling suicide missions . The characters we meet are nicely done . Most of them are jolly good chaps . Stanley Baker appears briefly as a stern but inefficient First Lieutenant who is induced to leave in a comic scene . There is , in fact , quite a lot of humor in the dialog . And there is of course drama , usually understated . The scenes of bloodshed are handled delicately . Some of the events were , or have becomes , clichés by now . The ship must stop for silent repairs in submarine-infested waters and somebody drops a monkey wrench - - or , pardon me , an adjustable spanner . A handful of sailors alone in a rubber life raft must sing an absurd song and clap to keep warm and vital . Some of the wives on the beach are not worthy of their husbands . Others , who might be , are liable to be casualties of German bombs . The movie isn't overscored . During energetic combat scenes , when we might expect to be overwhelmed by some kind of march , where Muir Mathesson or Dmitri Tiomkin might be going berserk , there is no music at all , so we can listen to the clanks as the depth charges are rolled off the stern . The newsreel footage that is integrated into the movie is a little obvious but hardly poses a major problem . Nice sound work . In heavy weather , when the Compass Rose pitches into a swell , in addition to the generic whistling wind we hear the percussive slam of iron against sea water . A surprising amount of drinking goes on aboard the Compass Rose . There is a pint of beer with lunch and wine with dinner . There are cocktail parties attended by admirals . If somebody brings a cup of hot tea to the shivering lookout , there may be a tot of rum in it . And sometimes the officers just sit around the wardroom and get plastered . Now there is a civilized habit for you . The Brits had it just about right but , alas , abandoned the program and went on the wagon a generation or so ago . The Anchor Bay DVD that I watched has a crisp transfer and is easy on the eyes . It's not to be missed by anyone with an interest in World War II as seen from the deck of an ordinary British warship , one of little consequence in itself . In five years of sailing the crew sink only two U-boats and lose a ship of their own . Just a small ship and its crew , trying to do their jobs and stay alive in the process .
Let's Make a Movie !	Robert Altman was a hard man to get hold of . While shooting this movie , an actor asked what the dialog was supposed to be about - - what should he say ? Altman's reply : " I can't tell you what to say . " His first big film , " MASH " , struck me as slapdash , designed to be funny , and anachronistic , a statement about the absurdity of the Vietnam war set during the Korean war . The football team smokes dope . The doctors take advantage of their station to play golf and insult their superiors . It didn't increase my distaste for our Southeastern Asia adventure , but it left me , as an ex-enlisted man , with a greater resentment of the perks given to officers . After " MASH " , his films , always quirky , varied from the barely coherent to the socially nihilistic . Some of them were impossible to sit through . I'd much rather have had a couple of beers with Altman and shoot the breeze than to watch another of his episodic and disjointed productions . Given a good narrative line , though , Altman's bricollage hangs together . TV's " The Caine Mutiny Court Martial " was an instance , and so is " The Player . " It's suspenseful , funny , ironic , and touching . The plot is about as complicated as a game of tic-tac-toe . Tim Robbins , a Hollywood producer , begins to get threatening postcards from a nameless writer whom he once apparently crossed . He accidentally kills the writer he thinks responsible . However , the post cards continue coming . Gulp . Robbins is called in for questioning by the police ( Whoopi Goldberg et al ) and has to stand in a line up . But no one can identify him as the killer . He winds up marrying the victim's girl friend and living in a rose-covered cottage . Then he gets a call from the real post card sender who is peddling his script about the murder . For an unstated sum , the screenwriter agrees to give the story " a happy ending . " There isn't space enough to cover all the felicities . It's a savage attack on Hollywood and just about everyone in it , although the multitude of guest stars are treated in a friendly enough fashion . It's the kind of script William Goldman might have written if they'd take his handcuffs off . Example : Peter Gallagher is a rival producer and bids Robbins good-bye because he's off to his Alcoholics Anonymous meeting . Robbins ( sympathetically ) : " Gee , Larry , I didn't know you had a drinking problem . " Gallagher : " Well , actually , I don't , but that's where all the deals are being made . " The improvisatory techniques work this time around , adding color and unexpected dimension to a story that keep us interested throughout . Whoopi Goldberg , as the Pasadena detective in charge of the case , is questioning Robbins in her office and keeps interrupting herself to ask her staff questions like , " Where are my tampons ? Not these - - I take jumbo , not regular slim . " And while Robbins is slowly going nuts with anxiety on the other side of the desk she is twirling a tampon round and round with her fingertip . When Robbins finally erupts with rubescent indignation she begins to cackle and soon every cop and every secretary in the room is laughing in an unbuttoned way while Robbins ' eyes dart crazily from side to side . What a surreal scene . The photography is , to use an adjective that's almost unavoidable in this context , stupendous . And the score by Thomas Newman is both original and effective , aptly extraterrestrial . Even the happy ending theme has an underlying sinister quality . There is only one major character in the film who has any principle . Cynthia Stevenson . At the end , she is fired by her boss , ignored by everyone else , and loses a heel and falls down while hurrying off the lot . This was released more than fifteen years ago , as unbelievable as it seems , and it's a little frightening to run down the cast and crew list and see the number of players who have been shuffled off this mortal coil . Where's the next generation ?
Was Ever Woman In This Humour Wooed ?	A briskly paced and sometimes hilarious retelling of George Bernard Shaw's most entertaining play . The Pygmalion of Greek myth is Leslie Howard , a professor of phonetics specializing in regional and class accents , who brings his Galatea to life in the person of Wendy Hiller , transformed from dirty , homely , gutter-mouthed flower girl to a clean-minded , morally upright , and impeccably spoken middle-class woman . As Henry Higgens the linguist , Leslie Howard is outrageously self centered and coolly professional . As he says , he treats a Dutchess like a flower girl , contemptuously . What he doesn't add is that he treats a flower girl too like a flower girl too . He treats everybody like dirt except his affable companero , Colonel Pickering , the specialist in " spoken Sanskrit . " Even when Howard rushes in on his mother , she looks up with shock and says , " Henry , your supposed to stay home today , " and tells him to get out . In Act I , Howard meets Hiller at Covent Garden and , on a dare , takes her into his house to make her over . She finally acquires the phones proper to an English lady . Alas , in an initial experiment in middle-class company , she introduces herself with all the proper pronunciation of all the improper words and stories . " Them that done her in would have done it for a hat pin , let alone a hat , " she announces with florid delicacy . Back to the chalk board for both of them . In Act II , the experiment is given the acid test . Howard and Pickering take Hiller to a fancy dress ball full of English nobility and foreign dignitaries . One of the attendees is a former student of Howard's , a certain Aristide Karpathy , who boasts , " You may be able to place anyone in England , but I can place anyone in the world . " And Karpathy is determined to discover who this now-beautiful young stranger is . He comes to the conclusion that she speaks English too well to actually BE English , that she's actually a Hungarian princess . ( " The chin shows . " ) End of experiment , and beginning of Act III , which gets serious , repetitive , and a little draggy . The question is , What's to become of Hiller , now that she's been made into a lady ? Higgens offers to throw her out but she slides sadly off on her own steam , chockablock with dignity . Does she return to bachelor Howard a moment later ? Guess . Some of Shaw's original lines show up both in this speedy little film of 1938 and the elephantine musical that featured Rex Harrison as Higgens and Audrey Hepburn as Eliza Doolittle , but otherwise there's little to compare . Rex Harrison may very well be better at this sort of comedy than Howard . Harrison was a more versatile actor . And Wilfred Hyde-White is more impressive than the bland Colonel Pickering of 1938 . But Wendy Hiller is pretty , despite that overbite , or maybe partly because of it , without being stunningly beautiful , and she can't be compared to Audrey Hepburn . Who could ? What drags the more recent , more nearly gargantuan production down is the strain of effort that shows up in the production design and wardrobe . A character in this earlier film is described as wearing " half of Kew Gardens on her head , " and - - wow - - how that applies to the wardrobe and makeup in the later movie . It's all rather overwhelming . And after all , Hepburn hardly needs it . It's gilding the flower . Wasn't Givenchy good enough ? Anyway , I like this movie at least as well as the musical version . Except for that last act in which everyone seems to get broody and contemplative , it rushes headlong into the study of English class differences , more pronounced and more interesting than those of Americans . It's never boring , and that's saying a lot .
I Can Resist Anything But Temptation	Above-average TV movie . It raises some interesting questions and , unfortunately , tries to provide answers . It's the dark side of " Stand and Deliver . " A teacher in a working-class Chicago high school , Dr . Plecki , tries to - - wait a minute . What's a guy with a doctorate doing teaching in a slum school ? Never mind . He's played by Jeff Daniels as if defeated from the beginning , with little energy . His students are uninterested in his lit classes ; they fight , throw spitballs , curse magnificently , and fall asleep , except for Joli Fitch , played by cute , perky , and preppy-looking Jena Malone with a certain verve . She forms a kind of conspiratorial bond with Plecki and they gather a group of the smartest students in the school to form a team for the academic decathlon . Their SATs are evidently high , but none of them except Joli shows any evidence of it , nor any interest in academics . However , as fate will have it , one students manages to steal copies of the decathlon exam and brings them to the team meeting . In most movies , this is the scene in which the teacher provides the students with a proper role model . Not here . Plecki asks if the students want to cheat - - and they jump at the chance , with one demurral from a Russian immigrant girl who can't be expected to have properly absorbed American ethics yet . Plecki convinces her that , after all , everybody cheats . Life in unfair . Those s at Whitney Young High are all spoiled rich kids and the school has a huge budget , and so on . She demonstrates her quick intelligence and her latent Americanism by readily agreeing to cheat . They win the state academic decathlon . But this brings expectable problems , as it did in " Stand and Deliver . " How come these lunkheads from the inner city suddenly are able to defeat the Whitney Young team , winners for the past nine years in a row ? In fact , Plecki watches " Stand and Deliver " on TV in order to figure out how to get out of the hot water he and his students have gotten into ! ( Let's see - - if you see this movie , then you're watching art imitating life imitating art imitating life . The old " serial universe " problem . ) The student who originally brought the purloined test to the teacher's attention had been excluded from the decathlon team and , understandably petulant , squeals on the others . This only adds to the bureaucratic and media turmoil surrounding Plecki and his band of unlikely Mirmidons . The media people are self parodies : " Is it true that Dr . Plecki was recruiting cult members ? " So are the self-righteous bureaucrats : " I can't comment on that aspect of the investigation . " There are interesting issues . Simple questions arise . Are you justified in cheating simply because you feel the playing field is tilted against you ? Does the end justify the means ? That sort of thing , for which Gordon Gekko would have equally simple answers . The film-makers come up with the same answers . It's on the side of the cheaters all the way . It's better to be realistic than idealistic - - an A average gets you into a better school . It opens doors in a way that a D average doesn't . You can do things in one of two ways : the proper way and the smart way , and the smart way is quicker and more effective . The kids survive the ordeal but have developed a nurturant bond with one another . One or two go on to college , the rest to working-class jobs . ( Why working-class jobs , with those high SATs ? Presumably they don't mind winning , it's just learning that they abhor . Why should I have to know the names of all fourteen planets ? ) Well , the way the film sums up the story at the end is kind of a problem because , after all , education is what you make it . We could skip the whole tiresome business of GPAs and SATs and academic decathlons easily by just awarding everyone a BA from the University of Chicago at birth . As one student interviewee puts it , what's the point of knowing about stuff like polynomials ? Why should we have to know what " Abandon Hope All Ye Who Enter Here " means ? There's another , more serious problem , one which involves not ethics but science . There is no evidence that attending a school with a higher budget , that pays teachers a better salary , that has more equipment or smaller class sizes , improves a student's grades . The primary determinant of academic performance seems to be values inspired within the family . If you grow up in a home that has a copy of Dante's " Inferno " on the shelf , you'll probably do better in school than if you grow up in a home in which Mommy and Daddy sit around on the couch , scratching themselves , drinking Budweiser , and guffawing at " World's Most Violent TV Videos . " I judge this movie as above average not because of the intentions of the writer-director , but despite them . Don't be like the students here and grab for the easy interpretation the film itself offers you , but instead think about what you've just seen . It's harder work , but worth the effort .
This is what happens when you don't beat them enough .	A cheap , well executed British SciFi film about a cohort of superintelligent , mind-reading children growing up in a small English village . The original title of the story , I think , was " The Midwitch Cuckoos , " a less exploitative but far more appropriate title than " Village of the Damned . " We may think of cuckoos as a cute wooden thing that comes out of a gingerbread clock and makes funny noises to announce the time , but that's because we are not birds . Real cuckoos are brood parasites . They lay eggs in the nests of other species of birds . The other birds fecklessly hatch them . And , man , are the cuckoo hatchlings ugly - - gray , featherless , sinewy things that immediately go about the business of rolling the other eggs out of the nest to get rid of the competition . They are born evil . In this movie the cuckoos are children . Their mothers were impregnated by - - well , by some kind of extraterrestrial infrared hypermolecular cosmological incubus . Anyway , all the women of Midwich become pregnant during a blackout period that encompasses the entire village for a few hours . It's chilling from the outset to see others try to enter the village and flop down as soon as they cross an invisible boundary . These kids aren't ugly though . They all have blond hair and magnetic eyes . And what one of them learns , the others know immediately . ( Curiously enough there is an unsupported notion now going around about this happening in a couple of monkey communities , called something like " the index monkey hypothesis . " ) But handsome or not , they can immediately solve one of those Chinese-box puzzles in which you have to slide panels around , up and down , until you expose the inner drawer . It always takes me ten times as long as it take them , which makes me want to exterminate the little buggers . I won't go on for too long about the story , though . This is an intelligent science fiction thriller . Here are these dozen or so kids , who have powers beyond the natural and need no one except each other . Like autists they don't show any affection for anyone or indeed any emotion at all , unless determination is an emotion . Their biological mothers mean nothing to them , the supposed " fathers " even less . What they seem to want as they grow into preadolescents is to be left alone except for what tutoring George Sanders as the requisite professor can give them in earthly knowledge . They're mortal enough . An independent community of them has been destroyed in the USSR . And they're dangerous too . In three instances - - one accidental , two deliberate - - a villager almost kills some of them , and he dies the way he intended them to die . Why are they here on earth ? Nobody knows . If the kids know , they're not telling . National leaders sit around in conferences wondering what to do with them . It's not easy to put a bunch of 10-year-olds in prison , let alone destroy them . It's not just morally difficult , it's practically difficult too because , after all , these kids can read the " front part " of everybody's mind . ( They're working on the back rooms too . ) Sanders proposes that the government give him a year to teach them in the local school and to study them , and the wish is granted . But eventually Sanders comes to realize that when they are grown the children will have all the power and knowledge they need to take over the entire world , and maybe that IS their goal . They show nothing in the way of humane impulses . If they only kill when they are threatened , well that can change as soon as they pick up some of the values of the world they're now living in . Yes - - ruthless fascist dictators seem about the right slots for them . I can't readily visualize them as Gestalt psychotherapists . Sanders decides that they have to go , but it's a problem because , although he's about the only person in the village they feel any trust for , they can also read his intentions . And naturally if he succeeds in ridding the world of these kids , he must go with them because , really , how can you murder these beautiful intelligent children and go on living with yourself . In order to accomplish his goal , he must think of nothing but a brick wall , so they can't read his mind . But they are suspicious and their collective power begins to cause the brick wall to crumble - - too late . I said this was a low-budget flick and it is . There are hardly any special effects to speak of . The production couldn't even afford to pay a stunt man for a full body burn . The performances are fine , but the direction is no more than efficient , and the art direction and photography project a chilly and grimy atmosphere which seems to have occurred naturally . I also said it was intelligent and it is . It's not exactly a horror flick because it has no monsters or murderers and it's not exactly science fiction in the usual sense because it takes place in the present and there isn't a robot in sight . What it does is use improbable events to pose a series of important moral questions . Nobody would argue that these kids are likable . And maybe their Daddies were nothing more than a shower of golden coins or a stream of photons . But they look human and in many ways act it . They don't want to die - - they know about mortality . They certainly DO seem dangerous but they haven't done anything irredeemably evil yet . Sanders decides that there's nothing wrong with them that a darn good blowing up wouldn't cure and we applaud when he manages to carry out his plan . But he's making an awful lot of questionable assumptions . Do they deserve to be killed en masse ? Would YOU kill them all ?
Hold That Tiger .	I think there are three versions of this play kicking around out there and this one is the best , not to mention the fastest . The director , Howard Hawks , was always good at light comedy , improvising gags on the spot and taking all sorts of liberties with the script . Sometimes the plot got lost along the way ( " The Big Sleep " ) but he was always a superb story teller . Hildy Johnson , Rosalind Russell , is an ace reporter about to marry a dull insurance salesman , Ralph Bellamy , but her editor wants to keep her on the paper . Cary Grant couldn't have been a better choice for the role of Walter Burns , Hildy Johnson's editor . He's handsome and roguish and lies with every breath he takes . Hawks rewrote the play . In the original , Hildy was a man but Hawks , who never quite got his gender roles straight , heard a talk-through and decided it would be more interesting if Hildy were a woman . And that enabled the writers to introduce the jealousy element , which wouldn't have fit the original story unless we're talking homoeroticism . I felt kind of sorry for Ralph Bellamy's character . Even his name - - Bruce Baldwin - - sounds like the noise a foot might make when it's being pulled from sludge . The poor guy is earnest , sincere , highly principled , and lives with his mother in Albany . He's the kind of man that every woman in the 1930s wanted to build a home with - - a beastly impulse in itself - - only they'd have to get rid of mother first . Ground glass in the Pablum perhaps . That mother is a real pain in the neck too . She's supposed to accompany them on the overnight train to Albany and travel with them on their honeymoon . Burns traps the feisty old lady into some contretemps and tells his goon , Louie , " Take her down to Polack Mike's and tell the cops she was plastered , " or something like that . Try putting a line like that into a politically correct movie today . Polack Mike's . Notwithstanding the fact that the Polish word for Polish people is " polaki . " The movie rises into the surreal once in a while . The assembled reporters , when they're not playing poker in the press room , speak in headlines . They call their editors with stories that can't possibly be printed . If additional guards will be placed around the scaffold during Earl Williams ' hanging , the lead is " Sheriff just adds new family members to city payroll . " Roger Ebert , a Chicago newsman himself , took some pleasure in seeing how much things had changed since the 1920s , but the change was to be expected . The eternal verities aren't very eternal when you get right down to it . When I was a kid , every car looked like it had been made in 1939 , the mass was said in Latin , and you could supposedly look up girls ' dresses by covertly glancing at their patent leather shoes . Now - - it's all changed . And where did it go ? ( Sob . ) Kleenex , please . Thank you . What an enjoyable and funny movie this is . Oh , it creaks at the joints , but that's to be expected because it's so old . It's like Cary Grant talking Ralph Bellamy into writing out Grant's insurance policy with Rosalind Russel as the beneficiary . Bellamy objects a bit because he wants to provide for her all by himself . But what if he can't ? " Can't you just imagine Hildy when you're gone ? Sitting on the porch swing ? Old lace and lavender ? " Bellamy says dreamily , " Yes , I can . " Grant stands back and snaps , " She's OOOOLD , isn't she ! " I can't stop laughing at the irreverence .
Murphy's Best	I can't understand why this movie isn't more well known or why it doesn't get more critical applause . Well , I suppose it's in black and white , it's short , it has no expensive bankable stars , and no love interest . I can't think of any other reasons , because this is a very good movie indeed . John Huston's direction is outstanding , while still being understated . When he was uninterested , Huston could do a merely pedestrian job . But he must have been interested in " The Red Badge of Courage , " from beginning to end . Example from the beginning : a group of soldiers are gathered around a speaker who is spreading rumors about a coming battle , most of their backs turned to us . The camera slowly moves in towards the small crowd , not the speaker , but the backs of the listeners ' heads , and one of the soldiers turns around towards the camera and steps quickly into a close up with an expression of deep self-doubt . What a way to introduce Audie Murphy as Henry Fleming ! What a way to individuate a mob of naive young men ! Example from the end : Henry and his friend Tom , played by Bill Mauldin , are marching away from the battlefield , still alive , and a bit surprised . Tom says something about how the birds are beginning to sing again , and Henry agrees that as soon as the smoke and noise of battle end it doesn't take the birds long to get worked up again . Henry looks upward over his shoulder , and Huston gives us a point-of-view shot of a hazy sun drifting dimly through the tops of the trees that tower alongside the road . The cast could hardly do better . It is Audie Murphy's best performance by far . In " To Hell and Back , " in which he played himself , he wasn't required to do much more than rudimentary acting , and the film itself is cliché ridden . Here , Murphy convinces us that he's worried , or scared , or half out of his mind on adrenalin , or whatever the situation calls for . His boyish voice is completely appropriate to the role , as is his overall appearance . He seems to have really given this movie some effort . Bill Mauldin as Tom is also surprisingly good . He was undoubtedly the most famous and most controversial cartoonist of World War II and spent a good deal of time with Murphy's Third Division in Italy . He may not be a trained actor , but his sincerity , his gawky face and outlandish ears are more convincing than , say , Tab Hunter's brawn ever was . All of the supporting cast are excellent , particularly John Dierkes as the dying soldier . Do you want to have your hair raised ? Read Steven Crane's original novel . He was 22 when he wrote it , years after the Civil War had ended , but no one would know it from the novel , which has the ring of reminiscence about it . The scene of the dying soldier as he actually dies , standing and trembling from head to foot as if in some Jacksonian fit , is unforgettable in its horror . It's impossible to identify the battle on which the book was based , if indeed there was any . Let's face facts . The North lost damned near all of its most dramatic battles , and not through the fault of its soldiers or junior officers . ( General Winterside's cognomen must have been influenced by the real-life General Ambrose Burnside , for whom our " sideburns " are named . Burnside was one of Lincoln's worst generals and had the good sense and the courage to admit it himself . } The Penninsular campaign , fought under MacLellan , another real hard-charging fire eater , was a dismal failure and ended in an ignominious retreat Crane was from New Jersey and is now buried in Evergreen Cemetery in Hillside , having died a young man . One can only wonder what he might have accomplished had he written more than just two novels . The photography may be black and white but it's splendidly done . I find the only two problems , and they're relatively minor ones , involve the production itself . This isn't back East where the war was fought . This is clearly California , with scattered live oak trees dark and evergreen against the dried summer bunch grass . And the musical score is generic , adding little to the picture aside from the expected Battle Hymn of the Republic and triumphant marches in major keys . A fine picture , all around .
Very Well-Done International Police Thriller .	There is an extremely violent attack within the protected area of Riyadh , Saudi Arabia , and many men , women , and children are killed , including some Americans . America has no jurisdiction but back-negotiations lead to a team of American agents led by the FBI's Jamie Foxx acquiring a five-day pass in Riyadh to help the Saudi police . There follows a kind of introduction to Islamic customs , which many Americans are badly in need of . When you shake hands with a Saudi nobleman , you don't let go of his hand until he does . ( Videoclips of President Bush holding hands with a Saudi royal were played repeatedly on television , often accompanied by sarcastic comments , but this was at least one occasion on which Bush had been properly briefed and the press not . ) These Arabs object to dirty words like bull , and the colonel shouts at an American that his mother should have washed out his mouth . An infidel is not allowed to touch a Moslem's body , and so forth . Of course Islam , like all world religions , has multitudinous " little traditions " in which different rules apply , but this is the official Saudi version . Well , let us not get into cultural anthropology . The four members of the team ( including Jennifer Garner , Jason Bateman , and the ever-reliable Chris Cooper ) are met by the Saudi Police Colonel ( Ashrof Barhom ) whose strictly defined job is to herd them around the site of the blast and keep them from getting themselves hurt . The colonel offers his help reluctantly and keeps within the rules but gradually he and the team members warm to one another and eliminate the criminals behind the blast , but only at terrible cost . This is a mature movie and in many ways exceedingly well done . It isn't AT ALL like " Not Without My Children . " The Moslems are different from us , but not all of them are enemies , unless you sloppily define everyone who is different from us as an enemy . And the Americans are not morally pure or arrogant . As Foxx tells the colonel , " America isn't perfect . I'm the first to admit it . But this is something we are very very good at . " And the team IS good at it , better than the Saudi police , which is believable enough . I mean , these Americans are the cream of the crop , the best we have to offer . I don't know what would happen if you threw Lieutenant Columbo into Riyadh but these four people know what they're doing . I enjoyed the story because it seems , in some sense a little hard to define , realistic . The script gives the performers believable little exchanges and the actors live up to the demands . The photography is fine as well . And the plot is a real thriller . It could have gone completely awry , with heroes killing villains by the gross , but it sticks to its guns and refuses to pander to the adolescent in us . When the high muck-a-mucks are finally tracked down and most of them killed , they aren't a garden-variety gang of ugly , sneering thugs . They are a family with a couple of attached violence-prone friends . The leader is a man so old he can't rise out of bed , yet he can slowly slide an automatic weapon out from under his mattress . He dies with his grandchild sobbing on his riddled chest . Another family member is a gawky adolescent who shoots the colonel in the back and is in turn disarticulated by the team's bullets . The team survives all sorts of tribulations but not with superhuman heroics , just a certain amount of skill and a lot of luck , and they lose a good friend in the bargain . It ends realistically , not hopefully . In the apartment of the head honcho , with gory bodies strewn about the floor , the women and children squeeze themselves into corners and weep as the smoke clears . Jennifer Garner offers a lollipop to the tiny girl to quiet her down . She accepts the candy when her mother allows her to , and in return she meekly hands a gift to Garner . The little girl's hand opens and on its palm rests a large marble - - the stuff that has been encased in the explosive charge . The movie isn't perfect . It was directed by the actor Peter Berg and it is to him that we owe " the wobbling camera " problem . The camera wobbles . It wobbles almost constantly , though not as bad as in , say , " The Bourne Ultimatum . " Sometimes the camera hides behind an object that obscures half our view , but it still wobbles . It doesn't HAVE to wobble to be exciting . I mean , take a look at the equally tense and violent shoot-out at the end of " Heat . " No wobbles . I blame this insane and irritating fad on two things : ( 1 ) A generation of kids who grew up on video games in which everything is motion under a time constraint , and ( 2 ) the MBAs who green light projects like this and firmly believe that the camera must be constantly moving and the editing lightning fast or those kids who grew up on video games will be bored . The technique , though , doesn't match the content here . A childish trick applied to adult material . Or maybe I'm turning into an old curmudgeon . It happens . Why , just yesterday my spectacles fell off into my guacamole .
Scotland the Brave	This is a fine movie . If anyone wants to examine the difference between what passes for a " good movie " these days and a " good movie " fifty years ago , " Tunes of Glory " is a good place to start . The direction is economical , with little in the way of razzle dazzle . Ronald Neame has almost " edited himself out of existence , " in James Joyce's terms . And the writers are equally straightforward . I'll give an example . As Col . Barrows , John Mills spent several years in a POW camp during World War II , as a result of which he's about to pop . This is a golden opportunity for a dramatic flashback . Neame could have stopped the narrative short and taken us back to a Japanese prisoner of war camp in Burma or someplace , and then shown us Mills starving , Mills shivering with fever , Mills being waterboarded , Mills being beaten by sadistic guards , Mills crawling through the mud . But instead we see Mills and a younger captain ( Gordon Jackson ) racing along in a Jeep . Mills pulls the vehicle to a halt , slumps behind the wheel , and in a brief monologue he tells Jackson a little of his experiences . The scene lasts about two minutes . That's " economy . " And it's all the more effective for not being spelled out in detail . The horrors are left to our imaginations . The movie is a Shakespearian kind of tragedy addressed to adults and the script leaves a lot to the viewer's own judgment . There are no easy " good guys " and " bad guys . " That brings us to the acting and I'm reluctant to get into it for fear of running out of space . Alec Guiness is Jock Sinclair , the long-time temporary commander of the Scottish regiment who is replaced by an uptight , by-the-book John Mills . Guiness has never been better . He's been as good before , but not better . Let's just say he embodies the bluff , raucous , whisky-loving , brave , deceitful , superior officer , very different from his Col . Nicholson in " The Bridge on the River Kwai . " He has the most screen time , but John Mills has the more complicated role - - a commander new to his post , unknown to his men , given to following the kinds of rules that Guiness has made a point of ignoring , slightly deranged by his war experiences , loyal to the regiment and willing to compromise his principles for its sake . When he lets Guiness get away with a major public offense , Guiness tells him he's grateful , but then goes on to celebrate what he deems his victory over Mills . Guiness and his loyal officers carry on loudly and drunkenly at one end of the table while Mills sits humiliated and alone at the other . Mills loses more than his dignity . One of the officers - - next in command , in fact - - is Dennis Price , in a splendid performance . Want a challenge ? Figure out if he's a " good guy " or a " bad guy . " Justify your answers . Five minutes allowed , beginning - - now ! The location , which looks more like the Edinburgh Castle than a military barracks , are almost as beautiful as the teen-aged Susannah York . Enough . Watch this film .
What's Not to Like ?	Rod Serling was quite a guy , a nice Jewish kid from Binghamton , NY , who volunteered for the paratroopers in WWII , was wounded , and attended Antioch College in Yellowsprings , Ohio , on the GI Bill . He worked his way up through TV , and sometimes feature films , as a writer and finally got his own series , " The Twilight Zone . " He was exceedingly generous , a Franciscan fool , who publicly threw open the doors to all writers of all stripes while organizing the series . No filters . Anybody could submit a script . But he had to knock that off and resort to the usual means of getting decent stories because the ones flowing in tended to be written in long hand , sometimes on legal pads , and frequently by maniacs . The original team of writers , producers , and directors - - beginning with the first season and lasting two or three years - - was the best . Each member of the cast and crew knew pretty much exactly what they were doing . Buck Houghton , as producer , held the enterprise together and Serling wrote many of the scripts himself . The quality began falling off after a few years . The stories became less original and a bit repetitious . One of the reasons was that Buck Houghton was lured away by a better job . Another was that Serling was simply getting burned out , as he himself admitted . The stories seemed to fall into several categories : the comic stories of special properties in ordinary things or ordinary people ( eg . , " Mr . Dingle The Strong " ) , futuristic science fiction ( eg . , " To Serve Man " ) , moral lessons consisting mainly of dialog ( eg . , " The Obsolete Man " ) , and some sort of time travel ( eg . , " Back There " ) . There was often a good deal of overlap . " Next Stop Willoughby " combines a moral lesson with time travel . I've always found the moral tales least successful because the series , ambitious though it might occasionally be , was so determinedly middlebrow . We don't really learn much if an episode tells us that the concentration camps were evil or that an excess of conformity can be dangerous . The comic episodes could be beguiling . And the time travel episodes were often wistful and nostalgic . Serling never forgot his youth on the streets of an ordinary town that , in retrospect , before he became a hot property himself , must have seemed like paradise . His organization and scripts are sprinkled with self-referential names - - Cayuga Productions ( one of the Finger Lakes in New York state ) , a bus to Cortland ( a small town near Ithaca ) , the old train stopping at the non-existent town of Willoughby ( in Ohio , near Yellowsprings ) . Serling himself introduced the episodes and gave the final speech . He refused to appear on screen the first year because he felt his appearance was unprepossessing - - short , not particularly handsome . He couldn't have been more wrong , of course , because he had a distinctive presence on screen , at least the equal of Alfred Hitchcock's . Serling died in his early 50s during heart surgery , a shame . He may have been past his prime , but how nice it would be if all of us could claim such a prime .
Authentic	I have a kind of synchronistic relationship with this movie . I had dinner in a Chinese restaurant in Washington , DC , called " Chin's " , and the next day sensed in the theater that the Chinese guy would be called " Chin . " A bit later I bought a worn paperback copy of the novel in Mrs . Cohen's bookstore in South Windsor , Connecticut , not expecting much . The dialogue in the movie was stilted . I figured the novel was just some exercise in style . But that was wrong . The novel is even better than the movie . Charles Portis has got Arkansas of circa 1890 down pat . I looked up in the DARE all those expressions that didn't immediately click with me - - " blue john " , " that's a big story , " " barlow knife , " " dogfall , " " Christmas gift " - - and they all work . Portis hit every nail on the head , and not only with respect to lexicon . The novel as a whole is beautifully done . Not to denigrate the movie , though . Kim Darby and the other players are good . John Wayne is excellent as a character actor . His performance here ranks up there with his Captain Brittles in " She Wore a Yellow Ribbon . " Why in God's name , after this , did he go back to his usual heroic roles in dismissable efforts like " The Train Robbers . " Every word he utters here is " Rooster Cogburn , " not " John Wayne , " except for one exchange on horseback about Quantrell . Hoarse , drunk , smelly , weighty - - he embodies the part . The cinematography is without equal . Sharp , smooth . A viewer almost smells the junipers and pinon pines of the Colorado mountains and feels the nightly chill in the air and whiffs the campfire smoke . A marvelously done novel turned into as good a movie as possible . At one point , with nothing much being made of it , Kim Darby says of alcohol , " I would not put a thief in my mouth to steal my brains . " Portis shouldn't get credit for that because it is a quote from Shakespeare . I won't identify the play .
Rambling and slow , but strangely moving .	It's hard to imagine how the director , Michael Schorr , could draw us into the story of a plump old retiree with a face as interesting as a honeydew melon ( Horst Krauss ) , but he manages to do it . Lif in Schultze's German town is filled with inaction . We get several static shots of the architecture and the layout of the streets , empty of occupants . I mean it literally . We see a shot of a tiled and sterile courtyard - - and the shot hangs there for a good ten seconds . The same technique is used throughout . Lots of scenes in which people are doing something , and Schultze is off in a corner somewhere , observing or just staring . There are two shots of a gray sky both held for about one minute . In the first , the screen is blank except that a slender sliver of material enters the picture and slices through it in a leisurely way . We guess it's one of the blades of the energy-producing windmills we glimpsed at the beginning , but it could be anything - - a sickle , a helicopter rotor , a mobile . In the second static shot of the sky , it is blank except for three unmoving contrails from high-altitude jets . He's not a man without honor in his own Dorf though , no Umberto D . He's an accordion player in the local Musikverein and though he shows more enthusiasm than talent he's chosen to represent the village at its sister city's music festival in America , New Braunfels , Texas , where as a matter of fact you can still buy a good Wurst . It isn't that life in his village is bad . It's just that it's extremely dull , even for a dull man . And then he has a musical epiphany . Surfing the radio dial one night he runs across a station play a Cajun song . He shrugs , turns the radio off , walks across the room , stops , turns around thoughtfully , goes back to the radio and turns it on again , listens to the tune for a few minutes , then shuts it off and begins to practice the tune on his accordion . In deliberately paced movies like this , the smallest changes in detail catch your attention . In this scene it's the expression of Schultze's face and he grasps what the Cajun music is doing . There really isn't much to the rest of the story . Schultze goes to America and winds up buying a small fishing boat and travels around in the Louisiana bayous , soon realizing that compared to professional Cajun musicians he retains his amateur status . He packs his accordion away and that's the end of his musical career . The natives are friendly enough in a minimal way but Schultze has a language problem and in any case is rather shy . A woman dances with him at a Cajun nightclub and leaves him in the middle of the dance . He looks around , puzzled and disappointed , and then leaves . She returns a moment later with two drinks and searches for him without success . Mostly they pay no more attention to Schultze than they would to any other stranger . Here's a spoiler . Finally , he falls in temporarily with an African-American woman and her young girl . They invite him to dinner and he stuffs himself on crab and other Cajun food . Then they go out drinking and dancing and having generally a hell of a good time . Too good . Schultze is a heart attack waiting to happen . The black woman takes him to her home and covers him tenderly while he sleeps in a chair , dreaming of the dance he's just been to . Then he burps twice and dies quietly . Schultze's funeral back in Germany is played neither as tragedy or comedy . It's a solemn affair , as funerals tend to be , except that in the middle of a woman's peroration somebody's cell phone starts ringing and people make wisecracks about it and laugh . As the large group of mourners walks away from the graveyard , the village band plays the Cajun tune that had so captivated Schultze . The last shot has the column in black silhouette passing the ever-turning windmill of ( I guess ) life . Schultze did what he longed to do at the end of his life course . What more could anyone ask ? That the movie is so touching is a tribute to the director and writer , and to Hort Krauss , the actor . Neither gives us much reason to love Schultze . It's not that simple-minded . If we can identify with him it's because his ordinariness is an extension of our own .
Most Friendship is Feigning , Most Loving Mere Folly .	There are a couple of reasons to see this well-executed movie . One is Brooke Shields in her only believable performance , as a defiant self-absorbed brat who learns not just about sex but about love . She is , of course , dazzlingly beautiful and barely pubescent and it's necessary to get beyond that . Value judgments about whether she should or should not have made this movie aren't really relevant . The movie is too good for that . Throwing up our hands and rolling our eyes is a little like interpreting " Lolita " as a simple story about pedophilia . Looked at pragmatically , Shields ' playing this role hurt no one . Certainly it didn't hurt her subsequent career , what there was of it . There isn't any way to stop our own feelings of disgust at times , granted . I feel that way about movies like Friday the 13th or Halloween . I'm more disgusted by murder than by sex so I'm clearly warped . Shields packs more talent into her playing here , as Violet , than she did into all of her other movies put together . And it's not a one-note performance either . She develops from a vulgar know-it-all into a creature of real emotion . At the end of the story , her mother is taking her away from the older man she has married . The camera slowly moves in on her trembling face . She's silent but the froufraws in her hair quiver with regret . Malle ends it on a freeze frame of that drop-dead gorgeous , wrenchingly sad face . Malle is another reason this movie is worth while . He was a great story teller , even when the stories were a bit thin , as Polly Platt's is here . His specialite de la maison was the study of a community . He was almost anthropological in his approach . If he doesn't give us the social structure and eidos of a French boarding school , then it's Atlantic City , or a New Orleans whorehouse in 1917 . We get to know the milieu pretty well , although we don't see much of the actual city , only the house itself , its back yard paved with coquina crunching under everyone's shoes , the palms and banana plants , the anoles . We get to know the furniture inside the house - - massive heavy things , overstuffed , overdone , overlaced , rose windowed . New Orleans was an odd city , a blend of all sorts of ethnic traditions . There's a bit of hoodoo thrown into the plot . ( Madame Livingston addresses her clients as " M'sieur . " ) Edgar Degas visited relatives in New Orleans . Now , alas , it's becoming not much more than another big Southern city with the Quarter serving as a kind of theme park . Note too Malle's editing technique . When you expect a shot to disappear , to dissolve or be cut away from , it doesn't always happen . The image lingers , sometimes long beyond our expectations . Keith Carradine balked when Shields is taken away from him , for instance . Much of this beauty ( let's call a heart a heart ) is made possible by the superb photography of Ingmar Bergman's collaborator , Sven Nyquist . He makes it possible for us to almost feel the heat and the humidity , and the solid mahogany of the bar . The depiction of the cat house is convincingly realistic , the general atmosphere being one of casual jealousy , petulance , nudity , practicality , and mutual support . The women ( and the clients ) form fleeting friendships . When they leave , it's without any particular ceremony . That's why the love that develops between Carradine and Shields is as shocking as it is . It's the only real commitment shown in the film . There is an abundance of commitment on the part of the people who contributed to this very good film .
Surprisingly low key docudrama .	I approached this film warily . Here you've got George Clooney as writer and director and actor , and who IS George Clooney ? A self-proclaimed liberal with a background in afternoon television dramas . He's made a movie about a shameful episode in America's past in which lives were ruined and there were few heroes . And the movie focuses on Edward R . Murrow , who is widely acknowledged as among the first and most deserving of those heroes . Well - - look out , now ! I figured we were due for a colorful , bombastic civics lesson with every point underscored and overwritten . But , nope . Instead , Clooney has come up with a low-key black-and-white drama about Murrow that shows him as mirthless and doesn't dig into his personal life to give him a more human , hale-fellow-well-met identity . We don't even know where he's from . David Strathairn doesn't smile once . Here's Murrow , warts and all . He doesn't come across as much of an idealist either . He's strictly a newsman . Neither he , nor his able supporting cast , give a single speech about freedom of the press or due process . Only once , in one or two sentences , does he dig in his heels when negotiating with his boss , Bill Paley , about the show . He asks Paley what he wants . Paley replies that he doesn't want to get a bellyache from not knowing what's going to happen next on Murrow's show . And Murrow replies evenly , " Well , Bill , that's the price you have to pay . " The threat of firings and resignations linger unspoken in the air . So - - totally against my expectations - - the story isn't hyped at all . There are no speeches fulminating against McCarthyism . ( I don't think the word " McCarthyism " is even used . ) No dramatic music , no music at all except occasional inserts presumably taken from Columbia Records which CBS operated . Even the suicide of one of the news staff's colleagues is short and silent . And nobody says anything afterward about what a great guy Dan Hollenbeck was , although we see Murrow mention him briefly at the end of a broadcast . Murrow smoked all the time and died of lung cancer . Yet the film ends at a party given in Murrow's honor , a tribute . A cheaper approach would have followed Murrow through his medical exams , his death bed speeches , his funeral , the rousing perorations of his colleagues - - but the film has none of that . In fact , the movie seems to have been deliberately stripped of every quality that might give it commercial appeal . No one shouts at anyone else . No one gets angry . No one swears . People don't fight or have hot sex . Nobody wrenches anybody else's head off and spits down the neck cavity . This damps the drama . I'm not sure how much appeal this film actually had , except for older people , or for people comfortable enough in their skins to absorb a message that isn't pounded into them - - a dwindling few , I'm afraid . It's the kind of movie that demands the viewer's attention . It doesn't compromise . " LA Confidential , " a fine movie in its own right , is set in the same period as this movie . But in " LA Confidential , " nobody smokes . Why not ? Presumably it would turn off some more-than-usually moral people in the audience who would interpret it as a promotion for tobacco smoking . In " Good Night , and Good Luck , " just about everybody smokes cigarettes . Why ? Because just about everybody smoked cigarettes in 1952 , that's why . That's what I mean by " uncompromising . " If you watch this , don't expect to be led by the hand through the evils of overzealous patriotism . Condemnation and imprisonment for reasons kept secret are taken for granted as wrong . President Eisenhower is seen on TV speaking briefly about habeus corpus . Many of us seem to have forgotten the meaning of the term or the dangers of ignoring due process . That last sentence I wrote is more preachy than anything you'll find in this film . Clooney is no Oliver Stone . He trusts the viewer to be able to distinguish good from evil , and it's very flattering to find a writer / director willing to do that .
East is East , West is West	David Lean wasn't an especially likable guy . When Guiness arrived on the set , Lean told him he'd been hoping for another actor for the part of Godbole . He was so sadistic to Sessue Hayakawa on " The Bridge on the River Quai , " blaming Hayakaway's flawed English for all the delays that Hayakawa's breakdown scene was real . He was impatient with crews too , snapping at them because he was losing the light . But , whew , what a resume ! From " Great Expectations " to this , his last film , and although some are slower than others there is not a clunker among them . ( It's hard to believe that more than twenty years have passed since his last work . ) His interests were in the story of people involved in cultural clashes and tended to be set against vast landscapes . He was in some ways like John Ford writ large . We get to know the people marching along the skylines . " Passage to India " isn't his best film but it's a good thoughtful one , with his usual attention to details of weather , furniture , and wildlife . The imagery , as always , is striking . I'll just mention one scene in passing , as an illustration of the point . Peggy Ashcroft , as Mrs . Moore , has met Alec Guiness , as Godbole , the Hindu teacher , only once , and then briefly . But after she leaves , Godbole casually refers to her as " an old soul , " in the Hindu sense of one who has led many previous lives . And that's it . Until Ashcroft leaves on the train , unaccompanied . As the train pulls slowly out of the station , she stares at the silhouette of a figure that appears on the platform and performs an elaborate ritual salute to Ashcroft . A quick closeup shows us that the figure is Godbole . The scene comes as a complete surprise . It is like watching the interplay between the ghosts of two separate cultures . ( I don't know if I should have used that trope because it reminds me of a Samoan friend who found himself hitch-hiking alone at night on an Arizona highway . He was terrified of ghosts . Not Samoan ghosts , because they were back in Samoa . And not American ghosts because he could speak their language . It was the prospect of Indian ghosts that frightened him because he had no idea how to handle them ! Sorry . ) Basically , I guess , in this story we find it almost impossible to doubt the innocence of Dr . Aziz . He's as eager to please as a child would be . But we have good reason to doubt Judy Davis as Adela Quested . She isn't exactly sexually liberated , a good stiff clean English woman . When she visits a deserted temple with Kama Sutra sorts of erotic bas reliefs , her presence seems to get the resident monkeys perturbed and they screech at her until she leaves in a near panic . The film also indicates in subtle ways her attraction to Dr . Aziz . ( She appears to sweat a lot when she's alone with him . ) Of course he has no idea of what's going on . The rape accusation dissolves in court , along with the dust caking the courtroom skylight as the monsoon rains begin . The English go back to England . Dr . Aziz remains bitter because his reputation is totally shot , until the end when he transcends his anger . As Godbole has been saying , " None of it matters in the long run anyway . " Of course he's thinking of the really LONG long run . Any given life can brim over with enough tsuris to depress hypomanic Santa Claus . I don't want to run out of space here . The British colonials try to railroad a person of color into jail , and they fail . The theme is a familiar one to most American viewers , I would imagine , except that in American movies they don't always fail . The ending is sad but sweet and a little uplifting too , as the events at the Marabar Caves and the subsequent trial recede into the past . Time wounds all heels , they say , but there aren't any heels in this movie , except a few British racist snobs , who aren't really evil , just products of their age . The raucous celebration of the Indians after the trial , what with the fireworks and all , are a little disturbing in light of the wars yet to come between the Hindus of India and the Moslems of Pakistan , kind of like one or two arias in Mozart's operas prefiguring the coming revolutions of Europe . I kind of miss David Lean , as long as I never had to work for him . See this movie and relax and enjoy it .
Love and murder , splendidly done	It's hard to fault this film , whose plot I won't bother to outline . It may not be an artistic masterpiece but it shows what Hollywood could do at its very best . It's a murder mystery wrapped around a love story , with the stiff self-contained Dana Andrews as the investigating detective and the eyeball-coagulatingly gorgeous Gene Tierney as the supposed " corpse " he falls in love with . Every aspect of the production seems to come together - - the lighting , the decor , the wardrobe , the photography , and the players . The scene in which Andrews , half drunk on Tierney's fine scotch , falls asleep in a chair and is awakened by Tierney's arrival can be played repeatedly by itself and enjoyed each time . I think I'll quibble now . I had a little trouble with three things . The maid , Betsy , played by Dorothy Adams , is treated like a devoted dolt . She overacts and is given to shrieking . She's so dumb that she needs Tierney's reassurance , " Don't worry , Betsy . I'm not a ghost , really I'm not . " If the dialog for the other characters is relatively sophisticated ( even Andrews has heard of Sibelius ) the writers seem to have no ear for the speech of the working folks . I had trouble too with Clifton Webb . People warned Preminger not to use him because he hadn't made any sound pictures before , and because " he flits . " I don't care if he flits or not but that Midwestern accent just doesn't allow him to sound viperish enough . " Ridiculous " comes out as " ree-DICKulous . " Honest , they needed George Sanders for the job . And maybe he's sophisticated and acerbic but we only really know about that because everybody tells us about it , Webb most of all . " I dee-molished his ree-diculous theories , " says Webb about the painter Jacoby . What theories are they ? The script strains and grunts and creaks at the joints as it reaches for archness and wit and it winds up with lines like , " If you come a little closer , my boy , I can just crack your head with my stick . " It's determinedly middle-brow . The insults don't sing . And although Webb projects self absorption , he can't really show us any ironic distance from the goings on . Well , as long as I'm carping , let me add that Andrews ' falling for Tierney is believable enough , but her falling for him after a day or two filled with conflict and suspicion , is a bit on the impulsive side as far as her character goes . When it comes to that , what is her life with Andrews - - a tough , blunt cop - - going to be like after they're married . What is she going to do when he can't come up with another fox fur ? How about when he falls asleep and snores at Sibelius concerts ? But those remarks shouldn't keep you from seeing the film at the first chance you have . It's a very good one .
Thoughtful and Exciting Drama From Hitchcock .	This doesn't get much attention and I'm not sure why , because it certainly deserves more . The story of a diverse handful of survivors adrift in the Atlantic after their ship is torpedoed , it represents one of the technical and narrative challenges that Hitchcock at the time was beginning to impose on himself . There's only one set - - the lifeboat - - and how do you give the ten or so people aboard enough to do and say to keep the audience watching ? You can't have them almost mowed down by an airplane in the middle of a corn field . Hitchcock and his writers handled the problem deftly . There isn't a dull moment in the film . They fight storms , cut off legs , play cards , get drunk , fall in love , and kill each other . John Steinbeck wrote the treatment and the screenplay was polished off by Jo Swerling . It immediately ran into trouble with the Office of War Information and the Breen Office . The handful of British and American survivors pick up the captain of the U-boat , now sunk , that torpedoed their ship - - good old Willie . Willie proves to be more focused and more able than anyone else in the boat . He's not only a master seaman and navigator but a surgeon as well . He turns out to be cheerful , practical , cherubic , avuncular , perceptive , melodious , charismatic , and murderous . He rows the boat in the general direction of the U-boat's mother ship while he sings German folk songs and the others tootle along , accompanying him on a flute . " How'm I doing , Willie ? " , asks the millionaire Henry Hull . The hypermasculine , possibly communist , John Hodiak mocks Hull in a queer voice , " How'm I doin ' , Willie ? " , and then cackles . And why not ? After all , everybody in the boat is accompanying Willie . The problem , as the censors saw it , was that Willie was superior to anyone else in the boat and Willie was a Nazi . The fact that Willie was cheating by swigging from a concealed bottle of water , taking vitamin pills , and peeking at a hidden compass was trumped by the obvious fact that he was the only person who knew exactly what he was doing . The Germans could have shown the film throughout Europe as pro-Nazi propaganda . Steinbeck caught most of the heat for this , as he had for an earlier screenplay , " The Moon is Down , " that humanized a German soldier . Was Steinbeck a crypto-fascist ? It's ironic that the question should have been raised because before the war , Steinbeck , the author of such modestly leftist works as " To a God Unknown " and " The Grapes of Wrath " , was accused of being a Commie . There are a couple of shots that no other director would have employed because no other director would have thought of them , and they're not necessarily dramatic or suspenseful . It's a languorous afternoon on the becalmed sea . Hodiak , his torso mottled with tattoos is reading an old newspaper . We see the newspaper from his point of view . Then a mischievous finger pokes slowly through the page and pulls the paper away , to be replaced by Tallulah Bankhead's seductively smiling face dropping gently backwards onto Hodiak's lap . While they swap back stories , she produces her lipstick and adds another fake tattoo to his chest - - the initials C . P . They're Bankhead's initials , of course , " Connie Porter " , but they also hint at " Communist Party . " With only a few minor exceptions , the acting is superb . I never found myself under Talullah Bankhead's Magic Spell but if I had to choose an actress to play a spoiled , snobbish , rich bitch it might be her . She seems to belong in that mink coat and she practically owns that smoke-cured voice . In many ways , this is her story . She's progressively stripped of every material possession she uses to define herself , and it's her character that shows the most development . Canada Lee , as the black guy , is a fine actor and has the right face for the part but he's saddled with a stereotypical role . There isn't space to get into all the characters but it's clear that Hitchcock opted for genuine faces instead of glamor pusses in this story . John Hodiak looks like an ordinary stoker , not like Cary Grant . And I mean - - take a look at Hume Cronyn . A face made for radio . You really shouldn't miss this one . It's a lesson in movie-making .
Defines Epic .	Who's going to want to watch a movie about the American Civil War ? Oh , sure , maybe the public will watch an ageless soap opera like " Gone With the Wind " but a movie about nothing but a BATTLE ? No women in it ? No slashers ? No aliens or car chases or huge explosions or sex ? Americans have no interest in their own history . In a way , it's not too bad to have moguls in charge of things instead of a committee of MBAs whose eyes dart first to the bottom line . It USED to be this way in the movies when there was still a studio system and the Louis B . Mayers and Sam Goldwyns and Harry Cohns could manage ( or mismanage ) their empires as they liked . It used to be that way in publishing too . Mr . Simon and Mr . Schuster and Mr . Knopf and Mr . Scribner could print whatever they liked , even if they thought it would turn out to be a quality loser instead of an immensely profitable but brainless blockbuster . That's all pretty much changed now , and a lot of people would argue not for the better . So you have to give Ted Turner a lot of credit for financing this expensive production . As Ronald F . Maxwell , the director , put it - - " He followed his passion . " ( Cf . , Joseph Campbell , " Follow your bliss . " ) You have to give the reenactors credit for following their passions too . I doubt that they were paid although I expect they were fed . For what it's worth , the staging of the scene in which Lt . Chamberlain chats with three Confederate prisoners is copied directly from a Winslow Homer painting . It's an excellent movie , blending character study with action . Of the performances , I thought were Sheen as Lee , Lang as Pickett , Jordan as Armistad , and Mallon , who played Winfield Scott Hancock . Not that the other performances were poor . They're all up to professional snuff but , well , for instance , how much could Jeff Daniels do with a character who is a taciturn and inexpressive New Englander beyond speaking his lines woodenly ? I should also mention Lancaster as the British observer . He's pretty good . He comes across at first as simpering and dressed like a bellboy in a fancy French hotel , but when the situation calls for it his head tilts back and his eyes narrow searchingly . He does a splendid job of being just friendly enough to absorb information without expressing any opinions about the events he witnesses . It's a small part but nicely done . Stephen Lang's General Pickett is a descendant of the cavaliers who settled the South , gentlemanly , proud , brave , and filled with a kind of Errol Flynn factor . Sheen's Lee is thoughtful , religious , and wrong in his decisions . Jeb Stuart has a small part , as he did in the battle itself . He was given to riding in complete circles around the opposing Federal army and he did it at Gettysburg too , but that wasn't his job . I won't go on about the story of the battle itself because , if the MBAs are correct in their assumptions about you , any further discussion of the battle would be a spoiler for you . So - - no hints about who won . ( Ps : There is no Confederate States of America anymore . ) What a bloody and stupid war that was . Well , they all are of course , but some are unavoidable while others seem even more irrational than most . And the emotions generated by that conflict seem to persist beyond any real reason . It wasn't that long ago that roadside stands in the South displayed beach towels picturing a tattered Confederate soldier carrying the battle flag over his shoulder , and the caption , " Hell no , we won't forget . " Why not ? Nobody who fought that war is still alive . It's the sort of sentiment that will lead to the next war and the one after that .
Above par	This isn't as funny as the Nevil Shute novel it's based on but it's still very amusing indeed , with undertones of seriousness , kind of like Much Ado About Nothing . Don't mean to make a big deal out of it . It's an inexpensive movie with that grainy black-and-white photography that made so many post-war British films a bit depressing . But the acting is unimpeachable . It may be James Stewart's funniest role and he handles it perfectly . He's faced with two conundrums here : ( 1 ) he's " gone nuclear " , is convinced that the tail will fall off a newly designed and deployed passenger plane and is trying to prove it ; and ( 2 ) his daughter , Elspeth , whom he understands even less about than he does the practical consequences of telling an airline that the tails will fall off their new plane . The guy , whose wife has been dead for years , lives in some kind of space all his own , where his only company may be finite absolutes . Eleven-year-old Elspeth dresses in drab childhood outfits , takes care of her dad the way you might take care of a disabled stroke victim , and quietly plays pyramidology and conditions goldfish while her father works on his reports . His little home is a mess . He has no spare seat , every surface being covered by books , no sherry , no visitors . But enter Jack Hawkins , a sensible administrator just hired by the airline , who takes Stewart's argument seriously . ( The rest of the staff simply ignore Stewart . ) Hawkins sends him on a trip to Newfoundland to investigate the crash of one of the older airplanes because , in fact , the tailplane seems to have disappeared . Stewart has never flown before . And now , aboard the airplane , he meets two women , Glynnis Johns , a stewardess , and Marlene Dietrich , who is Monica Teasdale , the famous film star . One of them will change his life forever , as will his being aboard what he discovers is another older model plane whose tail is scheduled to fall off in flight . The scene aboard the aiplane is a bit longish and it turns rather serious because the crew and passengers think he's irretrievably nuts but at the same time , given his credentials , they can't completely ignore him . In trying to help Dietrich , Stewart addresses her something along these lines : " This airplane may go into the ocean . I've examined it and found the most structurally sound place . " Dietrich : " What do you want me to do ? " Stewart : " I want you to go into the men's room and sit on the floor . " If this one crops up on TV , as it seems to do from time to time , catch it if you can . It will help you realize how filled with excitement and verve your own life is . Well - - at any rate , you probably won't regret watching it . It may also prompt you to dig up Shute's novel and read that too .
Gripping	It probably sounds depressing - - three girls from a village in Colombia find themselves broke , are hired as mules to smuggle drugs into New York by swallowing little condoms full , get mixed up with unfeeling and possibly murderous receivers in America , and find themselves almost broke again , or worse . But this is almost a documentary of what these young girls go through . You come away knowing the DETAILS of how this is all done . Of course we've heard of smuggling drugs in by swallowed condoms . It's in a famous early episode of " Law and Order . " And breaking news has it that now dogs are being used - - the reporter always specifies that they are " puppies . " But it's informative to see how the process actually works . The three girls we follow from Colombia to New York are not among the wretched poor . Maria , Blanca , and Luci are rather working class but their incomes are too low for them to manage a normal existence and swallowing some dope seems like an easy way to add enough to their incomes to keep their heads above water . The challenges facing them don't include starvation but less dramatic problems like having your electricity shut off . I'll just mention one detail . I'd always thought that the organizer of the plan would dump a few teaspoons of coke into a condom , tie it off , snip off the excess , and - - voila ! A container the size of a grape . But no . These guys are ergonomically sophisticated . There is a manual device that crimps off each stuffed and swollen condom at a length of about 2 inches . They're BIG bundles . The girls have to practice by eating large grapes . And the bundles are coated with oil so that they can be swallowed without activating the gag reflex . It's a pretty disgusting and humiliating experience , what with going through a customs office that knows very well you're carrying , and having to expel them while anxious dealers wait around for you . And of course , if one of the bundles suffers an untimely pop , well what happens to you is what happens to the puppies who are now being used . But the movie isn't just educational in a narrow sense . Maria , a beautiful girl , is only 17 and pregnant . She's compliant but intelligent , and she retains her dignity . Luci gets sick and suffers the puppy treatment , leaving a bathtub of blood . Blanca , homely and plump and rather dumb , departs for Bogota . And Maria is left alone , friendless , and homeless in Queens . Now THAT is something that shouldn't happen to a dog . The scene is which she and Blanca part at Newark Airport is wordless and painful to watch . The director handles all of this with simple restraint , wisely , because the narrative itself is strong enough to carry the movie . Maria may be strong but she's impulsive too - - that pregnancy , that decision to be a " mula " . He doesn't preach at all . And there are no dazzling directorial displays . The director is a guy in charge of his talent . Maria may be full of grace but she is also full of a lot of other things - - a baby , heroin , resentment . And there is an almost unnoticeable commercial billboard behind her as she leaves Blanca , " It's What's Inside That Counts . " As Maria , Catalina Moreno seems both innocent and strong , poised as it were between the unfortunate child she's left behind and the hardened whore she is likely to become . She rarely loses composure . At first I thought it was because she simply was not a seasoned actress , but there is a scene in which she watches the ultrasound image of her fetus and she giggles a little and her face lights up with expectant happiness . It's the only time she grins in the entire movie and it makes her seem to glow joyously . And unthinkingly too . That baby is going to cost a fortune and probably won't go to Philips Andover . It's a heartbreaking movie , really , but strangely not depressing . Some people are rotten , others are kindly , and most are just trying to get along . If it's depressing , well , so is life at the mall .
Eris ?	Did the author of the book on which this movie is based actually win a Newbery ? I can understand why , without ever having read it . The movie is like an above average after-school special . There are two equally important themes dealt with . ( 1 ) Is Stephanie Zimbalist really the Caroline who disappeared fourteen years earlier , or an imposter come to claim the matriarch's fortune ? In the end , it becomes a matter of little importance ( and in fact has been done better elsewhere ) except that the lingering questions trigger fits of jealousy and rivalry on the part of Pamela Reed as Caroline's stepmother . ( 2 ) Is little Hillary ( whom her parents call Heidi ) as retarded as she seems or is she educable ? Before " Caroline " ' s arrival , a family therapist would immediately recognize Heidi as the " identified patient , " the glue that holds the rest of the family together because of her disability . In giving all their attention to Heidi , the other family members can avoid dealing with deeper and potentially more disturbing issues , like " Who's giving the orders around here " ? To deprive the other members of Heidi's affliction is like suddenly restoring the use of his legs to a man who has been a paraplegic for years and has managed to adjust to his condition , however precarious that adjustment may be . Yet this is precisely what Caroline threatens to do , when she discovers that Heidi has remained a " baby " , as she calls herself , through the simple process of having always been treated as one . Her parents and brother have convinced themselves that Heidi will never be able to read or even perform simple tasks like removing her own coat . Under Caroline's compassionate tutelage , however , she begins to do exactly that , which threatens the dynamic underpinning of the family . Caroline brings discord to a barely functioning family , but it is the sort of pain that is necessary for one to undergo in order to remove an abcessing tooth . The story is interesting and , for the perceptive , those looking for more than just another mystery , kind of educational as well . Of course , all ends happily , with Heidi ( a name for a little Swiss girl ) evolving into Hillary ( a name that now has acquired Senatorial resonance ) . The performances are all quite good . Pamela Reed , the putative villain of the piece , is not without sympathy . George Grizzard is likeable , as always , even when his character is dubious . Stephanie Zimbalist often seems to bring , willy nilly , a certain devious sensuality to her roles . That quality must be noted in anyone who can inspire incestuous urges in somebody like Charlton Heston . Here , it's muted , and most of the time she seems like just a nice young woman trying to do something good . I have no idea if Jenny Jacobs , playing Heidi , suffered from a neurological deficit , but whether she did or not makes no difference ; her enactment of the character would be hard to improve upon . Sometimes the dialogue is a bit new-agey , especially towards the end - - " You can be whoever you want to be " or something . What on earth does that mean ? ( I'd like to be King Farouk . ) But it's a minor weakness in an otherwise superior TV movie .
Crackerjack	SPOILERS . . . It's hard to imagine that an unassuming fantasy adventure like this would be made today . There are no pop songs in it . There are no outstanding special effects . The makeup isn't grotesque . It's black and white . And we no longer believe in selfless heroes or in crude villains . This movie owes quite a bit to 1937's " Robin Hood , " not just in its theme but in particular scenes . Diego visits his true love by climbing onto her balcony . Rathbone is the villain . The good guys disguise themselves as monks . And it's got Montagu Love , only he's on the side of the angels here . The bit about Don Diego Vega acting like a " puppy " is probably borrowed from " The Scarlet Pimpernel . " But none of this is bothersome . It's an outstanding classic on its own . Several scenes and bits of business stand out . First of all , we have what is probably the best fencing scene on film , between Power and Rathbone , using sabres . ( When we first meet Rathbone's character he is shown executing a perfect slow lunge . The fencing coach was Cavens , who also handled " Robin Hood " to less effect . ) Second , there is a dance between Power and Linda Darnell , who was just a teenager at the time and looks beautiful and vulnerable . The song is a simple folk song in - - " El Sombrero Blanco . " It's not a long dance and it's not gussied up with the Buffalo Philharmonic either , but it's a treat to watch and listen to , a marvelous arrangement . Darnell doesn't have much to do except stand and wave her voluminous skirts from side to side and Power is no Jose Greco , but he assumes the proper hypermasculine position that Spanish dancers still use and does a kind of flamenco style tap dance . The clash between the good guys and the bad guys at the end is a bit of a disappointment , one of those wild melees with lots of clanging swords and a comic figure bumping bad guys over the head with a club . No real acting skills are required of the cast . The characters and their motives are far too simple for that . But Power with his curled Spanish hair and sly mustache looks right and his effete Don Diego is amusing . ( The disguise seems to cost him some effort , although he was bisexual . ) He has a very funny moment when he asks for Lolita's hand in marriage . He's sitting in an armchair ( he's always complaining of " fatigue " ) and has just taken a pinch of snuff . " I beg to ask for your niece's hand , " he announces slowly in a distracted tone . Everyone waits for him to finish the utterance , but he's on the verge of a sneeze , his mouth open , gazing at the floor with a mixture of boredom and irritation as he waits to see if the sneeze is going to take place . While wearing this goofy expression , he manages to come up with , " A refusal would crush me . " Then he sits back again ( the progress of the sneeze was aborted ) and taps his mouth with a lacy handkerchief . The script is ironic and witty . Of course even the suggestion of homosexuality had to be avoided but it's an undercurrent throughout Diego's performance . Lots of talk about fabrics and scents . There's a fascinating exchange between Power and Rathbone , who are competing for the affection of a married lady . Rathbone is puncturing an orange with a small knife , over and over . " The Capitan seems to regard that fruit as an enemy , " remarks Power . Rathbone looks up glowering and replies , " A rival . " And at one point , reminded that he is to fight another duel in a few minutes , Power slaps his forehead and exclaims , " Santa Maria ! It slipped my mind ! " The photography by Arther Miller is black and white at its most functional . The set design is so delightfully Mexican ( there's a cactus or agave in every other scene ) that one wishes Los Angeles could turn back the clock . Can I add a slightly less relevant note ? This is what I think of as a " latent status " movie , following the anthropologist Ralph Linton . All of us play many parts or roles in life , but not all at the same time . The status we assume at any given moment is our active status , but we have many latent ones to draw on . A man may be a " husband " at breakfast , a " fireman " at work , and a " fellow passenger " on the subway . In films like this , the hero may be compassionate , clever , courageous , and a master of some craft , but he doesn't reveal this latent status until near the end . Power assumes the active status of " fop " except when he becomes Zorro . Destry acts the fool until he displays his mastery of guns . Doctor Richard Kimball in " The Fugitive " is only rarely a " doctor . " The audience is always let in on the existence of the hero's latent status . It's an effective skeleton for a story . It MUST be , because it's used so often .
Inept Crooks	S . J . Perelman , on whose play this is based , would sometimes use the nom de plume Sidney Namelrep , a silly , devil-may-care joke that is perfectly in tune with his sense of humor . He wrote some of the most outrageously funny pieces ever to appear in the New Yorker . His comedy is filled with whimsy , non sequiturs , twisted cliches , notions that seem to emerge recklessly from nowhere , scarcely masked libidinous allusions , ridiculously transparent self justifications - - the kind of humor associated with the Marx Brothers . And in fact he wrote some of their best lines in ( if I remember correctly ) " Monkey Business " - - " Hurry , my dear , my regiment leaves at dawn . " His wit still can be seen through the screen of the more strict narrative line seen in this movie but because the characters need to seem reasonably sane , their range is a bit restricted . ( " Mmm . Did you concoct these little tidbits ? " ) The story itself , fortunately , is so absurd that it rolls right along , in the same league as Warners ' " All Through The Night . " It's a pretty ancient tale . Thieves getting into a store next to a bank in order to break through the wall into the vault . The first time I remember coming across it was in a Sherlock Holmes tale , " The Red Headed League , " and I doubt it was original with Conan-Doyle . This is the earliest movie about such a caper that I'm aware of . But later there was " Big Deal on Madonna Street " and most recently Woody Allan's " Small Time Crooks , " which duplicated some of the incidents as well as the general idea . ( The thieves break open a water pipe while digging the tunnel ; the original plan fizzles out when the phony business upstairs becomes an economic bonanza . ) It's a well-done and highly entertaining comedy with the usual roster of Warners ' stalwarts at their best . The kind of movie about which you can truly say , " They don't make ' em like that anymore . " I don't know how long it took to shoot . Not long , I imagine . New York City is nothing more than a street on the back lot and a handful of interiors . Loyd Bacon , whom no one ever proclaimed a genius , knows how to shoot a film efficienctly , the way a good car mechanic knows his business , moving the bodies around with careless ease . There isn't a wasted motion . Every step , every opening of a door , every snarl and stutter , serves a purpose . Robinson breezes through the whole business . Jane Wyman looks cute . Broderick Crawford is dumb beyond belief . And every item of luggage in the store is " Nine seventy-five . " It's all pretty amusing .
Headlong Comic Thriller From Hitchcock	Not as polished as his later generic examples like " North by Northwest , " " The Lady Vanishes " is fast paced , full of fun , and suspenseful . Margaret Lockwood boards a train in Ruritania or Moribunda or some Middle European country to go back to England and marry her fiancé . She bumps into the wisecracking folk-music student , Michael Redgrave , and meets Dame May Witty , a friendly , dowdy , middle-aged governess . Lockwood dozes off and wakes to find that Witty is not only gone from her seat in the compartment but that no one else a board remembers seeing her . All the other passengers that Lockwood turns to for help about her missing friend have some reason for lying or not believing her . Cecil Parker , a married man traveling with his amour , denies having met Witty because he doesn't want to be a witness at an investigation that will surely end with his name in the papers and a ruinous scandal . Naunton Wayne and Basil Radford , two unflappable British sports freaks , won't cooperate because they're afraid if the train is held up they'll miss an important cricket match back in England . Paul Lukas is a " brain specialist " who attributes Lockwood's notions about Witty to a bump on the head and subsequent delusions , and so on . Well , Witty was real all right . Half the train is in on the kidnapping of the older woman , who is not a nanny after all but a British spy smuggling secrets back home , encoded in a silly tune . Redgrave and Lockwood finally discover the truth . The passenger car is detached from the rest of the train and isolated in a forest where there follows a proper shoot out , with the British passengers on the one hand , and the mysterious uniformed figures of San Placebo on the other , led by Paul Lukas , the treacherous phony - - him and his oh-so-smooth continental charm . It's a pretty funny movie , aside from the underlying mystery . The dialog has some content of wit . When Redgrave first offers to help Lockwood , she shooes him away , telling him to get lost . " Ah , ah . No , my father always told me never to desert a damsel in distress . He carried it so far as to marry my mother . " The two most consistently comic character , Wayne and Radford , play Caldicott and Charters . ( Who went on to their own brand of fame . ) Their every statement , whether indignant or casual , is deadpan and , when amusing , unintentionally so . You'll enjoy this . A million Mexicans did .
Engaging dilemma	If this had come from anyone but Hitchcock in 1953 it would have been regarded as a great success . The story has its holes but is generally plausible . Montgomery Clift and most of the other principles are at the very least competent . The photography , as is usual with Hitchcock , is evocative and the black-and-white disk that I saw was superb . But for a number of reasons this didn't get much in the way of positive reviews . It came near the end of a series of critical and popular flops from Hitchcock and I would guess that the critics enjoyed trashing this one . You know , " Lo , how the mighty have fallen . " Or Schadenfreude , if you like . Clift , as a priest to whom the murderer has confessed , is himself accused of the crime but can't reveal the true killer's identity because of confessional privilege or whatever it's called . Hitchcock , the product of a stern Catholic upbringing , may have been attracted to the story because of this moral dilemma - - but in fact , the movie is neither that simple nor that simple-minded . Clift plays the kind of reticent guy who might not have squealed on the real killer - - Otto Hasse - - even if he had NOT been a priest . He seems instead almost prompted towards martyrdom . Possibly because he unwittingly boffed his ex-girlfriend who has at the time married to a prominent figure in Quebec's professional and social circles , he may think he has a lot to atone for . You don't HAVE to be Catholic or Jewish to feel guilt , although it probably helps . Okay . It's a good movie . Hitchcock's odd touches are noticeable , but subtle and appropriate . I will give just one example . Hasse's wife is discussing the murder ( she knows all about it ) with Clift's boss , while Clift is painting the walls in the same room . A dialog takes place between her and Clift's superior . It concerns Clift in some enormously important way , but he continues to paint the walls , saying nothing . Another director would show us a close up of Clift's agonized face , sweating maybe , bursting with a desire to tell all and clear his name . Hitchcock shows us nothing but Clift's back as he placidly applies paint , leaving Clift's reaction to the viewer's imagination . Weaknesses . Otto Hasse as Keller , a displaced German refugee who works for the church , kills a rich man for his money because he is shamed and brutalized by his wife's having to work her fingers to the bone . He's genuinely sincere and sobs while he tells her he loves her too much to see her work herself to death . And he's sincere in his remorse , his eagerness to confess to Clift . Then , in the blink of a eye - - almost literally - - he changes into a heavy with no conscience whatever . He actively goes about setting up Clift for a frame and at the end shoots and kills his own wife because he thinks she may squeal on him to the police . The best that can be said about this kind of character development is , " It shouldn't have happened . " Anne Baxter is a pretty young woman , Clift's former love interest , and her character is written sleek ambiguity . But Anne Baxter , a nice lady who made free public service announcements on TV , the granddaughter of Frank Loyd Wright , was never much of an actress with her emphatic and earnest whispery voice . ( She was cute ten years earlier in " Crash Dive . " ) Most movies today don't need nine out of the ten sex bombs on display , but this one needed a little more feminine oomph . Next , I understand that Karl Malden as the detective in charge of the case is almost immediately suspicious of Clift . But why ? He rags him throughout , like Javert in " Les Miserables . " What the hell is going on ? It's as if there were something personal involved , but no explanation for Malden's zealotry is given or suggested . That gets the weak stuff out of the way . Should you see it ? Absolutely .
Gypo in Nightown .	Sometimes realism can work against the effectiveness of a film . That's no problem here . The sets are cheesy , inside and out . The fog is ubiquitous , half disguising the shabbiness of the production . If there's a bar , the name painted on the front window says simply , " Wine And Spirits . " The result is a claustrophobic set of scenes . Not a single shot of a city or even a fake skyline . That's the kind of Dublin this story is about , just as Jack the Ripper movies are about seedy , foggy , cobblestoned Whitechapel . Who would want it any other way ? How could it have been any other way with no bankable stars , a minuscule budget , and a four-week shooting schedule ? The acting follows suit - - outrageously hammy on everyone's part . Sometimes , my God , it's positively excruciating . Mrs . McPhillips moaning after Frankie is shot dead outside the house . Victor McLaglin however delivers exactly the right kind of overdone performance . Wardrobe has stuffed him into a too-small jacket so that he seems to be bursting out of it like Frankenstein's monster . His every movement seems to go a little farther than it was intended to . When he slaps his cap on his head , he bops himself on the temple . A big , blustering , blubbering baby , he seems constantly drunk . He betrays his best friend for the reward money which will take him and his would-be girl to America , not a good guy in the ordinary sense . Yet we wince as he begins to spend the 20 pounds , more and more of it during a wild , alcoholic night , because every expensive and grandiose gesture takes him farther from his dream . I wouldn't argue it , but I can understand why he won an Oscar . As for Max Steiner's score , wow . Every movement , already overdone , is not only underlined by the Mickey Mouse music but highlighted in glossy yellow . It shouldn't have happened - - the heavenly choirs , the endearing young charms , the minstrel boy , the gurgling tune while McLaglen drinks from the bottle . It would have been better off with no score at all . Well , how is it as a whole ? Dated - - by any measure , but not a product of its times . That's why I admire it . Yes , the symbolism is clumsy at times . McLaglen , a real dummy , bumping his head against a hanging sign . The fog . The blind man . But what impresses me is how little of this was being tried at the time . What strikes us as overly arty today was in 1936 something quite different from what was seen in most of the programmers being ground out at the time . If it falls short at times , it doesn't matter . The movie was an act of courage , politically and morally as well as poetically . ( The legion of decency condemned it because of a scene in a brothel . ) A director's goal should exceed his grasp , or what's a script for ? Watching it now , however , in 2006 , the story is more disturbing than ever . John Ford obviously sympathized with the Irish rebels . They kill , but only out of what they see as necessity . ( " He knows too much to live . What if he goes to the Tans ? Oh , it's not me-self I'm thinking of but all of us , of Ireland herself . " ) The Irish are sentimentalized and sympathetic . I wonder if the Jihadists in the Middle East don't use a similar logic to justify their acts of violence .
Let's Get Native .	An easygoing , gentle , and thoroughly successful comedy . Peter Riegert is an executive at the Houston firm of Knox Oil , in the employ of Mr . Happer himself , Burt Lancaster . Lancaster has a terrific plan to develop an oil refinery on the Scottish coast and sends Riegert there to negotiate the deal with the presumably naive villagers who own the beach and the land around it . Riegert runs into some genuinely weird Scottish folk and winds up in love with the place . Lancaster arrives to take over the arrangements himself but is entranced by the night sky and sends Riegert home , telling him , " I'm glad I got here in time to interrupt YOUR refinery caper . " Riegert sadly goes back to Houston , having sampled for a few weeks the single-malt heaven of being at peace with himself . That's the story . Pretty simple in itself . But Bill Forsyth , the writer and director , has imbued it with a fey quality suggestive of pixies and fairies and will o ' the wisps . It's totally charming . I'll mention just a few features that are liable to catch the eye . Or the ear , for that matter . The Scottish accent in the end makes itself at home in your vestibular canals . " It will be the petrochemical capitol of the world " comes out as " It wheel be the pay-tro chemical capitol of the wurruld . " The stunning Jenny Seagrove plays a mysterious rubber-suited SCUBA diver who is creating a biological map of the bay . Her would-be lover , kissing her rubber-suited knee , is only slightly put off when he notices that her toes are webbed . Two men are watching her walk away . " Nice pair of lungs on that , " remarks one . " Yes , great assets , " comments the other . This scene , like every other one , is played absolutely deadpan . Every utterance sounds earnest . There are very few smiles and the only person who laughs on screen is a friendly visiting Russian fisherman . An example of more humor , just so that you may see that this is the other side of the moon of the Marx Brothers . Two men are sitting at the dinner table . One tries to squeeze his half lemon on his fish and a squirt hits Peter Riegert in his left eye . Riegert winces and claps his napkin to his wounded eye , brushing off the other's apology . Then Riegert squirts some lemon juice on his fish and hits himself in his other eye . Cut . The newly arrived Riegert decides to get to know the villagers and starts schmoozing a knot of fishermen on the wharf . They are friendly but a little wary . A baby in a nearby stroller begins to whimper and Riegert smiles at the tot and asks , " Whose baby is that ? " The men all go silent and stare at their feet . Two old geezers are grumbling over their beer about how fast things are changing , how the old days will soon be gone forever . One of them asks conversationally how much the other has been offered for his land . The second guy rattles off a complicated payment scheme like " One million from the front end with a two percent trust in structured derivative instruments . " Back in Houston , Lancaster has hired a shrink who visits him regularly in his office . The shrink is determined to force Lancaster to get in touch with his feelings or some such nonsense . In the middle of a session , the shrink comes up with something like , " You know , you're really a stupid son of a bitch . " Lancaster is shocked . " No , really , you're a terrible ahole . " Lancaster throws him out , still swearing , and the shrink takes to climbing the outside of Lancaster's office building and posting signs like " Happer is a mother - - " . Lancaster orders his secretary to call the police and have the madman shot , precipitating his flight from Houston . The air in this tiny Scottish village is as strange as the sea that throws up on its beach oranges from South Africa and coconuts from the Bahamas . Out of the sky come meteors , Aurora Borealis , RAF Harriers on practice bombing runs , and helicopters with a bright light in front , like a living eye . The performances are as liesurely as the unfolding events . No one runs around or shouts . Lancaster in his silver age is fine . The villagers are completely convincing . It's all reminiscent of one of Ealing's comedies from the 50s , without any manic element . More deliberate , like " The Maggie . " It's not a masterpiece but it's an enthralling and whimsical piece of life - - modern and benighted - - seen through a ludic prism .
The Fate of Rebels	Seeing it again , nine years after its release , you can't help being struck by how familiar things are : the pale blue cast of the photography , the distinctive special effects , the squib charges exploding not with blood but with dust when a man is hit , the clank of bullet against armor , the shaky camera , the enemy seen as dark phantoms scurrying through the murk of the battlefield , the tiny fountain of cork chips as a bullet slams into the dirt , the attention to period detail , the necessity of reloading at particularly awkward moments . All of this is familiar now because it's been so often aped , often in strong films like " Band of Brothers " and " Blackhawk Down " . I doubt that anyone could make an " ordinary " war film anymore . Slow , cheap ones like Sam Fuller's or even innovative grunt's-view stories like " Platoon . " If you're going to make a war movie now , Spielberg's " Saving Private Ryan " is the bogie you have to match . It is the fate of rebels to found orthodoxies . And what an innovation this movie was . Oliver Stone must be applauded for tackling a subject like the Vietnam war that was so controversial that the conflict was avoided for more than ten years , because of the still smoldering emotions the war had generated . If Vietnam had been a human being it would have had to stalk around dressed in rags , tinkling a little bell , and crying " Unclean , unclean . " " Saving Private Ryan " ' s subject is less controversial . First , the enemy really WAS our enemy . ( Germany declared war on the USA first , not the other way around . ) Second , well - - we won , didn't we ? But it is probably more original in its details . And candid too . A German and an American soldier are locked in bitter mano a mano conflict , and the German wins ! And not by cheating either ! He is the bigger man and finally overpowers the American and inch by inch sinks the American's own bayonet into his chest . He does not gloat or smile . It's no tennis game to the German , but a deadly necessity , just as it is for the American soldier . " Relax , " the German pants in a low voice , " it's very simple , " as the tip of the knife slowly penetrates the American's chest . The scene is phenomenally stark . The most complex character is Upham's . The rest of the Americans play their assigned roles , performing impossible feats of bravery . This is precisely what the Germans are doing too . But Upham fails at a crucial point and costs the lives of his allies . The viewer can sit back and make Olympian judgments about Upham's character , but consider that for every hour Upham spent in combat he was as valiant as everyone else for fifty-five minutes . He translated , was almost run over by a tank , ran across open spaces under fire , and carried ammunition . But those fifty-five minutes don't count on his side , only the five during which he was frozen in tonic immobility , a fundamental mammalian trait which - - not having been in Upham's place ourselves - - we can condemn him for . Maybe nobody can define an " anti-war movie . " They ALL claim to be anti-war movies . How could you possibly market a PRO-war movie unless we were formally at war with another nation ? To many people , an anti-war movie is a simple excuse to give us more action and more blood . Put Steven Segal in combat boots . Others are anti-war because they give us a glimpse of the enemy's humanity somewhere along the line . But in all the anti-war movies we always seem to win , as indeed we do in " Saving Private Ryan " . ( The cavalry comes galloping to the rescue . ) All war movies , even those depicting a " defeat " like Pearl Harbor , seem to endorse the same bumper-sticker slogan : " No matter how sneaky or noble they may be , they can't whip us . " I guess it takes an enormous amount of courage - - in Hollywood - - to ask an audience to pay money to see a movie in which we lose a war or a battle or a fist fight with an enemy . It's what I admire about a movie as flawed as " A Bridge Too Far . " And it's what makes me feel more involved in the tragedy shown in " Saving Private Ryan . " That hand-to-hand fight that the American loses contravenes established war narratives . What ? We LOSE ? It's as shocking as Hitchcock's killing of Janet Leigh half-way through " Psycho . " Don't miss " Saving Private Ryan , " a milestone at the time .
An Unexpected Surprise	Larry Schiller , who is credited with directing this movie , comes off in Mailer's book as a no-nonsense , grasping , egomaniacal self promoter - - a Horace Babbitt for our times . So it comes as a big surprise to find that this movie is professionally done and even tasteful . Schiller was one of the first , well , journalists ( I guess ) , on the scene and sewed up a lot of exclusive contracts with informants . He sold the rights to Mailer . As Schiller's character puts it in this movie , " I'm all suited up and ready to play . " And even in enterprises subsequent to Gilmore's story , Schiller is generally described as such a crumb that it's surprising to find this movie has no great directorial displays - - no razzle dazzle pyrotechnics , just clean , functional direction and editing . Of course , Mailer's book was too long to be condensed into even a miniseries in all its complexity , so certain incidents needed to be deleted or compressed . The snitch planted in Gary's cell , for instance . Or the fact that the murders were preceded not by one break up with Nicole Baker but two . Or the fact that there was no one " going away party " for Gary before his execution , but two , the first one having been premature ( and anticlimactic ) . Mailer's book by the way is probably his last very good work , filled with a casual irony that is sometimes amusing . After the first killing , Gary takes the teen aged April to a motel room where , Mailer observes , a paper ribbon has been placed across the closed and antiseptic toilet to prove that nobody has lifted the toilet seat since the paper was placed there . There's no humor in the movie . It's a straightforward , plain-vanilla telling of Gilmore's brief period between his release from prison and his death by firing squad . Tommy Lee Jones is very good as Gary Gilmore . His energy is barely contained . He paces back and forth at moments of tension and gestures in unfamiliar , almost bizarre ways as he tries , for instance , to flag down cars on a highway . He twists his lines in equally idiosyncratic ways , the way Lee Marvin often did , so that one never knows exactly what's coming next . The only other performer of real importance is Rosanne Arquette as Gilmore's girl friend , Nicole . She looks - - ummm - - very nice . Her acting is okay as well , although she doesn't come across nearly as seedy as Jones does . She sounds as if she'd spent time in college , whereas Jones ( who was in Harvard ) sounds like he's spent half his life in prison . She is , however , so succulent that one hardly notices her performance . The movie has no superscore . The music is country and western , and unusually apt . It adds to the shabby atmosphere established . Nobody seems to be really having a good time . And I never suspected Salt Lake City had such a debauched underworld - - people guzzling beer as they drive , smoking , shacking up impulsively , strung out on dope and New Age insanity . Yet they are for the most part respectable and law abiding , even the tattooed bikers and other lowlifes that Gary cultivates as friends . There are only two murders and we don't see the victims ' heads explode . In fact there is hardly any blood . ( That's what I meant when I said the movie was relatively tasteful . ) What motivated Gilmore ? I mean , two senseless killings for a few dollars to pay off a pickup truck . Who knows ? Not even Gilmore knows . Ditto for Nicole Baker . She and Gary agreed to commit joint suicide while he was in prison . The first attempt failed and they tried a second time . ( One of the attempts is again omitted as anticlimactic , which is okay . ) She smuggled the depressants into the prison by putting them in a balloon in her vagina . This may or may not sound realistic , but it is . I was surprised to find couples in the visiting room at California Men's Colony in San Luis Obispo engaged in almost everything short of what might be a definition of " sexual relations " broader than that of President Clinton . Neat . The inmates were doing a lot better than I had at their age . This is an above average miniseries , well worth watching . Not full of pungent insights into human nature or anything - - just a gripping story of a doomed and careless man . Get the unrated version .
New Wind Sweeps Clean	SPOILERS . It doesn't start out promising . As in " American Beauty , " we hear Kevin Spacey's exhausted voice-over telling us how he was physically mishandled by his father and how empty his life is now . A brief marriage to a half-mad Kate Blanchett results in a child , Bunny , but it doesn't seem to help Spacey . At his father's funeral he runs into an aunt from a Canadian maritime province and , having no particular reason for existence in upstate New York , travels home with her . That's when the story proper begins to get a bit more lively . This is a barren windswept place , tucked so far up into the northern latitudes that even at noon objects leave long shadows on the salt grass . People fish in this small village . They eat " seal flipper pies " made of the more cartilaginous parts of the fin . People speak with a kind of mid-Atlantic accent and they have queer names like Card and Buggitt and Quoyle . But it's livelier than it sounds underneath those lowering skies . Spacey gets a job at the local newspaper , The Gammy Bird or something like that . Well , okay , it's not the New York Times , but even the Pt . Reyes Lighthouse won a Pulitzer a few years ago . His assignment : write the shipping news , detailing which ships enter and leave port , and throw in any relevant bits of information . Also cover the regular car wrecks . Spacey runs into the couple who have just brought a yacht into harbor , a yacht that was built for Adolph Hitler , and does a story on it , much to the pleasure of the editor ( Scott Glenn ) who spends most of his time fishing . His career as journalist progresses , punctuated by the headlines he gradually learns to compose . An older colleague takes him to the shore , tells him to look at the horizon , and describe what he sees . " There are some mountains - - and a lot of dark clouds , " ventures Spacey . " Nope : IMMINENT STORM THREATENS VILLAGE , " says his mentor . " But what if it doesn't come ? " Spacey asks . Answer : " DANGEROUS STORM SPARES VILLAGE . " There's a lot of humor in this film actually but none of it is played for laughs . It's the kind of humor that grows out of everyday encounters , unremarked upon but palpably there . Much of it is provided by the headlines . After some social coup , Spacey smiles with satisfaction and muses , " CLUMSY MAN STUNS CROWD . " ( It's a little like the " Windbag " chapter in " Ulysses . " ) Spacey also runs into Julianne Moore , than whom there is no less glamorous or more talented actress on screen these days , who has a retarded child and a punk history of her own . The romance moves slowly and tentatively along as it might in life outside of the movies . The couple do not throw themselves into bed on their first night together and dissolve in an ecstasy of sighs and moans . But it's basically the story of Spacey's self discovery . Nothing as simple as , " EMPTY MAN GOES HOME AND FINDS HIS ROOTS . " Not a bit of it . His family has a lunatic and criminal history on these islands and the secrets are uncovered bit by bit , a patchwork of incest , rape , torture , piracy , and murder , all symbolized by a dreary haunted-looking old house anchored to the stone shore by steel cables and turnbuckles to hold it against the storms . Well , a storm finally does lash the village . I was in such a storm , a hurricane in fact , in a small seaside village outside of Pago Pago in American Samoa . After a day and a night of savagery the dawn came and I was amazed after I'd crawled out from what was left of the place into the crisp new air - - trees down , bushes blasted away , huts shredded , and a majestic vista now that so many obstructions had been flattened . Something like that happens here . The final headline : " STORM DESTROYS HOUSE . LEAVES EXCELLENT VIEW . " I can't NOT mention Kevin Spacey's performance . He's so wispy and insensate at the beginning that he barely exists . He's heavier than usual here and walks in a fitting fashion . Now this is much tougher than what Russell Crowe did with his shambling in " A Beautiful Mind , " or Dustin Hoffman's tics in " Rain Man , " because Spacey has not to EMBODY a mental illness but to suggest a spiritual one . His performance is as close to perfection as it's possible to imagine , although by definition it must lack bravura . Moore is first rate , as usual , her flattish face almost luminous with sensibility , and the smaller parts are just fine . So is the direction . Spacey has , by my count , three nightmares about his childhood and not once does he wake up and thrust his face into the camera and scream . The score is understated during the film but rackets along behind the credits percussively in something like time . See this if you can , really , for an acting lesson if for no other reason , as long as you don't expect to find a slasher crawling through a fish factory with a chef's knife .
Time's Up	Why do networks take a decent movie like this and lop off parts to fit it into a Procrustean bed ? So they can include more commercials and make money . Why do contestants cheat on TV quiz shows ? Well , yes , to make money too - - but more than that . They want adulation as well as new Caddies . At least Herb Stempel and Charles van Doren do - - brothers under two highly unsimilar-looking skins . This movie , at any rate , was chopped up by WGN , and a shame too . I thought networks had gotten pretty much out of the habit . What was lopped off consisted of small but highly revealing character touches , as is usually the case . What's missing from the print here , at least what came to my notice , are two relatively short scenes , whose importance as revealers of character I leave to you to judge . ( 1 ) Van Doren has been on the show and become a celebrity and has gotten used to being surrounded by envious and gushing young idolators . He arrives a bit early , before one of the campus buildings discharges its horde of students . And instead of alighting immediately from the cab , he pauses , leans down , and begins fiddling with his shoelace - - until the building opens and disgorges its young people , and then he gets out and is quickly engulfed as a bit of nutrient might be engulfed by a brainless amoeba . ( 2 ) Dick Goodwin visits the van Dorens and their guests ( Bunny Wilson , etc . ) at their Connecticut home , where everyone sits around the picnic table playing a kind of Shakespeare trivia contest . Dad starts a quote and challenges Charles to finish it and identify its source , that sort of thing . The erudite byplay of all concerned is enough to convince Goodwin that nobody from a community like this could be guilty of cheating on a stupid quiz show . The film rolls along with a lot of dash . Redford has a real facility in the use and placement of the camera . After several important exchanges he tends to linger on the face of one of the speakers , usually the one who has just learned something and whose mouth is left slightly open . The score is mostly of contemporary songs and intrudes a bit , seems loud . Charles van Doren may have envied and perhaps resented his father's fame ( the movie hints that it was his desire to become as well-known as Mark that prompted him to cheat ) but he's lucky to have had the father he did . Otherwise , master's in astrophysics and doctorate in literature or no , it's unlikely he would have been teaching at Columbia , even as an Instructor . ( Talk about unfair advantage ! ) What is the movie's point of view ? It's not completely spelled out , but it seems to be that it was okay for a nobody like Herb Stempel to cheat but not for someone with Charles van Doren's status . There's a certain reasonableness about this judgment . It's one thing for schmucks like you and me to steal towels from a fancy motel like the Tiki Waterbed Palace in Kansas City , but it means something entirely different if a celebrity does it . It's not part of our job descriptions to be models of rectitude , whereas we feel that famous professors and politicians ought to be . It seems an especially apt observation since in the case of quiz shows nobody gets hurt or deprived of anything . It's not a zero sum game . Under different circumstances , though , that's exactly what it is , and that's when cheating becomes not simply unethical but criminal . An armed robber is depriving another of something of value . Yet , our attitudes towards cheating must be very mixed indeed , to judge from the users ' comments under " The Cheaters . " If you cheat in an academic decathlon , you're depriving someone else of something of value , although it isn't a material good , but rather a reward whose value is symbolic . At the end of this story , no one has profited . Stempel , the loudmouth who has been gunning for the blond Aryan , finally brings him down , only to discover that he feels not satisfaction but pity for " the poor guy . " Goodwin , who was after television , has torpedoed a comrade instead . The public loses its innocence . One or two network small fry are barbecued . And van Doren of course is ruined . The only winner is television itself , which will go on to bigger and better things like " World's Wildest Police Videos . " Why bother watching someone on TV exercise their brains when you can watch people smash up their cars on a freeway ? It's difficult to believe that there was actually a time in our history when people would crowd around their TV sets and watch a contestant struggle to answer a question about the King of Belgium . Gimme " Survivor " any day , and pass the sugar frosted flakes .
Some of His Best Friends Are Anti-Semites .	I have to give this movie bonus points , not because it approaches cinematic perfection , but because of its pioneering exploration of a politely ignored social problem . Gregary Peck is a journalist given an assignment to write a story about anti-Semitism . His " Maw " , Anne Revere , gives him the idea of pretending to be Jewish himself . His name - - Phil Green - - " could be anything . " He can now write the story from an emic or inside point of view , like a cultural anthropologist , instead of just using statistics or historical archives . But to make the trick work he must keep the pretense secret from everyone except those who already know him for the shagetz he is - - his Maw , his fiancée Dorothy McGuire , his son Dean Stockwell , his editor Albert Dekker , and his visiting friend John Garfield . Well , I'll tell you . The reaction begins popping up all over , including the most unlikely places . Small , itchy kinds of abrasions at first . His secretary , June Havoc , slyly admits she changed her name from Walensky in order to get the job she has . Then his son is called a dirty Jew at school . Then he informs his fiancée that he's " simply going to tell everyone I'm Jewish " , and is startled by her response - - " Oh , but you're NOT . I mean , are you ? " In a tense scene he confront the manager of a " restricted " hotel , who bluntly turns him away , leaving him humiliated and enraged . Peck's friend , Garfield , playing a character named Dave Goodman is realistic and reassuring . He's been through it all his life , he says , but Peck is meeting it for the first time so for him it's all " telescoped . " Peck gets the series finished and it's evidently a knockout for the paper , but his anger has driven away McGuire and ruined their plans for marriage . In the end , through the offices of Garfield , the two are reunited - - but only after McGuire has agreed that one must fight back at anti-Semitism in all its isomorphs , whether small or large . In fact , though , I found myself rather sympathetic towards McGuire's character . In his pursuit of truth , Peck has driven himself half nuts . The slightest HINT of prejudice raises his hackles . He goes about in a constant state of irritation , a walking raw nerve . What he's demanded of McGuire is the impossible . She's going to " dish it out " . She will from now on object to ethnic jokes among her friends and neighbors and get all serious about things . And her neighbors in Darien , Connecticut , are portrayed as pretty dumb , too . They all seem to be cackling old ladies . One of them inquires of Peck's journalist , " Tell me , do you get your ideas first and then write about them ? Or do you write first and get your ideas later . " You want a WASP stereotype ? How about that one . They aren't much , true , but if she turns as edgy and hostile and intolerant as Peck , she's going to lose them all . She and Peck will wind up like the two boarded-up sisters in Shirley Jackson's " We Have Always Lived in the Castle . " Those of us in our dotage will remember where that claim to victim power got everyone during the 1960s when everyone of good taste became intolerant of any sign of discrimination , of jokes or remarks at the expense of any minority group . That was a nice peaceful gumbaya decade , wasn't it ? Yet so many of us seem compelled to find an Indian or a Jew or a dwarf or a woman in his ancestral tree . Why ? There's a good deal of moral authority that comes with defining yourself as a victim - - even if you've never been victimized . We enable ourselves , say , to enter a large room and demand that the person at the other end put out his cigar because we are endangered by his second-hand smoke . By any definition , that's power . It's also good to be a victim or to have ancestors who were victims because it promotes group cohesiveness . The brothers don't was their dirty laundry in public ; they support each other in myriad ways . It's us against them , and they're out to demean us . For anyone who wanted to destroy the integrity of a group , the first thing they would do is remove the enemy . Not to denigrate minority groups , though . The enemy has to be real enough to make it all work the way it's supposed to . Well , that's the anthropologist in me running off at the fingertips . I will now step down from the box . Oops . Thank you . Dorothy McGuire is from Omaha . And I have a question . Why are so many famous actors from Omaha and environs ? She grew up there in the 1920s . So did Montgomery Clift , Marlon Brando , Fred Astaire , James Coburn , Henry Fonda , and a bunch of others . I did a chi square test of famous performers from Nebraska , as against Oklahoma , Kansas , and North and South Dakota , with an equivalent population . The results were significant . Is it something in the water ? The founder effect ? Back to the movie , following our usual linear progression . Peck is pretty good . He's hit his stride here as the easy-going man of strong principle . McGuire is breathless and vulnerable and turns in a fine and mostly understated performance . The movie dates , of course . This isn't 1947 , thank God , and anti-Semitism is not as rampant as it was then , and perhaps not as rampant then as the movie depicts . It's a bit heavy handed and overly dramatic , despite the reality of the social problem it deals with . But it took guts on everybody's part to make it . The studio moguls of the time were hardly behind this kind of effort , since they had names like Mayer , Zukor , Cohn , and Goldwyn , and Warner . Some of the people involved wound up before HUAC and some were blacklisted . A shocker for its time , because nothing like it had really been done before .
We get too soon old and too late smart .	This film , shot mostly in Rumania and directed by Francis Ford Coppola , has some of the most splendid location photography I've ever seen . Indoors is all burnished gold and dark shadows , like " The Godfather , " and snowy piny landscapes have never been more snowy or more piny . The cinematographer , Mihai Malaimare Jr . , ought to get a medal . But when a character , the actual historical figure of Professor Giuseppe Tucci , played by Marcel Iures , remarks casually and in all seriousness , that " the mind presents the appearance of duality " - - and says it in Sanskrit - - we at last understand that we may be in for a long slog through some metaphysics . The images are unimpeachable but the thrust of the story is as murky as hell . Tim Roth is an ancient Rumanian professor of Oriental Studies and is struck by lightning on the street in 1938 . He's taken to the hospital where is condition is pronounced " grave " , as they say . But after a protracted recovery he finds that his body has renewed itself and now , instead of looking like the man of 70 that he in fact is , he looks and feels like 35 . It's a miracle out of scripture , but not necessarily the kind of scripture we're most familiar with . With the aid of a psychiatrist , played by Bruno Ganz , Roth finds that he now knows even more than he did before his accident . Moreover , he can read and memorize books just by passing his hand over them . On top of that , he can predict the outcome of random events , which enables him to support himself at the roulette tables . And on top of THAT , he displays an ability to compel others to act without saying a word to them . Ganz , the psychiatrist , has stupidly published Roth's case study in the medical journals . Remember , this is the beginning of World War II and Rumania is in league with the Nazis - - well , sort of - - and a Nazi scientist wants to experiment on Roth in the belief that a million volt electrocution will result in a superior race . The Nazi has tried it on animals but has just been electrocuting a dead horse . About this time , the viewer may feel he's got a handle on this fantasy . It's going to be the story of a guy with miraculous powers who is pursued by those who want to use him for selfish ends . But no . The Nazis come and go without real consequence . The USSR occupies and governs Rumania . Roth has made his way to Switzerland but is still shadowed by journalists and mysterious figures who have divined his real identity , despite the cleverness of his false identity . Then a bright-eyed and cheerful young woman , Alexandra Maria Lara , who may ( or may not ) have been struck by lightning enters the picture . She can now speak Sanskrit and claims to have lived a former life in Nepal . The film disregards Roth for a while and explores the character of this babe . As time goes by she begins to spout increasingly ancient languages - - Egyptian , Assyrian , and seems to be working her way back to " the proto language " , which some linguists have actually proposed once existed . It would mean that language was invented only once in the history of humankind , at a single place and a single time . But enough of the plot , if that's what it is , otherwise we're talking about A Skeleton Key to Youth Without Youth , and I don't do that kind of stuff on spec . " Wipe your glosses with what you know , " punned another famously difficult novelist , and Mircea Eliade knows his glosses . Cripes , he spoke like five languages and had a reading knowledge of three or four others . He was not just a linguist but a philosopher , a theologian , an historian , a novelist , and all-around egghead who taught , among other institutions , at the University of Chicago . I'd have killed for his curriculum vitae . The rest of us mortals will have to settle for what we see on the screen and between Eliade's musings and Coppola's ambitions it's hard to know what exactly we're witnessing . The director and writer keeps the story simple enough . There are no pyrotechnic directorial displays and the images are lineal . But what we see follows a kind of dream logic in which events don't necessarily turn on one another in a rational fashion . ( If Roth can make a Nazi shoot himself in the head , why can't he make his pursuers and tormentors go away ? ) Maybe the novel was better . ( I doubt it . ) Some books , however great , can't be turned into convincing films . I mean , what is " Ulysses " all about ? An aimless , scholarly kid gets drunk and finds himself being cared for by a cuckolded older Jewish guy . What is " Lolita " about ? A dirty old man runs off with a precocious adolescent girl . I'll take a plunge and try to sum up the movie's message . Knowledge and art aren't everything . There are things that transcend logic and aesthetics . In fact , the pursuit of real ends is a zero sum game . Not only " a little learning is a dangerous thing , " but the more you learn the more danger you're in . You may wind up knowing more , but at the expense of your innocence . A deep thinker's " Portrait of Dorian Gray . " I'll have another Heinekins , please . Thank you .
Capitalism in the Raw .	Rowdy , masculine , adventurer David O'Keefe ( Lancaster ) sees millions of dollars of copra ready to be harvested from the coconuts on Yap , a South Sea Island . The local representative of a German trading company ( Andre Morell ) is sympathetic but hopeless : the " natives " are too lazy to work because they already have everything they want , and money is not among the things they want . Lancaster finally finds out what motivates the natives to work - - " fei . " It's a kind of local currency , but it's stone , harvested from a distant island and involving a dangerous voyage to and fro . Using dynamite instead of hand picks , Lancaster brings them more fei than they can eat , and they some of them Yapese elect him king . He and his supporters defeat incursions by Bully Hays and the German trading company ( at the cost of Morrell's life ) and he married a Caucasian girl and everyone lives happily ever after . It's a bully movie , full of the kind of raw capitalism that produced Diamond Jim Brady and the Gilded Age of McKinley and colonialism generally . It's marvelous seeing Lancaster do his own stunts . And Joan Rice is a perfect innocent virgin . Lancaster has a tooth damaged in a fist fight with Bully Hayes . He is taken to a Chinese dentist and is asked whether he'd like expensive gold , that will last longer , or cheap tin . " Tin , " replies Lancaster in the dentist's chair , " and drive it in to last . " Most of us wouldn't have said that . The film was shot in the 1950s in Fiji , in Melanesia , not in Yap , in Micronesia . There are physical differences between the populations , but it doesn't affect the fun of the movie . Lancaster was never more fit than here . He bounces around with his Hollywood-shaved pectorals , and defeats every physical challenge . It's only the moral questions that finally leave him nonplussed . I saw this in Elizabeth , New Jersey , as a school kid with my date , and she translated the German for me . Now , after having spent two years studying the natives on a Polynesian Island as an anthropologist , I can follow the native language about as well as Eleanor followed the few words of German . What curious twists Clio , the muse of history , provides us . For what it's worth , the story of fei is real . Fei was valuable for the same reason that gold ( or any other mineral or gem ) is valuable . It's hard to get . You had to work like nobody's business to find some . It's called the " value added " theory of goods . You add value to some commodity because of the labor that has gone into the getting of it , as Freidrich Engels and others have pointed out . ( Fresh air is worthless because no value had been added to it , so nobody charges you to breathe . Compressed air at the gas station costs money because it has been worked on . ) Fei is made of stone . Most currency , including the five-dollar bill in your wallet , is paper . But so what ? It's worth something because people agree that it's worth something . On Yap , in real life , a boat with some fei was sunk offshore , but the fei was not lost . Since everyone knew it was out there , although at the bottom of the ocean , it was still used as currency . Well - - why not ? Is it that much different from our printing more Treasury bonds when WE need money ? Just substitute paper for stone . The danger illustrated in this movie is that if you use modern mining methods to collect fei , you get too much of it and it becomes worth less . Ditto for printing too much money . End of economics lesson . This is something more than just another action flick in an exotic setting . It puts Lancaster in something of a dilemma . Which is more important - - profit or social responsibility ? The question has resonance .
Unforgettable	I tuned in late to this film , not expected very much , because we have all I suppose seen so many documentaries of Hitler's last days in the bunker , and a reconstruction with Alec Guiness thrown in for good measure . Many of these presentations depend on interviews with Trudl Junge , Hitler's secretary at the time . Her descriptions of the goings on during the final days are cool , precise , and dispassionate . First Hitler said this , then Eva Braun said that , and then they went up into the garden . A human surveillance camera who seems to have no personal mechanism for judgments . She was , however , quite human after all . The last shot of the film is from an interview with her before her death in 2002 . She explains to us that , young as she was , she had always put aside any feeling of guilt for her involvement in the Third Reich , negligible as it was . But then , one day , she passed a monument to Sophie Scholl who sacrificed herself in the course of resisting Naziism , and Frau Junge tells the camera - - and the rest of the world - - that she realized at that moment that youth and naiveté could no longer serve as her excuse . I missed the first half hour or so , but I stayed for the rest . This is an extremely powerful movie . The events in the bunker are keenly observed . There is virtually nothing in the way of sentiment or dramatic displays . If the director , Hirschbiegel , wants two officers to commit suicide he may have them walk into a room and close the door behind them , then allow us to hear two shots a bit later . No one talks about despair . Instead , the officers and some of the ladies sit around a table in one of the bunker's rooms and get drunk as skunks . This is a tragic ending to an insane war , and it is all enacted by human beings , not demons . Goebbels and his wife have 5 beautiful young children , a boy and four girls . They deliberately give them knockout drops , then Frau Goebbels puts a capsule of fast-acting poison in each of their mouths , one after another , and crunches the capsule by pressing each child's teeth together . Then , wordlessly , Goebbels and his wife walk up into the open where , still wordlessly , he shoots her and then himself - - off camera . The soldiers who have been waiting impatiently for this ritual to end , then scurry forward with cans of gasoline to dispose of the bodies . The episode is impossible to watch without being moved . What have Goebbels and his wife died for ? What did their children , who knew nothing of war or racism , die for ? And , implicitly , the film asks , what did some 50 million people die for between 1939 and 1945 ? I am grateful to the director and the actors for keeping things so matter of fact . Preparations for a predictable death are pretty gruesome even with the most tasteful intentions , and too often executions and suicides seem to have the filmmakers ' attention lavished on them for not much reason other than to pander to a morbid interest in watching someone else die , a kind of arousal jag . How easy it would have been for a trashy sensibility to give us the death of Hitler's German shepherd , Blondi , in all its horror . A DOG yet ! Those of us who might have cheered at Hitler's death would now have a chance to weep over Blondi's . Instead , except for a few instructive inserts , Blondi's poisoning is only glimpsed in a clumsy shot through an open doorway . Congratulations to everyone involved in this production . They've given us a well-executed film , made for adults . They come along so rarely .
First , do the patient no harm ?	Dr . William Palmer ( Keith Allen ) seems to have forgotten the first principle of the Hippocratic oath . He goes about nonchalantly poisoning people who inconvenience him financially or emotionally . It's not clear exactly how many people he managed to put away , but he can certainly lay claim to the title of England's first celebrity serial killer . This is one of those long , leisurely British TV productions with a lot of elegance and good production values , the kind the Brits do so well ( Inspector Morse , Sherlock Holmes ) . The characters might be described as late Dickensian . Dr . Palmer's mother is decked out in a wardrobe that makes her look like that portrait of W . C . Fields imitating Queen Victioria . But as far as that goes , all of the period detail seems accurate . You would not really want to be treated by one of the doctors of this period . ( Although Palmer was a surgeon , not a medical doctor , and they had less status . " Surgeon " comes from the same root as " chiropractor " and their practice was initially limited to sawing and cutting . ) If the patient is ill , the doctor of the period gives him a quick exam then recommends things like " tincture of mercury " , or " a few drops of nitric acid " , or chamomile tea , or " the black draft . " No , not THAT kind of black draft . Germs hadn't been discovered yet and the doctor might come directly from fertilizing his garden to fomenting the cut on your hand . Between the opium and the belladonna half the people in Europe must have had their pupils pinned at f . 11 . In any case , Dr . Palmer is played in a kind of Dennis Price style . He oozes superciliousness . His expression constantly hovers somewhere between boredom and amusement . And when he's really vexed he looks exasperated . The character , evil as he is , with the help of the director and editor , provides a constant source of ironic humor , a Richard III in a stovepipe hat . The movie depends on him and he makes it work . It's Allen's performance that keeps this from being just another true-crime horror film . I mentioned the contributions of the director and the editor because they add a good deal to the ease with which we can keep our distance from the goings on . When someone remarks to Dr . Palmer that one of his creditors would be better off dead , and Palmer looks wryly up towards the camera and muses , " Yes , I suppose so , " and the editor cuts away immediately , you might feel a repulsive shock but you'll probably feel a mean amusement too . The other performers are excellent as well . Freddy Jones is ( for him ) pretty subdued as an older doctor in Rugely who has a lifetime of experience but no formal credentials . Some of the characters around Palmer are innocents who die . Others are innocents who wise up to what's going on . Some of them die too , while others live to see Palmer swing . The film isn't hard hearted . Maybe one or two of the victims are gin-soaked viragos , but others are perfectly friendly , generous people and we don't enjoy seeing them go . Palmer was a nasty guy who pretty much earned what he got . Try to see it if you have a chance . It's not around that much .
Where would you like to start ?	This one and " The Life of Brian " top their list , in my humble opinion . Each time this rolls around on cable TV I expect finally to find it boring but rarely do . If I can make it to the second sketch , the aquarium with the fish , I'm hooked . Now , I can't spell out too many of the situations without ruining the surprises , but I can't resist those fish . We see an underwater scene with a fake fish swimming slowly back and forth . Another fish enters and they exchange gruff , " Good mornings . " One by one other fish swim into the scene and each time , there is the same " good morning " exchange , very ritualized and formal . There is a brief conversation between the fishes . ( All of them have hideous humanoid face . ) " Anything new ? " " Wot ? " " I say , anything new ? " " No , nothing much new . " One of the fishes faces the camera and exclaims , " Look ! Howard's being EATEN . " And the camera shows us that the fish are in a restaurant aquarium , the kind from which ultra-fresh live fish are hand picked to serve as an entrée . We see the fussily dressed waiter bending down to show the customer his nicely prepared decapitate piscine preparation . " Hmmm , " one of the fish wonders aloud . " Makes you THINK , doesn't it ? " Then the opening credits roll - - " Monty Python's Meaning of Life . " Granted this description loses something in being transposed from one medium to another , but if you don't find this amusing you may not appreciate the rest of the film . There are some dozen or so sketches , none of which fall entirely flat , but some of which are stronger than others . The most offensive by far is the fat man , M . Creosote , who waddles into a fancy French restaurant in the fattest FAT SUIT known to man or beast . He literally drags his belly along the floor . The staff rush to seat him and cater to him . ( Throughout the film , much of the humor derives from the unflappability of the cast , no matter how dire the circumstances - - selling one's children for use is scientific experiments , losing a leg ( " Woke up and - - one sock too many " ) or death . The waiters provide the rebarbative M . Creosote with a bucket to puke into and M . Creosote uses it - - not delicately but voluminously , all over the floor and the other diners . When he's eaten and drunk what appears to be the entire stock of the restaurant , no more than a tiny head on a balloon of a body , dribbling vomit , the waiter entices him into trying just one more dessert , wafer thin . The waiter gingerly feeds it to him , then dives behind a wall as M . Creosote explodes like a bomb , drenching the entire interior of the establishment and causing all the other customers to become ill . I see I've already ruined two gags . Okay . I'll try reining myself in . But I'm compelled to mention some dialog in the scene in which death visits a quartet of diners at home because of some tainted salmon mousse . An American man in a loud jacket and tie removes his pipe and begins to argue with the Grim Reaper . " Shuddup ! " orders the Reaper . " All you Americans talk too much . You talk and talk . You say things like , ' I wanna tell you something , ' and ' Just lemme say this ! ' " I'm laughing too hard to go on and it's just as well that I quit now . But maybe I should add that the last sketch , following Death , shows us a heaven staged like a Las Vegas show , and it's ridiculed . Maybe Monty Python , in deliberately throwing away any attempt to define the meaning of life , has bootlegged a philosophy into the story after all . Marcus Aurelius recommended " waiting for death with a cheerful mind " and observed that " death looks at all of us and the best we can do is smile back . " Like other Stoics , he assumed that people should not fear that which is natural . " Why should a man have any apprehension about the change and dissolution of all the elements ? For it is according to nature , and nothing is evil which is according to nature " Albert Einstein described his own attitude towards death in similar terms . " It is a natural event . " If you're uncertain about this being your cup of tea , my advice would be to watch it for ten or fifteen minutes . If you aren't grabbed by then , watch something else .
Grace Under Pressure	The natural tendency of a TV movie made about a turbulent time in history is to turn the story into a soap opera . That way , the producers can avoid expensive and expansive battle scenes with millions of extras , impeccable props and sets , monumental stars , and dialog that , having been rewritten and polished to a sheen , sings with poetry . Instead we can get a love triangle with two people in each scene , arguing and insinuating away to beat the band . This isn't that kind of TV movie . In the first place , it's adapted with some felicity by Ernest Kinoy from Gore Vidal's novel . The novel itself , while no masterpiece , wasn't bad and it stuck pretty close to historical facts . Vidal's characters , as he himself put it , went where they did and did what they did much as they did in real life . The novel had its amusing moments too , some inadvertent . Aboard a boat in Chesapeake Bay , Vidal has the weather worsening because " the wind was now coming from leeward . " But at least he didn't turn Lincoln into a closet homosexual . The battle scenes are a little perfunctory , probably because there wasn't as much money sunk into this production as Turner had available for the elephantine " Gettysburg . " But the battle scenes aren't too important anyway . It's the outcome of the battles that count , and these are written into the dialog . It's enough to know that on the peninsula , General George McLellan was outmaneuvered by a Confederate force that he outnumbered ten to one . ( The film doesn't mention it but the Rebs were led by a general who in civilian life had been a theatrical actor . ) The film divides itself about equally between three narrative threads . ( 1 ) Lincoln's conduct of the Civil War . ( 2 ) Lincoln's political battles with his adversaries . And ( 3 ) Lincoln's life at home with his dysfunctional family . And , boy , what a dysfunctional family it was . Abe and Mary Todd Lincoln were equally matched . She was manic and he was depressive . ( I eschew the unnecessarily lengthy definitions . ) Mary's impulsive and ill-judged buying sprees were symptomatic , as was Abe's severe depression as a young man . One of their three children suffered from Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity , which is made clear in the novel but not in the film . Furthermore , Mary , a firm abolitionist but not a radical one , came from a slave-owning family in a border state . Some of her relatives fought on the other side . Lincoln himself , a pragmatist , only freed some of the slaves with his Emancipation Proclamation , and he had to wait for a Union victory to announce it in order to keep the Republican congress in power . ( Antietam - - some " victory " . ) Anyway , that's a lot of potential domestic conflict to explore . Sam Waterston as Lincoln , Mary Tyler Moore as Mary Todd Lincoln , Richard Mulligan and Tom Brennan as cabinet members , Steven Culp as Lincoln's secretary , and Ruby Dee as Mary Lincoln's handmaiden pull it all together in a surprisingly effective way . There isn't a sour note in the bunch . Even the smaller roles , like Jeffrey DeMunn as Lincoln's former law partner , William Herndon , are well played . The script is sprinkled with Lincoln's down-home expressions and his colorful analogies . McClellan has " a case of the slows . " And if Little Mac isn't going to use his Army , Lincoln proposes to borrow it for a while and put it to work . When Lincoln suspects that the City Council in Baltimore is about to meet and may secede from the union , he throws the lot of them in jail and dispenses with habeus corpus . Can you imagine such a thing happening today ? The movie leaves out a lot of Abe's bon mots but it's just as well because in the end , this is a tragic story , in more ways than one . Not only does the war kill more Americans than all our other wars combined , but of course Lincoln , perhaps our greatest president , is assassinated by a zealot . And Mary goes mad and is placed in a sanitarium for safe keeping by her own children . And there followed the destruction and humiliation of the South during Reconstruction , ensuring a lasting bitterness between two cultural regions that remained almost separate nations for the next hundred years . I'm glad this movie was made - - and made as well as it was . Lincoln held the country together during its most perilous years . Some may claim his reputation has been inflated but it's hard to see how it could have been . The movie should be shown in high school history classes - - maybe college history classes too . In a poll about ten years ago , a substantial number of college freshman couldn't place the American Civil War in its proper half-century . What's worse , the percentage didn't improve among seniors .
Give him a break . . . .	Here is Olivier in his 70s , a guy who simply could not stop working . In his last years , visibly old , his face fallen , disabled by disease , he still kept calling his agent and asking , " Can't I work " ? I'm going to cut the guy some slack . I mean - - the very fact that he was able to PICK UP Cordelia and carry her at his age was no mean feat ! And I didn't catch any gross weaknesses in his performance . And I didn't catch any gross weaknesses in his performance . Or in anyone else's for that matter . Diana Rigg could turn anybody into an ice cube just by looking at him or her . I loved John Hurt's Fool , especially , and the relationship between him and Lear , the latter amused by the former's insults , even while warning him that he may go too far . John Hurt was my supporting player in a courtroom movie in which I was the sketch artist , " From the Hip , " a story far superior to anything Shakespeare ever wrote . All seriousness aside , as for " Lear " the play , I just don't know . The plot of full of holes and unpleasantnesses . Basically the engine behind the story is that Goneril and Regan brown nose the King , while Cordelia says with blunt honesty that she loves him as much as her bond to him demands , no more and no less . " Nothing will come of nothing , " and so forth , says Lear , understandably confused because she's not following the usual interactional grammar . Well , all Cordelia has to do is say something like , " Wait a minute . I really do love you . It's just that I'm not going to throw myself at your feet to get a piece of your property . My love means more than that . " But no . Tragedy builds upon tragedy . And it's LEAR who is ordinarily blamed for this misunderstanding ! Well , that's a patriarchal society for you . And , pardon , but what happened to The Fool ? He disappears without explanation halfway through the play ! What happened ? Did WS lose a few pages of the play and then forget about them ? And that eye-gouging business - - discomfiting . And at the end , with Lear moaning over the dead Cordelia , he comes up with something like , " And my poor fool is hanged " . What's that all about ? Was Cordelia a fool ? Was he referring to " The " Fool , who was hanged somewhere in the missing pages of the ms . ? Lear winds up in a gale on the moor , running around naked , and afterward decorating his hair with posies like some berserk Mellors . Does he deserve this because he didn't catch Cordelia's covert meaning ? Why should misfortune after misfortune be heaped upon Lear ? Isn't being very old enough of a tragedy , all by itself , for Lear ? Or for Olivier ? For anybody ?
Down Home Musicals .	It's hard to evaluate a documentary like this because it's a compilation of musical numbers from the legendary MGM factory over a period of more than thirty years , and although the numbers all show a good deal of effort , some are invariably an improvement over others . There are a couple of dozen episodes , introduced by a dozen or so former MGM musical stars . The numbers are all commercial in their nature , designed to appeal to the family-oriented and innocent audiences of the time . There's nothing dark about any of them . Even complex tragedies like " Showboat , " the Rogers and Hart Broadway hit of around 1927 , is sanitized in its verse and characterizations . Louis B . Mayer had no interest in the working-class dramas of the Warner Brothers . All its output was a warm and cozy as money and talent could make it . If Mayer couldn't get Shirley Temple , after whose drawing power he lusted , he created his own Shirley Temples in Judy Garland and Margaret O'Brien . The numbers ( or at least snippets of them ) range from exhilarating ( the barn-raising dance sequence in " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers " or Gene Kelly's " Singin ' in the Rain " ) through comically bad ( you must hear Robert Montgomery sing in an operetta , or Jimmy Stewart wrestling his way through Cole Porter's undemanding " Easy to Love " , or Wallace Beery grumbling uncomfortably for " It's a Most Unusual Day " ) , to the earnest vulgarity of Joan Crawford's hootchie-cootchie or Esther Williams color-drenched high dives into a sea of fountains , flares , and fireworks . The guides are Old Faithfuls , familiar to all movie buffs - - perhaps with Peter Lawford near the bottom and Old Blue Eyes near the top . Fred Astaire provides a graceful description of Gene Kelly's gymnastic dancing style , and Kelly does something similar for Astaire's more delicate and more innovative ballroom style . In a way , that's where the problem lies . Not a BIG problem - - not enough to detract from our enjoyment of these mostly splendid productions - - but a subtle irritation , even if an expectable one . The narration is written by Jack Haley , Jr . , son of the Tin Man and ex-husband of Liza Minelli . It seems at times to be aimed at idiots . In " Royal Wedding , " to an unexceptional tune , Fred Astaire dances on the floor , then climbs one of the walls and dances sideways , then upside down on the ceiling , then on the opposite wall , and finally back to the floor where this nonsense started . Gene Kelly's narration tells us that " movie buffs have been arguing ever since about how it was done . " WHAT movie buffs ? Those under the age of ten ? There's a condescending quality to the written script that qualifies our appreciation of the overall work . " We've saved the best for last , " says Sinatra and we see much of the splashy , complex , and extremely expensive " American in Paris " ballet . I don't think it's " the best , " do you ? " One of the best , " probably . " Good , " certainly . But it would have been nice if Haley has let us make up our own minds and not treat us as savages only lately come down from the Nilgiri Hills . On the other hand , Haley has evoked a poignant sense of nostalgia for the past . The sets on the MGM lot that were once vibrant with faux life , busy with activity , are now shabby skeletons with some shingling still attached - - artistically arranged , to be sure . I wonder if you need to be old enough to remember the musicals in their original form to appreciate what a loss to vernacular culture that this represents . Man , MGM had billions left in that lot . All they had to do was turn it into a sort of theme park with paid tours . Look at Universal Studios - - flourishing although few movies are made there . As it was , MGM sold out for the short change . They auctioned off all the props and sold the lot to developers who plowed everything under and did was developers do : put up steely buildings surrounded by vast asphalt parking lots . " They don't make them like this anymore , " one of the guides remarks , and he is so right . They couldn't if they wanted to . Not only are the sets gone but just this year we've seen the demise of people like Ann Miller , Cyd Charisse , and Van Johnson . That's enough bad mouthing , I suppose . This is certainly worth watching . Just for one example , watch the grace and near perfection of Fred Astaire and Cyd Charisse in " Dancing in the Dark " from " The Bandwagon . " Watch some of the others . Then go rent the originals .
Slow , thoughtful character study .	The UK has certainly had its share of serial murders , probably none more popular than one of the first , Jack the Ripper . This story involves a series of crimes , the moores murders , and the two perps , Ian Brady and Myra Hendley who , acting in concert , dispatched more than five young kids in the most bestial fashion and buried them in the Lancashire moores . Suffer the little children . Of Brady we can say that there's only the slightest doubt that he suffered from what is now called anti-social personality disorder , unsocialized type . He was a Class A psychopath from his childhood onward , a characterological descendant of the Kallikaks and the Jukes . Myra Hindley is a question mark . Of course there have been women who have killed with evident pleasure , as she did , judging from photographs taken during and after the crimes . But women murderers are less often into brutality and more often into soft murders by poison . And , more often than taking physical form , the least amiable express their cruelty in verbal form or in small punishments of subordinates . ( These ridiculous generalizations come to you courtesy of the First Amendment to the U . S . Constitution ! ) They also show a tendency to be attracted to men of power and potency , as in the Stockholm syndrome . And some of the more twisted seem to be willing accomplices to brutal men . Myra Hindley , whatever her motives , served some 36 years in prison . Caril Ann Fugate served 18 before being released . But this isn't the story of Brady and Hindley anyway . It's the story of Longford , one of those iconoclastic British eccentrics , a member of the House of Lords , an anti-pornography crusader , a Catholic , and a fervent supporter of Myra Hindley's quest for parole . He was in middle age by the time her case came to his attention and there was speculation that , well , maybe there was more to his involvement than mere humanitarianism . It would be understandable . Myra wasn't bad looking and she evidently could present quite a convincing case for herself . Still , his motivation was probably pure enough . He'd visited many prisoners before Myra and continued to visit them for the rest of his life . He was a devout man , and his faith seems to have both sustained him and served as a trap . " Hate the sin , love the sinner , " Longford says . And when it turned out that Manipulative Myra had played him like a fish on a light line , " finding Jesus " as so many inmates do , lying to Longford repeatedly , failing in an attempted escape when he seemed to be neglecting her , dismissing him when he was no longer of use to her , Longford never blamed anyone but himself for the suffering he'd brought about . Jim Broadbent , as Longford , is superb . He looks crazy . But his performance could hardly be improved upon . The usual legal thriller has a hero or heroine who defends an innocent person who's been convicted of a crime by an evil system - - and gets him or her off . Here's a story of a man who sacrifices his reputation for the sake of someone who's unworthy of that sacrifice . Yet the movie explores him without condemning him or making him look foolish . Longford may or may not be a hero . Hindley's motives are left murky and the final meeting of the two is friendly enough , even warm . It's not a story of good and evil , just a story of mistakes . That's what makes it a film deserving of adult attention . Kids weaned on slasher movies will find it boring because it's all talk . People with more sophistication will have a better understanding of what the characters are going through .
Only the most shallow man would fail to be impressed by appearances .	" Vertigo " is considered Hitchcock's masterpiece by high-brows and viewed as a slow , dull movie by proletarians . Indulge this Olympian generalizations for a moment . If you don't know the story by now , it goes something like this . Jimmy Stewart is a San Francisco detective retired from the force because he contracted a severe case of acrophobia on the job . An old college friend , Gavin Elster , hires him to follow Elster's wife , Madeleine ( Kim Novak ) around . Elster is afraid Madeleine is going nuts . Stewart takes the job and is soon hooked on the lovely Madeleine . He rescues her from a suicide attempt , lugs her unconscious body to his own apartment , undresses her , and puts her in his bed until she recovers . Stewart and Madeleine fall in love , but she's still balmy and climbs to the tower of an old church to kill herself . Stewart can't follow because of his acrophobia . He blames himself . Later , while wandering the city streets , he spots a girl named Judy Barton ( also Kim Novak ) who resembles the departed Madeleine . Stewart gets to know her , squires her around , and has her dress and groom herself exactly like his lost love . Then he discovers that Judy IS in fact his lost love . Judy was in cahoots with Gavin Elster and Stewart was a victim of a hoax designed to get rid of Elster's real wife . It ends tragically . It's neither a masterpiece nor dull , really . I don't doubt for a minute that it's Hitchcock's most personal movie . Cripes , he's got this luscious blond he keeps dressing and undressing , gorgeous and sexy , but also unattainable and ghostly . ( A ghost of substantial heft , though . ) That was always Hitchcock's fantasy , the icy Nordic who would attack you in the back seat of a taxi . ( Poor Alma Reville , his wife , a rather homely brunette dwarf . ) On top of the personal interest that Hitchcock lavished on the story , he adds some technical dazzle . Not too much . The acrophobic detective stares down the tall campanile and the camera simultaneously zooms in and dollies back . The tactic was so successful it's been imitated a number of times . And when Stewart and Novak finally kiss and make love in her green-lighted apartment , the director has them and the camera on a turntable that slowly revolves and shows us varied haunting backdrops . And the movie wouldn't be what it is without Bernard Hermann's romantic and oneiristic score . The whole film is meant to be dream-like and that's why it's understandable that some people would see it as irritatingly slow . It follows Edgar Allan Poe's theory of literary esthetics . Poe threw reason off the bell tower and went for eerie effects , period . A man buries a murder victim under the floor but nails a cat in with the body by mistake . How can anyone miss a cat that's in the burial chamber ? I can imagine viewers now , squirming , and asking , " Where the hell is the logic in this ? " Let's put it this way . You are a girl named Judy Barton . You're pretty but have no marketable skills . A very wealthy man comes to you and offers you money to help him kill his wife . All you have to do is impersonate the wife and trap a former detective named Jimmy Stewart into falling in love with you and then lead him to a place where the wife can be safely killed and still look like suicide . Then , after the rich dude takes off for Europe , leaving you to become your slovenly self , you accidentally run into the victimized Stewart on the city streets . ( In a city of 700 , 000 . ) He doesn't recognize you , naturally , because now , having reverted to your original persona , you look like an overly made-up hooker . But he follows you home , knocks on your door , introduces himself , and asks you for a date . I ask you - - the discerning , sophisticated , somewhat street-savvy viewer - - would you accept ? Would you date a man who will almost inevitably find out you're a murderess ? One slip of the tongue could do it . The only person stupid enough to accept would also bury a black cat alongside a dead body . Kim Novak is a lot more effective as Madeleine than as Judy . The latter persona is coarse but tender too . The former is elegant and speaks in a ghostly whisper . Kim Novak was probably right for the part . As Judy , she has these overemphatic eyebrows that lend her the appearance of a Universal monster , perhaps one of the lesbian vampires that smiles as she pours you the drugged wine . But of Hitchcock's other actresses at the time , who else could have done better ? The photography is splendid . And the director takes us on a Cook's Tour of many of the Bay Area landmarks - - Ernie's restaurant ( now gone ) , Muir Woods almost , The Palace of the Legion of Honor , Fort Point , Mission San Juan Bautista ( which has no tower ) , Point Lobos . And every day is perfectly sunny . Stewart re-dresses Novak at an expensive shop that was Ransohoff's at the time . It , too , is now gone but I took my wife to its less expensive replacement and insisted she buy a signature gray suit with a soft white shirt and a pair of brown heels . My insistence led to its usual dead end and after a slight but embarrassing scuffle we wound up with some cheap scrap of an apron . ( She never wore it . ) It's only in a film in which there is no place for common sense , let alone genuine logic , that a man can create a new woman or resurrect an old one . I find it a fascinating movie , technically almost perfect , and worth repeated viewings if they're not repeated too often . ( It's pretty depressing . ) It's at once demanding and rewarding . And I'm certainly glad Hitchcock made it , if only to get it out of his system .
Righteous Wrath .	If I were judging this as a public service message , I'd give it a higher grade . As a documentary film , it spends all but the last fifteen minutes of its time on case studies of four or five families convicted of child molestation in Bakersfield , California . There were several dozen convictions , some 35 of which were reversed years later - - and I mean years . One innocent man and wife were excoriated by the judge and received cumulative sentences of more than 500 years . Before finding an organization willing to look closely into their cases , four of the cases we follow served ten or twenty years . ( What do you do when you've spent 20 years in jail and are released on your 60th birthday , as one victim was ? ) And it was hard time , too - - San Quentin , where child molesters must claim they were convicted of owning automatic weapons and possession of marijuana if they want to live . It's interesting to see the development of the cases , the means by which convictions were brought , and the experiences of the victims , their children , their families and friends . One weakness - - aside from the unnecessarily lugubrious score - - is that there is really no attempt at an explanation , no attempt that involves any sophistication anyway . One or another of the talking heads attributes the wave of mass hysteria to " political ambition , " " zealotry , " and what we would call " command pressure . " But those explanations don't tell us much . Let me put it this way . Why - - out of all the avenues of advancement - - did the politically ambitious District Attorney ( who has been reelected seven times ) happen to choose child molestation as his conduit to power ? " Zealotry " is a personality trait that explains nothing . It's like saying " greed causes robbery . " And " command pressure " - - the sense that those above you must be given the performance that they want from you - - is omnipresent , and constants can't explain variations . I'd love to have seen the case studies squeezed into one hour and the rest of the time given over to an examination of the causes of this craze at the time it happened in Bakersfield - - or rather the causes of these kinds of crazes as they happen again and again , over generations , over centuries . Because , when you get right down to it , collectively and historically , we've seen all this before in one form or another . Witchcraft , Freemasons , hidden Communists , pre-school porno rings , and Satanism . For the past few years we've been working on " internet predators " that do not exist to any measurable extent , according to the only scientifically respectable study that I'm aware of . ( I taught sociology , including classes on social problems that used to be called " mass hysteria . " ) What started this particular craze in this particular place ? And , equally important , what stopped it when it was finally ended ? The explanation must lie in the system itself , the entire social system , of which the legal system is only an instrument . You can't really blame it on an ambitious DA . Is there some reason society NEEDS an internal enemy to hate ? Anyway , that's a lot of criticism of a film that desperately needed making and would have been far more useful if it had been made twenty or twenty-five years ago . God , how many lives have been ruined by our righteous wrath ?
Light-hearted , thoroughly Hitchcockian Thriller .	Sometimes Alfred Hitchcock would get hold of a Big Idea and run with it and the results were usually disappointing - - " Rope , " " Spellbound , " " The Wrong Man . " But there's nothing pretentious about " Foreign Correspondent . " There's a secret clause to one of those secret treaties , and there's a murder or two , the kidnapping and torture of an old man , and an impending war , but these are ground instead of figure - - pegs on which to hang an adventure story blended with some comedy and romance . Joel McRae is an ordinary reporter sent to Europe to root out the real dope behind the winds of war . A Hollander , Mr . Van Meer ( Albert Basserman ) is the tender-minded architect of a plan to keep the peace , and Steven Fisher ( Herbert Marshall ) is his chief functionary . Other important characters include Herbert Marshall's naive and trusting daughter ( Laraine Day ) and a flippant but right-thinking British reporter ( George Sanders ) . McRae and Day fall for one another . Sanders plays a rather important role in the story . And mention must be made of Robert Benchley too , as Stebbins , McRae's careless and self-indulgent colleague in London . Edmund Gwenn is a thug hired by the bad guys ( that is , the Germans ) to see to it that McRae ceases his meddling , permanently . Eduardo Cianelli appears as a Nazi thug . It's not exactly a who-dunnit because we discover half-way through the movie that Herbert Marshall is a spy working for the other side to discover the contents of the secret clause in the secret treaty . Instead , it's a salubrious mixture of Hitchcock set pieces that promote suspense and generate laughs . The plot moves from New York to Amsterdam to London and is full of surprises . Here are some striking incidents . ( 1 ) A double for Van Meer is assassinated on the steps - - shot in the face , in fact , like the citizen in " Battleship Potyemkin " - - and the killer gets away by bustling through a crowd of umbrellas . The scene was shot on a California stage . And why did Hitchcock set it up as he did ? Well , he stated , it's Holland , and what does Holland have but rain , tulips , and windmills ? ( 2 ) McRae , Day , and Sanders chase the murderer's car and it suddenly disappears next to a windmill . McRae pokes around in the windmill with unexpected results . If you've ever wondered what the inside of a windmill looks like , this will give you some idea of what the inside of a windmill looks like inside the head of the art director , Alexander Golitzen . ( 3 ) The Trans-Oceanic clipper crashes into the sea near the end and you have never seen such panic and such wild and wind-blown seas . There isn't space to detail the plot but it isn't , as I say , all that important anyway , serving mostly as a link between episodes and sometimes even a little confusing . But everything else is outstandingly entertaining . Robert Benchley contributed to the dialog . He was a humorist for the New Yorker for some time and was readily recognizable to the audience because he had his own series of short subjects that , I must say , weren't very funny . He made up for it by having the face of a resigned Humphrey C . Earwicker and a keen ear for absurdist dialog that was honed at Harvard . During an earnest conversation he's interrupted by the phone ringing . He picks it up , shouts , " No , " and slams it back down . A few minutes later , there is another ring , and Benchley says , " No - - tell him it's ridiculous ! " , and hangs up immediately . No explanation is ever offered . ( It must have appealed to Hitchcock because it ran parallel to his own sense of whimsy . ) Benchley wrote all his own dialog and most likely contributed some other bon mots . When Laraine Day rises to give a presentation at a boring meeting , a luncheon guest leans towards McRae and remarks that " the female of the speeches is deadlier than the male , " but it's almost lost in the background clatter . The casting is notable in many ways . Herbert Marshall was familiar to the audience of the time - - but as a humane , avuncular , sophisticated , presence in films , not a heavy . Edmund Gwenn , a heartless killer , is so short and harmless that he was to play Santa Claus in " Miracle on 34th Street . " Martin Kosleck , a Jew who managed to escape from Europe , is introduced as the Nazi goon he was to play for the rest of his movie career . George Sanders , always reliable , is at the top of his form here . Albert Basserman , the elderly do-gooder , was nominated for an Academy Award . Not to be missed if you're looking for an exciting and delightfully engaging film .
Zero Tolerance Policy for Aggression ?	A superior example of the SF films so popular during the 1950s . Oh , the plot is full of holes and some of the characters are cardboard but it's enjoyable nonetheless and , more than that , thought provoking . Is the plot full of holes ? Well , I don't really know exactly what that means , but the fact is that I have no idea how Klaatu ( Michael Rennie ) gets out of his locked room at Walter Reed Hospital without breaking through the door or the walls . I also don't know how it's possible for an 8-foot giant robot with a head the size of a beanbag chair to walk across the city of Washington , DC , melt the wall of a government building , pick up the dead body of an alien , and carry it back across town with no one bothering to notice . What do they do , pay Gort what sociologists call " civil inattention " ? And how does Klaatu manage to open the door to Professor Barnhardt's study when Bobby can't ? I should say that not all of the characters are cardboard . I was thinking mainly of Pat Neal's boyfriend Tom ( Hugh Marlowe ) , a slimy creep from beginning to end . That mellifluous baritone didn't fool me for a minute . Just watch him light up with glee as he scopes that diamond ! And his best scene - - shooing away Pat Neal while he squeals over the phone to the general about Klaatu's whereabouts , telling her , " Just wait till I get my picture in the papers . You'll feel differently . " I had my picture in the papers once and look where I am now - - The Landru Home for the Criminally Insane , without possibility of grounds privileges ! Rennie's Klaatu is not cardboard but is still a bit of a puzzle . Okay , his planet has been monitoring our transmissions for years . So Klaatu , as we would expect , is not only tall and handsome in an ectomorphic way but is gracious and polite as well . He knows all the interactional graces . ( " Well , I'll say good-night again . " ) Well then how come he doesn't know the word " jittery " and isn't familiar with a music box ? Huh ? There's also a certain smugness about him that I'm not sure I cared for . He smiles and shakes his head with slight amusement at our stupidity . The kid wasn't much better , but I've always like Patricia Neal . Not sure why . She's not a knockout beauty and not a bravura actress but she seems to radiate a sort of integrity or stability that most of the rest of us could use a shot of from time to time . The message that Klaatu brings to Earth is an engaging one . No more of that aggression business on the geopolitical front . At least I think that's what his message is . He himself doesn't actually clarify it . If you people persist , we will destroy your rogue planet . On Klaatu's planet they have outlawed aggression and turned enforcement over to the interplanetary police , of which Gort is an example . The powers of the police cannot be revoked . At the first sign of aggression they turn the aggressor to toast . I've heard this movie called " fascist " because nobody wants a police force that has zero tolerance for aggression or anything else . But I'm not so sure . We have a police simulacrum built into our brains already . The brain is roughly dividable into three parts : ( 1 ) the reptilian brain that governs primitive functions like smelling and breathing , ( 2 ) the mammalian brain which generates and channels emotions like love and rage , and ( 3 ) the human brain , for lack of a better term , the huge cortex that sits on top of the others and damps down and regulates the more primitive emotions . If you remove the cortex in , say , a cat , what you get are digital emotions , either no anger at all or a full-blown rage . The problem with our built-in cop is that , like any other system of social control , it doesn't always work properly . When somebody insults us we hate him and want to punch him . That just " human nature " , right ? You can also call the impulse to do physical damage to another " pride " or " dignity " or " justifiable homicide " or " just desserts " - - but this is precisely the part of human nature that Tinker Toys like Gort will not tolerate . We remain free to kill those we hate . We can fly airplanes into their buildings or blow up their subways or invade their countries or fry them in an electric chair . We have the freedom to do that . But is this a kind of " freedom " we want to preserve ? The freedom to express our most base impulses , the impulses that make us no different from monkeys or pit bulls or camels ? Would we really lose that much if we turned ourselves over to the Gorts of the universe ? If biology can't do the job can we turn it over to culture ? If high schools can have zero tolerance policies for drug possession and if traffic cops can have zero tolerance for speeding , why not zero tolerance for killing ? The Ten Commandments tells us clearly Thou Shallt Not Kill , without adding dozens of footnotes . The question is rhetorical . I don't know the answer . But the movie prompts us to ask it of ourselves , if we don't simply close down our logic when Klaatu starts going on about " police " and " absolute power " and " irrevocable . " ( An image forms out of Spiritus Mundi - - an Aryan in a Gestapo uniform . ) Of course we hesitate . Anyone would . Klaatu has held back an important piece of information about Gort . Does he get free donuts ?
Fine international crime thriller .	Fred Zinneman , the director , has put out some pretty low brow stuff , like " High Noon , " but it's all done with craftsmanship . This one is just about the opposite of " High Noon , " a thriller in which not a moment is wasted . Everything that happens is relevant to the plot and concise . Not only is the movie built around direct cuts from one scene to another distant one , the cuts are made on actions , sometimes actions that are only half completed . You have to keep your eyes open . If you blink at the wrong time , for instance , you're liable to miss the way Edward Fox gets hold of Per Lindquist's Danish passport . It's a battle of wits between the hired , cold-blooded assassin ( Fox ) who is out to kill Charles DeGaulle , and the team of French detectives and generals who are out to stop him . Fox eludes them with invention and foresight but detective in charge ( Lonsdale ) doggedly track him down . I don't suppose it's giving much away to reveal that Fox does not succeed in assassinating DeGaulle , since all interested parties must already know that DeGaulle died of a heart attack . ( The headlines of the Philadelphia Examiner were unforgettable - - " DeGaulle Keels Over , " later amended to " DeGaulle Drops Dead . " ) The movie spells out the details by which Fox acquires his different identities and how and why he changes them . If you don't know how to get a false passport , watch this and find out . There are a lot of characters in this movie and a lot of locations but not once are we confused about what's happening or why . It's a splendid script . The acting is professional all around . David Hardwicke is tucked away in a small part . Michael Lonsdale as the detective has the proper proletarian face and modest demeanor . Fox has the necessary Saville Row certainty . And what a life he leads ! Driving around the Riviera and the Maritime Alps in his sporty Alfa Romeo convertible , lodging in the finest hotels , boffing the elegant but foolish Delphine Seyrig , earning a cool half million for one job - - and this in the days when the dollar was worth something , murdering anyone who gets in his way . The kind of life any normal person would give an arm and a leg to lead . And it all goes down as smoothly as a draught of Pepto Bismol . There is only one brief exchange of gunfire at the end . There are no fist fights or assaults . Fox kills a couple of people in the course of his journey but they're all over quickly , sometimes off screen or in shadows . Nobody loses his or her temper . No one shouts at anyone else . The humor , and there ARE a few amusing moments , is subdued . If I were teaching a class in film appreciation I would show Zinneman's version back to back with the more recent " The Jackal " with Richard Gere and Bruce Willis . The final exam would consist of one question . " Which did you prefer ? " Then I would flunk everybody who chose the later version . Bruce Willis changes his identity in a whimsical way . In every scene he seems to wear a different wig or something . Fox assumes only three false identities , an English tourist , a Danish schoolteacher , and a French veteran . And we understand precisely why he MUST change identities . Fox's murder weapon is a cleverly constructed . 22 caliber rifle , a stark miniature . Willis's murder weapon is a gigantic cannon that looks capable of taking out a tank or maybe a battleship . Everything in the later film is both overblown and sloppy , a Gongoristic mess . Compared to the Willis / Gere film , Zinneman's " High Noon " was an exercise in sophistication . My God , what's happening to us ?
What's that clicking in your throat ?	This is about as corny as they come . Everybody's so - - NICE . Danny Kaye is a shy elevator operator . Dinah Shore is a nurse who loves him . Constance Dowling is the girl Danny Kaye thinks he loves , but when she meets Danny's roommate , Dana Andrews , they fall for one another . ( During a scene involving a horse-drawn milk wagon - - those were the days . ) They all wind up in the Army and are sent to the Pacific . Danny accidentally becomes a hero . He winds up with Dinah , and Constance winds up with Dana . Everybody lives happily ever after . The whole thing was shot in an MGM studio and looks entirely phony . I love it . I used to watch it repeatedly with my kid when he was about ten . We had practically all the dialog memorized . The hypochondriacal Kaye is taking a passenger in his elevator , down from a doctor's office to the lobby . The guy tells Kaye he's feeling just fine now and clears his throat a bit . " What's that clicking in your throat ? " asks Kaye , backing away . By the time they reach the lobby the poor guy staggers out , his face pale , his hands clutched to his chest . Well , no need to go on about this . It's a salubrious mixture of romance and comedy , with Kaye having to imitate a Scotsman and so forth , acquiring the reputation of a real lady's man and the nickname " The Purple Flash . " His ridiculous song is in my opinion the funniest he's done on screen . We glean from the gibberish that he's been drafted and is trying to get out of it by offering all kinds of excuses to the draft board . In one of them - - I guess I can mention this , since it seemed to have slipped by the censors - - he's offering medical reasons why he should be exempt . Weeping piteously , still sputtering nonsense , he makes a pumping motion with his fist then points to his head and twirls his finger . At the end he falls off the stage into the band . Just two more things , I swear , then I'll quit . Dinah Shore gets to sing and record a really lovely gelatinous 1940s ballad . What a marvelous voice she had , so on pitch , feminine , and full of feeling . The name of the song is " Now I Know . " The lyricist should be drummed out of his professional society . Here - - as in the other one or two song - - the lyrics are about as bad as they come . At any rate , Kaye takes the record and a forbidden record player on board the troopship , where he is harassed by most of the other soldiers , big tough specimens too . During one confrontation with them , the record starts playing and Kaye has to lip-synch the words while the others stare at him goggle-eyed . Finally , the stylus gets caught in a groove and Dinah Shore's voice repeats itself - - " Now I know . . . . Now I know . . . . . Now I know . . . . " One of the soldiers , a suspicious and particularly feral brute , Blackie , slowly traces the music to its source , uncovers the record player and says in his working-class New York accent , " Now we BOTE know , " and flings Kaye against the bulkhead . It's an engaging movie , well worth catching if it's on , and suitable for family viewing . ( Never mind that gesture during Kaye's gibberish song . )
Marital Blitz	Give Danny DeVito the right story and he clicks . He does it here . What do a tornado , a hurricane , and an ex-wife have in common ? They all get the house . Except when the husband's lawyer manages to dig up some rule that allows the husband to stay in the house as long as he and his wife lead separate lives . The husband is Douglas , the wife is Turner , and the lawyer and mediator is DeVito . There's also a housekeeper and two not especially lovable children ( thank heavens for small favors ) but they're probably less important than the husband's dog and the wife's cat . So how do two rich yuppies lead separate lives in their mansion ? Simple . First they ignore and curse each other while passing on the stairs . " Filthy slut , " mutters Douglas . " Bastard , " murmurs Turner . Finally Douglas proudly shows DeVito a plan that he has worked out with Turner . It is a blueprint of the house , divided into red , green , and yellow sections . Douglas explains that the red sections belong to him , the green sections are hers , and the yellow rooms are neutral . " I had a little trouble with the kitchen , " he says , " but we worked out alternative hours . " DeVito is aghast . " This seems - - RATIONAL to you ? " Douglas : " I'm gonna win this . " DeVito : " Oliver , nobody WINS anything here . There are only degrees of losing . " And Douglas leans forward conspiratorially , grins insanely , and whispers : " I got MORE SQUARE FOOTAGE . " It's Douglas's best performance , I think . He's not a simple outraged bourgeois , as in " Fatal Attraction " or " Basic Flaw " or whatever it was . And his character has more dimensions than his Gordon Gekko , and almost as good a name . The couple eat at opposite ends of a long empty table , like Charles Foster Kane and Emily . Douglas is waiting for an important phone call and is a bit anxious . He pays no attention to his wife sitting motionless and silently , staring at him . He stabs at the food on his plate and slices it viciously . And watch the half-demonic expressions that play across his face as he attacks and eats his food . The scene is an almost perfect embodiment of black comedy because , in context , it is outrageously funny - - but it could have been yanked straight out of a horror movie without changing a thing . It's a fine script and DeVito does well by it . I guess it gets a little tiresome by the time they're chasing one another around the darkened half-ruined mansion , nailing boards over windows and unloosening nuts , and throwing plates . And when in the midst of their hatred , Turner serves the pleasantly surprised Douglas her superlative pate and then claims it was made of Benny's liver , I could have done without the quick shot of the living Benny in the bushes outside . But those are relatively small things bracketed in a very funny movie . There is a crazy logic to the story too . The couple begin by loving one another but are then separated by , well , THINGS . Douglas works very hard to make enough money so that his wife can find and furnish a perfect home for him . A little tritely , Turner discovers that she has grown not only to dislike the distracted Douglas but to hate him , so she wants her independence . Initially , the little frictions are minor . With a table full of dinner guests that Douglas is trying to impress , he asks Turner to explain how they happened to acquire the Baccarat wine glasses they're using . Nervously , she begins with a trip to Paris but so many dependent clauses intrude themselves that her narrative begins to resemble a 19th-century German sentence . So Douglas cuts her off : " To make a long story short . . . . . " , and wraps it up in two declaratives . ( I can't emphasize too strongly how deftly DeVito handles this scene . Absolutely none of the irritation is spelled out except by the actors and the camera and editing , and yet we are left with a full understanding of the little disaster that's just taken place and the empty anger that follows . ) The gathering enmity shows up in tiny ways . " I just wanted to push you , " Douglas says to his wife's back , trying to explain some rudeness . " After all , everybody needs a little PUSH once in a while . " ( He picks up her cat and flings it aside . ) And after his big dinner with his superiors , the couple are in bed and Douglas worries a little . " I hope they didn't notice what a jerk I was . " Turner : " They never seem to . " Douglas is so smug that the barb sails completely over his head . It's like Neal Simon , if Simon had become delicate . The humor , if that's what it is , grows more physical and in some ways less funny . Douglas , drunk , urinates on some fish while Turner is giving HER big dinner for potential customers . In turn , while the assembled guests watch open-mouthed from the doorway , she revs up her two-million horsepower SUV with the big knobby tires and the 20 mm cannon on top and noisily smashes into his tiny classic Morgan convertible . Then she backs up and drives completely over it with Douglas inside . Douglas emerges shakily from the compressed car and says , sounding perfectly reasonable , " Look , I don't want to create a scene . I mean , I live in this neighborhood too . " See this movie if you have a chance . I would recommend it even if it weren't so good , simply on the basis of the last scene between the Roses . They have fallen 30 feet on a chandelier and lie dying next to one another . With his last bit of energy , Douglas manages to move his hand lovingly on her shoulder . And just before she dies , without being able to look at what she's doing , Turner reaches slowly out , puts her hand over his , and flips it away .
In This Sign Shall You Conquer : $	A powerful picture of a young man named Midge Kelly ( Kirk Douglas ) starting from nothing and rising to the top of the fight business to become Middleweight Champion . On his gradus ad Olympus , he is accompanied by several friends , lovers , and relatives ( Paul Stewart as Midge Kelly's manager ; Ruth Roman as his wife , Marilyn Maxwell and Lola Allbright as paramours ; and Arthur Kennedy as his crippled brother ) . He discards all of them when they get in his way or when he simply doesn't need them anymore . What a rat . The film suggests - - well , heck , it tells us openly through Stewart's character - - that the fight game is corrupt and that it corrupts those who get involved in it . But it contradicts itself because Paul Stewart himself , a seasoned manager who " likes to see a good boy in action , " is not shown to be corrupt . And Douglas is shown to be something of a rotter even before his career in the ring begins - - ripe for corruption , so to speak . He easily seduces the pretty Ruth Roman , who loves him , and when he's forced to marry her , he promptly leaves her flat . The story of a guy who starts out good but winds up corrupt and selfish before he gets his comeuppance is a pretty familiar one - - " All the King's Men , " " Citizen Kane , " among a hundred others - - and the movie now seems a little dated . Yet the acting is so good , the score so exhilarating , and the unwinding of the narrative is so potent , that it still packs a considerable wallop . Douglas does a superb job . After the final fight - - after he is savagely beaten by his opponent , collapses onto the canvas , spots the satisfaction on the face of a jilted girlfriend , rises to his feet again , and with a few blows knocks the other fellow into next year - - after that final fight , Douglas is in his dressing room with Stewart and begins hallucinating . He smashes his fist against a locker then turns his inhumanly battered face to stare at his raggedly bandaged hand , before falling for the last time . A gripping scene . It's made gripping by Douglas's performance , by Stewart's reaction shots , and by the director , Mark Robson . Robson hardly ever steps wrong . Long after Douglas has deserted Ruth Roman , and she has decided to marry his brother instead , Douglas returns and casually lights her cigarette . The director shows us Roman's face in close up as her eyes flick up for a moment to stare at Douglas - - and Douglas twigs to the fact that she's still his for the taking , if he wants to push it hard enough and ruin both her life and his brother's . ( And he does . ) The fight scenes aren't so hot . Douglas is athletic enough but he's not a fighter and Mushy Callahan , the coach , should have given him better preparation . He's flat-footed in the ring and he crouches over like the college wrestler he was . Every punch thrown by any party either lands right on the button ( BOOM ) or misses by a mile ( WHEEE ) . Maybe those misses were extra wide on purpose . Douglas had just had a nose job and nobody wanted the new construction spread over his face from ear to ear . That aside , this is a superior sports movie , or character study , if you want .
Rite de Passage	All cultures have what the sociologist Emil Durkheim called " rites de passage , " also sometimes called puberty rituals , in which the initiate enters the ceremony as a child and emerges as an adult . Coppola and his team show us Rudy Baylor's rite de passage as an attorney . Matt Damon , as Rudy , is a fresh faced preppy-looking kid just out of law school . After working for the sleazebag played by Mickey Rourke and going into partnership with Danny DeVito ( who has flunked the bar exam six times ) , he can look back down the slope and pick out the idealism he left sprinkled along the route of his ascent . He winds up quitting practice . But it's not a particularly gloomy story . I missed the credits when I first saw this so I had no idea who had created it . I expected a cheap ne plus ultra of mind-numbing commercial fluff . What else would anyone expect with a title like that - - " John Gresham's ' The Rainmaker ' " ? Shades of Sydney Sheldon ! The opening didn't suggest much more than that . There is a voice-over by Matt Damon explaining his background and expectations to us . And we see him being guided open-mouthed through the slimier parts of the judicial system . DeVito introduces him , for instance , to ambulance chasing . Not too promising , really , because professionals who operate within heavily guarded social borders - - like lawyers , cops , doctors , and pilots - - almost always assume that the audience is too dumb to know that collusion between a judge and a prominent lawyer takes place . The lay audience is now cynical enough to recognize Perry Mason for the Norman Rockwell fantasy that he is . But it was much better than that . Half-way through I began to think , this director , whoever he is , is pretty deft . I was surprised at an undercurrent of humor . Sometimes it was situational . Two lawyers for instance , dashing into a courtroom to try a case , neither of whom has a license to practice law . ( " Sworn in by a fool and vouched for by a scoundrel , " Damon muses . ) Sometimes the humor requires less attention . ( In the middle of a dramatic pause , DeVito , eager to deliver a piece of evidence to his partner , stumbles loudly over a waste basket . ) And there were smaller , delicate touches . A splatter of blood spots on a wall as the camera cuts away just before someone is hit over the head . Damon and Claire Danes ( with whom a love bond is too quickly established ) in a prison visiting room , unable to express their affection because they are lawyer and client , except that under the table the tip of his shoe slips forward and brushes the tip of her boot . ( Wow . Nice touch . ) And Claire Danes ' wife-abusing husband is a stereotype if there ever was one - - yet after his murder is discovered and the blinking screaming police cars arrive and she is about to be taken away , the wife-abuser's family can be heard in the background shouting , " DAMN you , Kelly . What did you do ? You killed my SON ? " Coppola and the writers have given this moron a previously unheard-from family of his own . And I couldn't get over the performances . There are several unexpected small parts taken by well-known actors . And every one of them has a life of its own . Virginia Madsen is being interviewed in a motel room by Damon , and she spills the beans on the malignant corporate megagiant that provides the unoriginal heavy . As she speaks , she smokes a lot and the camera moves slowly down her arm to show her fingers trembling in her lap . Only later do we learn she has psychiatric problems . ( Cinematic synecdoche ! ) Roy Scheider is extremely good too , a disdainful presence in the witness chair . He's from Orange , New Jersey . Why does DeVito so often seem to wind up in movies with other actors from New Jersey ? What is it about that state anyway ? Does the Jersey Devil have something to do with it ? Why does hail always have to be the size of something else ? If the universe is expanding , what is it expanding INTO ? Anyway , this , for Coppola , is a pretty straightforward story , neither the grand opera he's attracted to , nor the more quiet " personal " films that usually come in between . I really kind of enjoyed this one . Of the current crop of younger actors , Matt Damon seems to me to have the most talent , as opposed to , say , Keanu Reeves . And Claire Danes is so frangible , so beatable in this movie ; even with her leg in a cast and the rest of her limbs and head in bandages , she radiates a sort of semisexual heat . Come to think of it - - well , never mind . See it if you can . It's pretty good .
Sauce for the gander .	Well , this is outright propaganda aimed at Fox News . It doesn't pretend to be anything else , and therein lies its superiority to Fox News as reportage and as a source of opinion . I've rarely watched Fox News and so can't comment in much detail on the target of this documentary . But from what I've seen , both on the Fox News Channel and in this film , I find it hard to argue against the proposition that Fox is corrupting our view of the universe . The received wisdom has always been that the media shape our opinions but that's never satisfied me because I can't see it as the entire explanation . Rather , I've always thought of the way we construct reality as a joint function of our news sources and the prejudices that draw us to one source rather than another . What passes for reality is in the interaction between ourselves and the information source . I think this is known as intentionality in philosophy , but it doesn't matter . I'm willing to make a major exception in the case of Fox News . As a " fair and balanced " source of information , it not only sucks in itself but it practically rots the mind of its viewers . Authoritarians and neoconservatives may be drawn to Fox like a moth to a flame , but , like the moth , they will find themselves and their brains fried to a crisp by continued viewing . " Outfoxed " gives us a shallow history of how Fox News changed , rather abruptly , from a standard news channel to the number one promoter of the Republican Party that it is today . Mostly we see and hear talking heads , most of them former employees of Fox - - news producers , commentators , reporters - - some of them anonymous . Fox , and the administration whose semi-official spokesman it is , would have a ready reply . Disgruntled former employees , trying to sell books or gain their fifteen minutes of fame or taking revenge on an organization that had good reason to let them go . But the evidence presented in the film is so clear that it's hard to deny . One disgruntled employee , maybe , but a whole slew of them constitutes a pattern . And there are direct quotes from talking points ( or " edicts " as one critic calls them ) that come down daily from on high , instructing news writers in which events to harp on - - and how to harp on them . And yet , for all that , one has to admire Fox News in certain ways . It was really sui generis . An almost perfect blend of eye-catching graphics , pungent opinion pieces , news presentations that seamlessly blend propaganda with reportage , and a general dumbing down of issues so that the least inquisitive mind can grasp them in all their simplicity . There has never BEEN anything like Fox News , at least not in this country . There have been equivalents in the USSR and other countries , but not here . Greenwald isn't Michael Moore . He's not as reckless and not as entertaining . The film is about the subject , not about its maker . And it's deadly serious , without stunts or jokes , except insofar as the snippets of commentary from Fox news readers are jokes in themselves . There is almost a kind of Gresham's law at work in the news industry , in which dumb news drives out more demanding analysis and understanding . If we hear several times a day that Kerry " flip flops " , we know all we need to know about the candidate . He's a flip flopper . We don't need to know the context . We don't even have to know what he's flip flopped on or why . It's enough that we know he's indecisive and deceitful . Who wouldn't buy into a message like that ? It goes down like a draught of Pepto-Bismol . The film ends on a kind of up-beat note . We can put an end to this desecration of a respected profession by becoming activists . But can we ? Do we really want to ? An Ipsos Poll two years ago showed that the vast majority of Fox Viewers , more than 70 percent , still believed that Saddam had close ties with al Qa'eda . ( Compared to about 5 percent of PBS / NPR viewers . ) A majority also thought that Saddam had WMDs at the time of the invasion . The opportunity to live in such a world of Biblical good and evil , where our every action is the right one , is seductive . I don't know if we can break Murdoch's increasing monopoly of the news media - - short of electing another trust buster like Teddy Roosevelt . ( He was a Republican too . )
Lying Down With Dogs .	An intense , depressing movie . It sticks pretty close to the facts but focuses chiefly on the relationship between Charlize Theron as Lee and Christina Ricci as Selby . The police are hardly there at all . In fact , neither is anyone else except for Bruce Dern who makes one or two short but welcome appearances . It could easily have been a by-the-numbers TV movie . ( Come to think of it , it has , hasn't it ? With Jean Smart ? ) But the production values are good , and the time and money has been spent on this film that we usually associate with feature films . The cinematography is outstanding . The shots of Lee near the end of her rope , hitching on a foggy blue nightime Florida highway look like a desktop theme from some arty horror / occult site . The script doesn't have many tag lines . No " Rosebuds " or " I coulda been a contendah . " Nor is it folksy or catching in some other way . The dialogue follows the story in being pretty straightforward and without much in the way of noticeable touches . The director should be commended on her handling of two things . One is the explanation for Lee's crimes . None is given . There is a short scene in which Lee tells one of her johns about her miserable childhood , but the abuse excuse is vitiated by Selby's mother , an orthodox and unimaginative woman , who says simply that lots of people have hard childhoods without growing up like Lee . And the men are not all turned into sadistic hogs , which must have been a temptation for the writers . The second virtue in the direction is its management of the murders . Instead of exploding heads , there are a few squibs , and usually not even that . The themes explored here are not so much violence as love and desperation . Ricci looks the part , with her broad forehead and tiny lips , but comes across more as a Valley Girl than the kind of outcast who would pick up and move off with someone like Lee . Which brings us to Theron's performance as Lee . It's startling , of course , to see a glamor-puss like Theron so thoroughly deglamorized . It's the kind of performance that wins Academy Awards - - lesbians , the height-challenged , autistics , all have won awards in recent years . Theron deserves recognition for her effort too , but not just because of the makeup and wardrobe . They're all splendid . Makeup has shaved her brows to a Mona Lisa extent and turned her face just blotchy enough and given her a raggedy set of teeth . But that's not all that has made her performance as the central character so memorable . ( She's in almost every frame . ) And it isn't the thirty or so pounds that she put on for the role either . What's so homeric about that ? I can put on thirty pounds without blinking an eye , and enjoy doing it . Heck , I can put on forty or fifty if she wants to get into a peeing contest . No - - it's Theron herself who MAKES the character . She's great , particularly in her physical manifestation of Lee - - her body language , for instance . Instead of coasting through the role , she animates it . The way she struts around with her shoulders thrown back and her face down , emphasizing her several chins and the girth of her neck . Maybe it takes a profession ballerina to figure out these little techniques . Her voice isn't as coarse as that of a hooker who constantly puffs on cigarettes , but Theron does what she can with her own . She overcomes her native South African speech with no trouble and introduces us to a breathless bravado that she's never used on screen before - - not that I know of . Her movements , her speech , her dreams , are filled with a desperate illusion that doesn't exactly make us feel sorry for her but does make us worry for her - - that she might , for instance , start screaming at any minute and never stop . A nerve-racking picture of a ruined soul . Is it worth seeing ? Absolutely . You won't learn too much about how Aileen Wournos turned into the person she did . Even the narrative itself is a little confusing at time , so that you can't be sure where Lee and Selby are at given moments . But it's Hollywood professionalism at one of its rare high points . It's made by a mature team for an audience of adults . Refreshing .
Mmm . Two Scoops .	What a good movie . It's hard to believe that the audience was considered so sensitive in 1947 that the original title , " Ace in the Hole , " had to be dropped and replaced with this less ironic one . Viewers were thought unprepared for a film in which a reporter misbehaved , with lethal results . " The Big Carnival " is one of the reasons the director , Billy Wilder , earned a reputation as a cynic . It was probably deserved . He had a keen sense of humor as well ( Wilder : " I laugh at everything . I laugh at Hamlet . " ) but it's not much on display here . Instead we have a naive veteran pinned underground and an ambitious reporter ( Kirk Douglas ) who deliberately delays the rescue in order to squeeze the most out of the story . Poor Louie Minosa . He catches pneumonia and dies after being given extreme unction . Douglas dies too , as the code of the time required . Wilder's direction is fine . Douglas acquires a young acolyte and when they last speak together , the light is behind Douglas so that Douglas's sharp shadow blacks out almost all of the kid's face . In the last shot , from floor level , Douglas collapses and his dead face flops almost into the camera lens although the face is too dark to make out , his features , like his soul , in deep shadow . In another scene , Douglas is busily reading his mail and concocting additional material for the Big Story . Douglas again is in deep shadow . Beside him is the bright figure of Louie Minosa's wife , the trashy , blond Jan Sterling . She's a tough and narcissistic cookie out of Baltimore and , impressed by Douglas's power and his ability to bring in the bucks , she comes on to him with a wide and seductive smile . Douglas looks at her over his shoulder and says , " You're the grief-stricken wife , so stop smiling . " " Make me , " she replies , and he slaps her twice , hard , across the face . It's a shocking moment and , despite Douglas's earlier chatter about his ambitions , the viewer suddenly realizes that this guy will stop at nothing . That is , he not only claims to be ruthless , he really MEANS it . " That's the expression I want to see , " Douglas tells her smoothly . " Don't wipe those tears away . " Everyone gives performances that are at least decent . Porter Hall , whom you will recognize , does a comic / dramatic turn as the stuffy and conservative editor of an Albaquerque newspaper . One of the few chuckles the viewer is given is when Douglas first asks Porter for a job and analyzes Porter as a small-time fellow because he wears both belt AND suspenders , compared to Douglas's flashy suit . A year goes by and we see Douglas too wearing both belt and suspenders . ( He shucks the suspenders when he gets a job offer from New York . ) This is a finely made movie about two parallel scoops : an attempt to dig Louie Minosa out of his underground prison and Douglas's attempt to turn the story into a heady drama .
The heads - - you're lookin ' at the heads . . . .	What a movie . Martin Sheen is an anguished Army captain in Vietnam in 1968 , ordered to proceed up river to the Cambodian border on a Navy River Patrol Boat and assassinate a Colonel Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ) who has apparently gone berserk and established his own little , ruthless anti-communist empire in the jungle . It's a free transposition of Joseph Conrad's " Heart of Darkness " but that hardly matters . Nor does the overall plot . We already know most of it because some of its features have become integral to our vernacular culture . " I love the smell of napalm in the morning . It smells like - - victory . " " The horror . The horror . " ( Well - - that last is lifted directly from Conrad's novel , but never mind . ) What Stephen Spielberg did so miraculously with light in " Close Encounters of the Third Kind , " Francis Ford Coppola does with smoke here . All kinds of smoke . Gray smoke from gunfire and explosions . Amber smoke from fires . Pink and lime and lavender smoke from flares and grenades . People stalk slowly through it like images from hell . Boats drift through clouds of it . The lighting ( Vittorio Storaro ) and special effects contribute to the impact of the film too . Brando's first appearance in unforgettable chiaroscuro . A burnt orange light illuminates his shaved head from the side and turns the naked scalp into a luminous crescent . Then Brando bows his head , dips his fingers into a bowl of water and flutters his fingertips along the skin as if playing a piano or celesta . Sheen's boat and its two-man crew glide very slowly into the tiny cove which serves as Brando's main port . The place looks like mannequin factory . There are bodies and body parts strewn about . Bodies that are more or less whole droop from the trees and from the gargoyle monuments that surround the entrance to Brando's dark and beckoning castle . Hundreds of half-naked natives with spears and guns have assembled in silence to greet the boat . Out of this unholy horde dances a crazed photographic journalist , the ever reliably crazed Dennis Hopper . He shouts greetings , shakes hands , welcomes them warmly , but adds in a wary tone , " They think you've come to kill him - - and I hope THAT'S not true . " He leads the stunned Sheen through the throng that opens before them . Sheen is gaping at some of the body parts . " The heads - - you're lookin ' at the heads ! Y'know , sometimes he goes too far , but he'll be the first to admit it , man . " Brando is a warrior and a poet . He's a philosopher . " Did you ever think that the middle word of LIFE is IF ? " That whole climactic visit to Brando's fortress in the wilderness lifts the movie out of whatever sense of reality it had earlier carried and places it squarely into the surreal . It's just impossible . A viewer can't tell what consequences any given event will precipitate . There are two beheadings and a buffalo having its head half chopped off by the Bontoc Igorots among whom this film was shot . ( Only three generations ago , they hunted heads . I was in graduate school with an Igorot whose grandfather had enjoyed such an enterprise . ) It's about as arty a film as you're likely to see , if art means slowly and relentlessly digging beneath the civilized surface of human culture and uncovering the uncoverable nature of humanity itself , and that's not a pretty picture .
Enjoyable Christie Adaptation	Ten people , almost all strangers to one another , are invited to spend a weekend at a house on an isolated island . Shortly after they introduce themselves , the recorded voice of their absent host , U . N . Owen , accuses them each of murder . Each protests his innocence and claims not to ever have met Mr . Owen . They are nevertheless picked off one by one in manners consistent with a childhood jingle - - " Ten Little Indians , one chopped himself in half and then there were eight , " or whatever . The end of the novel has the police arriving and finding all ten of the guests dead by one or another means , from poisoning to hanging . Now THAT was an ending . But it was a little bitter for the screen , I suppose , and in this movie - - and in later refilmings - - a young man and young woman outsmart Mr . U . N . Owen ( " Unknown , " get it ? ) and survive . Just as well . If anybody should survive it's June Duprez , a luscious exotic-looking twenty-eight when she made this movie . Her eyes are set so far apart that she looks part alien . I suggest , without intending any disrespect , that if you shook her family tree an extra-terrestrial might fall out of it . I'm not so sure about Louis Hayward as the cocky young hero , but okay - - let's let him survive too . The other performances are quite good , given the restrictions of the genre . Barry Fitzgerald and Walter Huston , as the judge and the doctor respectively , are outstanding . Fitzgerald - - it's hard to believe he was ever serious about a word he said , on or off screen . When he smiles , his lips curve up from ear to ear , just beneath his nose , and under that smile is a quadruple chin . What a marvelous face and voice . The print I saw was old and scratchy but , well , this is a marvelously enjoyable film , probably the best adaptation of the Christie story . It's one of her best jigsaw puzzles and I was unable to spot any holes in the plot . There are some comic elements too . The butler finds himself under suspicion by the others and gets staggering drunk , not funny in itself , but played well . When the butler says resentfully that he's going to show them the cocktails are not poisoned by drinking all of them , the others protest - - " Oh , no need for that , Rogers . " But when Rogers adds , " And just for that , there will be no supper tonight , " the others jump to their feet and run howling after him . The murders all take place off screen and their dramatic content is quickly blown off . Rogers ' wife dies in her sleep and informed of this , Rogers tells the others that he will be unable to provide breakfast . The guests pooh pooh his protests , excusing him . End of Mrs . Rogers . In fact , NOBODY who is bumped off is ever mourned or even mentioned again except in a wisecrack or two . Rene Clair directed efficiently with no noticeable flair except that on occasion when a character speaks to the others he faces the camera directly . The ominous mood that ought to be present throughout is strangely absent . The sets look cheap . A heavy rainstorm isn't convincing , but , as I say , this was an old print and perhaps that's partly to blame . You'll probably like this one . It's good enough to watch more than once , even though you already know the ending . The story is up there with Christie's best .
The Shoe Groupie	It may sound crazy to argue that this is one of the funniest episodes in this or any other series and , at the same time , that there is an underlying theme of pathos , but it's true . Well - - Charlie Chaplin managed to do it once in a while , and Billy Wilder . Why shouldn't a couple of sitcom writers trip over the same splendid alembic ? Al comes home from work with a big smile and reveals that a shoe groupie has been patronizing his store daily . Peggy is jealous and orders the two kids , Bud and Kelly , to hide in the store and spy on him all day . Al arrives and , while his kids peep at him , he throws his jacket aside , takes a deep breath , spreads his arms expansively , and declares , " Open for business ! " Then he sits on a foot stool in the empty store , buries his face in his hands , and doesn't move a muscle for five hours . A fat lady puts a momentary end to his despair by giving him a chance to rebut her claim that the shoes she bought yesterday are cheap because they split at the seams . They're like an elevator , Al explains , there's a two-ton wait limit . How about if I nail them to the soles of your feet ? That will give you more traction in front of the ice wagon . Then the groupie enters , and she's a meal in a short skirt . She's brought a tray of muffins for Al and begs him breathlessly to tell her stories about shoes . Half way through a story , she moans , " Don't stop now . " Bud and Kelly are uncertain about telling Peggy . When Peggy demands to know what went on , Bud looks thoughtful and ponders the problem . We hear his voice over as he turns things over in his mind , then thinks : " I wonder what Kelly's thinking . " The camera pans to Kelly's giddy face and we hear HER voice over - - a cartoon voice sputtering , " Cheery beery jelly bean , Bullwinkle . " Bud finally tells Peggy that nothing happened . Al sat there for hours , then a fat lady came in , and that was all . " Yeah , " adds Kelly , " and then a beautiful woman came in and Daddy ate her muffins . " I won't go on with this , I don't think , because the second half doesn't have the ontological significance of the first , and because I don't want to spoil any more gags , but it's significant that when Al gets home , Peggy demands to know what happened . " What happened ? Oh , I graduated from high school , lost the will to live , and here I am . " A classic episode with , perhaps unwittingly , a darker undertone that doesn't for a moment make it any less hilarious .
Roman Holiday .	What a set up for a ten-handkerchief movie . A man of about 70 , a retired petty bureaucrat in Rome , can't pay the rent his selfish landlady is demanding . He only gets his pension of $25 ( 1951 ) once a month and he's in arrears . In the end he loses the apartment and everything else and is trying to commit suicide but is interfered with by his dog , Flag . It turns out , in fact , to be a moving film , a bit slow at times , but so intelligently and tastefully handled that its manipulative properties sail under the radar . We get too caught up in the quotidian details to slump in our seats and weep . The pensioner , Umberto D . Ferrara ( Carlo Battisti ) , is above all a proud man . He's on the edge of homelessness , true , and reduced to feeding his dog scraps of spaghetti from a cheap cafeteria . But he's defiant , has his wits about him , and always well dressed in a suit , tie , and hat . He sees other men in rags begging on the streets and making a few lira , yet he can't bring himself to do it , no matter how much he needs the change . In a scene that's both ludicrous and heart breaking , he trains Flag to sit up on the sidewalk holding a hat upside down in his mouth , a canine beggar . But Umberto can't bring himself to be associated with Flag and hides behind a pillar to see if the trick pays off . It does not . Passers by pause for a second or two , staring down and wondering what the hell this dog is up to , before bustling off . Umberto rarely smiles . Neither does he break down and sob . In the course of the film his expression slowly deteriorates from determination to exhausted resignation . His landlady hates him - - she wants him out so she can rent the apartment as a meeting place and make more money . ( Meanwhile she rents rooms by the hour for assignations . ) But he has a few friends too . He meets several of his cohort on the sidewalks and they exchange pleasantries , but the moment he brings up the subject of material subsistence , they find they have to catch a bus . His most caring acquaintance is a young chambermaid at his apartment house . She does him small favors , fetching him a thermometer when he's ill , or bringing him a left-over slice of cake , or visiting him in the hospital , but there's not much else she can do to help . She's poor too , and dominated by that gross and venomous landlady . ( Come to think of it , that concierge could have been played by my ex . Oops . Sorry , Grimhild . ) Furthermore , the careless young maid is three months pregnant and isn't sure about who the father might be , although she manages to narrow it down to two soldiers . It's a sad and ultimately depressing tale , the Little Match Girl of Rome . I don't care that , at the end , Umberto dashes out of danger and sweeps the little dog up into his arms , determined once again to face life and all its travails . The indisputable fact is that he's no better off than he was before . Worse , probably . And it won't get any better with the passage of time unless he wins the Powerball Lottery . There is no way his pride , dignity , and defiance will save him from defeat . He may rage against the dying of the light , but the light will go out anyway - - and his dog will probably have to get along without him . Yet , I'm willing to give this movie a number of bonus points for two chief reasons . One is that the story is handled with such good taste , as if made for adults instead of ten-year-olds . Not once does little Flag slobber over his master's face . Not once does Umberto have to explain to anyone ( ie . , the viewer ) how badly off he is - - because the director , Vittorio De Sica , is SHOWING us visually . The second reason is that this film established a convention that was to be repeatedly imitated over the years - - the suffering victim of life's circumstances who never complains and faces his loss bravely . See " Harry and Tonto " and " Terms of Endearment " for examples of what I mean , though both are more commercially oriented . Well , I'll give this an extra half point for having been made on a budget that was probably less than the amount De Sica was leaving as restaurant tips later in his life .
Satire , clumsy but funny	Who could expect much in the way of comedy from Michael Moore who seemed a one-shot success with a documentary that oozed irony but was criticized for editorial chicanery ? But this one pretty much works . It falls somewhere between the zaniness of " Airplane " and the black comedy of " Doctor Strangelove . " It's far funnier than other let's - go - to - war - for - political - reason movies like " The Mouse That Roared " or " Wag the Dog , " even though it doesn't seem to have had much of a budget . Yes , it's silly , but what makes the jokes effective is that they follow a scenario that has become so familiar to us in real life . An adversary or non-adversary like Canada ( skewered here , as much as the US is ) masses troops along its border . The media report Canadians are building a monstrous weapons system , that they are filtering across the border in untold numbers and are walking among us , that they plan to impose their way of life on us ( enforcing anti-litter laws and pronouncing " about " as " aboot . " ) . They " take a hostage . " They put up the world's tallest free-standing structure as an in-your-face insult . We try to provoke some incident that we can claim as an attack in order to build up tension . The idea is not to go to war , because a war with Canada wouldn't last long enough . The idea is to return to the days of the cold war when we had a booming defense industry , lots of solidarity , a common enemy , lived in constant fear of annihilation , and everyone was happy . Moore must have carefully combed the archives for every run-up to every war since Grenada . I don't want to get into it in any more detail because it would spoil the gags , but I'll mention just one . John Candy and his gang ( there are lots of Canadians in the cast ) are driving near Toronto ( which they believe is the capital ) in a garbage truck decorated with sprayed-on slogans like , " Canada Sucks , " and " Eat my Drawers , " and " USA All the Way . " They are pulled over by a motorcycle cop ( Dan Aykroyd ) who politely asks Candy to step out of the vehicle , leads him to the side of the truck , points at the graffiti and asks , " What's wrong with this picture ? " Candy begins to stutter and blame " the kids back in the garage , " but Aykroyd cuts off his explanation and says he's not concerned about who put it there , but he IS concerned about " Les Quebecoise . " Every sign in Canada must be printed both in English and in French , and he makes Candy spray a French version of the slogans on the truck . Oh , well , one more - - just because it's short and offhand . The president and his advisors wonder how to get back the " hostage " the Canadians are holding . One aide suggests bringing in " the Omega force . " Everyone is awed by the suggestion . Even the rabid general asks , " Isn't that a little drastic ? " And another adviser adds , " Sir , the Helmsley Law , Part Two , Sub B , specifically forbids the use of the Omega force against Caucasians . " Something like that . The acting is good , especially Allan Alda as the nudnik president , but little acting is required . As a director Moore gets the job done but doesn't add much . What made " Doctor Strangelove " exceptional was the realism between the comic moments , the battle scenes for instance . Here , Moore has the Omega force not just running across a field but high stepping , which isn't really as funny as it is silly . ( The last man in line trips over a stone and sprains his ankle , hollers out , " Save yourselves , " and another one runs back and shoots him on the spot . ) Moore as a writer turns out to be a more astute humorist than I'd expected him to be . ( One Canadian prisoner , in a psycho biker's get-up , is serving his term for trying to use regular gas instead of unleaded . ) It has its funny moments .
It Don't Do No Good To Be Fast on the Draw No More .	It's hard to know exactly what to make of this film because it doesn't follow the usual narrative structure . Bad things happen to people , whether they are good , bad , or indifferent . And the soft-spoken but menacing murdering man in black who simply kills anyone who gets in his way , and even a couple who don't , walks away into the sunset . And the hero , Tommy Lee Jones as the aging Texas sheriff , isn't on screen for very long and , in his climactic scene , merely relates to Tess Harper an unilluminating dream he had last night . But , although I didn't always know what was going on , what OUGHT to come next , I will assume that the Coen brothers did and accept the film as projecting some kind of coherent philosophy about life - - even if that philosophy goes something like : " Chance , the fall of a coin , plays such an important role in life that any coherent philosophy about it is impossible . " Very briefly , a young Texan ( Josh Brolin ) hunting deer stumbles on the aftermath of a drug double-cross . The ground is strewn with bodies . Ignoring the pleas of a wounded man for water , Brolin pokes around and finds a bag filled with half a million or so dollars and makes off with the satchel . He packs off his wife and mother-in-law to safety , but a transponder is concealed in the satchel , allowing Javier Bardem to follow him around and engage in the occasional shoot out . Bardem , with his incongruously saintly eyes , is one of those killers who is impossible to stop . He's like Schwarzenegger's robot in " Terminator " or any one of a dozen other stereotypes . Tommy Lee Jones is Tom Bell , the disillusioned sheriff who tracks Brolin in an attempt to save him , and fails . Barry Corbin makes a brief appearance as an ex-lawman with even less optimism than Jones , who lives in a dump even messier and more thoroughly debauched than my own . There are other familiar faces in the cast ( Tess Harper , Woody Harrelson ) but what sticks in the mind are the bit parts - - the elderly Texan in the isolated gas station , for instance , whose life apparently depends on whether a tossed quarter falls heads up . He seems to have been plucked at random from the streets of Alpine . Or Brolin's mother-in-law , Beth Grant , a garrulous woman with terminal cancer . When a man offers to carry her luggage to the station , she comments , " Well , there's at least one gentleman left in west Texas . " But then she adds , " You don't often see a Mexican wearing a suit . " This is a darker story than the Coen's " Fargo . " " Fargo " had one psychopath and one low-level thug , and the rest were ordinary characters with weaknesses . In this film , the greedy and murderous outnumber the good . But , I suppose , following the novel , the blame isn't pinned on regional character . One frazzled sheriff tells Jones that it's all the drug money and the kids with green hair . Jones replies with ambiguous insincerity that he gave up hope when kids stopped using " sir " and " ma'am " as terms of address . The story certainly STARTS with drug money but then it seems to move on inexorably from there , turning into a contest of wills mediated by accident . A flirtatious young woman at a motel pool asks Brolin why he's always looking out the window . " Oh , just to see what's comin ' . " And she says , " You never see what's comin ' . " How right she is . A car running a stop sign when you're not paying attention can ruin your life . At any rate , the Coens have done for the values , people , and landscape of southwest Texas what they did for snowbound Minnesota in " Fargo . " In Texas , if you want a gun you walk in and buy it . The majority of folks are given to categorical thinking but aren't unkind . And the landscape is raw and arid , no country for old men , not anymore . It's a pretty good film . The Coens are among the most original writers and directors working today .
A Study in Racial Antagonism	This is a good movie , and a brave one , for several reasons . The plot and other elements of the film have been covered elsewhere , so I'd like to just make a few comments on the role of race in the Vietnamese conflict . The combat experience in Vietnam was an almost perfect mirror of a famous social psychology experiment by Muzafer Sheriff called , " The Robbers Cave " study . This may look a little dull but it's important and relevant . Under controlled conditions , Sheriff brought two matched groups of boys to a Boy Scout Camp in the middle of nowhere . In Phase One , the two groups had no contact with one another but gave themselves names ( The Eagles and the Rattlers ) and lived separately . They developed an intense in-group bonding . In Phase Two , the Eagles and the Rattlers were brought together in competition with one another - - sports and so forth . And each group developed an intense antagonism for the other , an " us-against-them " set of attitudes . The hostility grew so strong that the experimenters cut Phase Two short so it wouldn't become physically dangerous . In Phase Three , the competitive tasks were removed and replaced by tasks requiring cooperation for the good of both groups together . The crises were artificially created by the experimenters and involved joint jobs like hauling water when the pump broke down , pulling a truck when the engine quit , and so on . The conflict disappeared when it was replaced by what Sheriff called " a superordinate goal " or " a superordinate enemy . " The film illustrates the kind of bonding that takes place when the Eagles and the Rattlers are faced with a superordinate enemy , in this story the VC . There's no question that racial identities were retained , but they were overshadowed by allegiance to the group . They had to be , for the sake of survival . The casual and sometimes friendly interaction between African-Americans and whites is even more surprising when you consider that this takes place in the late 1960s , the era of Black Power , the Zebra killings , campus takeovers , and so on . None of that social movement filters into Vietnam . There may or may not be atheists in foxholes , but there seem to be far fewer racists . Enough boring stuff . I mentioned that the film was brave because Stone was the first guy to come out with a film that dealt directly with the ordinary grunts in the Vietnam war . No politics or anything . None of that , " Why are we here ? " business . The war is just a matter of getting through one day after another , shorter and shorter , until you can get out of it . The usual stereotypes are either absent entirely or weak . Nobody is a wise guy from Brooklyn . And there is no braggart from Texas . And Sgt . Elias is not " good " in contrast to Sgt . Barnes ' " bad " guy . He's a better human being than Barnes , but not a better soldier . Overall , it's an instructive film coming from somebody who was there . And the director doesn't try to drive us nuts with razzle dazzle techniques as he sometimes does in his later work .
An Original Ethnic Mobster .	Compared to Mervyn LeRoy's " Little Caesar " , " The Public Enemy " is a little more - - well , I don't want to use the word " sophisticated " because it's anything but that . It's more - - developmental . Yes , that's the word . Little Caesar's character begins and ends as an adult gangster . Tom Powers ( Jimmy Cagney ) is first introduced as a young boy , hanging around with his pal Matt Doyle ( Edward Woods ) , being whupped for stealing by his policeman father . The stern old man uses a razor strap . Maybe today it looks like child abuse to some people but it was probably common enough at the time . My mother used to break Kochloevels over my back . In any case , such punishment did neither Tom Powers nor myself any good since we both turned out wicked . Tom and Matt grow up into young men who are hoodlums in the employ of Puttynose , who teaches them the tricks of the trade , an Irish Fagin , but he breaks his promise and skips out on them when they need his help . Years later , an unforgiving Tom wreaks his revenge on the pathetic Puttynose . Then Tom and Matt are taken under the wing of Paddy Ryan , and finally Samuel " Nails " Nathan , both of whom treat our protagonists well . In fact , I rather liked Nails . He's cheerful , generous , and loyal . I mean , considering that he's a gangster , a thief , and a murderer . When Nails is thrown from his horse and killed , Tom and Matt sensibly shoot the horse . There's a sub-plot involving some dames the two guys pick up in a speakeasy . Matt marries his moll but Tom gets tired of his ( Mae Clarke ) and puts finito to their affair by shoving a grapefruit in her face . Mr . Nice Guy . Tom then meets Jean Harlow and she seems to fall for him , although his interest in her is rather more glandular than anything else . She doesn't make herself available in the sense that his other girl friends have and Tom is tearing his hair out , uttering hoarse , goaty cries : " A guy could go screwy from this . " Her part is kind of small and Tom never does get it on with her . When a rival gang kills his friend Matt , Tom picks up two pistols , barges into the gang's hangout , and shoots it out with them , severely wounded in the process . He's visited in the hospital by his Ma , his moralistic brother , and his sister-in-law , and he asks them to forgive him . Doesn't do him any good . The rival gang kidnaps him from the hospital and delivers him to his home , full of new lead . Like " Little Caesar , " this film gives us many scenes and characters that were to become icons . On their first big job , a friend of Tom's and Matt's , Loopy Louie , is shot by the cops and we see the wake in Louie's parlor , with a matronly immigrant mother moaning , " He was always a good boy . " To a parking valet , Tom snaps , " Hey , watch it . Dat car's got gears . It ain't no Ford . " As for the performances , Edward Wood was famously intended to play the lead before the roles were switched , with Cagney taking the role of Tom . It was a good decision . Matt is likable but a little wooden , whereas Cagney sizzles on screen . Jean Harlow's every line is laugh worthy . Like Cagney , she was from New York but her accent here stops just short of a parody of British . " I cahn't . " And , " Me neyether . " Also , she looks , well , BIG in this movie , maybe because she's paired with Cagney , but it's not just that she's as tall as he is but that she's zoftig too , a bit more broad of beam than has been noticeable in her other films . The censors were beginning to impose their will on the film industry , so every shooting takes place off screen and there is virtually no blood . I guess the code was not yet firm enough in place to prevent the presentation of a tailor as a homosexual . When Cagney is being fitted for his first suit , he tugs at his waist and tells the guy to leave plenty of room in their . " Here's where you need extra room , " says the tailor , squeezing Cagney's upper arm , " Just feel that muscle . " Cagney minces away from the encounter . Not that there's any suggestion of homosexual bonds between Tom Powers and Matt Doyle . They're just friends who grew up together . You must see this movie if you haven't already . It was one of three that set the genre firmly on its feet in the early 1930s , the others being " Little Caesar " and " Scarface . " Look at it this way . Without these films , we might never have had " The Godfather . "
It Isn't Easy Being Blue	In Lumet's earlier work , Serpico , Frankie went through little in the way of a crisis of conscience . His fellow cops were corrupt bullies , comic Paisanos , sadistic goons , or real mean mothers . Serpico was an immensely popular movie for a number of good reasons , including the fact that it was a story of good guys against bad . Prince of the City is by no means as simple as that . It's far more demanding of the viewer and , in that sense , a better story . Once you join a secret organization - - the Mafia , the NSC , the NYPD - - you learn that the rules don't always follow the guide book's . The difference between theory and practice is much greater in practice than in theory . Inevitably , there must be slippage between the ideal and the real . Shortcuts are developed , corners rounded , edges softened . The world outside this cocoon of secrecy doesn't know about the slippage , except in rare instances in which it's squeezed out into public view , such as the defense presentation in the O . J . Simpson trial . Cielo brings himself , recklessly , almost hysterically , through a tentacular process , to rat one by one on the only people he truly can trust and who reciprocate that trust . They are not only his partners but his closest friends . When he almost breaks down from guilt at a backyard party , they take him aside and offer support , money , understanding , as much love as one tough cop can express for another . But it hardly helps . As he tells them , he's seeking absolution , perhaps a bit wistfully preoccupied with achieving what his last name implies . He blows the whistle while he is still an integrated , respected , even honored member of the organization , first on small fry , then people he's bonded with . As he says to the federal investigators for whom he is acting as informant , " The cops care more about me than you guys do . " ( He's right , too . Other cops save his bacon more than once while the feds are providing a dismal simulacrum of back-up . ) These feds as we first meet them are represented by an interesting trio . The first one that Danny contacts ( not the other way around ) is patient , quiet , thoughtful , steepling his fingers before his face and waiting patiently while Danny works out his own justification for his betrayal , a kind of psychiatric fed . The second is the closest we come to a bad guy ; his background includes Andover and Harvard and he has the inexpressive face of the FBI agents in Dog Day Afternoon . We know just by looking at him that he is the kind of guy who lives on Central Park West instead of Queens , the kind of guy cops hate , and Danny tells him so up front . He's the reason that cops feed heroin to their junkie snitches , and why they resentfully skim money off narcotics takes . He turns out to be not unsympathetic ; it's okay to go to Harvard , I guess . The third , Bob Balaban , we meet last . He's in charge , a prissy , clipped instrument of distant authority . The feds not only provide inadequate protection , but when Danny feels he has gone as far as he morally can in his cooperation , they pat him on the back , assure him that we're all on the same side here , you know , and then coerce him into further betrayals with threats of perjury . When they're through with him they don't discard him , they do everything in their power to pin the French Connection debacle on him . When that doesn't work they bring up a junkie's payoff of four hundred dollars that some cop may have taken years ago . As Danny says , they'd get you for bad breath if they could . Not only does Danny lose his best friends but his family turns against him as well . His cousin Nick is whacked for warning Danny that a contract is out on him . Nick's family won't allow a drunken Danny into the funeral home . Serpico certainly suffered but he didn't go through anything like this torture . The lengthy narrative involves many characters and a good deal of intrigue and is sometimes hard to follow , which I take as a measure of verisimilitude . There are no car chases , no shoot outs , and no slow-motion violence . No violence at all . Treat Williams as Danny is an underused actor . Perhaps the reason he never became a major star is the very trait that makes him so effective in this role : a determined set of masculine features undermined by a weak voice that suggests an almost feminine vulnerability . His suicidal impulses are made believable . This is his best performance . Lindsay Crouse as Danny's wife has not much to do , but nobody is better than she at gradually allowing her face to melt from a smile into an expression of dismayed disbelief . His partners , whom he sends over , including Jerry Orbach , are more than adequate for their parts , hard-nosed but sensitive cops with families , who only reluctantly can allow themselves to believe that Danny is guilty of what no cop would do to another , turning over his partners . Nailed , two of them eat their guns , which doesn't help Danny's spiritual predicament . This story doesn't end with the protagonist's bittersweet success . Serpico's story was sad , as was Terry Malloy's in On the Waterfront , but Danny's is tragic . In the end this isn't about one good cop in a barrel of rotten ones . It more resembles a quest for redemption by means of a penance so intense as to amount of self flagellation , teetering at times on the brink of suicide . Danny destroys the real world around him and in the process , like Sampson , destroys himself because if we are not after all a part of the things and people we love , and they a part of us , then what are we ?
Tis a far , far better episode .	I find this one of the more enjoyable entries in the series . It aired on Christmas day and is built around a story in which Steed and Mrs . Peel are invited to a Dickensian Christmas party at one of England's stately homes , owned by Mervyn Johns , who is a renowned collector of Dickensiana . At the Christmas Eve party , everyone must dress in costumes derived from one or another of the novels . Mrs . Peel winds up as Oliver Twist . Steed , ominously , is assigned the identity of Sidney Carton of " A Tale of Two Cities , " the debauched alcoholic who recovers his humanity in time to sacrifice his life for someone else . The plot , what there is of it , has something to do with drugs , mental telepathy , hypnosis , induced dreams , premonitions , and wringing state secrets out of Steed's mind . The Sidney Carton business has nothing to do with the story and is simply an excuse to film a nightmare and have a few subtle jokes . Especially appealing is the notion of the Dickensian Christmas with its punch , puddings , and roast goose . There's a fireplace and a fiddler playing jigs . The set decorator deserves a two-shilling emolument . It's curious that the Dickens collector who has laid on this affair is Mervyn Johns . This is the Mervyn Johns who dreamed " The Dead of Night " in its entirety . That's a movie I would recommend watching if you really want to be spooked . And a tip : A slight chemical alteration of the mind , and the film will REALLY make your hair stand on end .
Grim and Realistic Crime Thriller .	One of the best of the post-war noirs . There's no treacherous femme fatale and no Robert Mitchum in a trench coat but it's got just about everything else - - a hold up , a shooting , a worried Victor Mature , prison scenes , a soupcon of happiness , big menacing black sedans , snub-nosed revolvers , monstrous . 45s , a lunatic villain , a bloodless but horrifying murder , unreliable cops , and location shooting in New York City by director Henry Hathaway . Mature is Nick Bianco ( " white " in Italian ) who is caught during a hold up while trying to get some money for his kids ' Christmas presents . Just an ordinary guy like you and me except that he holds up jewelry stores . Brian Donlevy is the District Attorney , Louis D'Angelo ( " of the angels " ) who manipulates him into squealing on a couple of fellow heist artists and other assorted miscreants . In return for his testimony in open court against Richard Widmark's Tommy Udo ( whose name means nothing to me in any language but sounds great , in some subliminally ominous way suggestive of a really bad nonsense syllable ) , Donlevy secures Mature's release from prison . Mature then marries the young girl he's come to love , Coleen Gray , and settles down with her and his kids in a working class suburb of New York . It doesn't last . Widmark was supposed to be put away safely in the Hotel Crowbar but is gotten off on a technicality and is now free to look up Mature and murder him , his wife , and his two children . What makes us think he's capable of such brutality ? Well , for one thing , Mature is now a " squealer " and we know how Widmark handles them because he tells us . " You know what I do with squealers ? I let ' em have it in the belly . " For another , we've already seen what he does to a squealer's innocent , wheelchair-bound MOTHER . He ties her up in the chair and flings her down the stairs . Finally , we know he's capable of it because of Widmark's insane giggle . The performance made an icon out of Widmark . Kids at the time went around imitating his chuckle and wearing his signature dark shirt and yellow tie . It took Widmark , who was a nice guy , years to get out of that kind of role . Hats off to just about everyone involved in this production . The photography by Norbert Brodine changes subtly from documentary-style verisimilitude in the early scenes involving such locations as the visiting rooms of prisons ( shot in the Tombs in New York ) to minatory shadows in the last half , during which Mature must sneak around , sweating , clutching the gun in his coat pocket . The film did a splendid job of capturing that working class neighborhood in Astoria , Queens , the houses and apartment buildings appearing to slump a little , their unpretentious interiors with a little schmutz on the walls , with laborer Mature slurping water directly from one of the non-Koehler faucets at the wide , white , deep porcelain kitchen sink , and pretty , young Coleen Gray flouncing around preparing dinner , more succulent than any spaghetti and meatballs could be . Not that the picture is " ethnic " in any way . It's not " The Godfather . " I didn't especially care for Donlevy's character . The script doesn't give us much reason to , although it was based on a story by a real District Attorney and presumably incorporated some of his own experiences . Just after Mature's capture , at the beginning , Donlevy calls him to his office and begins to lay a con on him , skillfully , like a guy selling Vegamatics in a TV infomercial . You have two kids , don't you , Nick ? Got any pictures of them ? Nice . Here's a snapshot of my kids . It's good for a man to have a family , don't you think ? Feel like squealing on your partners yet ? There isn't anything in the way of humor . Nobody laughs - - there's only Tommy Udo's inimitable giggle , and that's not funny . It's relentlessly grim and it ends with Mature lying on the street with four great big slugs in him . The scene plays like a death scene but there's a tag of about one minute at the very end in which Coleen Gray's narration tells us that Mature lived and that they now live happily ever after .
Dark Side of the Moon of Musicals .	There have been dark musicals before - - " West Side Story , " " It's Always Fair Weather " - - but this one takes the palm . When Bob Fosse had his bypass surgery he was still a relatively young man and the procedure was still in its initial phases , by no means routine . It's something to be scared of under any circumstances , but at that time the outcome was problematic in a way that it no longer is . It's as if Fosse were first in a long line . The musical numbers . They progress from realistic , excerpts from a show Joe Gideon ( Roy Scheider ) is choreographing and directing , to hallucinatory by the end , a frightening congeries of monsters and plastic anatomical models . When Gideon is asked how he feels before an angiogram and says , " The truth ? I'm scared , " we can believe him . Scheider is a fine actor but this part really calls for a dancer . And what dancing we see . Such dedication , skill , and fitness , of a kind required only of athletes like tight ends . A viewer must pale with awe , seeing the rehearsals . And of the dancers , Foldi and Ben Vereen are particularly appealing . Oh , and Sandhal Bergman , whose bare bosom requires a review all its own . The songs are eclectic but innovatively arranged and orchestrated . Your fingers tap even as the characters die . Gideon dies , we are more or less told blankly , because he smokes , boozes , lies , and screws around . He is morally flawed . Big deal . The problem is that he dies because he was alive in the first place . It's not the tragic story of a fall from greatness - - no " Citizen Kane " or " Coriolanus " - - but a change from life to death . Would Gideon have lived longer had he become , say , a vegetarian ? Maybe . Then he would have been granted more years in which to become old and faded and impotent and forgotten . I don't mean to be too glum about this but the movie itself raises these kinds of questions . Or , as Edgar Allan Poe put it , " The play is the tragedy " Man , " and the hero the conquering worm . " Do not watch this movie if you have ever gotten drunk , lied , smoked , done drugs , or fooled around . I'd even hesitate to watch it if I'd used cuss words . But I must sum it up by saying that it is an example of how close any single human being - - Fosse in this case - - can come to turning his own failures into a work of art . What makes it as strong a fable as it is , is that Fosse does not give us easy answers . Even vegetarians must face eventual dissolution .
One of Us .	This has to be the only totally straight movie that David Lynch ever put his fingers on . And at that , it's not entirely straight , but it seldom edges into Lynch's private vision , or through the looking glass , or down the rabbit hole , or into The Garden of Earthly Delights or the ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir , or wherever it is that his other films , beginning with " Eraserhead " , have voyaged . It's a sentimental and ultimately tragic story naturally . John Merrick , the elephant man of the title , was a rude lump of foul deformity , a simulacrum of a human being . What else could they do , turn it into a comedy ? A werewolf movie ? John Hurt is Merrick , kept in thrall by Bytes ( Freddie Jones ) who exhibits him to the public in a freak show in Victorian London . Merrick is rescued by Dr . Frederick Treves ( Anthony Hopkins ) who sneaks him into a hospital run by Carr Gomm ( John Gielgud ) where he is tended by nurses who are frightened of him . All the nurses except their chief , Mothershead . Mothershead is enacted by Wendy Hiller who was never frightened of anything on this planet . Gradually the staff come to realize that despite his disfigurement , Merrick is really a sweet and gentle soul , forgiving and grateful for the smallest of kindnesses . Warmth replaces fear . And when Treves takes Merrick home to meet his wife ( Hannah Gordon ) , this caprice of nature begins to sob quietly , saying , " I've never been treated so well by a lovely woman . " It's sentimental all right , but the script has prepared us for the scene and it avoids being banal . Imagine how much worse it could have been . Instead of being barely able to speak , or rather hiss , his lines - - instead of producing mediocre sketches - - instead of merely building a model cathedral out of match sticks - - the script could have turned him into a genius ! Wouldn't that be fun ? Elephant Man rescued from freak show writes a smash hit Broadway play ? Paints the Mona Lisa of 1890 ? Mentally extends pi to 23 digits in ten seconds ? Invents Leggos ? No . The only thing Merrick has going for him is his utter joy at being treated humanely . Thank God he's just a nice guy , not a saint . There are a couple of weak elements in the film . One is the bloviating score . It tells us precisely what we are supposed to feel , and the precise moment we're supposed to feel it . There is a macabre dance while the helpless Merrick is waltzed around the room by a horde of drunks . And Freddy Jones as the villainous and sadistic Bytes is - - well , he's SUPPOSED to be evil but his pop-eyed performance not only chews up the furniture but swallows it . The rest of the principles are frankly splendid . Models of acting , really , with not a sour note being struck . Especially interesting is Hannah Gordon's portrayal of Treve's wife . She's not a dazzling beauty but has one of the most expressive faces on screen . She tells us everything we need to know by just lifting an eyebrow . ( What Freddy Jones could have learned from her ! ) Hannah Gordon doesn't have that much screen time here but catch her , if you can , in " Miss Morrison's Ghosts , " in which she plays opposite Wendy Hiller , to see a true professional at her best . The director , David Lynch , keeps his act together in this relatively straightforward story but it wouldn't have been made quite this oddly by anyone else . I mean , the film opens with a scene of Merrick's mother being run down and trampled by a herd of screaming , stampeding elephants . What the hell does that have to do with the movie ? It's never mentioned in the script . It's certainly not Merrick's fantasy . And there's no reason to believe that his mother really WAS frightened by elephants . Although Lynch doesn't use many tricky codes in the movie , he rarely passes up a chance to show us the grimy perineum of Victorian London - - the basement fires being stoked , the black smoke billowing from the chimney , the intricate reticula of a lace curtain stirring in the open window , the slick wet bricks of an industrializing city gone berserk , the iron webbing across Victoria Station's glass roof . Texture piled on texture , and all of it somehow ominous . He does for man's indifferent artifacts what Peter Weir and Nicholas Roeg did for Australia's natural features . He's invested them with dread . It occurred to me while watching this that Alfred Hitchcock's " Rear Window " is usually described as drawing the audience into Jimmy Stewart's voyeurism and thus making us as guilty as he is , of snooping into others ' lives . What does " The Elephant Man " do to ITS audience then ? Turn us into gawkers at a carnival freak show ? I wonder how many of us went to see this movie when it was released , not so much to watch an enjoyable and well-done film , but to see what all the fuss was about ? Lynch takes it easy on the audience in that regard . Merrick is horrifyingly deformed but there are no cheap shocks . Lynch gives us his appearance little by little until , by the time we see him in his awesome ugliness , we've gotten to know him a bit and to empathize with him . And why shouldn't we admire and respect him ? We may look better than Merrick , but he'd be hard for any of us to beat in a contest of soul against soul .
Show me the money . . .	SPOILERS . This genre piece excels . Everything seems to click and work together well . The story isn't very complicated . Three killers - - Billy Bob Thornton or whatever his three names are , Williams , and Beach - - drive from LA to Star City , Arkansas , where two LA detectives ( Metzler and Billings ) and a local chief of police ( Paxton ) await them . There are some violent incidents along the way and a final shootout in which people get pretty much what they deserve . I'm describing it as intelligent because Frankin , the director , has handled the material very well . None of the characters is overdrawn . Nothing is in-your-face obvious . The violence is over quickly and no more gory than necessary . And the violence is not used as a selling point - - not done in slow motion or with multiple squibs exploding everywhere . There are no car chases and no explosions . Instead there are characters that are at least half-way believable as are the interactions between them . The two LA detectives make fun of the hick police chief , laughing at his intention to apply for a job with the LAPD , not knowing that he's overhearing them . But nobody calls him a hick . They just chuckle at the thought , and Billings says , " Can you imagine him hanging around Parker Center ? " The other LA detective , Metzler , has a bland face and unimposing presence ( he looks a bit like Fuhrman from the O . J . Simpson case ) but he turns in a fine performance . Some of the minor touches are most delicate . Paxton's wife is trying to get Billings to talk her husband out of his fantasies about being a big-city policeman . " You know him , " she says , " He watches TV . I read non-fiction . " ( I read non-fiction . That's good writing . By Bobby Jim Thornton , too . ) In fact , everyone is good , even the usually wooden Paxton . Clarence Earl Thornton , or Edgar Allan Thornton , or Oliver Wendell Thornton , or whatever his names are , is outstanding as an impulsive weak killer . Beach is just fine as the college-educated guy with an IQ of 150 who never laughs or smiles behind his accountant-type eyeglasses but who kills helpless people dispassionately with a knife , as if they were nothing more than trussed-up swine . The only word to describe Cynda Williams is yummy . She's first-rate in this film , switching easily back and forth between black locutions and those one might expect in a white middle-class family in the San Fernando Valley . Do catch this one if you have the chance .
Slow , Gripping , Historical Drama .	It's 1797 in Great Britain . The rebellion in the colonies is long over , the Napoleonic wars are beginning , the men who broker power still wear wigs , the women wear low-cut full dresses with integral uplift bras , people argue over such social issues as slavery , and not a shot is fired nor a cutlass unsheathed . If you're looking for galloping horses or square riggers plowing through exotic seas , this is the wrong place . William Wilburforce ( Ioan Gruffud ) is an English gentleman by birth and he undergoes a kind of epiphany along the lines of , " Hey - - slavery is immoral . " Under the tutelage of a repentant priest ( Albert Finney ) , an accomplice in the movement ( Rufus Sewell ) , and the less impassioned help of his PM , William Pitt ( Benedict Cumberbatch ) , he finally succeeds in abolishing slavery . Even the big loser , the PM from Liverpool , Lord Taleton ( Ciaran Hinds ) , joins ruefully in the climactic applause in the Parliament . The most complicated relationship , the most engaging , is that between the two old friends , Wilberforce and Pitt - - one the perfervid idealist , the other the pragmatist . It's like sitting through a class in historiography . Nothing violent happens . Rather , as in real life , or as in a Warner's biopic from the 1930s , things move along slowly , almost creaking , pushed one way or another by social forces that not even their instruments can fully grasp . If slavery was moral fifty years ago , why isn't it moral any longer ? What's changed ? The ownership of other human beings still has the same economic roots . The British sugar plantations of the Caribbean still need the same vast number of zombified workers . Conditions on the slave ships are no worse than they were before . ( How could they be ? ) Interesting questions , because they bring up the conundrum of moral evolution . Maybe a moral injustice will eventually reveal itself for what it is , no matter the forces arrayed against it . This movie selects William Wilberforce as the hero - - and it makes him young and handsome , as opposed to his adversary , the cranky erubescent older Lord Tarleton . That's probably a bit of movie magic . But , as Margaret Mead said , every social movement begins with one person . Speaking of that ugly Lord Tarleton , I wish the film hadn't been so obvious about making its protagonists look reasonably good and its antagonists so much less than good . ( Couldn't they have given Lord Tarleton a dog that he loved , or something ? Couldn't Wilburforce have had a secret vice , like a foot fetish ? ) There is some dispensable romance thrown in . And the use of " Amazing Grace " is overdone . I realize that Albert Finney's good priest wrote it , but the movie ends with a couple of dozen guys that look like the piper in San Francisco's Edinburgh Castle on Saturday Night , keening away . It's gotten tiresome , like Pachelbel's Canon . I expect any day to hear " Amazing Grace " behind a TV ad for a male enhancement product . Should you watch the movie ? Absolutely . As Americans , we're all wrapped up in the misery associated with slavery in this country - - the Civil War and all that - - which the British managed to solve through bloodless parliamentary procedures sixty years earlier . But that's treating the film as a history lesson . As a movie , as entertainment , it's desaturated of drama . Wilberforce describes the slave ships and invites a haute monde audience to inhale the cadaverine , death smell with which they reek . The pain and torture are never seen . But what drama there is , is civilized and adult . And it's not a scolding from the film-makers either , but more of a description of events as they occurred . Of course Wilberforce was more complicated than the figure we see on screen , and of course the good guys win , but I'm happy enough about that .
Superb , Thrilling , Horrific	This is a very good , inexpensive Ealing movie . I can't imagine that they would make something like this now . It makes your hair stand on end and there is only one murder and not a drop of blood to be seen . It's not a masterpiece of art but , like a lot of Poe's short stories , a work of true craftsmanship . I won't give away the whole thing , but I'll mention that there are five episodes built around a framing story . A group of jolly people at a country estate swap stories that sound as if something supernatural might have been involved . Doesn't sound too inviting , does it ? ( 1 ) A hospital patient gets a warning from what seems to have been a strange nightmare . ( 2 ) An adolescent girl in a large house finds a louche deserted room with a sobbing child who may be a ghost . ( The lullaby she sings to him , " Golden slumbers fill your eyes / Smiles awake you when you rise , " will sound familiar to fans of Abbey Road . The original was written by the poet Thomas Dekker a couple of hundred years ago . The Beatles must have been bricoleurs of literature . Out of the gibberish at the end of " All You Need Is Love " we can hear someone say sternly , " You'll be a serviceable villain , " which is ripped off from " King Lear . " ) ( 3 ) A comic interlude about golf and love , starring the two laconic cricket-obsessed Brits from " The Lady Vanishes . " ( 4 ) The one that scared me the most , about a man who is possessed by a strange Victorian room alone can see when he looks in a certain mirror . And ( 5 ) the most critically applauded one that has generated at least two Twilight Zone episodes and a couple of movies and is a predecessor of the final scene of Hitchcock's " Psycho , " in which a stuffed figure takes over the identity of its owner . I don't think I'll go on with this because the plot has turns that I don't even want to hint at . See it if you can . It's scare quotient is magnitudes above that of " Freddie vs . Jason . "
Truth and Consequences	Some keen dialog here . Boston policeman , Ed Harris , to Private Investigator , Casey Affleck : " Look , just forget what I said the other night and we'll be friends . " Affleck : " And if I don't ? " Harris : " That's not the kind of ' if ' you want to bring into your life . " It's the story of a three-year-old girl apparently kidnapped from her single mother , Amy Ryan . Ryan's sister hires two amateur young sleuths from the neighborhood , Affleck and Michelle Monaghan , to poke around and see if they can turn up any leads on the girl's whereabouts . The police , Ed Harris and Morgan Freeman , as a captain in the BPD , cooperate reluctantly . The cops advise Affleck to give up the search because the girl must be dead , but he and his partner persist , leading to a couple of deaths , including that of the child who is evidently drowned in a quarry . Some time passes . A friend gives Affleck a hint about a child molester . Affleck calls Harris and as they approach the house , more shootings and deaths occur . I'm being deliberately vague because this plot is full of twists and odd plot turns , many of the most important ones revealed in momentary flashbacks . The result of this directorial decision , unless my brain is turning to tofu , is some confusion about the details of events . Anyway , I'll let the plot go at this point . The general impression a viewer gets from the movie is that Boston , the city that gave us Paul Revere , Benjamin Franklin , Indian pudding and the baked bean , is now about as ugly and dangerous a place as New York City . This is a very naturalistic movie , meaning you don't get to see any ritzy restaurants , there is no shot of the Old North Church , and nobody goes water skiing on the North Shore . The F word is used exactly one million , two hundred , and three times . I counted . There is little bonhomie . Most of the people seem to slouch around in black Gothic rags with crucifixes or St . Christopher medallions used as fashion accents . A goodly number smoke marijuana ( Gasp ! ) or snort coke , even after it spills on the floor . Bad guys may die , but so do good guys , and some of the best of the good guys wind up in the slams for reasons that are at best arguable . And that's the crux of the film - - that arguable quality . Should a person live according to inflexible principles that may be too lofty for practical use ? Would you insist on telling the truth , though the heavens fall ? ( See " Prince of the City " for an examination of a similar dilemma . ) More specifically , if you found a child who had been kidnapped by a loving family , would you insist that she be returned to her immoral and uncaring biological mother , knowing that in doing so you would see the law upheld but would be consigning the child to an almost certainly wrecked life ? Casey Affleck is the central figure , and he provides a sketchy narration . It's hard to judge his performance . He displays little range but maybe that's how he's decided to draw the character . His voice has all the semihemidemiquavers of Jimmy Stewart's but none of the expressiveness . Morgan Freeman is impressive , as always , a sublime actor . Michelle Monaghan's character seems to be in the film in order to prove that Affleck is heterosexual and to provide him with something to risk losing . The best performance may be given by Amy Ryan as the child's flawed mother . It's a most difficult role , too . Ryan has to walk a fine line between genuine but fleeting motherly instincts and frivolous self indulgence on the other . It's hard to see how anyone could have done better than she did . Ed Harris does well , too , as the cop who is willing to recognize a distinction between formal principle and pragmatism , and to be willing to sacrifice for a good that is outside the law . But then everyone is pretty good . Not a sour note in the bunch . Warning : Children under the age of 35 may fall asleep . This movie is made for adults . Shots are fired in only two scenes , and they are mostly pops and flashes in the background . There is no sex or nudity . There are long scenes in which nobody wrenches someone else's head off and pees down his neck cavity . They just sit and talk . The film doesn't provide instant gratification - - not during the meandering unfolding of the plot , nor at the end . Ben Affleck directed . He needs a little seasoning but his judgment is generally good . The script is a bit weak in presenting us with that dilemma , by the way . The protagonist is in a quandary over whether to punish good guys for breaking the law in order to achieve a greater good . But that makes him more than ordinarily extrapunitive . After all , earlier he murdered a helpless child molester and THAT doesn't seem to bother him much . He's better at forgiving himself than at forgiving others . The script kind of skips over that little problem . See it if you can . You won't wind up whistling a happy tune but you might find yourself wondering about the issues raised here .
Captured , Georgia	Well , this captures Georgia all right . Small-town Georgia , with its loblolly and slash pine forests and red clay earth , and its baked-brick buildings , and hard-charging justice system . The South in many ways is one of the most laid-back areas of the country ; everybody's friendly-like , elderly neighbors visit newcomers and bring them home-made pies . But , don't laugh , it reminds me a bit of Inuit life . People can get away with quite a lot in a traditional Eskimo community as long as they generally stick to the norms . When they don't , they get killed . Not shunned , not fined , not chastized , not remonstrated with , not exiled - - killed . " My Cousin Vinny " is a movie that I find myself enjoying each time I watch it , although the story is simple enough and could easily be done poorly . Fortunately , given that the escapade depicted isn't by its nature hilarious , the picture is rather smoothly done , with advantage taken of every opporunity for humor . The underlying drama wears thin after the first viewing , but it's still filled with laughs . Joe Pesci can't help his presence seeming ridiculous , even in his heavy roles for Scorcesi . He simply SOUNDS funny . Marisa Tomei is slender and sweetly appealing . Her relationship with Pesci is a nice mixture of love , frustration , and resignation . She's smarter than he is , as well as much better looking . Fred Gwynn and Lane Smith are the local authority figures , judge and prosecutor respectively . But no one could accuse them of playing Southern stereotypes . The Judge is sharp , a Yale graduate and chess player , and allows no tomfoolery in his courtroom , although Pesci provides plenty of it . Smith , playing a Southern lawyer for the one-hundredth-and-fortieth time , is at least as good as he's ever been . Here , he's affable and full of principle , going out of his way to help Pesci and Mona Lisa find a quiet place to live . His roller coaster of an accent is a delight to listen to . And , like the others , he has some good lines . " Verdict , " he tells the jury in his summation , " it means the truth . Comes down to us from our lil IL ' ancestors in Europe , " and the director gives us a brief shot of an African-American woman in the jury box listening intently . Ralph Macchio's part is rather small , which doesn't detract at all from the movie . He has one good moment . Interrogated by a sheriff , he thinks he's being arrested for stealing a can of tuna fish and knows nothing of the murder he's thought to have committed . He admits to the sheriff that , yes , in fact he stole the tuna . The sheriff says , " Was that before or after you shot the clerk ? " There are about two exquisite seconds while Macchio continues staring straight ahead as this query sinks into his understanding , then he looks up as if doubting his senses , and says , " I shot the clerk ? " , which the sheriff immediately grasps as a straightforward confession . If you get a chance to see this , you might as well do so . I hope you can get the unexpurgated version so you can pick up on one of the films funniest exchanges after Pesci has repeatedly made a fool of himself in the courtroom . " Counselor , " says the judge , " I'm holding you in contempt . " And Pesci mutters under his breath as he sits down , " What the f else is new ? " Fred Gwynn's jaw drops and his expression of incomprehension has me smiling just thinking about it . It isn't a masterpiece of comedy , but it's a pleasant way to get through a few hours .
Amusing , Harmless Populist Fantasy	You'll probably like this Frank Capra comedy if you haven't already seen it . Gary Cooper is Longfellow Deeds , a small-town writer of Hallmark doggerel who plays the trombone and is amiable and generous . He inherits 20 million dollars and goes to New York , where he is ridiculed and betrayed by Jean Arthur , an undercover reporter whose job is to make him look silly . When he discovers this , the disillusioned Cooper decides to give all his money away to poor farmers and return to Mandrake Falls . ( This is 1936 , near the depths of the Great Depression . ) In order to stop him and get their own hands on the money , some of his relatives bring him to court to prove he's insane . Cooper remains silent for the first part of the trial and it looks bad for him until he decides to speak out and turn the table on the connivers . He gets the money and the girl . Gary Cooper is always good when he's being grilled on the witness stand . I haven't actually counted the number of times he's been falsely accused of one thing or another but in addition to this film , " The Fountainhead " , " The Wreck of the Mary Deare , " and " The Court Martial of Billy Mitchell " come to mind . This is the only movie in which he is grilled and the results are intentionally comic . All the others have some unintentional laughs . It's also the first of Capra's three " everyman " movies , in which an anonymous , simple soul is turned into a public celebrity and manipulated by some corrupt organization of powerful people . It's the least complicated of the three . Deeds is nothing more than a lucky guy . In " Mr . Smith Goes to Washington , " the story is didactic . In " Meet John Doe " , the story becomes almost tragic . In none of them is the happy ending believable . Capra - - great name , by the way , " goat " in Italian - - seems to know exactly what he's doing here . The direction gets the job done with easy efficiency . And the performances are uniformly good . I had a bit of trouble with the scene in which a table of snooty famous poets invite Cooper over and then ridicule him because he only writes verse for greeting cards , if only because it's so difficult to imagine rich poets who were self-satisfied snobs in the mid-1930s , cruel to the honest working man . Who were they thinking of ? Nobody , I'd guess . It's just a plot device . There aren't many belly laughs in " Mr . Deeds Goes to Town . " The comedy seems at times a little dated and sometimes silly . When nobody is looking , Cooper slides down a banister and tickles the feet of the nearly naked statue at the bottom . Oh , he's pixillated alright . But it's heartwarming to see a naif overcoming his greedy persecutors and going about , doing good . It's almost more of a fairy tale than a comedy . Whatever amusement we find in it is more likely to elicit smiles than laughs . If that was the purpose of the film , it achieved its goals . People probably needed all the hope and all the optimism and momentary palliatives they could find in 1935 when the film was shot .
A Fanfare of Strumpets . Disgusting .	It's difficult to choose the most revolting scene in this story of showgirls fleecing decent men in order to put on a " show , " but if one were forced to pick , probably the most qualified scene involves a depraved midget playing a six-month-old infant peeking up a girl's skirt . In the course of this musical number , in which salivating young men , their eyes alight with lust , pursue coy but equally libidinous pretty young girls , the girls strip off their wet " things " ( ie . , clothing ) in silhouette and emerge encased each in her individual tin girdle . The " boys " are uniformly disappointed by this gesture towards what any ordinary viewer must construe as a decent chastity . But then the " infant " appears and hands out can openers . I have a simple question to ask . What does that do to your image of infants ? When they are not bound up in tin or showing off their limbs , these showgirls run around with their body parts half tumbling out of loose casual dresses and so-called teddies . There are also allusions to - - well , to inversions . A plump man delivering a hat speaks with a lisp . And the juvenile lead in a musical develops a severe case of lumbago and can't straighten up . The producer shouts at him , " You can't sing a love song all bent over like that ! What kind of love song do you think this IS ? " Some of the more vulgar among you might find that amusing . The filthy film endorses not only inversion and lust but outright crime . There is a joyful scene set in a " speakeasy , " an establishment in which spiritous liquors are sold illegally . Why not bring in the maryjane " reefers " too ? Then we come to what I'm pleased to call the sociological aspects of this stomach-turning tract of socialist propaganda . All people of means , except for one who is a traitor to his class , are treated as unfeeling dolts . Yes , it's true . And they have names like Bradford , Treat , Peabody , and Fenueil . I can only imagine how the cultivated and morally upright people of Back Bay Boston must have felt , seeing themselves so skewered . And the so-called showgirls . Whining and complaining that they have no money - - as if it weren't their own fault . It happens to be a scientifically established fact , of which these connivers are conveniently ignorant , that people are poor because they are averse to work . And they are averse to work because they are lazy . Isn't it enough that by 1933 one third of America's labor force became too lazy to bother going to work ? Do they deserve our SYMPATHY as well ? I don't mean to suggest that there is no talent on display . On the contrary , the stunning grace and delicacy of Ruby Keeler's tap dancing , evoking images of gliding swans , of leaping gazelles , of swooping fairies , of more than usually adroit armadillos , deserves all the more praise in view of her psychomotor deficit . She suffers further from the disadvantage of being an alien immigrant ( Canadian ) and should be applauded for having shed the typical foreigner's baggage of politesse and punctilio that she must have brought with her across the border . In sum , only those inclined to enjoy themselves should suffer exposure to this suppurating and subversive piece of meretricious trash . ( PS : I love the movie . That's why I gave it a high rating . )
" The Theory and Practice of Being a Sucker . "	Professor Bertram Potts ( Gary Cooper ) and his six assorted old oddballs who are trying to put together an encyclopedia are forced by hoodlums ( Dana Andrews , Dan Duryea , et al ) to take in Sugarpuss O'Shea ( Barbara Stanwyck ) and hide her from the police . Cooper and Stanwyck fall for each other and wind up getting married , while the hoodlums are swept up by the authorities . This is a very funny movie with romantic undertones . It's not outrageously funny . It's not the Marx Brothers . The high Amusement Quotient is due mostly to the characters and the relationships between them . The romance lies in the development of characters . It's unnecessary , and maybe self defeating , to spell out the funny parts and the gags . So let me mention in passing a scene that isn't funny at all but rather touching . The seven dwarfs are sitting around a table , drinking wine after dinner , anticipating Cooper's marriage to Stanwyck tomorrow . Cooper is bemused by his own emotions and by the prospect of physical contact with a woman . Only one of the professors , Robert Haydn , was ever married and is now twenty-four years a widower . He offers Cooper advice from his own marital experiences and , man , it harks back generations . " We went to the Catskills where we did some very pretty watercolors . " And : " A wife is like a flower . We must wait for the petals to open . A bee too anxious to pollinate might spoil the bloom . " Something like that , anyway . Havelock Ellis was more straightforward than that . So was Tiny Tim . But after giving Cooper his fatherly advice , Haydn takes out a locket and removes a lock of Genevieve's golden hair , and the others begin to sing " Genevieve , " and rather suddenly we realize the film has lost its comic tone and has turned rather touching , as Haydn dabs a handkerchief at his cheek , begs the others to sing it again , and delicately leaves the table . Oh , it's corny alright . ( " Corny " , means old fashioned , countrified - - but it's not " synonymous with ' baloney ' " . ) But Haydn's sentiment and the sympathy of the other tender-minded old clowns seems genuine enough . We know exactly what Haydn is feeling , although the scene isn't overextended or overwritten . Once Haydn is gone , the others shrug off the hopelessness of their ever having such a relationship , and they lapse into a resigned but robust version of " Gaudeamus Igatur . " It may be Barbara Stanwyck's best role . She's unforgettable . In other films she often seems to be made of cast iron , sexless and driven . Here , she's light hearted and saucy . Best shot - - Sugarpuss knocks unexpectedly on Potts ' door and when he opens it , she smiles like a T . rex , her head tilted , clicks her tongue and snaps her fingers , and says , " Hi , Pottsy , old boy ! " , and then tilts her head the other way and sweeps past him in this glittering gown , sparkling with Gustav Klimt designer speckles . ( In a few moments she has him feeling her foot and looking down into her open mouth . Watch out , Pottsy , this babe has been known to bite . ) She's pretty foxy too , sashaying around , fluffing her long curly locks , swinging her hips , fomenting rebellion among this flock of troglodytic dodos , teaching Cooper what yum-yum is . A number of Hawks ' movies derive their humor , and sometimes their dramatic tension , from the conflict between the cerebral cortex and the reptilian brain . The eggheads versus the naturals . And that's the case here . An ordinary viewer is more likely to cheer Cooper when he throws away his boxing book and tackles Dana Andrews swinging as recklessly as a kid in a schoolyard fight . Well , we're all glad to see it finally happen . Yet I wonder if that's such a good lesson to learn . In addition to its other many functions , the cerebral cortex has a prominent role in damping down the impulses generated by more primitive structures . That's what keeps us from murdering each other . It ' nice that Cooper manages to let himself go , but it's important to remember that the chief villain , Dana Andrews , a selfish murderer , has no problem whatever letting himself go . I've always suspected that Hawks spent most of his career getting even with the college professors who gave him poor grades at Cornell , though he spanks them only lightly here . Damned chrome domes . Come to think of it , Hawks may have been a dropout but Dan Duryea managed somehow to graduate from Cornell . It's a truly funny movie and ought to appeal to people of varying ages , genders , and social strata .
" Lavish , Lavisher , Lavishest . "	You have to keep your eyes open when a monster musical rumbles in your direction . You're liable to be demolished by a " Dr . Doolittle " or smothered in sugar by a " Sound of Music " with its " lark that is learning to pray . " " My Fair Lady " is as big and expensive as any of them , but it deserves nothing but applause . The plot is taken directly from George Bernard Shaw's most entertaining play , " Pygmalion , " which was in turn ripped off from the Greek myth of Pygmalion and Galatea . The late 30s version with Wendy Hiller was fine in its own right . The latest version adds tunes by Loewe and screenplay by Lerner and it's their most memorable work . Lerner and Loewe were a famous team but wrote some clunkers - - " If I were a bell I'd go DING DONG DING DONG DING . " Not here . The tunes aren't only not sappy but are both functional in advancing the plot and sometimes keenly witty . In " Why Can't a Woman Be More Like a Man ? " , Rex Harrison as Professor Higgins , annoyed by Eliza Doolittle's emotionalism , queries Colonel Pickering ( Wilfrid Hyde-White ) . " If I forgot your silly birthday would you fuss ? " Pickering's offhand reply : " Nonsense ! " Higgins : " Then why can't a woman be more like - - US ? " See the feminist linguist Deborah Tannen for a further discussion of such gender-related issues . Rex Harrison is at his best as the down-to-earth , irascible phoneticist who is able to trace an Englishman's personal history through his speech , sometimes pinning his place of origin down to a few blocks . Probably in England at the time it could be done . Now it would be much more difficult in England or anywhere else , with what's been called " broadcast English " becoming the norm and with families moving around too often to acquire a regional dialect . It can still be done , though , with sensitive enough ears and a knowledge of the English class system , which is more marked than the American . Harrison does his own singing - - of a sort called " Sprechtgesang " I think - - which involves speaking or shouting the words while only hinting at the melody behind them . So does Hyde-White . The others are dubbed effectively . Audrey Hepburn was a dancer , not a singer . The set design by Cecil Beaton is outlandish and peculiarly apt . The sets are highly stylized , mostly black and white except for Higgins ' earth tones . Fashion mavens will gush themselves to death over the women's wardrobe . What colossal hats ! Not just huge in and of themselves but adorned with long feathers , pom poms , imposing flowers , and cuckoo clocks for all I know . Just note the lid on Hepburn at the races when she reverts to type and shouts out that taboo word in her gutter dialect . That's probably the funniest scene in the film , by the way , and much of it depends on Hepburn . She delivers the goods until that catastrophic imprecation . She is required to do less , but does it with equal success , at the ambassador's ball , where she is done up in a coif that resembles a crest on the helmet of a Greek warrior . Ugly as hell , if you ask me . I prefer musicals with a lot of dancing . I find the motion exhilarating . Makes my hair stand on end if it's done well . Most people can carry a tune , but how many can do Donald O'Connor's off-the-wall number in " Singin ' in the Rain " ? " My Fair Lady " has no dance solos at all , but that doesn't detract from its appeal . It's a nice job by everyone concerned . Not a single dud among the elements .
Brutal Moralistic Crime Drama	Frank Lovejoy is a veteran who never was sent overseas during the war . He can't find a job to support his wife ( Kathleen Ryan ) and little boy . Angry , embittered , and perhaps a little guilty , he falls in with bad guy Lloyd Bridges who sport platinum cuff links and seems to be enjoying himself all over the little California town . Bridges offers Lovejoy a job as his wheel man . Just a couple of minor stick-ups , nothing serious . But the robberies escalate into the kidnapping of a college boy from a rich family . Bridges , an envious psychopath , kills the kid out of spite . Both Bridges and Lovejoy are caught and jailed but several thousand people break into the jail , beat the men , and pass them outside overhead like serving platters where they meet vigilante justice . I haven't seen it since I was a kid but the memory of that climactic collective murder still makes me wince . It's impossible to comment on the performances , or on much else for that matter , after the passage of so many years but unless my brain has turned to tofu , I'm compelled to recommend the film . It was made at the height of the anti-Red hysteria in Hollywood , a time when subliminal pro-communist messages were being read into cinematic trifles . And the advertising campaign that accompanied this release seemed almost to goad the audience into mindless mob action . Get in on the ground floor of the explosive rage for justice ! That sort of thing . In other words , hang the Reds . It was completely at odds with the message of the movie itself , which was that ordinary guys can get sucked up by circumstances and find themselves suffering the same fate as those who are truly evil . Oh - - and mobs can be dangerous . ( If you're a social psychologist , think " risky shift " . ) Out of all the simple black-and-white crime melodramas that appeared in the post-war period , this is one of the few that had me by the lapels . Based on a real incident in 1930s San Jose , California . If it shows up , be sure to catch it .
Perception and Substance	They are a horde of sand monkeys screaming hysterically , jumping up and down , waving their fists in the air , and they all have their heads wrapped in tablecloths stolen from Italian restaurants - - right ? Well , not quite , according to this documentary from Noujaim , which focuses on the producers and staff of the much-maligned al Jaziera satellite news channel which broadcasts to the Arab-speaking world . The reporter we get to know best , a big guy who looks like Luciano Pavarotti in makeup for a performance of Otello , and who speaks English fluently ( his wife is an Englishwoman ) , is like most other reporters of whatever channel or nationality - - practical , cynical , and good humored . He doesn't give us an anti-American diatribe . He's way too cool for that . He's watching , for instance , the tape of a demonstration in which yelling , leaping children surround some Americans entering Baghdad and he's listening to the English translation . The children are shouting " Allah " something or other and the on screen translator comments that the kids are saying " God be with you Americans ! " The reporter smiles and turns to the camera , explaining that what the kids are actually saying is , " God damn you Americans . " He has a keen sense of irony . So does another translator who is watching Bush's " Mission Accomplished " speech on live TV and giving the Arabic translation to the audience . When Bush is finally finished telling us how successful we and our allies have been , how the war has ended , the translator shuts off his mike , lowers his face and wordlessly chuckles . At another point , after the victory , Iraqis are seen breaking into a bank , emerging which armfuls of money , which they then gleefully tear up and toss in the air . Watching this on TV an al Jaziera staff member remarks that these are Kurds and they're tearing up the dough because it's the new Dinar with Saddam's picture , and in that region they've always used the old pre-1991 currency . At the same time , elsewhere , an American newsman ( from CNN , I think ) is watching the scene and calls to someone to find out what it is these looters are tearing up . Is it money , or what ? And when asked at a briefing to explain why these looting incidents are going on in the destroyed and chaotic cities , an American general replies that this was going on under the noses of the Iraqis themselves . ( In other words , some Iraqi authority should have put a stop to it . ) But the film makers are mistaken if they think that most of this isn't already known to American audiences . The problem isn't so much that American audiences were ignorant of some of these things , but that they preferred the perception to the substance . Take the concept of victory . The perception is " the liberated people " pulling down a statue of the reviled Hussein . That's part of the substance too . Another part of the substance is videotape of dead and bloody American bodies sprawled on a cement floor , a part that , like the coffins arriving at Dover AFB , we'd rather exclude . Al Jaziera showed both scenes . I don't mean any of this to sound too simple minded . It's a thorny problem . Exactly how do you edit the substance so that what appears in the media is acceptable - - in the sense that it doesn't get you fired or killed . The journalist's code of course is to be " objective , " but objectivity itself depends on perception . A sympathetic Marine captain , seen in several interviews , doing his best to answer unanswerable questions , poses the conundrum in its most basic form . Something like , " I was watching American TV and saw shots of these bodies of dead civilians , including kids , and I thought , that's too bad . Then I ate dinner and went to sleep . Recently I was watching al Jaziera and saw shots of bodies of dead American GIs , and I really got MAD . Then I thought , maybe THEY feel the same way . " The officer is a surprisingly earnest guy in an impossible job . He's trying to learn Arabic , is terribly flattered when asked to come home and have dinner with Pavarotti and his English wife . His happiness at being treated amicably is almost palpable . If you put the wrong material on the air , you're liable to pay for it . Al Jaziera's headquarters in Baghdad was bombed during the war and one of its reporters killed . Another Arab news agency was bombed at the same time , and a hotel too . The financial reporter from al Jaziera was banned from the New York Stock Exchange too . ( Not mentioned in this film . ) We're going to have to wait for another documentary to explain the reasons for that , I guess .
Politicians corrupt ? You're kidding !	There are lots of movies about the rise of some obscure person into the celebrity life , and the person turns out to be an ambitious and unscrupulous phony . Some of them are pretty good - - " Citizen Kane , " " All About Eve . " Some are mediocre - - " Keeper of the Flame . " This is one of the best . The acting honors generally go to Broderick Crawford and he's not bad . He's rather like a switch who can toggle either into thoughtful candor or blustering Hickhood . ( He used the latter persona to good effect as a New Jersey junk man later . ) He also had a third position , the incredibly dumb goof , which he never used after becoming a serious actor , but see , " Larceny , Incorporated " for an example of what I mean . If there's a problem with the script it's not his fault , although it involves his character . Hung over , still a bit drunk , Crawford steps on stage and instead of his usual boring " tax " speech he gives a redneck-rousing go-getter . And he never changes after that . Rather too quick a transition . The direction is very good . There's a scene in which Mercedes McCambridge enters the hotel room in which John Ireland has been cooped up for four days in a depressed state . " Whew , lots of smoke , " she says . " And lots of whiskey . " The scene is almost perfectly staged , with Ireland crumpled on the bed in the foreground and reaching for his liquor out of the frame , while McCambridge busies herself emptying ash trays in the background and staring at her face in the mirror . " Smallpox , " she says . ( She's not nearly as attractive as Crawford's new girl friend , JoAnne Dru , nee Joanne Letitia LaCock , a name that could have come straight out of Andy Warhol's Factory . ) Everyone's acting is quite up to par . It's John Ireland's best role . He was never Hollwyood-handsome with those squished up eyes , that deep hole between them , and that protruding nose beneath . But the honors really should go to Mercedes McCambridge . Robert Rossen , the director , allows her a few seconds here and there to be unique . When Ireland slaps her face hard , she doesn't cry . She replies with a mixture of contempt and not entirely displeased surprise at having provoked him to violence . And that little speech about smallpox as she compares her face in the mirror to the glamorized portrait of Joanne Dru . I won't go on , I don't think . If you haven't seen this , you really ought to . So should everyone inside the Beltway . Power corrupts , and absolute power corrupts absolutely . That's been attributed so often to Lord Acton that I'm beginning to believe he said it .
That calls for a drink .	It's not exactly a funny movie . After all , being a career drunkard is a lot of work . It takes devotion , cunning , effort , time , and talent . In the course of the movie the hero , Don Burnham ( Ray Milland ) discovers that it takes more character to be a drunk than to be a writer . I vaguely remember the novel . Burnham was not only a blocked writer but gay as well , and drank out of guilt for what was seen as two failings . The book didn't come out and SAY he was gay , but rather revealed he was fond of opera and enjoyed watching Garbo in " Camille . " Readers at the time , I suppose , could crack the code , but movie goers didn't need to . In most movies , drunkenness is treated as a transitory state . It's either played for laughs ( John Ford ) or the equivalent of a dose of nepenthe designed to replace an otherwise intolerable state of consciousness . This is one of only a few movies to treat it as the career that it is . Temporary exhilaration maybe but not fun at all . What causes it ? Despite the millions of dollars spent on the problem , nobody knows . And it IS a major problem . The personal and social damage cause by other illegal substances like heroin and crack are nothing compared to alcohol . Everyone has tsuris . Maybe you can't do integral calculus and I can't bring myself to sweep the back yard , but we don't all get drunk because of our failings . There's probably some constitutional component , meaning that you can't blame it simply on writer's block . Brain scans are kind of spooky to begin with , but they're spookier because of some of the results that are emerging from them . The offspring of career alcoholics show an unusual amount of activity in an isolated spot of the frontal lobes that " normal " people don't have - - and that's BEFORE they've ever had a drink themselves . But as Jellenik argued , there is an environmental consideration too . Europe can be divided into two parts - - roughly northern and southern . In the northern part , the pattern is to drink hard liquor before dinner and get bombed . In the southern part , you drink wine with dinner and getting smashed is frowned on . Also , historically , the northern pattern is relatively recent , depending on the distillation of grain , while in the southern part fermented grape juice has been around for so long that its origins are lost . Somebody will have to figure this out . As far as this particular movie goes , Ray Milland is a decent actor but doesn't do a good drunk . See Paul Newman in " Verdict " for a good drunk . Jane Wyman is the kind of loving , steadfast girl friend that real career drunks never have . Brother Wick is realistically done . Well , overall impact aside , see this movie , if only for one scene . Milland is sitting alone in his darkened room , recovering from a bout with the bottle , and sees a mouse emerge from a tiny hole in the wall . I'll leave it at that , I think . Your hair may stand on end , no matter how many computer-generated images of monsters you've seen . There's a moral lesson involved here . " Drink responsibly , " as the TV ads say . Time for another jug of Gallo Ripple - - a good wine but not a GREAT wine - - brave but fickle .
Fleeting Time Thou Hast Left Me Old .	I've seen this recently for only the second time and found it as impressive as it was the first time round . That's especially surprising considering the screenwriter and director , Albert Lewin , never considered one of Hollywood's golden boys . Yet he does a good and efficient job here . The direction lacks unnecessary razzle dazzle ( excepting a couple of technicolor inserts ) and is not only functional but sometimes subtle and expressive . I couldn't count the number of times a scene ends with that evil Egyptian cat goddess , representing the devil to whom Dorian Gray has sold his soul , framed in the foreground or lurking blurred in the shadows . The photography is by Harry Stradling and it too is exceptional , making good use of oil lamps , candles , and murk . I haven't read the novel in years and can't really tell how closely the film adheres to the original . I do remember snickering at Wilde's depiction of some examples of Dorian Gray's debauchery - - collecting gems and viewing overly decorative Oriental art , that sort of thing . Wilde surely knew more about debauchery than he was telling us but , Victorian England being what it was , could only gloss it over with these peccadilloes . Yes , Dorian Gray was debauched . He had bad taste . I don't recall any murder from the novella but Lewin the screenwriter has got one in this movie . I suppose the story is well enough known . An innocent very handsome young man ( Hurd Hatfield ) has his portrait painted by Basil Hallward ( Lowell Gillmore ) . Under the influence of the witty , cynical , and shallow Lord Wotten ( George Sanders ) , Hatfield tests the young singer he intends to marry ( a young , pretty Angela Lansbury ) and drives her to suicide . Thereafter he does nothing but pursue pleasure . He doesn't collect stones or get hot over exotic sculpture in the movie , but he visits louche places with names like Whitechapel ( Jack the Ripper country around this period ) and Bluegate Fields , where , it's hinted , he uses opium and frolics with women of low morals . One of the filthy doors to the stairs of the cathouse is opened by a midget . That's the kind of unusual touch that makes Lewin's direction as impressive as it is . Not that this production drags at all , but to make a long story short , the now hidden portrait turns really ugly over the course of twenty years while Dorian Gray remains as youthful and handsome as ever . So does Dorian's selfishness and he winds up murdering Basil Hallward to keep the changing portrait a secret . Then he blackmails an ex-friend ( by this time he has nothing BUT ex-friends ) into disposing of the body , after which the ex-friend commits suicide . The portrait by this time is bathed in blood . Hatfield is about to marry the innocent niece of the painter but , disgusted with himself , begins to destroy the portrait , only to die himself and turn into a physical wreck while the picture reverts to its original beauty of form . The story itself isn't as tightly written as it might be . George Sanders occupies a lot of screen time in the first half and throws all these Wildeian apothegms around as if they were going out of style , but then disappears for most of the remaining time . Hurd Hatfield looks perfect as Dorian Gray . He was my co-star in " Crimes of the Heart " . Hatfield , that is , not Gray . That's a pretty long , if not very distinguished , career for a Hollywood type . His face here isn't very expressive . It seems marmoreal , stony , and it's probably a misjudgment on someone's part because you can't really tell the difference between the innocent Dorian Gray and the debauched . What I mean is , couldn't he remain gorgeous but just scowl a little more during his moral decline ? Nobody could do " cad " better than George Sanders and his presence is always welcome . Angela Lansbury is a peach too and , as Sibyl Vane , she sings a cute music hall ditty , " The Yellow Bird . " Dorian Gray has a habit of banging out on a piano a maniacal Chopin prelude that is to the ears what a thunderstorm criss-crossed by streaks of lightning is to the eyes . Peter Lawford has a minor role and Donna Reed has an uncomplicated part . Hatfield adopts an English accent but Reed doesn't bother . There is a helpful and informative narration by Sir Cedric Hardwicke . All in all , a rather nice job by everyone concerned . Except maybe the editor . Some important characters appear late in the show and we don't know them .
Deranged	Considered as a film about an unhappy and perverted man , the movie is so-so , perhaps a bit more . A boy and his brother grow up on a dismal farm . Their father is brutal , their mother religious and caring but stern too . Always , when they show weakness , there is the shadow of the allegation of femininity hanging in the background . Older boy leaves home as soon as decorum allows . The father disappears from their lives and the mother , domineering and clinging , takes over Ed Gein's life . She dies painfully . Ed goes mad . Mother appears in hallucinations , telling Ed what to do , scolding him if he hesitates , prompting him to acts most of us might vomit at the mere thought of . But you know what ? This is way , way ahead of the usual sorts of slasher movies , the kind that have turned into self parodies . Railsback was executive producer and cast himself in the principal role , and he's good too , although his mangled Southern mumble is a bit difficult to square with the actual Wisconsin setting of the events . Railsback underplays Gein's psychosis just enough . Gein isn't a loony loner , as he might have been . He's a slow-moving gloomy looking guy who dresses like a sloppy rube ( you can almost smell his unwashed overalls ) but he's reasonable in public , seems to have his wits about him . He makes the right kinds of comments , more or less , at the times they are called for . Overhearing a conversation between a saleswoman and a customer who has heart disease , he wishes her well on her forthcoming operation , a nice gesture that anyone with claims to normality might make . Railsback makes him quiet , slightly awkward , and gives him a constant shy smile in front of others . It's a fine portrayal of schizophrenia , better than Russel Crowe's in " A Beautiful Mind . " Gein is just about perfect , a shambling walk ( almost on tip toe ) , a stare that lasts far too long , the unfunny joke he tells that makes him laugh out loud while others gawk , the half-baked religious ideas , a daily cycle that seems all non sequitur . He gets the necessary chores done , buys antifreeze and goes shopping . Not the way you and I might - - he lives on nothing but canned pork and beans ( and some other things ) - - but he gets the job done . He hangs out from time to time in a depressingly dark rural saloon , where he sits one or two stools away from the few other customers . The others know him , and some , like the bartender , are kind and sympathetic to him , while some make jokes about him . That's his public face . Rather a dull lonely man , a sad man really who has never recovered from his mother's death , someone who needs looking after and will never get it . His home , however - - well , that's a different matter entirely . As a police officer once said about Son of Sam's residence , " the inside of his house looks like the inside of his head . " It's a remote and non-productive place , falling apart on the outside , the lock missing from the front door , old tires and bedsprings in the yard . That's just the outside . The inside is even worse . Horrible , in fact . About the single most depressing dump I can remember seeing on screen in recent years . Little light seems to enter . And what the light shows us we'd rather not see . The man seems never to have thrown out any piece of junk he's come into possession of . Old newspapers stacked in corners . Dirty dishes . An unmade bed that any prison could improve upon . Gein was frankly nuts , no question about it . But , as I understand it , he murdered only two people , both of them middle-aged ladies who treated him in a motherly fashion . Of course the house had body parts all over it but these were from dug-up corpses . The man ate out of bowls made from that part of the skull called the calvarium , and so did his few guests . But naturally he had few guests . He made a few dollars babysitting two boys at his place but when one of them wandered into his bedroom - - the bedroom with the shrunken heads on the walls and the rats on the floor - - he ushered the kids to the door and politely and firmly told them not to come back . " I guess a man needs his privacy , " he tells them . The two murders are horrifying in a non-sensational way . Both women are shot without expecting it to happen . One doesn't die immediately and protests when her punctured body is dragged out to Gein's truck to be taken to his cellar and dressed like a hog . But , although the scenes are graphic and realistic , they are not at all sensationalized . No preliminary threats , no bondage or torture , no screaming , no maniacal whacking with axes or bashing in of heads with maces . It's all the more frightening for its matter-of-fact tone . And there is one scene in which Gein , a raving lunatic , dances out of his front door into the moonlight , dressed in long johns and human skin , a merkin fixed to his groin , banging pots and pans and whooping with God only knows what rotten pot of exaltations . It's far more shocking than anything in " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer , " although the two have the senselessness of random murders in common . You want to be scared ? This true story , this production , ought to do the job . You'll be locking your doors at night .
shocking - - then and now .	Cut up in various states including Pennsylvania , banned in the South for years , it's hard to see how this movie managed to be made . I'm not even sure they could do it now in our oh-so-sophisticated new century . The " N " word became taboo after it played such a prominent part in the O . J . Simpson trial . And the other racist name calling we would I think find equally offensive . " Sambo " ? And others that aren't " obscene " by any dictionary definition but which people still wouldn't feel comfortable reading here . Skipping over much of the plot - - Poitier is a doctor accused by Widmark of deliberately killing Widmark's brother - - the acting is fine on everyone's part . Poitier was one of the best dramatic actors of his generation . Widmark gives a performance that slides from paranoid wariness to hysterical hatred . There's never a moment when he doesn't seem ready to pop like a zit . Linda Darnell has never impressed me much as an actress , although she was a nicely virginal teenager in " The Mark of Zorro , " but she delivers the goods here as a mature and embittered woman . The supporting players are all stalwart . Many of the faces are familiar . Even Jack Kruschen has a few seconds on screen . If there's a weakness in the film it's the battle in the junkyard . It's well staged but overdone , with rabid white racists slamming bicycle chains against stoves , eyes bulging , shrieking racial epithets . We really didn't need it . The drama is in the interaction between the characters . But that's minor . It's a well-done and courageous movie . The screenplay is brave enough to keep the African-American community within the bounds of human possibilities . They aren't saints . Poitier's grandma clearly hates whites . The black actors don't all look like fashion models , and the men stage what now would be called a " preemptive " attack on white bigots who have not yet done what they've planned to do . In the end , it's sensible enough to encourage our sympathy towards Widmark's insane and suffering racist criminal . Widmark winds up crumpled on the floor , bleeding and weeping abjectly from a mixture of hopelessness and self pity .
Good Example of the Genre	A good example of a Warner Brothers war drama , it's full of clichés appropriate to the times . The Japanese are " moral idiots , " " savages , " and " monkeys " ( three times ) . Men shout and wave at a search plane two or three miles away ( three times ) . The men are the usual congeries of ethnicity - - " Gabby " Gordon hollers " Mazeltov " at the departing Sweeney . ( Hold on a moment . I'll have to think that one over . I'll also have to figure out how Lt . Sidney Jacobs acquired a Catholic dog tag . ) Franz Waxman's music is just catchy enough , without being in the least distinguished . The jungle looks like a dressed-up Santa Anita with eucalyptus trees instead of ebony . The dialogue tends to run along lines like - - " Here we are in the muck and mire . " " Hi , Muck ! " " Hi , Mire ! " Just at the end , when the remaining handful of paratroopers are in despair , the cavalry comes riding to the rescue . I guess that gets the time-trapped stuff out of the way . This is far from an insulting cartoon of a movie . At its best , it captures the kind of utter physical exhaustion that Norman Mailer caught in his novel , " The Naked and the Dead . " It's essentially a " journey " movie . Flynn , who is not bad , and his men are parachuted into Burma to destroy a radar station . Mission accomplished without casualties , they find their pick-up airfield swarming with enemy soldiers and must slog their way out through swamps and over mountains , the trip punctuated by bloody encounters with the Japanese . Not that the battles are literally bloody . I don't think a drop of blood is spilled in the entire movie despite multiple opportunities . " Saving Private Ryan " is one way to tell a horrifying story - - very explicitly - - but the suggestion that is used in this film is equally effective , as hard as that may be to believe . Maybe the most jarring and moving moment in the film is when Flynn's group finds their friends tortured and killed by the Japanese . Flynn's friend , Jacobs , is barely alive . We see only his legs as Flynn kneels over him and identifies himself . The viewer can only imagine what Jacob's face - - and his eyes - - must look like as he whispers , " Nelson ? Is that you , Nelson ? Will you do me a favor , Nelson ? Kill me ? " The movie is a long one but it really needs to be long or we wouldn't so readily feel the agony and the desperation of these dying men . It's long enough for us to get to know the men as more than just anonymous soldiers too . And the dialogue has its redeeming moments . When the middle-aged journalist is found dead near his foxhole , a supporting player , James Brown , stands over the body and says sincerely but not overdramatically , " Gee , I'm sorry , Mister Williams . Awfully sorry . " And when Flynn leads his pitiful group of survivors finally into the base , his commanding officer shakes his hand , gives him a light , and tells him , " You don't know how important it was for you to take that radar station . " Flynn says simply , " Here's what it cost , " and hands him a fistful of identity tags . It's an example not of art but of Hollywood craftsmanship . Engaging , and nicely done .
A Room of Their Own	It would be easy enough to become a fan of movies about weird Australian schoolgirls if they were all as interesting and well done as " Picnic at Hanging Rock " and " Heavenly Creatures . " This more or less true story of Paula and Juliet is nicely directed in a style almost opposite of that in Weir's " Picnic at Hanging Rock . " Instead of ominous lingering tableaus , this film uses rather rapid cuts and has far more dash in its dialogue and action . The stories are equally compelling . Here , Paula and Juliet share an elaborate fantasy involving a fourth world built upon Dungeon and Dragon sorts of setting and characters , while somehow working in Mario Lanza and Orson Welles . ( The claymation is pretty good . ) There is a not always covert sexual underpinning to their intense friendship . It isn't offensive because both girls look kind of full blown for fourteen , and it consists of so much in the way of implication that it wouldn't be terribly perverse if they looked younger . Speaking of covert messages , the linguist Deborah Tannen has posited two different interactional styles : the masculine , in which bonding is based on shared action ; and the feminine , centered on shared secrets . I have no problem with that general argument . Yet , despite her oft-repeated denials and perfunctory qualifications , Tannen clearly believes the feminine style to be better than the masculine . This movie , it is interesting to note , is a valuable corrective to her simplistic value judgments . These two girls demonstrate the feminine interactional style in esse . Boy , do they share a secret fantasy . They seem to live in a room of their own or inside each others ' heads . But when things begin to go wrong - - and they do - - they have little problem bashing in the head of Paula's mother . Men may bond by going to war but women are capable of killing too - - each gender striving to maintain its own fantasy about itself . In retrospect the way the girls ' relationship was handled looks bad . How dumb can parents and authority figures get ? Why not leave the girls alone ? Why is their infatuation with one another labeled " unhealthy " when it's only unusual ? But the film wisely doesn't make those sorts of facile judgments . The parents aren't made into living horrors . They're simply worried and angry , creatures bound by the mores of the times they lived in , just as we are , although , like the parents in this movie , we are unable to step outside the box sufficiently to realize it . This is a watchable flick .
Little , yes , but clever too .	I'm about to spill most of the beans here so if you don't want to know what happens , read no farther . Jody Foster is Rynn , the little girl who lives down the lane in a spotless , New England cottage , with her reclusive poet father . Or so it seems . When a nosy landlady , Alexis Smith , looking mighty good , shows up and begins making pointed inquiries about dear old Dad , Foster allows a heavy trap door to bonk her on the head and put a permanent end to her queries . The body remains in the cellar , aging along with the wine and Foster's mother . There is , of course , no father upstairs sleeping , or working behind his locked bedroom door , or off somewhere tending to some affair . After home schooling his keen-minded little girl , he advises her never to allow others to dictate her decisions . Thereafter , he wades off into the surf , leaving behind a payment of three years ' rent on the house and a sizable sum of cash for his daughter to dip into . But Jody Foster is too clever by half . She's got the brains and the cultivation of an adult . ( We can tell because she loves Chopin and knows how to preserve dead bodies after poisoning them ) . But she has an emotional configuration that befits her shapely thirteen-year-old body . I mean , what the hell is she going to do when the rent is up , when the cash runs out ? A little more substance in the frontal lobe wouldn't hurt . Martin Sheen , as Alexis Smith's son , could , I suppose , be categorized as the bad guy . He's had a slight run-in with the law over an encounter with a pre-teen earlier , and now we see him torture Foster's gerbil with a lighted cigarette and then fling the tiny beast into the fireplace . He hits on Foster , and he says to the teen-aged boy whom Foster has befriended and confided in , Scott Jacoby as Mario Miglioriti , " Hit the road , Wop . " Sheen discovers Foster's secret but the audience is likely to feel little sorrow at his passing as he finishes the cup of tea she's prepared for him and comments , " Tastes like almonds . " I hope nobody gets this movie mixed up with a schlock fest like " The Last House on the Left . " No blood here . No screams . Just the rather slow unfolding of a tense story with , I have to say , a flimsy premise . You can't get very far with a story of a young girl who wants to be left alone and murders people who ask too many questions . How many bodies can that wine cellar hold ? There are some weaknesses in the script too . Her dear mother's body has been lying in the cellar for a month or so and when Mario asks about decomposition , Foster says , " You can put stuff on them . I read about it in the library . " Well , the thing about preserving bodies has to do with putting something IN them , not just ON them . You don't have to be a mortician to know that . Any good taxidermist will fill you in . The performances , on the other hand , are all good . ( They pretty much have to be . Almost everything takes place in one room . ) A lot of the film's weight rests on the shoulders of Jody Foster . How is she ? She's amazing . She was fourteen when this was shot ( the same age as Lolita ) and she never puts a foot wrong . Every line is believable . On top of that , she only be in her teens , but she's criminally beautifully , and sexy too , enough to bring out the pedophile in any normal man . She's the kind of adolescent you'd like to dandle on your knee and subtly caress while discussing Nietsche with her . Sorry , but that surely must have been something the film makers realized . Her ash blond hair is long and wavy and she wears bangs low across her forehead , turning her eyes a deeper blue . Her features are slightly fuller than they were to become , and she has a gap between her upper incisors that produces a slight whistle when she utters sibilants . She's endearing , brain and body both . Some kids seem to be born with the talent to lie well , as an actress and as a character . Foster's got it
A Story of Two Men Who Had Something in Common .	Richard Brooks directed an earlier version of Capote's book , " In Cold Blood , " in 1968 that seems in retrospect to have been made for a mass audience . For the most part it takes the point of view of the killers , Smith and Hickock , their childhoods , their fantasies , their travels , their barbaric crimes . Truman Capote doesn't appear in Brooks ' film . Instead there is a journalist ( Paul Stewart ) who shows up at the end to witness the executions and mouth humanisms about capital punishment . In this film , Capote is front and center , with capable support from Clifton Collins , Jr . ( Perry Smith ) , Katherine Keener ( Harper Lee ) and Chris Cooper as the bitterly angry detective , Alvin Dewey . Phillip Seymour Hoffman is excellent as Truman Capote - - not just his impersonation , which is sometimes as difficult to understand as Son Soong's Cosmic Engine , but because he gives Capote a fully formed incarnation . Capote begins to look into the case for a New Yorker article about how the murders of the Clutter family affected the small town , but after the boys are captured and he begins to get to know them ( particularly Perry Smith ) the short piece begins to look sensational and very bookish in length . The problem Capote is faced with is that until the death sentence is either carried out or some other permanent solution is arrived at - - Capote has NO END for his story ! Well , you can imagine the conflict he finds himself in . He's under pressure from his publishers to finish the by-now well-ballyhood piece . But he has become friends , in a manner of speaking , with Perry . And Perry's death turns into a tool for Capote's professional advancement , a consideration of which Capote is keenly aware . ( In sociology this is called " role conflict " . ) It is to Hoffman's and the screenwriter's credit that they treat this conflict honestly . There is no doubt that Capote is sincere about his friendship with Perry and Hickock and his desire to see them live . He helps find a lawyer to represent them at their appeal . ( It isn't until later that he realizes his work requires their death . ) And he weeps convincingly at his last meeting with them . But this doesn't prevent him from lying repeatedly to Perry about matters such as who chose the gory title for Capote's book - - " In Cold Blood . " Capote tells Perry that his publishers chose it just as a working title for a one-night reading and that he had nothing to do with it , and that he hasn't chosen a title yet . But we know that he proudly announced his decision about the title to Alvin Dewey some time earlier . He also dissembles in order to wheedle out of Perry the details of events at the Clutter farm so that the book's popular appeal will be boosted . So did Capote want the pair to be executed for the sake of drama ? Or was he being sincere about his emotional involvement with them . The answer is " both " . He was sincere , and then he used it as an instrument of manipulation . That two-dimensionality is what makes this a more adult film than Brooks ' 1968 version . Capote , like all of us , is a flawed and very human moral entity . " In Cold Blood " indeed . Alvin Dewey asks Capote if the title refers to the boys ' crimes or to Capote's attempts to get them off . Hoffman hesitates before replying , " Why , the former . " The script at times seems a little generous with the Capote character . He's given to telling amusing stories about celebrities - - true enough . But during interviews he's given the presence and demeanor of a caring shrink oozing unconditional regard . It isn't until the end that we realize that this is partly , but only partly , a mask for his ambition . Over the phone , after the execution , he tells Harper Lee that he is distraught because he couldn't save them . Lee tells him not unkindly , " You didn't want to . " The direction is functional , the pacing deliberate . The photography is really magnificent with arty , if somewhat derivative touches - - a long flat Kansas landscape with a tiny train rolling along the horizon . The Clutter murders are shown briefly on the screen . Perry's hanging is shown too , but not from Perry's point of view , as it is in Brooks ' film , thank God . Details of executions pander to our basest impulses . " Ted Bundy " is a good example of what I mean . Capote was a good , clear writer , and " In Cold Blood " was a straightforward extended New Yorker piece , even if it was in book form . It was also a great success , critically and publicly - - " a non-fiction novel . " It irritated the ever-envious Normal Mailer so much that he subtitled his next book " The Novel as History , History as Novel . " Capote wrote several more fragmentary pieces about such things as the arrangement of paintings in Greta Garbo's living room , and he continued puffing his next book , " Answered Prayers , " which didn't happen . The epilogue suggests that Capote drank himself to death because the effort of producing " In Cold Blood " destroyed him , but maybe he'd just written himself out . Or maybe he figured he could never follow up such a glorious success . Maybe when you get everything you've ever wanted there's nothing left to live for .
Crime and Pun	" Misery " is the first name of the heroine of a series of rather crummy novels that have been written by Paul Sheldon , who longs to get out of this repetitive literary rut and into heavy lit , almost as much as Conan-Doyle wanted to dump Sherlock Holmes . It is also the dominant emotional tonus of Paul himself during most of this movie . It's probably Rob Reiner's best movie , based on one of King's less excessive stories . The direction , like the script , is nice and taut . Predictable , but nice and taut . For most of the film we are in a sort of haunted farmhouse with Paul and his captor , Annie Wilkes . The structure goes like this : ten minutes with the odd couple , then a one - or two-minute sequence of the local sheriff trying to figure out what's up , then back to the farmhouse for another ten minutes - - and so on . Crazy characters are made to look crazier by the use of wide-angle lenses during closeups , turning their faces into those of porpoises . There are two separate sequences in which Reiner cross-cuts between someone's boots climbing the stairs to the porch outside , while someone tries desperately to hide some evidence of misdeeds inside . That's what I mean by " predictable . " But it all comes out rather nicely . The acting is unusually good . Kathy Bates sometimes adopts a kind of false and theatrical tone when she speaks , as if she's not a good actress . But it fits her character , who lives in a magic theater of her own making . Her character is witlessly childlike , in her devotion to her hero , in her rage at his betrayal , or her hopelessness when it rains . Nothing of that juvenile undeveloped quality is squelched . She imbues the role with a monstrous pathos . It's difficult not to feel sympathy for this overweight recluse when she is about to leave but stops at the door , turns to Paul , and tells him she loves him . " I know you don't love me . Please don't say you do . " James Caan has never looked more miserable . For the first movie in which I can remember him , he seems to be utterly helpless , and seems to know it too . His pained expression as he tries to smile over Annie's specially made dinner of meat loaf ( she puts some Spam into the ground meat ) , or pounds unthinkingly at his typewriter while she plays all of her Liberace records in the next room to inspire him , or when he realizes she is about to do something to prolong his dependence on her - - all priceless . Caan is particularly good at registering pain . He did well in " The Killer Elite " too , although there the pain may have been real , direction by Sam Pekinpah . I had a problem with the movie , though not one of thermonuclear proportions . I had a feeling throughout that this woman , crazed by drives she can't possibly understand , was being made fun of for the wrong reasons . It's an easy shot to put someone in such a role who weighs more than our cultural ideals demand . And the unbelievably ugly decor of the farmhouse ( Caan : " Tell me , did you learn interior decorating somewhere or do you just have a flair for it ? " ) . Liberace playing Tchaikovsky . A portrait of the renowned pianist himself with that expensively capped smile , on the mantle . Spam meatballs . A " Down Memory Lane " scrapbook . Pathetic china penguins . A half gallon jug of Taylor New-York-state wine for that " special dinner . " It's only towards the end that her involvement in murder is suggested . Does she get her head bashed in because she's guilty of bad taste ?
Behind the smiley face .	SPOILERS . Freud called it " sublimation " when you convert your neurotic anxiety into a constructive channel such as your work or your art , and that's what Robin Williams shows his character doing here , in a fine subdued dramatic performance . People bring their film to him to be developed in the SavMart . And although he's nothing more than a smiley face to them , they are much more to him . He knows them all , their quirks , their joys , and their families . In fact he runs off an extra copy of family photos - - children playing , wedding ceremonies , vacations , the usual dull stuff - - and takes them home and tapes them across an entire wall of his apartment . When he's not watching The Simpsons ( a family show ) on TV , he's sitting back in his chair glowing with pleasure as he looks at his wall . Not that he's entirely happy . He laments the fact ( in a literate and observant narration ) that if we were to judge families just from the snapshots they take , it would be misleading . People just take snaps of joyous moments . They neglect everyday subjects like the used bandaid , the wasp on the jello , the edges of the sofa cushions - - things nobody pays attention to , like himself . What a well-done movie for a first-time director . One notices first the use of lighting and color . The SavMart in which Williams works is all fluorescent light and sterility - - the dominant hues are blue , white , and cream . The only advancing colors we see , warm reds and oranges , are associated with the family that occupies most of his attention , the Yorkins . His home , like his workplace , is so sterile and tidy that it makes an ordinary space look like McSorley's Old Ale House . The family snaps bloom like a spring garden of flamelike orange . The wall that they cover is the only sign of life in Williams ' home , aside from the pet hamster that runs endless miles in its silly circular cage . If the film were any more " symbolic " it would have to be European . The actors wear matching wardrobes . Williams ' uniform is flawless for its purpose . A blue vest , starchy gray shirt and matching tie , gray trousers , and a pair of those ugly plastic shoes with thick gum soles - - all gray . Williams is first-rate in the part , not just his bland professional behind-the-counter smile or his tentative voice but his movements , his body language . It's stilted , stiff , robotic , as if requiring an immense amount of effort to control . The black detective is good as well , if more sympathetic than we'd expect from an ordinary cop . And so is Connie Nielson , whom Williams takes to following around . ( Why not ? ) The director has done a fine job . Camera movements are generally measured pans , and shots are held for enough time for us to absorb their contents . ( What a relief after having been so often zapped in recent movies . ) The influence of David Lynch , the Coen brothers , and Stanley Kubrick is there - - but not to an objectionable extent . The director is fond of the kind of brightly lighted scenes that Kubrick used to find so attractive . ( See the scene between Nicholson and the waiter in the men's room in " The Shining " for an example of what I mean . ) Originality shows in this movie . A less thoughtful flick would have - - could EASILY have - - included the butchery of two guilty people in the nude . Or - - when Williams has a nightmare - - he COULD have screamed , shot up from his bed , and shoved his face jarringly into the camera , but he doesn't . The nightmare , by the way , has blood squirting in buckets from Williams ' eyes . There are lots of eyes in this movie . Williams at one point interrupts a lecture on eye surgery . And lots of camera lenses . The only thing that leave me puzzled a bit is the denouement , in which Williams quizzes the black detective and tells him he's a good father , and that he'd never make his children do sick things . Williams ' face twists with angry distress as he says this , and the detective comments , " I think I understand , Sy . " I'd rather NOT understand , if what we're meant to understand is that Williams ' father was a child abuser . That's too cheap a shot to fit into the rest of this superior story .
Iwao : Portrait of a Serial Murderer .	Yes , the Japanese can have serial killers too , and they can make movies about them , and this is one powerful movie . In its technique , it comes closer to " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " in its episodic and somewhat rambling narrative than to any of the dozens of other American junk being ground out about Ed Gein the Butcher or " Ted Bundy . " The serial murderer , a real one , is Iwao Inokizu , played with intensity and charm by Ken Ogata , who passed away a few months ago . There are some discontinuities in the narrative that may make this rather long story a little hard to follow , perhaps especially for Westerners . Iwao's first two murders are both pointless and bloody . Of the remaining three , only one takes place on screen and is relatively brief . And the story is told in flashbacks , with sudden shifts from place to place , and only a handful of characters to serve as anchors in time and space . Man , have the writers got Antisocial Personality Disorder down pat . They illustrate the condition as well as Iwao exemplified it . Iwao kills people - - five all together , matching Jack the Ripper - - for virtually no reason . He poses as a lawyer or a distinguished professor . He moves from city to city relentlessly and cons people out of money with his authoritative charm . The movie is mature . It's made for grown-ups , not children . And not because of any sensationalism . That would be targeting thrill-starved teens of today . But rather because of the absence of sensationalism . It's hard to describe a film about a serial killer as showing a sense of taste but this one does . When Iwao forms a bond with an elderly woman whom he considers his " prison buddy " because she's been in jail , he decides to strangle her . When she walks unwittingly into a darkened room , we see him enter behind her with a rope . And that's it . Cut . It reminds me of the scene in Val Lewton's " The Body Snatchers " when the young girl who sings carols is murdered off screen . Iwao's family were devout Catholics , so much so that when Iwao's father develops impure thoughts about Iwao's wife he asks to be excommunicated . And the family insist that before Iwao is married , his bride convert from Buddhism . This came as a bit of a surprise because in much of Japan religion , although taken seriously , isn't so readily and so intensely divided into sects and denominations . A Shinto shrine at home is in no way incompatible with a Christian wedding and a Buddhist funeral ceremony . There is a scene at the end in which Iwao's father and the daughter-in-law whom he loves , and who loves him , dispose of Iwao's bones after the hanging by flinging them from an isolated hill top . The bones seem to freeze in mid-air . I take this to be not director Imamura's endorsement of anything supernatural , just the symbolic perceptions of Iwao's family . He was so thoroughly rotten , and blood is blood , that it's not easy to get rid of him even after he's dead . The scene is probably more easily understood in Japan , where family honor and shame are considerations to be seriously reckoned with . It's a lengthy film and at times a little confusing , but it packs a real wallop .
Parental Guidance Recommended	James Joyce once advised us to " wipe your glosses with what you know . " There aren't many Giant Novelists around anymore because we don't seem to have enough of the right kind of majestic stresses that produce the urge to capture and explain them . No more Great Depressions , World Wars , that sort of thing , so no more " From Here to Eternity " or " The Grapes of Wrath " . Nowadays we wonder about whether to buy that SUV with the 20 mm . cannon on top , or to put the moves on that guy's wife we met at the community swimming pool . That's what most of us know and it's come to be a genre of its own , suburban literature , with its own emblems like John Cheever and John Updike . I suppose this movie sticks pretty closely to the novel it's based on , and it comes out just about right . It's about the kinds of people we know doing the kinds of things we know about . Or at least many of us know - - I never led a life even remotely resembling that of these characters - - but we can still find the life styles familiar . There's a distant , self-satisfied husband who we see having cybersex with an internet figure called something like Curious Kathy . Eventually , in a hilarious scene , the guy wants MORE , as always happens , buys a pair of sexy panties , imagines that they belong to Curious Kathy , and is discovered behind the closed door of his office with the panties half drawn over his head , masturbating wildly while goggling at photos of Curious Kathy on the internet . " We'll talk later , " says his wife ( Kate Winslet ) , closing the door . There's the guy ( Patrick Wilson ) who is pretty straight , staying at home and taking care of the kids and pretending he's studying for the bar exam , who has the gorgeous wife , the self-absorbed wife ( Jennifer Connelly ) , who is possessive without passion . When he takes a shower , hoping that he'll be able to have sex with her tonight , she whispers that she doesn't want to disturb the child sleeping comfortably in the middle of the bed . Then it's , " Goodnight , " and - - click , off goes the lamp . Then there's the really sick guy , Ronnie McGorvey , recently released from jail for child molestation , living at his mother's home , who is hated by everyone in West Wyndam , Massachussetts , and wakes to find his front door plastered with his mug shots and EVIL spray painted on his cement walkway . When he goes snorkeling in the community pool the other users begin to shriek and pull their children hysterically to safety until the cops come . It's as if the shark from " Jaws " had been dumped into the water . And Ronnie doesn't even seem ashamed as the police guide him out . He seems irritated . " You'll do better if you find a girl nearer your own age , " his mother advises him . " But I don't like girls nearer my own age , " he explains , reasonably enough . There isn't the space to go into these characters in any detail , or the stories either . They add up to a kind of mosaic of incidents , with Brad the someday-lawyer making it with Sarah the neglected wife , and things get rather tumultuous for a place like West Wyndam towards the end . There's a matter-of-fact narrative to help us along ( by Will Lyman , whose voice you'll recognize ) but it's not really of much help . That mellow exposition might as well be telling us about the reproductive habits of clams . In fact , I think maybe it has . The film cleanly blends intelligence , detailed observation , tragedy , and ironic humor . At the dinner table , with Kate Winslet as a guest , Jennifer Connelly intuits that her husband is doing to Kate exactly what he has been doing to Kate . The narration tells us so , and it tells us that Connelly pretends to drop a fork so that she can peek under the table and see if her husband is playing footsies with Winslet . Connelly seems to get lost under the table and we're in comic territory . I will mention one scene that especially impressed me because it was so unexpected . Mom arranges for the queer-looking pervert , Ronnie , to have a date . They're at a restaurant and she's not bad looking either , just sort of withdrawn , shy , and she's not eating . She explains that she's had two nervous breakdowns and is currently on medication . Ronnie , expressionless , listens to her and remarks , " Well , that's not so bad . " She drives him home that night , shuts off the engine , and tells him how lonely she is and that she finds him to be a nice person . It takes a minute or two for her to get this out . Then she turns her head to see his response - - and Ronnie is sitting next to her in the darkness , his face twisted , masturbating as if the end of the world were around the corner , and he snarls back at her , " You'd better not tell on me . You'd better not tell on me or I'll get you ! " She dissolves in tears . Ronnie gets out and walks away without another word . It's a powerful scene . One of the reasons it's so powerful is that the entire encounter , previous to this point , has been a set up for a heart-warming ending , of the sort found in Ron Howard's movies . Two slightly bent people finding each other at last . Assortative mating , you know ? " Marty " in suburbia . Instead , it turns out the way real life so often does - - lousy .
Hate , not money , makes the world go round .	This is a tough play to put on for a couple of reasons . First and foremost there's the issue of anti-Semitism , any discussion of which really belongs elsewhere . It's amazing how closely Shakespeare's Shylock resembles the modern stereotype - - greedy , clannish , proud , angry - - especially considering that the author probably never met a Jew in his life . But Shakespeare has given Shylock more than just one bundle of related dimensions . Shylock loses just about everything - - his daughter , his money , his dignity , and his faith . And he's kicked about like a soccer ball wherever he goes . People spit on his gabardines from time to time . Al Pacino , the Italian from New York City , does a splendid job with the character . I was really surprised . Serpico pulls off an entirely different role . I wonder how Jackie Mason might have handled it . " Oy , mine Jessica ron off vit a SHAYGETZ ! " Pacino has figured out his character with considerable precision , which is really difficult because the role is highly textured and ambiguous . Pacino gives him a slight accent which can be taken to be Middle Eastern , but it's not just the technical stuff that makes his performance so good . Shakespeare is hard to understand because some of his lexicon is dated ( " nice , " " fond " ) and the language kind of straddles Middle English and Modern English . And then there is Shakespeare's innovative , not to say wanton , way with words - - a noun becomes a verb at the snap of his fingers ( " her beauty beggars all description " ) . To help us understand the dialog better , the director and Pacino have put the pauses in the right place . If Shylock has a long perfumed speech about his reasons for demanding his pound of flesh , he will stop at the door while stomping out , turn around silently , hold up a piece of paper , and finally say emphatically and deliberately , " I have my bond . " That's the point of the whole flowery speech that precedes the statement . " I have my bond . " So it doesn't matter all that much if you've been unable to follow his reasoning exactly . Pacino sums it all up for you in one sentence . Lynn Collins is luminously gorgeous and easy to understand . I thought for a while that I was watching Kate Blanchett . Jeremy Irons is believable but , I don't know , melancholic . He's a great actor , I think , but I'd rather see him in roles incorporation more irony , so to speak , like Humbert Humbert or Klaus von Bulow . Out of curiosity I once asked an old German gentleman , a tradesman who had grown up in a small village in what was then Austria-Hungary just before the turn of the last century , if there had been any Jews in his community . Oh , yes . They were moneylenders . I girded my loins and plunged on . I wonder why they were the moneylenders ? The old guy looked at me as if I were an idiot and said , " They were the only people in the village you could TRUST . " This is quite a good movie . There is some silliness involving rings that come across as anticlimactic after Shylock's reduction . " I am content , " says Shylock before he leaves , penniless , familyless , revengeless , dignityless . I don't think he was really content . I expect he did what a lot of people in his position did at the time in Europe . He went about like everyone else and practiced his religion underground . And why not ? It was good enough for the Christians under Nero . See this if you can . It isn't likely that you'll feel you've explained all the ambiguity afterward .
" There's some questions that has answers , and others don't . "	What a movie . Australia started come out with films that received worldwide attention in the early 1980s , with " The Last Wave " , and a cascade of them has followed , from the raucous " Mad Max " to more contemplative issues . And on top of that , they've been putting out a horde of toothsome blonds , from Olivia Newton John to Nicole Kidman . GOOD ON YA , MATE ! When it comes to magnificently featured blonds , Anne-Louise Lambert , as Miranda , will serve in " Picnic at Hanging Rock . " It's true she's a bit tender , only in her mid-teens like the other girls at Mrs . Appleyard's ( Rachel Roberts ' ) expensive boarding school in rural Victoria . But the fact is that the film is full to the brim with budding but repressed sexuality - - repression of all kinds , in fact , with all that strict discipline and formality . Even one of the other students seems to have a crush on Miranda . So blame Joan Lindsay and Cliff Green , the writers , instead of my own admittedly warped interests . All is not well at the Appleyard School . The continent at the time was nothing much more than an English outlier and the school has imported its parent culture wholesale - - the strict class system , everything . It's already old fashioned . And it's feeling the financial pinch too . All Mrs . Appleyard needs is some kind of scandal , and that's what happens . The girls go on a picnic to nearby Hanging Rock , a jagged jumble of bushes and gray boulders with stucco textures sticking up out of nowhere . A handful of girls , including Miranda , decides to climb to the top . A plump whiny girl follows and when she tires she loses contact with the others . Panic - - in self-disciplined British style - - follows when the other four fail to return . A search is implemented . Bloodhounds , aboriginal trackers , but there is no trace of the girls . After a day or two , one girl is finally retrieved in an unconscious state and brought back to the school . She's out of it because of exposure and shock , but she is at least " intact " , as the doctor puts it , although there is some mystery about why her shoes and stockings are missing , and why she isn't wearing the corset that is part of the girls ' uniforms . No trace of the others is ever found . The affair effectively brings about the end of Mrs . Appleyard and her boarding school . Not much of a story , is it ? A couple of girls go missing from a school and that's that . Not a drop of blood in sight . Not a single motorcycle roar within hearing . And yet the film seems pregnant with a sense of languorous dread , of something that is not quite right , cockeyed , off kilter . We can sense it from the very beginning , with a score drawn from Beethoven and with Zamphir's Peruvian nose flute or whatever it is . When there is no music on the sound track we can hear the buzzing of flies or the soft growls of wind about the stone mansion . Why , when Miranda is leaving for the picnic , does she tell another that she's not coming back . And after all , what DID happen to those missing girls ? Applause for director Peter Weir and for others of his ilk , like Nicholas Roeg , who have the courage to put out a movie that isn't all hustle and bustle , that takes care to establish an atmosphere that is almost a character in itself , that lingers over the contrast between elegant , lacy civilization and the indifferent impudence of nature's raw rocks . Everything that happens has its exact time and its exact place , one of the characters insists repeatedly , and the world of movies but have a place for films like this that challenge and mystify rather than placate .
Sometimes I Know How He Feels	This is a fundamentally true story , well done , in a way that puts major old-fashioned movie conventions to work , and is worth spending a few hours on . Clifton Webb as Ewen Montague is the British naval officer who dreams up the idea of letting a dead body with phony IDs and phony secret messages drift ashore in Portugal to feed the Abwehr some disinformation about our intention to invade the Balkans from Africa , instead of Sicily . A sub-plot involves his beautiful young assistant and her roommate . Another sub-plot involves an anti-British Provo type brought in from Ireland to investigate the dead man and find out if he's real . Yes , it's kind of nutty , but the basic story is real enough . I don't know why they didn't hire a British actor for Ewen Montagu's part . Just because Clifton Webb was a flit from Indiana doesn't make him or his accent suitable . Still , he does a stylish job and isn't too distracting . ( The book by Ewen Montagu is rather more readable than the film is watchable . ) Did it work ? Yes , to an extent , though perhaps not as fully or as dramatically as the film suggests . As it turned out , the Brits and Americans ( under Montgomery and Patton , two love birds ) successfully landed on Sicily against mostly Italian opposition . But we rather botched the follow up . An Allied airborne force scheduled to land behind enemy lines was largely destroyed by our own naval fire . On top of that , although the Germans were forced back by the Allied assault , they pretty much drew their personnel and equipment safely across the Straits of Messina onto the Italian mainland since no one on our side thought to interfere with their withdrawal . The dead body used as a decoy was not a young Scottish man , as in the film , but an elderly disenfranchised alcoholic . I've never understood why the plot called for someone who died of pneumonia and whose lungs were therefore filled with water . Wouldn't it have been easier to simply fill his lungs with sea water mechanically ? He was supposed to have drowned , after all , and not have inflamed lung tissue seething with pathogens . The sub-plot involving the beautiful assistant and her roommate is distracting and seems imposed on the narrative . Gloria Grahame is the roommate and , alas , she is visibly older than we might like to remember her . Nor is she convincing in the part , nor is the part itself believable . She seemed to flourish in noirs and it's disappointing to see her struggling through this late role . The sub-plot involving the Irish investigator is more engaging and suspenseful . Stephen Boyd , who pokes around London trying to dig up information on the validity of " Major Martin's " identity is quite good . He's not an evil guy . He just hates the English . He's polite , resourceful , courageous , religious , and humanized . How could somebody named " O'Reilly " be otherwise when the reactions of an American east-coast audience have to be taken into account . What ? Alienate all the O'Reilly's in the United States ? Fat chance . Not even hiring Clifton Webb for the lead would make up for that clumsy decision . The scene in which he waits alone in his darkened room , a Lugar in his hand , expecting the Brits to try to arrest him at any moment is filled with tension . Overall , this is a decent film . The photography is good and the knowledge that it parallels reality heightens our involvement .
Funny , at times hilarious .	Ealing Studios turned out a series of comic gems in the late 40s and early 50s and this is a good example . Only a curmudgeon would not laugh aloud during some of the scenes . The plot , briefly , involves a clever bank clerk ( Guiness ) developing a plan with a die caster ( Holloway ) to steal several million pounds of gold bullion , recast it into tourist knicknacks in the shape of Eiffel Tower paperweights , and ship it to Paris to sell on the black market . They recruit two professional thieves to help them . It may not be Ealing's best comedy ( my vote would be for " The Lady Killers " ) but it's more than funny enough . I'll just give three scenes as examples . ( 1 ) Holloway and Guiness , two honest men , need to recruit what they call a " mob " but have no idea how to go about it . What I mean is - - how would YOU go about recruiting criminal assistants ? What they do is go to crowded places of low repute - - saloons , prize fights , the underground - - and shout at each other through the noise about the safe being broken at such-and-such an address and all that money having to be left in it . Then they hole up at the address and wait for the burglars to arrive . ( 2 ) A scene at the Eiffel Tower in which they discover that half a dozen of the gold paperweights instead of the usual leaden ones have been sold to some English schoolgirls . They watch horrified as the door closes and the elevator carrying the girls begins its descent , and they decide to rush down the tightly spiraling staircase to ground level , trying to beat the elevator . By the time they reach the street they've been spun around so many times that they can't stop laughing and are unable to stop twirling around until they fall down . ( 3 ) After the robbery , in an empty warehouse soon to be searched by the police , Guiness must be tied up , gagged , and blindfolded with tape . Then his clothes must be torn and dirtied so that it appears he put up a fight before the gold was taken . But the police arrive too soon , and the others beat it , leaving Guiness standing alone , tied up , and blindfolded , but not dirty . He stumbles about blindly , trying to blow the tape from his mouth , getting his feet caught in discarded bicycle wheels , until he falls into the Thames . Probably the weakest part of the movie is near the end , when police cars wind up chasing one another because of confusing messages . The scene could have been lifted from Laurel and Hardy . It's a little silly . ( Why didn't Guiness and Holloway park the stolen car , get out , and walk away ? ) But that's a minor consideration . What surprises me about some of these comedies is that they're able to make us laugh despite the dreary atmosphere . The streets of London look awfully dismal in this grainy black and white film . Some of them were still charred wrecks left over from the Blitz . But it doesn't dampen the comedy at all . Following the successful robbery a drunken Guiness and Holloway return to their boarding house to be chided by their landlady for being " naughty " . One pulls the other aside , chuckling conspiratorially , and the two agree to call each other " Al " and " Dutch " - - two REAL BIG gangsters for you . If you need to use up some neuropeptides this is your movie .
Tragic story of war .	William Holden is a naval aviator in 1952 , flying from a carrier against shore installations in Korea . His wife is Grace Kelly . His pals who fly the rescue helicopter are Mickey Rooney and Earl Holliman . The admiral who runs the show is Frederick March , who looks upon Holden as a son . Charles McGraw is Holden's immediate superior officer . Mitchener divided his novel into three major section : Land , Sea , and Air . The movie follows suit , though it begins with an incident at sea . Holden ditches in the icy ocean and is saved by Rooney and Holliman . But we are soon ashore in Japan , where Rooney , a hot-tempered Irishman , gets into scraps of the sort often found in military movies . Grace Kelly has a small role . She must come to terms with the fact that Holden is putting his neck on the chopping block when he goes up , never more so than during the coming attack on the bridges at Toko Ri , where chances of survival seem minimal . In fact , on this mission , his aircraft is hit and loses enough fuel that Holden must crash short of the sea . The tension is agonizing . After he plows into a field , his comrades do what they can to discourage the converging North Korean infantry , and Rooney and Holliman show up in a rescue helicopter . Their helicopter is promptly shot down and Holliman killed . Holden and Rooney find themselves alone in an irrigation ditch , surrounded by the enemy , and it is heartbreaking when their own aircraft wave their wings and leave for lack of fuel and ammunition . The ending is tragic . Yet it's a frustrating movie . Frederick March has to give one of those discredited " why are we here " rationalizations in which he offers us a domino theory . We have to stop the communists in Korea otherwise they'll take Japan , the Phillipines , and so on . " Where would you have us make our stand ? The Mississippi ? " There is also one of those speeches in which McGraw , as the commander of the final flight , has to tell his fliers that if anyone wants to back out for any reason , it's his duty to do so , rather than endanger the mission . Right . Just try it . The aerial photography is unusually good and so is the model work . Grumman Panthers were handsome aircraft . They still LOOKED like airplanes in 1952 - - they had an identifiable fuselage , wings , and a tail assembly . It's impossible to fault the scenes in which they appear . The enlisted men are used mainly for comic relief , but , at that , they're an improvement over March's admiral . He's human enough and is meant to be sympathetic , but what a bore . " It's the wrong war in the wrong place , but you fight because this is the one you're stuck with . " And he lathers personal advice on Grace Kelly and William Holden , even when it's not wanted , when it's dicey and possibly dangerous to do it - - a big know-it-all . None of this detracts from the impact of this film though , grounded in reality , not fantasy . One of our boys doesn't necessarily lick ten of theirs . When ten of theirs oppose one of ours , the one of ours dies in a most unglamorous fashion . In many ways , and despite its lack of gore , this is a better anti-war movie than most that have appeared on our screens lately . In the end we're left with nothing but admiration for these pilots , scared and reluctant warriors doing their jobs even when the outcome is liable to be lethal to them . March puts it well at the end , when he muses to himself , " Where do we get such men ? "
Colossus - - Forbin Barada Nicto !	A well-done made-for-TV SF movie . The script is as full of holes as a cheese grater but no matter . Okay , the computer science is nonsense . And it's a little hard to imagine two scientific colleagues , a man and woman , being kept prisoner by a deranged gigantic computer spending two nights together as part of a subterfuge , then falling in love and having the woman come on to the man like a cat in heat . And I don't know why the Russian computer expert has to be eliminated while the American ( actually German ) computer expert is spared . No , we're not talking " work of art " . We're not even talking " tidy plot . " This is neither . It's a thought-provoking inexpensive film that achieves more in the way of probing human values than it has any right to do . The USA builds a supercomputer linked to satellites , missiles , intelligence sources , surveillance cameras , CuisineArts , Thighmasters , and other sophisticated systems of information gathering and analysis . Then its inventor , Charles Forbin ( Eric Braden ) , puts it in charge of all of our national defenses and seals it off from any further human intervention . The thing , named Colossus , is charged with the elimination of warfare through control of our nukes . There is no way of pulling the plug . You can't disarm it or stop it . Everyone in Washington is delighted . The President proudly announces Colossus ' existence on television . " Imagine , " says Dr . Forbin during the wrap party , " no possibility of accidents . No human emotions . The perfect machine ! " You'll never guess what happens next . Colossus in the course of orienting itself discovers another similar computer in Russia , Guardian . It requests contact with Guardian . Granted . Then the two megasystem begin exchanging information based on the common language of mathematics . In a matter of hours the two go from " the multiplication tables " into " finite absolutes " - - which I was unable to find either in Wikipedia or on Google . " This is way beyond me , " Dr . Forbin exclaims , so I guess there is no shame in admitting it was a little beyond me too . The President establishes communication with the Soviet Premiere and they discuss what's going on in a friendly kinda way . They decide that since they don't know where all this is going , enough is enough , and they're going to shut down communications between Colossus and Guardian . Well , boys and girls , they have another think coming . The two Superduper Megasystems demand that communications be reestablished . When the humans refuse the order , Colossus and Guardian launch missiles at each other's countries . Contact between the two is only reestablished in time to prevent one of the missiles from landing . This is one mean machine . HAL in 2001 was a wuss by comparison . The humans scurry around trying to dismantle the demonic thing but it's no use . The computer junta is now in control and it gives a speech . Basically it says , " War is no longer possible . That was our mission and it's now achieved . You talk about losing freedom and all that nonsense but where has freedom gotten you ? From now on you'll do as we say and we'll all live peacefully . You'll get used to it . " Dr . Forbin says grimly , " Never ! " A viewer is prompted to wonder exactly why not ? What they have is a zero-tolerance policy towards nuclear warfare . Anyone who violates the taboo is toast . Isn't that what Klaatu and Gort told us worked in " The Day the Earth Stood Still " ? I guess , as far as aggression is concerned , it's a kind of benign dictatorship . The film asks us if that's so bad . We talk about freedom and democracy and Colossus / Guardian doesn't deny us permission to engage in politics . Furthermore , as a kind of ancillary package of benefits , it's in a position to help us solve certain mysteries of the universe , such as how it began . ( There is a reference to " the Eddington theory " but I haven't looked it up yet . I suspect it's fictional , though , because most of the named theories , axioms , and principles I ran across were named after people with unpronounceable names like " Czglz " or " Xinnifanyfan " . " Eddington " sounds like a sop to the English-speaking audience . ) Eric Braeden looks the part alright - - slender , elegant , and handsome - - but his idea of showing emotion is limited to a range that runs roughly from alpha to beta . Susan Clarke is okay , and she looks good too . The President is modeled after JFK . The Soviet Premiere is dumpy but affable , not a sneering bald stereotype . This one is well worth catching despite its several obvious weaknesses in the script and in the acting .
A lesson in economics and understatement	One of the things that makes this Ealing comedy so outrageously funny is the clever editing . Shots that would be considered absolutely essential to most modern comedies are deliberately left out . ( This is what was known as British understatement . ) Three instances : A comic fight is edited like this . Alec Guiness has invented a new cloth that will ruin the industry . Half a dozen businessmen invite him to their office to try to get him to sign a contract relinquishing his control of the cloth so that production can be suppressed . When he catches on to this , Guiness stands up and turns to walk to the door . Two men block his way . " Excuse me , " he says quietly , taking a step forward . The two men move between Guiness and the camera . Cut . A secretary is sitting outside at her desk . There is silence until the buzzer begins signaling her frantically . She takes up her notebook and opens the door to the inner office where a full-fledged noisy Donnybrook is in progress and the room is half wrecked . Guiness dashes out the open door . The following example would be unthinkable today . During the research phase of his invention Guiness sets up an elaborate chemical apparatus but instead of converting the experimental liquid into the new cloth , the device explodes . Again and again it explodes . The laboratory is cleared of all other work . The blasts continue . Ceilings fall down . Windows are blown out . The director of research is seated at his desk in a tiny office cluttered with debris , a bandage on his head . When the door behind him opens he jumps a foot in the air . " Sit down , " he tells his visitor , " there's another one due at any moment . " It is excruciatingly amusing - - and there is not a single shot of any explosions . This would be unimaginable now without a fireball , and maybe a building collapsing in slow motion . Last example , consisting of a series of quick , relentless cuts , put together precisely . Guiness is being pursued and is cornered in the lobby of an office building by people who want him to sign the contract . Faced with two men about to grapple with him , Guiness backs up with a determined expression . He bumps against a pedestal with an iron bust on it . The bust topples backward and bumps against the wall . There is a shot lasting about one second of the bust hitting the wall . Another brief shot of a metal shield hung above the bust being jarred loose and falling down . Quick cut to Guiness's head rising into the frame . Cut to the two men staring into the camera while horrible brass banging and thudding sounds are heard off screen . Cut to Guiness flat on his back . Nobody today would have the cojones to NOT show Guiness being crowned by that shield . I won't go on with this . It's a comedy alright but a pretty bitter one underneath all the hilarity . In solving one set of problems , Guiness has created dozens of others . He is opposed both by management and labor , neither of which is shown to much advantage . And of course the economic implications have to do with more than cloth . " What about that car that runs on water with a pinch of something or other in it ? " one of the workers asks . " Vested interests , " comments another worker , as Thorstein Veblen nods in his grave . What WOULD happen if our problems with energy were solved overnight ? If I owned shares of Exxon - - and I think I do - - I'd shudder at the thought . Where would the oil industry be if there were no more need for oil ? For that matter , where would the police force and the FBI be if crime were to suddenly disappear ? This is a thoughtful and very amusing movie , superbly directed and edited . The roster of performers is peerless . Joanne Greenwood with that husky voice . The blithering Cecil Parker . The wheezing mummified Ernest Thesiger . A first-rate job all around .
Successful propaganda .	Davis does a neat job of laying out the absurdity in the US's involvement in Vietnam . He does it mainly through the use of two techniques . ( 1 ) Successive contrast , as it's called in the psychology of perception . If you stare at a black square for a while , then switch your gaze to a gray square , it looks white , not gray . In this movie Davis juxtaposes moments from interviews and newsreel footage to demonstrate how far removed high-level speeches can be from events as they take place on the ground . General Westmoreland , who , like General Douglas MacArthur , was another one of those giants in the field of Oriental psychology , explains to us that Asians don't place the same kind of value on human life as Westerners do . ( He might have been thinking of kamikaze attacks from WWII . ) Cut to a Vietnamese funeral full of wailing mourners . A coach gives a pep talk , screaming and weeping , to a high school football team in Niles , Ohio . " Don't let them BEAT US ! " he cries . Cut to a scene of combat . ( 2 ) Selective interviewing and editing . The Vietnamese seem to speak nothing but common sense and they are seen doing nothing but defending themselves - - and very little of that . The Americans that we see and hear are mostly divided into two types : phony idiots and wised-up ex-patriot veterans . Fred Coker is an exception . He's a naval aviator who was evidently a POW . He's clean-cut , intelligent , and articulate , and he's given a lot of screen time . This is all for the good because he's about the only pro-war character we see . He's been there and he still believes . He serves as a useful bridge between the pro-war idiots and the embittered anti-war Americans . And of course the statements we hear on screen are selected for their dramatic value . One former pilot describes how he and his comrades approached their bombing missions - - for some of them it was just a job , part of the daily grind , but for some others it got to be kind of fun . And for him ? " I enjoyed it . " The amazing thing in propagandistic documentaries like this is not that the sound bites were selected . Of course they were , otherwise you'd have a dull movie of a thousand people from the middle of the road . " Dog bites man " is not news . " Man bites dog " IS news ! No , the truly astonishing thing is that some of the interviewees actually SAID these things in the first place . Selective or not , here is the evidence on film . And how is it possible to " take out of context " General Westmoreland's disquisition on the Oriental attitude towards life ? Or a vet smirking and saying he enjoyed killing Gooks ? I'm reminded of a scene in Michael Moore's first documentary , " Roger and Me . " Moore is talking to a handful of rich wives who are on some Flint , Michigan , golf course , chipping balls . His camera rolls on and on while the ladies chat about the closing of the plants and the movement of jobs to cheaper labor markets . They love the area around Flint - - great golf courses , good riding country . And the newly unemployed ? Well , says one of the wives , before a swing , now they'll have to get up and find a job . Poor people are always lazy anyway . It's a shocking statement , and we hear similarly shocking statements throughout this movie . It all leaves a viewer with a sense of awe that anyone could be so unashamedly deluded . I don't see any reason to point out the similarities between what happened in Viet Nam and what's going on as I write this . I wish our current leaders , practically none of whom served in the military let alone Viet Nam , could have seen this because it might have served as a useful reminder that war isn't REALLY very much like a high school football game . G . K . Chesterton once wrote , " My country , right or wrong , is a thing no true patriot would think of saying . It is like saying , ' My mother , drunk or sober ' " .
Deliciously lighthearted fare .	If you need some laughs , this is a movie for you . I think this is the fourth of the " Road " pictures that Hope and Crosby made together . " The Road to Rio " was good , too , but the ones that followed demonstrated a flagging of inspiration . Here , they are the crew are at their best . The plot is screwball , as usual , and not worth spelling out . What counts are the songs , the gags , and the interplay between the three principals - - Hope , Crosby , and Dorothy Lamour . Most of the Road pictures had one or two songs which wound up on the pop charts . They were usually kind of pretty and unpretentious , " easy listening " , to coin a phrase . ( Oh , bring it back , sob ! ) " Moonlight Becomes You , " " Personality , " " Welcome to My World . " And Bing did most of the singing in his smooth baritone . Nothing more than proficient and pleasant to listen to , although he belonged to , I think , a peppy vocal trio in the early 1930s whose arrangements were kind of original . The gags were usually amusing , sometimes laugh-out-loud funny . There was , inevitably the occasional clunker but everything was so good natured that they are easily forgiven . The script was by Panama and Frank , but many of the jokes were improvised on the set by the actors . Hope also brought in some gags from his platoon of writers ( he was a famous radio comedian at the time ) , giving some of them to Crosby and Lamour as well . There was a good deal of playing with the fourth wall and a lot of in jokes too . Some of these may be lost on modern viewers . Eg . , Hope is driving Crosby along on a dog sled , and he raises his arms and says , " Look Ma , no hands . " " Look Ma , no teeth , " remarks Crosby . " Please , " says Hope , " my sponsor . " His radio sponsor was Pepsodent Toothpaste . The three principal actors play off each other well . Dorothy Lamour was an unpretentious actress of modest talents who never pretended to be anything else , although she provided a very nice frame to hang a sarong on . What I like most about the relationship between Hope and Crosby is the measured equality of their stupidity and greed . Hope wasn't really subordinate to Crosby . Everything Hope said and did was within the realm of human reality . He didn't have the flapping run or squeaky voice of Jerry Lewis . He didn't get slapped around like Lou Costello . He wasn't intellectually challenged . And Crosby was much more of a participant in the goings on than a straight man would be . He's hardly less gullible than Hope , and equally cowardly . When they're about to be boiled by cannibals or hanged by vigilantes , they trade wisecracks with one another . Crosby is the promoter and Hope is the stooge , but neither is superior to the others . This really is a relaxing ride . I spent a summer doing a sociological study of Scagway . The set gives a surprisingly good suggestion of what it still looks like . It's a dramatic place overlooked by a proud glacier the color of blue glass . And the kind of Wild West atmosphere the movie evokes isn't entirely fictional . People had names like " Soapy Smith " .
Kaye's funniest ?	Well , it may or may not be Kaye's funniest movie . " Up in Arms " was pretty funny and so were some others , but this is as good as any of them . It not only features Kaye's ridiculous songs , which were later to become a staple and slightly banal part of his on screen persona , but it has special effects that were at the time dazzling . Imagine . Danny Kaye walks into a marmoreal edifice and disappears ! Wow ! Then there is the succulent Virginia Mayo as a librarian hauling her procacious figure up those sliding ladders . And Vera-Ellen as an athletic night club dancer . Never mind the choreography . Just look at what she is capable of doing with her body and her limbs . And then say that dancing is an effete endeavor ? You need the stamina , if not the bulk , of a line backer . I could never get with the opera scene . I've only been to three operas , courtesy of free tickets from the USO . I managed to say awake during " The Carmelites , " but my partner , Ron Anderson , less esuriant for Culture with a capital C , fell asleep and snored rather loudly . The upside is , his snoring kept me awake . I watched this repeatedly with my kid when he was about twelve and he always got a big kick out of it . Bu-bu-bu-BUZZY ? Recommended .
Uneasy Lies the Head .	Gregory Peck is Jimmy Ringo , a gunfighter with three vengeful brothers on his tail and a squirt in every town ready to challenge him for the title of fastest gun . He stops for a few hours in Cayenne , barely escaping a couple of potentially lethal contretemps , especially a face off with the local fast boy , Skip Homeier , and tries to arrange a meeting with his estranged wife , Helen Westcott , and their son , whom he hasn't seen for years . Peck's old friend , the Marshall , Millard Mitchell , tries to make a meeting possible but Westcott isn't interested . She's taken a new name and has begun a new life in the role of what is invariably called " a schoolteacher " in Westerns . With the three Furies riding closer and the clock ticking town , one thing after another delays Peck's departure , until finally he meets his wife and child . Then it turns out that he's hung around town just a little too long . This was one of a series of what were called " adult Westerns . " That is , they didn't involve continual shoot outs and galloping horses , and everyone wasn't clean shaven , and the good guys didn't necessarily wear the white cowboy hats . In fact , Peck's outfit here is downright drab - - and his hat is black . The producers balked at the realism . Gregory Peck , Twentieth's rising star , wears a villainous black mustache . His hair looks as if it had been cut with a bowl over his head and sometimes ( gasp ) it looks positively MUSSED UP . But it all fits the character of a drifting gunfighter whose presence awes the innocent and stimulates the high achievers . In fact , it's a pretty good movie . Much like " High Noon , " which appeared the same year , a lot depends on that clock ticking away the minutes in the saloon where Peck is holed up . Every tick ratchets up the suspense . And the story is a taut one . Little time is wasted on diversions . The pace is quick and the events drive the plot along . A professional job . That set of strengths also contributes to the film's weakness . The entire concept of " the fastest gun in the West " being as widely known as a Roman gladiator or a modern basketball player is hard to swallow . The printed prologue tells us that in the 1880s , a man's life could depend on a fraction of a second . That's the kind of notion that high school freshmen might buy but adults might wonder about . I mean , what is this , a story about the quest for the ping pong championship ? Every town has its young squirt out to make a name for himself by becoming the man who killed Jimmy Ringo . Really ? The squirt is liable to sneer at Ringo and his reputation . " He don't look so tough to me . " And , " He's only got two hands , ain't he ? " The two squirts we see in action - - Richard Jaekel and Skip Homeier - - are pretty stupid to put their lives on the line the way they do . First they talk out of the sides of their mouths , aiming insinuations deliberately at Peck , who does his best to ignore them . Then the insults become more straightforward and louder . Unless Peck can bluff them out of a draw , he is forced to let them draw first . Strictly conventional comic-book stuff . Helen Westcott is weak as Peck's wife , and it's kind of an important role too . But the other performers are seasoned and believable . Jean Parker is quite good as Molly , an old friend Peck runs into , among so many old friends . Millard Mitchell is stalwart as the reformed outlaw who has taken the job of Marshall . Or is it Sheriff - - it never makes any difference . And Karl Malden does his usual , reliable turn as the bartender and owner of Cayenne's saloon . Skip Homeier's hard charger is difficult to evaluate . He looks the part . Slightly revolting . And he sounds right . Even his callow boasts sound like a child whining for approval . But one is never certain that this isn't Skip Homeier , rather than the character he's playing . Gregory Peck is quite good in the central role . He's entirely sympathetic , and he's even allowed a few moments of light comedy that he carries off well . The strengths of the movie far outweigh its weaknesses . If it's not a masterpiece , so what ? Few Westerns are - - or can be . ( " Shane " was about as close as any is liable to come . ) At least it's not The Three Mesquiteers . Few shots are fired in the film , and only two people wind up with bullets in them . The emphasis here is on tension and character , and the effort put into the film is rewarded .
Classic of its inexpensive kind .	A couple of scientists hire a fishing boat to take them up a tributary of the Amazon to capture a living fossil . Some of them get away . That's about it for the plot , which I'm sure must be adequately described elsewhere . Just a few rambling comments seem called for . In Samoa there are tidal pools sprinkled among the jagged lava rocks of the coast , ranging in size from goldfish bowls to bathtubs . The natives have a substance similar to the one used in this movie to disable the gill man . I forget what it's called in Samoan but it's English name is something similar to rotinone . You scrape it into the water from a seed the size of a walnut . The Samoans use it to make the fish jump out of the pools . It doesn't make them groggy , as in the movie . It irritates the hell out of them and prompts them to leap out of the pool . This is both good and bad . Some of the tropical fish are colorful and shaped like boxes . I hated seeing them so irritated . But the mud skippers , an inch or two long and of an undistinguished gray , although they look exactly like fish , act more like tiny frogs . They don't need any initial prompting . They pop out of the pools and sit on rocks and look at you with their goggle eyes . I didn't mind their being irritated . " Those eyes - - those staring eyes ! " Of course I realize there are good and bad among mud skippers , as there are among humans . Fossils . The scientists discover a fossil buried in a river bank . The fossil is rubbery . That means it is no fossil at all . Fossilization is a very complicated process in which each cell of the original tissue is replaced by a mineral compound , I think mostly some compound of calcium . Any real fossil is going to be made of rock . It won't flap when you wave it . And after a couple of million years it would have been disarticulated . But they got the fingers right . Five on each hand , or flipper , or pseudopod . A host of creatures probably crawled out of the primordial sea and were complicated enough to develop endoskeletal limbs . Some may have had two fingers , others ten . They all died out except the ones that just happened to have five digits . Now everything that has a skeleton and limbs with digits have five digits - - from humans to horses to bats to whales . The gill man may have been an evolutionary dead end but his family tree didn't branch off from the trunk until after those five digits had become the received number , early on . He has a thumb too , but it's not opposable like ours but rather more like an orangutan's . He'll have a good power grip but no precision grip . He may be a terrific swimmer but he'll never fix your TV set if it requires a screwdriver . And he'll have to hold a pencil like the handle of a hammer . Julia Adams . Why does she insist on wearing these tight shorts that simply serve to emphasize her succulent rear ? No wonder the gill man is after her . Any normal male would immediately want to jump on her and pinch her . But then , as far as that goes , what did the gill man have in mind for her ? Cross-generic reproduction isn't possible . Had the same problem with King Kong . For 1954 you weren't likely to find a sexier scene that Julia Adams with her dark , Audrey-Hepburn eyebrows swimming along the surface while the gill man swims in a suggestive position beneath her . The gill man may be a primitive evolutionary dead end , but he's nobody's fool . And what is he doing all alone in the Black Lagoon ? Is he the last living specimen ? If not , where is the breeding pool ? The plot is full of such holes . For what it's worth , the heavy here is not so much the gill man as Mark ( Richard Denning ) , who wants to kill him and bring him home as a trophy and as proof that the creature exists . The same argument is advanced now - - in real life - - about Bigfoot , if it exists at all . And Bigfoot , if the tales are to be believed , is a primate . Just like us . Back to the movie . It's an original , directed by Jack Arnold , king of the monster movies , and brought out by Universal Studios . I enjoy it on those occasions when it's on . It lacks all pretension and is simple minded , yet it's engaging . There isn't a dull moment in it and very little complexity to befoul our enjoyment of this simple cartoonish tale . Well worth seeing .
Excellent film about Dutch resistance .	Says my TV guide , " In World War II Holland , a woman of the Jewish resistance falls in love with the German officer she was sent to seduce . " That makes it sound like another sappy love story . We visualize the scene in which the luscious babe holds a trembling pistol against the head of her sleeping Nazi lover , her face a mask of anguish . " Do I love him too much to kill him " ? Actually , it's much more than that , a bitter and adult story of intrigue and betrayal among the Dutch resistance during the German occupation . Paul Verhoeven directed not only this highly European film but a number of American action movies as well , and he learned his commercial lessons in Hollywood , but he hasn't imported them to his native Holland . This isn't " Robocop " or a Schwarzenegger Schlagfest by any means . Lots of nudity , yes , but mostly non-erotic - - and male as well as female . Sharon Stone may open her knees and cross her legs while half a dozen men goggle and lick their lips . Here , Clarice Van Houten bleaches her pubic hair on screen and nothing is made of it except that she is Jewish , has black hair , and is trying to make herself blond all over so as not to be found out . What horror . And it doesn't follow the usual trajectory , with a climactic shoot out at the end . Most of the good guys die before the end , except the ones who most deserve it . The German officer with whom Clarice falls in love ( Jobst Schnibbe ) is a fundamentally decent guy who , seeing the war's end , tries to prevent more bloodshed by arranging a truce with the Resistance . These kinds of stories generally call for him to die a heroic , self-sacrificing death , maybe in order to save the girl's life . But it doesn't happen . He dies alright , but only because he's caught , mistaken for a Nazi , and the Canadians who liberate the city permit a cooperative but still fascistic German to carry out the death sentence that has been imposed on Schnibbe . It's not a heroic death . Schnibbe is simply stood up against a stone wall and shot . If there's a problem with the film , it may be that Verhoeven has learned a little too much from Hollywood . The end of the war , and the liberation of Amsterdam by the British and Canadians , is followed by a lengthy story of mistaken intentions and Allied gloating that lead not just to Schnibbe's death but to the incarceration and humiliation of Clarice by a drunken Dutch rabble . I mean - - they dump a cauldron of human excrement on her , and the scene is drawn out until long after we've grasped the point . And there's a great deal of gun play . It seems to go on and on , while automatic weapons tear bodies apart . But this is no more a dumb action movie than it is a simple-minded love story . If it has its commercial elements , it at least is ambitious enough to reach for an audience of grown-ups who can understand the complexity of motives and of human nature . Every once in a while , during a pause in the narrative , I thought of Anne Frank and her family and friends , most of whom lived in Holland and died before the end of the war - - and of Audrey Hepburn too , who managed to live through it .
Runaway Symbolism ?	Bad original title there . It sounds as if Ben Johnson should be at the controls and Charles Bronson should be the expert who figures out how to save all the passengers except the nut-case villain , maybe Dennis Hopper , who expires along with all the machinery in an exploding fireball as the locomotive plummets from an open bridge into a ravine . But , nope . Kurasawa was having his problems at the time he supervised the writing of this story and it was given over to Konchalavsky to direct . There aren't very many characters in the film . Mainly John Voight , Eric Roberts , and Rebecca DeMornay ( looking fresh faced , freckled , and quite attractive ) , with John Ryan thrown in mainly to provide a real flesh-and-blood living villain , in addition to the impalpable philosophical ones that are everyone's chief concern . Existentialism is one of those now practically-dead passing French intellectual fads , become a word now loosely thrown around that can mean pretty much anything you want . But in its original post-war form it had a rather specific definition , if you could distill it from Sartre and Camus . The main point was that existence precedes essence , meaning that you weren't born for any particular purpose - - good or bad - - and that you defined yourself through voluntary actions . The second point was that social rules meant very little and could be disregarded at will , as long as you were ready to accept the consequences of breaking those rules . This whole movie illustrates exactly those points in a symbolic , yet realistic and exciting way . Voight and Roberts are introduced in a rather lengthy , suspenseful introduction set in a Northwestern prison run by Ryan . They escape by slipping naked through a long and filthy sewer pipe and are shot out through the air into a clear cold fast-running river . ( Getting the anatomical allusions here ? ) They manage to steal some clothes and board the empty , second locomotive of a train whose sole engineer drops dead and falls off . ( The engineer stands for Somebody , too , with a capital S . I hope you're getting all this . ) Another passenger is discovered . Always nice to have a young woman around . But with nobody at the controls of the unreachable lead locomotive , and with its brakes burned out , the train begins to pick up speed . The three of them wind up stuck on a train rocketing in the general direction of nowhere and , try as they may , they have no influence over its course or speed . Worst of all , it's rapidly approaching a " dead end " ( get that one ? ) . By means of ingenuity , sacrifice , and simple human doggedness the lead locomotive is uncoupled from the rest of the train . While the remaining cars slowly roll to a halt , the lone locomotive roars towards its finish . We don't see the expectable slow-motion drop and explosion for the simple reason that we don't need to . We already know the end is upon us - - I mean upon the " train . " And the final image , of Voight standing alone atop this hurtling monster of speed , weight , and power , holding his arms upward in defiance , the air filled with huge flakes of wet snow , is finish enough . You don't need a fireball after that climactic shot . I'm afraid I've made this movie out to be some sort of dumb , talky , too-long allegory - - but believe me , it's not . The simple narrative itself is riveting . I can hardly remember another movie in which the performers seemed so terribly cold and uncomfortable , wrapped in rags , caps pulled in an unsightly way around their ears , their faces flushed by the whistling wind , their fear and desperation so visible in everything they do , their failures and minor triumphs looming so pathetically large in the story . This train - - or the compartment of the locomotive , which is about all of the interior we see - - has no oysters on the half shell , nor a nice warm Franklin stove or any other source of heat . It's nothing more than cold iron , and we are all aboard , bound for the end of the line . What a gripping picture . How did Goldang Globus Hystericus ever manage to produce such a great film ?
Into the yards and loosen your stays !	What style ! What dash ! They don't come much better than this . In fact , they don't come at all anymore . It's a splendid genre picture from Warner Brothers when they were at the top of their game . No philosophy , no pretense , no artiness , just love and adventure and action . Except , come to think of it , the whole thing is an allegory . Instead of England standing against the ambitions of Spain's King Philip , it's really about Winston Churchill standing against the ambitions of Adolf Hitler . Not arty , maybe , but socially and politically responsible . That was always the chink in Warner Brothers ' otherwise impeccably commercial armor . The film cries out for color and for Olivia DeHavilland . Brenda Marshall as Flynn's love interest is beautiful in her own way but a bit stiff compared to the intelligent but palpably sensitive DeHavilland . Flynn himself had matured as an actor in the five years since his major debut in " Captain Blood . " Peter Blood relied on his boyish enthusiasm and his dazzling , ever-present grin . Geoffrey Thorpe is less one of the gang than a commander here , though compassionate and accessible . He was a better fencer too . Henry Danielle as the heavy , Lord Wolfingham , comes across as a fop . His legs are skinny and his tonal contours those of a man not quite certain of his gender identity . He couldn't fence his way out of a paper bag so the climactic dual has lots of cutaway shots , shadows on palace walls , and obvious doubles . The acting honors really go to Claude Raines as the Spanish ambassador who manages to combine an obsequious manner that oozes insincerity with a genuine concern for his niece's ( Marshall's ) well-being . He's suave . He's debonair . He's dressed in black and wears ghoulish makeup . And Flora Robeson as Queen Elizabeth I ( not the first time ) must share in those honors . She informs the part of a dignified and dispassionate queen with a feminine quality that's almost seductive , although , as she says , she'll settle for the scepter rather than for love . The film wouldn't be what it is without Eric Wolfgang Korngold's recklessly exuberant score , full of trumpet fanfares , bombast , and soaring strings . He even manages to insert a not-at-all-boring love ballad into the film that is simple , surprising , limpid and melodic . ( I think he later used it in a more formal composition . ) The score is sometimes criticized because , after all , men don't sing like an opera chorus - - " Strike for the shores of Dover , " and whatnot - - when they're climbing the ratlines . But if you look closely you don't see any of the men singing on film . The chorus is built into the score . This , along with " Robin Hood " , is arguably Korngold's best score . Maybe even his best work , even compared to his more ambitious classical pieces . Michael Curtiz directed , as he had directed Flynn in several earlier movies . They weren't getting along too well . Curtiz was a demanding taskmaster and Flynn rarely took anything seriously enough to work hard at it . His career , for him , seemed to consist mainly of having fun . As part of a gag aimed at his buddy Allan Hale , he once had the makeup department build a prosthetic penis for him that was so over-sized that - - well , the gag had better not be described in a review subject to scrutiny by tots . Anyway , enough . See the movie .
Extremely funny boy's club comedy	" Who Was That Lady ? " has no deep theme underlying the comedy , but neither do many of the best comedies . This one begins as it ends , with laughter . It's not belly laughs all the way through , but even the laughless parts consist of plot mechanisms that are per se at least amusing and serve as set-ups for later guffaws . There are moments when you'll feel as if you're about to split with laughter . A summary is in order , although it will sound silly . An assistant professor of chemistry at Columbia ( Curtis , who lives with his wife , Janet Leigh ) in a pad no assistant professor would allow himself to dream of , is caught being kissed by one of his students . Leigh enters his office at the wrong moment , turns on her heel and walks out to go home and begin packing . ( All we see of this opening scene are the legs of the three participants . ) A desperate Curtis calls his old pal Martin , a writer of TV mysteries , to help him figure out a way to keep his wife . Over drinks of lab alcohol Martin comes up with something like , " I've got it . You know why you were kissing that girl ? Because you're a secret agent in the F . B . I . and she's a Russian spy . " Curtis believes this is the dumbest story he's ever heard . But Martin pulls down the shades and locks the doors and tells him that he , Martin , is himself an F . B . I . agent , having been trained at Quantico while Curtis thought he was on duty in the Army . Martin even pulls off his sock and shows him four dots tattooed on his heel , the sure sign of a secret agent . " J . Edgar Hoover has five . " Curtis is convinced . And Martin begins tattooing his heel with a pen and an electric fan . Queried by a still puzzled Curtis , Martin tells him , " Me ? In the F . B . I . ? I couldn't even get to be an eagle scout , you jackass . " As far as the dots go , Martin doesn't know about Hoover but everybody in his fraternity at Cornell has them . I'm going to avoid going into this because it would spoil things . Suffice it to say that in order to convince Leigh that Curtis really is an F . B . I . agent , Martin goes to his prop department at CBS and has a fake F . B . I . ID card printed and requisitions a pistol . The F . B . I . gets wind of the fake card . So does the C . I . A . So do the Russians . In the end , a drugged Curtis and Martin wake up in the basement of the Empire State Building , believing they've been kidnapped and are aboard a Russian submarine . I swear I'm not making this up . They decide to sacrifice their lives and sink the submarine , which they attempt to do by hugging each other , then turning every valve and faucet in sight , pulling levers , releasing cascades of water , until they short out the electrical circuit of the Empire State Building . I'm going to leave it there , I think . It hasn't appeared much on TV lately , and that's the only reason I can think of why there aren't any previous comments on this hilarious comedy . Really , folks , it doesn't deserve to pass unseen . Everyone in it is at his / her comedic best . Even James Whitmore manages to evoke a sympathetic smile or two . And Barbara Nichols in a small but important role has never been funnier . In a Chinese nightclub , Martin and Curtis promise her a job on TV , a proposition which they argue should be discussed over the course of a weekend at the shore . Nichols excuses herself and phones her agent : " They're talking ' about a job , " she tells him , " but now they're throwin ' in Atlantic City . " She and Joi Lansing are the prey in this scene . " Get a load of the way these gals are assembled , " Martin mutters to Curtis . And adds : " They sing and dance - - like rabbits . " It's not sophisticated but when you come right down to it comedy doesn't really need elegance to be funny . Was Feydeau sophisticated ? Was Aristophanes ? Was Daffy Duck ?
Fine Film	Spoilers . There are so many things that seem ( to a viewer , anyway , if not an ex-inmate ) exactly right . I won't go over the story , since that's been adequately limned . But let me mention the makeup and wardrobe . What unspeakable sleaze . Hoffman's mustache looks like it belong on some grubneck posing for a mug shot . And Gary Busey's long hair is combed straight back in a most unkempt way . And - - this is splendid - - his KID'S hair is cut and groomed exactly the same way ! The wardrobe reeks of those kinds of stores one finds in the tenderloin sections of LA , where the cheap colorful shirt , made in Thailand or Ceylon or someplace , hang from a wheeled bar out on the sidewalk , and the shop window has a sign taped on it in red letters - - SALE 99 CENTS . The locations were equally well chosen . Hoffman finds a room in a kind of single-room-occupany place that passes for a dump in LA . ( It would be a mansion in New York . ) The room is neat and sparsely furnished and the sheets are clean , but you can practically smell the stale odor of peeling paint and aging varnish , and everyone who lives there is a loser . One imagines a lot of bottles of cheap vodka stashed in a lot of bureau drawers in this place , and the bathroom is always down the hall . The performances are uniformly first rate , with the possible exception of Theresa Russel , who is a hottie , no doubt about it , but doesn't bring much in the way of expressiveness to her role . Hoffman is superb as a slightly dumb , impulsive , but street smart thief . Gary Busey couldn't be better as his well-meaning but unreliable friend . And Harry Dean Stanton is equally good , as usual , as the poor guy whose soul cries out to be illegal while he soldiers on in his bland Southern California upper-prole simulacrum of a home , eating the most unappetizing grilled hamburgers you can dream up , and wistfully playing his guitar and signing , " Hand me down . . . my walkin ' cane . " Oh , how desperately he needs that cane . " I gotta get outta here , " he moans . I've always kind of like Emmet Walsh's performances , whether he's a heavy or not . He comes through quite well here as a P . O . whose surface friendliness conceals , not the mean streak we might expect , but a " just business " attitude towards his clients . The writers must have disliked his character because they have him humiliated by winding up handcuffed bareassed to a freeway fence , a fate he didn't deserve . What do you expect from a parole officer , Father Flannagan ? Iconography and performances aside , the movie has interesting points and an interesting theme . There are basically two family scenes : first , when Hoffman visits Busy , and second when Hoffman visits Stanton . Both exude a sense of ordinary everyday life - - routine and boring . Busey's family is the more interesting . He apologizes to his little boy for something he said or did earlier . We don't find out what he's apologizing for ; we're left to think it over . Nice touch . A more barbaric writer and director would have spelled it out . " Remember last night when I whupped you and called you a wuss ? Well , I didn't really mean it . " Of course that's not the way life works . Hoffman , like the rest of us , enters a family in medias res , walks into an ongoing domestic play somewhere maybe in the middle of Act Two , Scene Three , without knowing what's preceded the current goings on . Kathy Bates , her weight more closely approximating the ideal that our narcissistic culture now demands , has a sensitive and nicely executed exchange with Hoffman while her husband is out of the room , telling Hoffman it would be better if he didn't come around anymore , and showing genuine regret while saying so . But the more dramatic moments are well done too . Hoffman trying to hold up a Korean grocer with an old faulty revolver that is falling apart while he holds the owners at bay . ( The thing looks more like a cap pistol than a real gun , about as threatening as an angora pussycat . ) Hoffman smashing and smashing and continuing to smash glass cases in a jewelry store while Stanton throws up his hands in disgust and shouts about how unprofessional Hoffman is . The backyard chase after the robbery and Hoffman shooting blindly through a wooden fence . I can't think offhand of any other movie that has made me feel quite so thoroughly sucked into a life of thievery and murder , that has made the progression from ex-con trying to hold a straight job , to fugitive murderer , seem so inexorable . And yet we never feel exactly sympathetic towards Hoffman's character , except at the very end when , before the end credits , we see a succession of mug shots of Hoffman , a half dozen or so dissolving into one another , each face looking younger and more innocent than the last , but each equally without hope . I think one of the reasons we don't feel sorry for Hoffman is that the whole botched affair is really his own fault . Asked earnestly not to visit Busey again , he nevertheless not only contact him but draws him into the final robbery , without informing his partner Stanton . And , after all , if Hoffman had adhered to the original plan of the robbery , he and Stanton would in all likelihood have gotten away with it , even in the face of Busey's failure . Hoffman sees none of this . He blames Busey for everything , including the Stanton's death , and murders him coldly . And for all his street smarts , he's not very clever in dealing with secondary institutions like the Bureau of Parole . On the freeway , Walsh is trying to wheedle some information out of him , and Hoffman suddenly turns with a feral rage and begins punching Walsh in the head and forcing the car off the freeway . That's no way to treat people . This is a good crime story . It isn't a simple caper flick . There is a good deal of character built into the people we see here . Grosbard hasn't directed in a flashy , gory style , either . There is virtually no blood . No trick shots . No car chases . No stunts . No exploding fireballs . And no automatic weapons . There is only Hoffman , emerging from the prison shower after being booked for violation of his parole , one pink naked body in a line of unpleasant pink naked bodies , waiting to be deloused with a powder spray , everybody's privates now made public . That one scene of the prison shower tells us volumes more about the world Hoffman calls home than any number of squib charges could .
Epic hagiography	It's a splendidly done movie . Scott's performance is powerful . He does everything but reach out , grab you by the shirt , and shout in your face . Karl Malden is likable and full of common sense , but he is the only person in the movie whom we can grasp as a character - - except for Scott himself . Scott is as good at his job as Patton was , and in fact the quality of his performance is less volatile than Patton's own , with virtually no weak spots . That's part of the problem . Patton himself . I suppose that like most people he had a " good " side - - loving family , played with his dog , collected stamps and whatnot . But as good and aggressive a general as he was , he wasn't a particularly likable guy . It's easy to demand that everyone in your command have shoes as shiny as yours - - especially when you've got some black PFC doing your shining for you . The movie is noticeably slanted . Patton's weakness , like Coriolanus's , is ambition . Sometimes it's played for laughs . He carried the stars of a Lieutenant General around with him until word of his promotion comes down , then immediately has them pinned on . But only three times is his meanness illustrated without tongue in cheek . ( 1 ) During a conversation with Bradley he reveals that he's disobeyed orders by sending his army on a mission to beat Montgomery in taking Sicily . He calls the attack " a reconnaissance in force " . He receives an order to get his troops back where they belong and tells his aide to send the message back because it's garbled . " A simple old soldier , " Bradly comments disapprovingly . ( 2 ) He orders General Truscott to stage some amphibious landings which will help him take Messina before Montgomery . Truscott complains that they're not prepared to do that without heavy casualties . Patton lies down and threatens to fire Truscott and get someone else to do the job . ( 3 ) While visiting a hospital and presenting the wounded with decorations he comes across a soldier whose nerves are shot and who is weeping , and Patton slaps him twice and sends him back to the front . His mean streak went beyond those incidents . He used to practice his arrogant , threatening scowl in front of the mirror . Whether or not it improved the GI's morale to wear neckties in combat is , at best , arguable . ( What would Patton make of the Israeli army ? ) But the simple historical fact is that the movie pitches even these " mean " incidents at the audience like softballs . He didn't just slap a soldier who was feeling sorry for himself , which is the picture the film presents . He slapped two soldiers on separate occasions , one suffering from combat fatigue ( which is no joke ) and the other from malaria and other illnesses . That cost Patton a bit in the way of professional esteem but it didn't cost any lives . And it didn't cause him any remorse . Even in his " apology , " he claims he was trying to " shame a coward . " What DID cost lives was Patton's cobbling together a small task force to liberate a POW camp in Germany shortly before the war's end , when such a dangerous move was no longer necessary . It was recognized by its leaders for the lost cause it was , a plunge deep into enemy territory without any backup . There were 53 vehicles and 294 men . All the vehicles were destroyed or captured . Twenty-five of the men were killed , 32 wounded , and almost all the rest captured . The purpose of the mission , it was tacitly agreed , was the rescue of Patton's son-in-law , who was a prisoner in the camp . When the camp was finally liberated at the end of the war , Patton sent in a Piper cub to whisk his son-in-law to a hospital , leaving the other POWs , including the wounded , behind . Decorations didn't include any Medals of Honor because they require an official explanation of the mission . " Task Force Baum " isn't brought up in the film . Everyone paid for Patton's ambition and vanity , even those not under his command . The gasoline and other supplies he diverted to his own forces during the run through France helped him alright , but they were also needed elsewhere . I don't know why it's been said that George C . Scott himself didn't like Patton . Scott complained that Patton was being treated too harshly in the film and he tried to undermine the message in small ways - - lying down while ordering Truscott to conduct amphibious operations . Patton would never have done that , Scott claimed . The movie's subtitle is " Salute to a Rebel . " Very stylish for 1970 audiences , but the material is presented in such a way as to leave us with a lingering admiration for Patton's genius and bullheadedness . What kind of " rebel " was he ? He was more of an authoritarian Arschloch than anybody else in his greater vicinity . I gave the movie high marks because it's as well done as it is - - disregarding its relationship to Patton himself . I didn't mind so much that the wrong tanks were used ( although it was annoying ) and that the production could only find two Heinkel 111s in flying condition . The location shooting is great , the cinematography crisp and unimpeachable , the score one of Goldsmith's best , and Scott's performance deserved whatever awards it got .
Part of our common cultural iconography .	A couple of things always occur to me during the opening scenes . One is that Renfield is a moron for ignoring the villagers ' pleas for him to stay off the Borgo Pass on Walpurgisnacht . " Dah CASTLE ? Castle DRAH-coo-la ? ? ? ? " Why take chances ? Especially when Renfield notices that his carriage has no driver and the horses are being led by a bat . Isn't THAT reason enough to bail out ? Then there's the castle itself . I frankly admire the decor and maintenance of the interior . It's got genuine atmosphere , not the fake atmosphere of , say , the Taj Mahal Motel in Los Angeles or the Kansas City Tiki . But the surroundings and the host are spooky enough that when Count Dracula says , " I am Dracula . I bid you velcome . " And , " Da spider - - spinnink his vamp faw da unvary fly . Da blood is da LIFE , Meester Renfield , " that would do the job for most people . But then Renfield is a little peculiar to begin with , if you ask me . An effete wimpy character , shorter than anyone else in the film , ladies included . And offered that drugged wine by Dracula . I feel the same protective way towards him as I do towards Janet Leigh when she's stepping naked into the shower in " Psycho . " No matter how many times I've seen it I always want to shout out a warning . Janet Leigh was a canny and determined woman , whereas Renfield seems to earn a kind of Darwinian extinction for his wanton trust . What a weird flick . It moves with lethal slowness . I don't mean the pace is slack or that anything lasts too long . I mean that the dialog and the action within scenes seem to take place at almost glacial tempo . The only abrupt motions are when Dracula jerks away from wolf bane or a crucifix or slaps a mirror out of Van Helsing's hands . Now if this were a comedy , or anything other than a horror film , that deliberate pace would be the kiss of death . But it suits " Dracula . " Things , even the most awful , strike us as taking place in slow motion the way they sometimes do in a dream - - not just a nightmare but an oneiristic catastrophe . I don't think anyone could have handled the part of Dracula as well as Lugosi . There is his cadaverous makeup , for one thing , and his manner - - always polite , always smiling , reeking of moral corruption . And his speech ! God , it's exquisite ! The rhythm , the pauses , the inflections that inform his lines . In a battle of wills , he points his curled and claw-like fingers towards Van Helsing and says , " Come here . " When Van Helsing hesitates Lugosi extends his arm , lowers his voice , and commands him , " Come . . . HER . " ( " Her " , not " here . " ) I don't know whether these stylistic touches were witting or not on Lugosi's part because , as I understand it , he learned to speak English phonetically for his first performances . At any rate he gives his lines the most curious contours heard on any screen . The whole movie is really an exercise in style because the plot doesn't make any sense . Example . Is Renfield turned into a vampire or no ? If not , why does he thirst only for blood , even if it's the blood of flies ? If so , why does he run around in the daytime and how does Dracula kill him ? Well , as long as we're asking questions , what are armadillos and possums doing in the basement of Dracula's castle in Transylvania ? And what did Dracula and his wives eat between visits from English real estate brokers ? I wondered the same thing about mosquitoes once when I was in muskeg country in the Yukon , a hundred miles or more from the nearest large warm blooded animal , and found the place was swarming with them . I must add too that I didn't care much for the way Count Dracula managed his menage in Transylvania . There were at least three wives , which is not a bad idea in itself , but he treated them pretty shabbily , shooing them away from Renfield's unconscious body so he could get first dibs . Did he leave them behind ? At least one of them because as he says to Renfield , " I am only taking vit me three , uh - - boxes . " I just watched the DVD with the score by Philip Glass , all strings , and all his usual repetitiveness . Glass may over-score the film a little but it's better than the original , and it's in 5 . 1 . If you haven't seen this yet , you must . And don't get into a battle of wills with me . It's for your own good . " Dracula " has become part of our vernacular culture and if you don't know it , you'll miss some great stuff that will crop up in various contexts from time to time . " I never drink - - vine . " Any person who claims to be cultivated knows where that line comes from .
Among Ford and Wayne's Best .	Of course it's corny and it reflects the values of World War II , in which John Ford , the director , had played a considerable part , but that's more than made up for by the capture on celluloid of a living , vibrant community . Wayne's performance is among his best . Maybe better than anything else he's done . He sighs and wheezes like an old man on the brink of retirement . He's embarrassed in front of the troop when he has to sneak his glasses out of his blouse in order to read the " sentiment " on his brand-new silver watch and chain . " To Captain Brittles . From C Troop . Lest We Forget . " Sniff . Wayne had given strong performances before but they were always in the same range - - the steadfast guy who would never change his principles . In this character role of Nathan Brittles , about to retire from the Cavalry in 1878 , he does some stunning acting . ( John Ford , who abused him like a stepchild , got extraordinary things out of Wayne . ) I mean , think of it ! In the early 1960s , Wayne was reluctant to admit he'd been operated on for lung cancer because it might be considered a sign of weakness by his fans . Here , Ford has him hobbling along , his footsteps those of an old and tired man . Wayne never matched the scenes in which he accepted the brand-new silver watch and chain from C Troop , or the one in which he chewed out Lieutenants Cohill and Pinell for " allowing yourselves to be CHIVVIED into a bout at FISTICUFFS while taps still sounds over a brave man's grave . " ( He interrupts himself to spit out some chawing tobacco . ) The plot isn't really important . In the wake of Custer's defeat at the Little Big Horn , the Indians of various tribes get together with the intention of starting a really big war , and Wayne breaks it up . The Cheyenne are the instigators but I don't know why . There were only seven Cheyenne at the Battle of the Little Big Horn and , as an anthropologist , I came to know one or two of their descendants , who remained proud and a little embittered . The sentiment shouldn't be unfamiliar to anyone who feels nostalgic for a lost cause , from the Civil War to Vietnam . That has nothing to do with the movie though . Aside from the brand-new silver watch and chain scene , be sure to catch the bar room brawl with Victor McLaglin . It's done for comic effect , with McLaglin taking a break during the fist fight to reminisce with the bartender , " Ahh , Connie , the old days are gone forever . " I don't know that the community we see in this movie - - with its ritual dances , it's conversations between the living and the dead , its military protocol - - could have been so effectively conveyed if Ford hadn't actually believed in it . Yet any solidary community has its dark side . Those who do not conform are shunned . ( Ask the Old Order Amish . ) The next movie Ford made , " Rio Grande , " Sergeant Tyree , Ben Johnson , a favorite of Ford's , made some innocuous comment to someone else at the dinner table and Ford demanded to know what he'd said - - " I'm talking to you , Stupid . " Johnson , like most normal people , stood up and told Ford what he could do , then walked out . The next day Ford apologized but Johnson didn't work for Ford for another fifteen years or so . Every solidary community must have must have unquestioned leadership . None of those contretemps affect the movie , which is one of the best Westerns ever made . My God , those vistas . Monument Valley in excelsis .
Arkansas Traveler	Budd Schulberg wrote this and the story it was based on . He doesn't get the kind of credit he deserves . He did some hard research for " On the Waterfront " in order to dig up lines like , " You take away dem pistoleros you got in there and you're nothing ' . You hear me ? You're NUTHIN ' . " Compared to " On the Waterfront , " though , this politically tinged drama is overwritten and its dialog lacks the same ineluctable force . It's still pretty good , no mistake about that , but it seems to depict a time when we were an awful lot more naive about TV and politics than we are now . Or does it ? The first major political advertisement back in the early 50s was so monumentally harmless . A cute , smiling , little cartoon figure , on the order of Elmer Fudd , marches across the screen holding a sign which a lilting chorus reads out for the audience , in case they can't read . " I like Ike . I like Ike . Everybody likes Ike . " Those were the good old days . This story involves Andy Griffith who begins as an absolutely guileless ex-jailbird whose only talent is his appeal to the common man by playing it as the dumb flaneur he actually is . Recruited for a TV commercial by a reporter , Patricia Neal , he makes fun of the product and the audience loves it . By leaps and bounds he climbs the ladder to TV stardom as a seller of products like Vitajex and the bald Senator " Curly " Fuller . And then Schulberg the writer has him go apparently maniacal overnight . Shouting , bullying , pompous , and ultimately destroyed by Pat Neal , the woman he's used and abused from the beginning . One of the reasons the film is so important is that it tagged the period when politics was switching from innocent cartoons to the kind of suppurating , mindless smears we're witnessing today . A character points out that " nobody wants to listen to long-winded debates anymore . They want slogans ( now called " sound bites " ) like The Family That Prays Together Stays Together , More Bang for the Buck , The Mess in Washington , Mission Accomplished . " Oops . Maybe a misquote in there , but it's deliberate because it illustrates the point . The talking points and sound bites are still hard at work and we're still swallowing without chewing , not that much more sophisticated than we were in 1957 . Want a slogan from the other side ? " Bush Lied , Thousands Died . " There - - we're always fair in this courtroom . If the film seems a little dated today it's only because the future it shows us has now arrived . And worse . Andy Griffith is a nice guy . He was my supporting player in an episode of " Matlock . " Good sense of humor , as unpretentious as his screen persona , but no dummy , a show-biz pro . He didn't make that many films but this one is quite good and " No Time for Sergeants " was a generally successful comedy . He's way over the top in some scenes but is able to modulate his performance to accommodate moments in which his character is more thoughtful . This was his film debut , also Anthony Franciosa ( edgy as always , a bottle of ambitious champagne about to pop its cork ) , and Lee Remick who was 22 when this was shot but looks a convincing 17 years old . Man , can she swing a baton . Patricia Neal turns in her usual quietly effective performance . She was never a glamor puss and she's perfect for the part of the loyal friend and sometime-lover of the hero , Lonesome Rhodes . It's believable that he should throw her over for Lee Remick's airhead because Rhodes himself sees nothing in anyone except the extent of their value to him , kind of like the way humans look at the Earth . What a splendid place the Grand Canyon is . Let's build a row of motels and Burger Queens along the rims ! It isn't that Neal's steadfastness and genuine love for him doesn't mean anything to Rhodes . It's just that he doesn't see it . Walter Matthau is a college graduate whom Rhodes sneers at as an elitist , calling him " Vanderbilt ' 44 " and " Frontal Lobe . " Okay , the movie's overwrought at times but it really ought to be seen for its aesthetic as well as its didactic value .
" You can always count on a murderer for a fancy prose style . "	There's more than a touch of Oscar Wilde in this film . There is irony and elegant decadence , both in the visuals and in the script . The narrator , Louis Mazzini ( Price ) , has murdered several people who stand between him and the title to which he feels entitled . Invited to go on a hunt with one of his victims-to-be he agrees to stroll along but refuses to carry a shotgun because he is opposed to blood sports . The protagonist is supercilious , snotty , and a complete egotist who is happy that one of his benefactors dies a natural death since it makes it unnecessary to kill him . It's so uncomfortable to murder someone with whom one has not had disagreements . What also strikes me is the resemblance to Vladimir Nabokov's " Lolita " , both in its structure and execution . Of course the movie lacks all of Nabokov's poetry ( " Light of my life . Fire of my loins " ) but so does everything else ever written . Yet there are some isomorphic qualities in " Kind Hearts and Coronets , " aside from the elegant irony and the snobbishness of the narrator . Humbert Humbert is guilty not just of killing Quilty but of ruining the youth of an adolescent girl and he comments on his own perversity with the kind of distant amusement that Price's narrator does . Price's own debaucheries amuses him . At a wedding , he congratulates the groom whose virginal bride he seduced the evening before : " You're a lucky man . Take my word for it . " And , like Humbert , he feels nothing but contempt for people with " suburban ways " . He's fastidious in his wardrobe and grooming . And if Humbert's love for Lolita was real , it was rarely expressed without being undercut by irony . ( " I was a pentapod monster . " ) Similarly , Price has one real engine driving him - - a genuine desire to revenge the humiliation and death of his beloved mother - - although it's only brought up seriously once or twice . Both Price , as Mazzini , and Humbert Humbert are always showing off and quoting poetry . ( Price's final quote , " How happy could I be with either , Were t ' other dear charmer away ! " is from Gay's " The Beggar's Opera . " ) The movie is extremely funny . The acting is superb all around , with Guiness being the splashiest performer in his five roles . But Price could not be improved upon . The way he manhandles his drunken rival Lionel , throwing him to the floor , then brushing his hands as if they'd been dirtied . And his improvised sample of the Matabele language ( " colloquial rendering of course " ) . The director has all of this down just pat . It's a very British movie . The understatement is almost overstated . Only two of the murdered people die on screen - - one peacefully . I cannot see an American remake of this without a lot of on screen blood and violence which , in my humble opinion , would drain the story of much of its humor . I will give just one example of what I mean , out of many possible . One of the men standing between Price and his title of Duke of Chalfont is played by Guiness as an amateur photography enthusiast who keeps a stash of sherry and whiskey in his windowless woodshed , in which he develops his prints . Guiness also hides some whiskey there , his wife being a " prig " . Price substitutes an explosive for the kerosene in the lamp of the darkroom . Later , Price , Guiness , and Guiness's wife ( Hobson ) are having tea and Guiness decides to rush off to the woodshed to " develop " some film , leaving Price and Hobson carrying on a civilized conversation . About one hundred yards behind the couple is a stone wall behind which is the shed . Some time passes while Price and Hobson trade decorous Victorian observations on photography and so forth . During this exchange we hear a slight " thud " . A few moments later a wisp of white smoke appears from behind the stone wall , roughly in the vicinity of the woodshed . The smoke increases and becomes a billow , at which point Price comments that " someone must be burning leaves in the garden . " Try as I might , I can't imagine a modern remake of this particular scene without a long suspenseful and explicit demonstration of Guiness going into the shed , striking a match , lighting the lamp , and having it explode in his face . There would follow an exterior shot of the shed being blown apart by a fireball , the stones flying through the air , the shrieks of Hobson and Price at their tea . It would simply be a different movie and not nearly as good . Man , this is funny . See it quick before they remake it and ruin it , as they did recently with Ealing's " The Ladykillers . "
Definitely not " The Ten Commandments " !	A lot of people don't like Shakespeare much . Maybe they're intimidated by the language or the complicated plots . It's understandable . The Bard came up with some real clunkers : " Comedy of Errors , " " Love's Labour Lost . " And it's hard to read the plays in the raw because you're liable to understand one word out of every three , and lose most of the topical references . If anybody's going to read the things , they ought to use the Signet paperbacks that have footnotes on every page explaining the more arcane content . But good performances of the better plays are different , and this is a good performance of a better play . The dialog itself is sometimes lifted wholesale from Plutarch's " Lives . . . " but WS put them together well . Caesar is full of lines that have entered our everyday vocabularies , even if often corrupted . " Beware the Ides of March . " " The fault , dear Brutus , lies not in the stars but in ourselves . " " The coward dies a thousand deaths , the valiant die but once . " " Et tu , Brute ? " " The most unkindest cut of all . " " It was all Greek to me . " And ( fanfare here , please ) , the famous , " Friends , Romans , countrymen - - lend me your ears . " Reminds me of the story of the woman who left a performance of " Hamlet " unimpressed , saying , " I don't know what's supposed to be so good about it . It's all made up of old quotations . " At that , this version of " Julius Caesar " is chopped down a bit to make it shorter and eliminate some redundancies and other infelicities . In the play , Brutus hears the clocks chime , whereas all the Romans had for clocks were water wheels . And Brutus is twice told of his wife Portia's death , and each time reacts with surprise and Stoicism . ( He really WAS a stoic , which is a nice philosophy if you can actually believe it . ) The performances are uniformly delightful for one reason or another . John Guilgud , of course , is superb , born for the part of Cassius . In fact all the UK actors come across as fitting the roles very comfortably . Something about those impressive Brit accents . Even Greer Garson , who hams it up shamelessly as Calpurnia . What makes this film such a fascinating experience is that the cast list is filled with people from the MGM stable whom we would never associate with Shakespeare . Okay , George MacReady is there , but he always sounded vaguely British anyway . But Edmund O'Brien as Casca ? And doing a good job too ? Tom Powers as one of the assassins ? ( He's the old grouch who got murdered in " Double Indemnity . " ) And the Senator who talks Caesar into going forth and then stabs him ? He played in a Twilight Zone episode , " Will the Real Martian Please Stand Up ? " He was the Martian with THREE ARMS . Yet he's good too . And the guy who acts as Mark Antony's messenger to the assassins ? He's the stupid hillbilly from Tennessee who helps snare Robert Ryan in " Crossfire . " Even Ned Glass is in here as a cobbler . And Michael Pate and Michael Ansara who played gangsters or Indians . Brando is in a league of his own . His Brit accent comes and goes but he's never less than wily and impressive , as opposed to James Mason's rational and honorable Brutus . The key to the plot lies in Mason's and Brando's speeches to the crowd after the murder . Mason is apologetic , logical . Brando , on the other hand , is a really phony and manipulative SOB . What a rabble rouser . He fakes tears , appeals to the mob's greed instead of their brains , and every time he refers to Brutus as " an honorable man " his voice grows more sarcastic and angry . What an admirable piece of work . It's well mounted too , on stylized sets , not pretending to much realism . If they did it today it would cost four hundred billion dollars . This is probably one of the two or three easiest and best-paced versions of a Shakespeare play I've ever seen , and the one I enjoy the most . Yeah , it's a curiosity ( Douglas Dumbrille , the black-hatted Western villain , in Julius Caesar ? ) but it's gripping and it's a grown-up story in the sense that nobody is truly evil or entirely good . This isn't on TV very often , but if you have a chance , do catch it . Highly recommended .
One of the best .	Like an earlier commentor , I saw it in 1980 and have never been able to shake the memory of the gripping story , splendid acting , and dramatic musical score . It certainly contains some of Sam Waterston's finest work . He and the writers depict Oppenheimer not simply as an unjustly victimized hero - - which he was - - but also as naive , fond of alcohol , and snobbish , a rounded portrait instead of a stereotype .
Fine cast in unimpeachable film .	Noel Coward is usually associated with bright bubbly comedies and musicals but here , as director and star in a flag-waving British war movie , he plays it straight , so to speak , muting the plummier aspects of his elocution . But , his splendid and reserved performance notwithstanding , this isn't really his picture alone . Coward turned most of the directing over to his editor David Lean , giving Lean's career a good punt . And this is an ensemble film from beginning to end . The cast , both male and female , is filled with familiar faces for 1942 , or faces that would later become familiar . Sir Dickie Attenborough is a barely recognizable youth . Even Juliet Mills is in it , as a neonate . It's nicely written too , carefully weaving together the stories of multiple characters , built around the birth and death of a British destroyer , HMS Torrin , during the early years of the war . There's action enough to keep a viewer interested , though the Battle of Britain and Dunkirk are mostly off screen . And the ladies on the home front knit in a nervous frenzy while bombs fall about and kill some of them . A nice understated scene in which John Mills tells a shipmate , Bernard Miles , that the latter's wife and mother were killed in the Blitz . Miles thanks Mills , excuses himself , and goes on deck to look at the sky . He doesn't weep . Nobody weeps . It's called keeping a stiff upper lip . The fact is that men inducted into the service must learn how to act like soldiers and sailors . And in wartime civilians too must learn how to act as proper civilians . Servicemen see training films on such interesting subjects as how to disassemble an assault rifle and how to avoid VD , or , pardon , sexually transmitted diseases . And in its own way , " In Which We Serve " is a training film too . Civilians needed films like this one to learn their roles thoroughly too . Basically the lesson taught by " In Which We Serve " is that one of the best ways to cope with rationing was to make wisecracks about it , that the two greatest and most important pleasures were supporting the war effort and enjoying visits home when they were available , and when things got too serious you tried to keep your distress to yourself . Everybody knew what you were feeling because , after all , loss was common currency and was ignorant of differences in social class . Fine job , even the inexpensive special effects .
Among the Best .	This may be the best war movie - - if that's what it is - - that was ever put together . I don't think it would be made today . It was expensive and there were no women in it to speak of , and any committee member with an MBA reading the script would wonder why there wasn't more action . Further , the movie hasn't got any magnificent computerized graphics going for it . And we hardly see any blood . And nobody's head gets blown apart . And there's not a foul word in it . David Lean has pulled off a neat stunt , making a superb film with a good script , great performances , effective location shooting , a subtext that provokes thought , a marvelously believable set of characterizations - - and no gimmicks . It begins traditionally enough , with red mud and brilliant green foliage , and an authentic prisoner of war camp into which Nicholson's captured battalion marches proudly . The first real hint we get of the film's originality is when the men are marching in place to Colonel Bogey's march and we get one or two shots of feet stomping up and down on the wet gravel . One pair of feet wears only half shoes . The toes are pointing out of the right shoe . On the left shoe , the upper has separated from the sole , and it flaps up and down as the foot inside it drives into the earth . Not only is the shot THERE but it's lingered over , just long enough . William Holden is running through the bushes , trying to escape from the camp , disturbing flocks of bird that chirp madly at him . One of his Japanese pursuers shoots him and he tumbles into a turbulent river . In any Hollywood movie , the drop would be done by a stunt man in the usual manner - - head over heels , arms flailing , off the cliff . Not here . Holden falls feet first , hands and palms held out at his sides , as if expecting to land on a trampoline . He simply doesn't FALL like a professional . The film is loaded with grace notes like this . It's difficult to imagine a director willing to take the time to fine tune his film like this today because both the people making films and the viewers themselves are impatient to get on with the story and reach the next scene that has sex , blood , or comedy in it . I wonder if it's coincidental that people now categorize themselves as fans of one or another basketball team instead of a baseball team . Watching a baseball game calls for patience while the batter digs his cleated shoes into the dirt around the plate . Basketball is all momentum and no patience is required . I won't go on about the movie except to say that it's masterly in almost every respect . But I guess I will mention one more thing of the sort that impressed me , dealing with characterization . Throughout the movie , we've been told and shown that Nicholson cares for nothing so much as the bridge itself . He began by thinking of it as a way to keep up the men's morale and a reason for keeping discipline , but it has come to have functional autonomy , eclipsing everything else in importance . Note the way Guiness's eyes light up in the day-for-night scene when he's told that similar bridges built of English elms have lasted for three hundred years . " Three hundred years ! " , he marvels . Likewise , the supporting character of Joyce , on the commandos , is shown as being uncertain of whether he could use his knife in hand to hand combat or not . When an armed Japanese soldier appears at arm's length , Joyce freezes and Jack Hawkins dashes in to kill the man . These two traits - - Nicholson's obsession with the bridge and Joyce's inability to use a knife - - are set up so that the final ( and only ) confrontation between Nicholson and Joyce can take place the way it does . Nicholson screams , " Blow up the BRIDGE ? " , grabs Joyce's legs and pulls him down to the sand , preventing Joyce from reaching the detonator . Commandoes be damned , nobody is going to destroy his bridge . Hawkins and Holden shout from the opposite bank of the river , urging Joyce to " kill him ! " But Joyce can't kill him without using a knife , which we know he will be unable to do . It's a perfect payoff for what we've learned about the two men . Did Nicholson deliberately throw himself on the detonator as he was dying or did he fall on it by accident ? Who cares . If he did it deliberately it would be a heroic act since he finally " came to his senses . " But an accident would be more in keeping with the ironic tone of the rest of the film . At the end , everyone and everything of importance is dead except Clipton the humanitarian doctor who tells us unnecessarily that this is " madness " - - and those floating vultures with their Olympian view of these goings-on . It's a gripping movie from beginning to end , a magnificent job by everyone involved .
" No hay sentido común ? "	So many people seem puzzled by this film but I don't know why . The interpretation is clear enough . You see , the thing is , the apartment manager Coco ( Miller ) is simply dreaming that she is Betty ( Watts ) who is in turn dreaming that she is Rita ( Harring ) . Near the beginning of the film , when the amnesic Rita lies down in the dark and goes to sleep , she dreams that she is the director's mother ( Miller ) and - - AT THE SAME TIME - - out of penis envy she also takes the role of the director ( Theroux ) so that she can have sex with the person she loves most in the world - - herself . ( You don't really think that masturbation scene is in there just for the fun of it , do you ? ) The heuristic skeleton key rests on one simple and indisputable fact . The two dreams - - Miller's and Rita's - - interact with one another . For the simple minded this might prove a problem , but I'm sure Jung would have had no problem with it . Of course Jung was a madman , but still - - Well , I won't go on with this because I don't want to spoil anyone's pleasure by spelling everything out . Let me just say that the topper is this : I MYSELF dreamed this entire movie last night after a dish of chili to which , I admit , a few too many habanero peppers might have been added . Does that explain it for you ? Or do I need to draw you a picture . Actually , all seriousness aside , we can at least guess at the meaning . My guess would be that Betty ( or Diane ) came to LA , fell for a leading actress who managed to get her small parts , and got jealous when the actress fell for the director . So she hired someone to knock off the actress but somehow the deal was made public and when the cops came for her she shot herself . That's my guess . Honest . Whatever else one can say about the movie , this is a true original . Nobody but David Lynch would have dared to make it . It is two and a half hours of absolutely gripping and unfathomable meandering . An exercise in style that probably won't appeal to everyone , but a work of committed art nonetheless . ( Who understands Finnegans Wake , another dream ? ) What Quentin Tarrantino did to chronology in " Pulp Fiction , " Lynch does here , only some of the out-of-synch sequences are fantasies . Each of the dozen or so semi-episodes is related to the others in some way and each scene is intact and comprehensible unto itself but , related or not , the scenes don't quite match one another logically . ( Eg . , before the credits we see a frenetic bunch of jitterbuggers which has nothing to do with the story until the end , when we learn that Watts got into performing after winning a jitterbug contest in Ontario . ) Like a poem in sprung rhythm each line fits perfectly but is discordant . Naomi Watts . How come Australia has been fielding all these succulent blonds ? Where do they get them from ? She is perfect for the part . When she arrives in L . A . she is breathless with excitement . She has this gracile frame and wide gray eyes and two big childlike incisors and is given to phrases like , " I couldn't afford this place in a million years . " And , " Everything is A-Okay . " And " Wow ! " She seems so pale and vulnerable and naive that one senses she could be easily squished . She's perfectly believable as Nancy Drew and later , when she is the bitter , discarded lover , she's STILL believable in a darker , spiteful way . I just saw it for the second time , expecting to be bored , but couldn't get away from the screen . Every scene had something new and ominous in it . A singer in the club Silencio , belting out a song in Spanish and a cappella that I didn't recognize as " Cryin ' " until it was almost over . I wondered if Ray Orbison in plus time and minus space could recognize it . The trumpeter was Conti Condoli , a fantastic jazz musician ( for a white guy ) who has played with Stan Kenton and Doc Severison and has his own recognizable style . No hay mejor ! His brother Pete's pretty good too . The sound department also deserves plaudits for meeting the considerable demands placed on it by the film . The score will make your woofer tremble . There's a little humor in it , not much . Dog doody on the tiles . Two scenes involving Theroux's wife . Okay , I think there is at least one thing we can all agree on . This is CHAD EVERETT's best performance in years . Why do we give awards to semi-moronic blockbusters like " Titanic " and " Pearl Harbor " and ignore the recklessly innovative work of directors like the Coens and Lynch ? If you miss this , you will be missing a lot .
Thoroughly Successful 50s Comedy .	What a neatly done job this is . Tony Randall is Rock Hunter , a minor functionary at a Madison Avenue advertising agency ( this is a 1950s comedy and Mad Ave was the target of many jokes ) . He's about to be furloughed from his organization and then , by accident , manages to nail the outrageous Jayne Mansfield for her endorsement of the Stay-Put Lipstick account . Jayne doesn't care about the account but she wants to make her boyfriend back in Hollywood jealous so she pretends to be Randall's sex slave . An embarrassed Randall goes along with it . It all creates more ripples than Brittany Spears and Fed Ex or other couples of that ilk . Pretty much everything works . The director , Frank Tashlin , knew his way around a comedy , having been responsible for a number of cartoons . He recognizes a good sight gag when he sees one . Watch the door open and the diminutive Tony Randall appear , back lighted , dressed in the over-sized suit of a muscle man , and wearing elevator shoes , staggering around like Frankenstein's monster . He knows his hilarious dialog too . Randall is speaking to Mansfield's boyfriend , Bobo Branigansky , and pretending to be president of his ad agency . " Of course I'm the president - - but Miss Marlowe will be the TITULAR head of the company . " Mansfield shrieks with delight , grabs Randall , and gives him an open-mouthed kiss , smothering half his face with her huge , blubbery lips . In a later scene , after having half his clothes ripped off by frenzied fans , Randall is offered a drink by the sympathetic Joan Blondell . Asked what he'd like , the morose Randall replies - - " I don't know . Make it something simple , a bottle and a straw . " I don't want to give away any more of the gags , and the story isn't so convoluted that it hasn't already been limned in . Let me add , though , that it's exceptionally well acted by everyone involved . Note , in particular , one long speech done in a single take with Henry Jones , as he explains to Tony Randall that success is nothing more than being in the right place at the right time . How dull it could have been . Yet Jones , with his passionate , dramatic , outrageous sing-song , makes it both gripping and extremely funny . It's my understanding that the movie doesn't follow the play closely but I don't care . It has its own highly original touches . The movie is interrupted , for instance , by Randall who addresses the " TV fans in the audience " and demonstrates the failures of the luminescent orb in a way that makes us appreciate HDTV all the more . That scene couldn't have been in the play . See it if you have the chance , even if you've seen it before . It's anodyne . It will chase the blues away .
Anomiville , US	You can probably count on your fingers the number of successful above-average films that have been made about surburban life . ( " Lolita " is one . " No Down Payment " is not . ) Excluding the ones in which the house is taken over by a gang of rapist thugees or whatnot . There used to be a genre called suburban literature ( John Cheever , etc . ) but whatever visual potential the milieu of No Problem Drive may have had was drained by TV serials . Here , on the other hand , is a movie about exactly that kind of dull life , centered about mortgages and SUVs , that succeeds in almost all respects , from comic ( the first half ) to dramatic ( the last half ) . I found it touching when it was released and figured , well , one viewing was enough , but seeing it again has only deepened my respect for the film and the people behind it . Truth , goodness , and beauty - - such rarely found commodities among the wisteria and the rose bushes and the asphalt driveways and the dinner china from Hitler's table . The dinner china from HITLER'S TABLE ? Yes , it's true . The Marine colonel ( Chris Cooper ) who moves in next door to the Burnhams ( Kevin Spacey and Annette Bening ) has such a platter locked up with the guns in his display cabinet . You can't tell what it is just by looking at it . You have to turn it over . On the bottom there is no sign of the manufacturer , just a small , simple Swastika . The whole story is kind of about that . When you turn the pretty glistening object over - - well , you'd better not . The performances are uniformly good . Kevin Spacey is outstanding . And Chris Cooper as the counterfeit colonel is especially good in a strictly dramatic role , with his military haircut and his traitorous rheumy eyes . I don't know why they had to make him a Marine though . Never in history has there been a gay marine . Well , except maybe for Ed Wood , who landed under fire on Pacific beaches during the big war while wearing a pair of panties under his uniform . But technically even he was a transvestite . Why couldn't they have put him in the Navy ? All those months at sea ? And no women ? Cooper may turn out to be an abusive father , a homosexual , and a murderer , but you feel sorry for the guy anyway when he has to come to terms with himself . In fact there isn't a soul in this movie for whom you don't feel at least some pity . That's a feat in itself . A movie with no one-dimensional heavies . Only one gunshot fired in anger - - and off screen . And only two sex scenes - - one comic and the other unfulfilled . The story is well written and well photographed . ( Lots of memorable tag lines . ) One of those empty plastic little bags that junk food is carried in , dancing around in a breeze , with its chorus of tannin-colored fall leaves . Not that it doesn't have its weaknesses . What movie is perfect ? The transition from comedy to drama is deftly handled but some of the character development seems rather abrupt and over-edited . Mena Suvari , as the empty-headed narcissistic 17-year-old is told she is " ordinary " by a boy her age . She calls him a psycho freak and storms out of the room , " weirded out . " She's correct in calling him freaky . I don't believe he blinks once in the entire movie . But , okay , so someone she despises has told her she's ugly and ordinary . She's angry and dismissive . And yet the next time we see her ( in a romantic moonlit living room with Spacey ) her eyes are watering and she has undergone an epiphany . " I can't stand being ordinary , " she tells Spacey before yielding her virginity to him , or trying to . Spacey has his own epiphany when he finds out she's unsullied . He has visions of roses , of majestic vistas , of San Quentin . And I guess I can't see why the movie sets us up for having Bening murder Spacey and then turning the task over to someone else . And maybe the overhead shot after the killing looks a little like " Taxi Driver . " And I suppose having the narration by a dead man reminds one of " Sunset Boulevard . " And the final voice-over by Spacey , about how the last second of life lasts forever and consists of memories of boyhood and husbandhood and fatherhood are a little corny . Granted some of the characters are hackneyed and all are overdrawn , but consider how unpromising the material was to begin with , as if Mozart had written a particularly difficult sonata to be played on partly filled wine glasses . But that's minor stuff . This is a good movie . Lots of pop songs from the early 70s if you're into that .
I think , therefore I am . ( I think . )	Nobody could have done it better than Kubrick . The question is , " What does ' it ' mean ? " I'll skip the story , what there is of it . Anyone who wants a reasonably decent explanation in coherent terms ought to consult the Film Guide series from Indiana University Press . It is an unforgettable movie that would not have had quite the same impact if it had been made more than one or two years , one way or the other , of 1968 . Just take one instance . The computer , Hal , the most interesting character in the film , goes berserk . He signals to the two astronauts that there is a failure that must be fixed from the outside . The astronauts leave the space ship in tiny round pods . While they are gone , Hal kills all the other astronauts who are in hibernation for the long trip to Jupiter . Hal also causes a pod to kill one of the external astronauts and then refuses entry to the remaining live one , Dave ( Keir Dullea ) . Dullea orders repeatedly , " Open the pod bay doors , Hal . " His expression is one of vexation , as if he's having a duel of wits with a recalcitrant garage door . Finally he blasts his way into the space ship , barely surviving , then sets about destroying Hal . As he climbs a ladder to enter Hal's brain , Hal remarks soothingly , " Dave - - I can see your really upset about this . " It's EXACTLY what Carl Rogers would have said . Hal begins to sound like a junior executive being fired . " I know I've made some bad decisions recently . But I can assure you that I am back to normal now . Really , I am devoted to the success of this mission " If that's supposed to be a joke , it must have worked in 1968 , when we were all in the business of seeing ( or being ) humanistic shrinks . I'm not sure that everybody would find the humor in such a line now , in 2005 , a year in which most of the USA seems to find itself adrift on Jupiter . That " star gate " episode - - wow ! The coeval audience had a heck of a good time seeing it while stoned . Vavoom - - through an unknown universe ! Into the Maelstrom . It must have been great if you'd been smoking grass . If you were tripping it might have become one of Edgar Allan Poe's worst hangovers . Just seeing it tonight took me back thirty years or so to when I was a research assistant at the New Jersey Neuropsychiatric Institute , engaged in a study of psychedelic drug use . It was perfectly legitimate , run by the psychiatrist who coined the term " psychedelic " and visited Aldous Huxley on his death bed , and endorsed by a former Attorney General of the United States . ( By the way , has the statute of limitations run out ? ) We were not supposed to use drugs but one night circumstances demanded it and the next thing I knew I was wandering around a part of Manhattan I was completely unfamiliar with , the East 70s , never having gotten north of 14th Street in my youth . And - - wow - - everything was just terrible . People were walking dogs along the sidewalks and I fancied the dogs were staring at me because they knew I was a complete wreck . Well , let's skip it , except to say that what you need in a paranoid state is not the trip that Kubrick gives you , but a handle on reality . Well , I'm not sure , really . Sometimes I feel spaced out here in New Mexico where the Ice Cream trucks play " La Cucaracha . " In the New Jersey neighborhood where I grew up they at least had the prescience to play the " Dies Irae . " Anyway , one of the most impressive features of the film is the special effects - - all done in the 1960s before computers . They are all mechanical or photographic . No computerized graphic images like the dinosaurs in " Jurassic Park " or the musclebound monsters that leap around on today's screen . If you see a space ship in " 2001 " , it was hand built . The FX are the pinnacle of pre-computerized FX . They're like the clipper ships of the 1850s , marvels of marine engineering , about as good as it gets , before they were replaced by steamships . I realize this is not much of a review of the movie itself , but without having looked , I imagine there must be a hundred or more so , really , why bother ? Kubrick was an interesting guy . According to Kirk Douglas's revealing ( and not very flattering ) autobiography , " Rag Man's Son , " Kubrick shot " Spartacus " which had been written by someone on the McCarthy-style blacklist and forbidden to work in the USA . A heated discussion arose about who exactly should get the writing credit , since the actual writer's name couldn't be used . How could justice best be served . Kubrick piped up and said if you want a writer's name , use mine . I'll take the credit . As Douglas put it , " Kubrick was a talented s . " But - - all of that period and personal detail aside - - this film is a magnificent artifact . What an artist Kubrik was .
Nicely Done	Watching this flick I kept mulling over how many actors had played lawyers in other movies . Let's see . Lane Smith , of course , in " My Cousin Vinnie " ( and " Nixon , " I guess ) , John Houseman in " The Paper Trail , " Dean Jagger in " Twelve O'Clock High , " Jose Ferrer in " The Caine Mutiny " and " Blood and Orchids , " and probably others that I've missed . I kept waiting for E . G . Marshall and John Williams to pop up . Henry Fonda , certainly , brought resonance to his role as well . He was the unjustly convicted Manny Balistrero in " The Wrong Man . " And he , too , was a lawyer in " Young Mr . Lincoln . " This is pretty well done , both technically and thematically . It's an important story and is refreshingly free of stereotypes . The Florida court that convicts Fonda of burglary is a just one and operates under the law , as it then existed . And Fonda is no rabble rousing spokesman for the little man either . He's been in prison 5 times before , for crimes such as burglary and " possession of government property . " ( I'd like to hear more about that . ) He's not doing this so that " all men will be free " or any of that bunkum . He's doing it because he's angry at having been denied a lawyer simply because he couldn't afford one . As he labors over the law books in the prison library , he shows concern only over the fate of one other inmate , a black guy . This is one of those instances in which the story looks a little corny . Here , and where the writers give Clarence Earl Gideon the charisma of Cool Hand Luke with the other prisoners , an increasing number of them , follow him back and forth to the mailbox and the warden's office and cheering loudly when the Supreme Court agrees to his request . ( I don't believe they cheered for another man's success ; I don't believe the writers ever met an inmate or saw the inside of a penitentiary . ) The production had a bit of a problem with the focus puller too . But , that aside , this is really pretty instructive . The Supreme Court evidently agreed to review his case not because they felt sorry for him but because they felt ready for a change in the existing rules about due process . Gideon was the right man in the right place . Luck had a lot to do with his success . Equally interesting is Fonda's performance . He was never a ham and was always minimally expressive . It works here because Gideon is played as a grouchy , angry , taciturn loner who minds his own business . A lesser script would have made him bombastic and articulate but this Gideon stumbles over words while reading aloud . The scene in which Fonda chokes up when he receives the news from Abe Fortas about the Court agreeing to review his case is as moving as it is because Fonda underplays it . Dare I suggest that in this film , playing a skinny , tattooed , unfriendly convict , he does a better job than he did in his convict's role in Hitchcock's movie ? Or even that this is one of his best performances , period ? The photography and locations are pretty good too . The almost empty courtroom during Fonda's trial , the silence and boredom of all involved , rather match the almost sensible heat of the Florida summer and the interiors baking under the sun . Lane Smith , as Fonda's counselor in his retrial , is simply great - - sneaky and dark , almost villainous in the glee with which he attacks the prosecution's witnesses and frees Fonda . What a contrast to his performance as the affable prosecutor in " My Cousin Vinnie . " Hallmark Productions are often soporific or - - let me say - - family oriented , but this one makes a few demands on a viewer , all for the good . Watch it if you have the chance . It doesn't seem to be on very often .
God is in the details	A very good docudrama . But you must be in the mood . It's a low-budget enterprise , talky , and with no bravura performances . Why is it good , then ? I guess it's because it makes certain demands on the intelligence and moral concerns of the viewer that few other renditions of this story have bothered to even attempt . For many years , the United States mythos handled the issue in the most simplistic way . The Japanese were all kamikazes , an invasion of the Japanese homeland would cost untold thousands of lives , so we had to nuke them . Recent revisionist history has given us another version of what happened . The Japanese were on their last legs and they knew it . They were sending out peace feelers through Sweden , Switzerland , and Russia . The United States ignored these because we wanted revenge , so we had to nuke them , and fast . This film illustrates exceedingly well both the Japanese and American sides of the issue , with restraint and intelligence . There are neither heroes nor villains here . And no easy shots are made at particular figures . We can often tell , in conventional flicks , who is good and who is bad by the simple expedient of seeing whether a given character is handsome or homely . We tend not to notice this casting sleight of hand in our own movies because the difference in appearance supports our own prejudices . ( We want the villain to be ugly . ) But if you want this trick to be in your face , take another look at " The Cranes are Flying , " a Russian war movie in which the American officer looks and sounds like a fat bumbling idiot , while the Russian commander is ruggedly good-looking and wears a tolerant shrink-like smile . Such cheap symbolism certainly isn't committed here . The commander of the Japanese army , who wants to fight to the last man , is both attractive and highly principled . Truman may not be a brilliant thinker but he is down-home shrewd and up front about everything . ( If there is a problem with the casting it is that the actor playing Curtis LeMay is too handsome and polite for the part . LeMay was a courageous , ruthless , cigar-smoking blowhard , whom no one but a mother would call handsome . ) So why was the bomb dropped ? Evidently through a series of stochastic misunderstandings - - in intentions , exchanges , even in the translation of particular words . And ultimately in the rush of the United States to end the war - - for any number of reasons , including strictly political ones - - and in the desire on the part of the Japanese to find some sort of honorable peace in which their emporer retained his sanctity , leading to actions too deliberate to satisfy the Allies . The film is at its weakest in posing a false dilemma . ( Or maybe the historical characters were responsible . ) ( 1 ) We invade the islands , or ( 2 ) we nuke them without warning . All the possibilities in between are dismissed for one reason or another . One of them , given short shrift , is the possibility of a naval blockade which would shut off all supplies and cancel all naval traffic from the islands . Japan having no natural resources worth mentioning , it would have been only a matter of time before it worked . Loss of life would have been minimal , and we would not have had to use the bombs - - plural , Nagasaki was destroyed only three days after Hiroshima . One of the reasons repeatedly brought up in favor of using the bomb is that the American taxpayer has put out two billion dollars for this gadget , and if it weren't used they would want to know why their money was spent developing it . ( I don't know of any words adequate to describe this sort of logic . ) A blockade , however , would have taken more time , which would have involved waiting , which is not our strong suit . Another weakness is that James F . Byrne was a personal friend of Truman's . Truman , uncertain and new to the presidency , looked at him as a font of wisdom . And Byrne was a devoted hawk . This isn't made entirely clear , but it was in fact the case . Well , who knows what we and the Japanese should have done ? Easy enough to make retrospective judgments . However , they should perhaps be made anyway . Maybe knowing what went wrong last time will help us prevent things from going so terribly wrong next time .
Exemplary Hawks	An exciting , touching , and funny movie , one of Hawks ' best . It's a richly textured work , with several sub-narratives weaved into one another . The most important is the voyage of the new B-17 , the " Mary Ann " , from California to Honolulu to Wake Island to Clark Field in the Phillipines . Movies about journeys can be exciting , if they're well done , as this one is . There is the change of scenery , the dramas large and small at the stopovers , and above all the living that goes on within the vehicle . There is a lot of model work involved , out of necessity , but it has a reassuring cartoonish quality . I loved those wooden miniature airplanes taking off without lifting their noses , as if levitating rather than flying . And the tiny papier-mache palms , and the fake studio jungles . Within the limits of the available technology , it's pretty well done . As the model B-17 taxis its way across the tarmac , we can even hear the squealing of its brakes as the pilot applies them . The voyage is fascinating not just because we are following the Mary Ann , but because we get to know what it's like to live inside the fuselage , to fly and defend the airplane , to work on its engines and to feed it gasoline by using a bucket brigade . Most of all we get to know the tiny social system of the men and how they are knitted together by circumstances into a solidary group . This is true Hawks territory . Here we have John Garfield as the cynical flight-school washout Winocki . ( Cf . , Christopher Walken's monologue in " Pulp Fiction . " ) Garfield sneers at the others and hates the skipper , the good-natured , efficient , and highly respected James Ridgely as " Irish " Quincannon . Ridgely tries to explain to Garfield that it doesn't matter what any single person's feelings are . We are all part of a team here ; each of us depends on the other ; we support and help one another ; we'd give each other our last pair of socks ; in fact , two of the crew are married to each other . ( Well - - not that . ) Garfield is finally won over after the attack on Pearl Harbor . ( Kids , that was the beginning of World War II for us . PS : We won . ) The way the crew learns the news is just plain fine . What craftsmanship . The radioman is sitting at his console and loses contact with Honolulu before picking up some gunshots and Japanese chatter . It's a sign of the care that was taken in this film that we get to appreciate the job that the RADIOMAN is doing ! In almost every other film involving a bombers we get to know only the pilots and the gunners - - sometimes the bombardier . But in this case we get to see the kind of job everyone does , including the crew chief , and , in a suspenseful miniepisode , the navigator . The NAVIGATOR ! Usually if he's included at all , it's only to get his head blown off . Hawks is fond of the gradual integration of an outsider into the group , the willing penetration of social borders . Sometimes it's a " girl , " as in , " Only Angels Have Wings . " ( When Jean Arthur sits down to play the guys ' piano , Cary Grant advises her , " You'd better be good . " ) Here it's Garfield , who begins by hating the Air Corps and ends by being a fully functioning team member , and an innovative leader . If that's not enough , we have yet another playful rivalry between the Mary Ann's crew and a passenger they pick up - - a pursuit pilot who jokes about the furniture vans that bomber crews have to fly around in . Does he turn into a fully functioning team member at the end too ? Yes , he does , although as far as we know he's had to multi-engine time at all . No matter . The essence of Hawks ' fascination with male solidarity is probably best expressed in the scene in which the Mary Ann is being attacked over a ( fictional ) Japanese fleet . As a Zero homes in on the B-17 from a given position , the gunner on that side yells out to the captain , " Swing her a little to the left ! " , and Ridgely makes the airplane yaw slightly to give the gunner a better shot at the Zero . Let me put this another way - - an enlisted gunner is telling the captain of the airplane what to do . And the officer happily complies . That is teamwork . The crew transcend their individuality . They're like a single organism . " Irish " dies towards the end in a scene that could have been so much cornier than it is . ( Faulkner is said to have written part of it . ) Everyone of importance is in the death scene and plays a part . The movie practically falls apart at the end , unfortunately . Our airplanes seem to blow the entire Imperial Japanese Navy out of the water in a battle that resembles nothing of historical value . And yet even the final scene , of the Mary Ann crash landing in the rolling surf , is exciting enough to help us forget the obvious propaganda of the previous scene . The problem , though , is that the racism runs all the way through the film . Okay , let's accept dialog like , " Fried Jap going ' down ! " , when a Zero explodes . But the Japanese in Hawaii are treated as treacherous cowards , which , by the time of this movie's release , should have been a myth long dispelled . Of course there was never any sabotage . They were American citizens before they were Japanese . Anyway , an outstanding adventure movie . Nothing arty or pretentious , simply a nicely executed work . One of the best films to be made during the war .
Metabetrayal	George V . Higgins ' novel flowed along filled with atmosphere , intrigue , and ironic dialogue . Even Normal Mailer praised it , however reluctantly - - " And to think that this came from the fuzz ! " Well , practically no movie is as good as the book . How can you squash a book-length story into an hour and a half , unless you're Bondarchuk or Gance or von Stroheim or somebody ? You'd need a budget and an ego to match . Actually , this attempt , by Peter Yates , is quite good . It's not an imitation of The Godfather or Bullit or any other movie ; it's sui generis , or almost , since after all we've had a few other gangster / squealer / caper movies before . The location shooting was , I thought , well done . Late fall in New England : chilly mists alternating with pale sunlight on startlingly green fir branches ; stretches of tawny dried winter grass fronting on ice blue bays . I suppose it could have been set in Sarasota but if it doesn't matter - - and I think in this case it does , if you intend to establish an Irish-American milieu - - then Boston and environs is as good a place as any . Poor Eddie . Desperate to keep his wife and two kids off welfare and to stay out of the slams , he brings himself finally to blow the whistle on a cocky young gun dealer , hoping that the Feds will put in a good word for him with the DA in New Hampshire . Unfortunately , the Feds , represented by the cynical and smoothly manipulative young Richard Jordan , are as tricky to pin down as eels and they press him for yet more . After a long battle with his conscience the weary Eddie decides to turn over some bank robbers that he knows well and who trust him . But it's too late ! Peter Boyle's bartender / snitch has also been working with the Feds and has turned them in first . Boyle manages to shift the blame onto Eddie and manouvers him into a drunken stupor from which Eddie will never have to suffer any hangovers . Eddie is in the peculiar position of actually wanting to snitch on his friends but finding no opportunity to do so and winds up the victim of a kind of metabetrayal . Boyle shows no remorse whatever , and the cops ignore Eddie's demise since he is no longer of any use . Yates is a straightforward and unpretentious director . You might think that after the sensation caused by the car chase in Bullit he would try to outdo himself here , but not so . ( He wisely left that up to other , more imitative directors . ) The indoor settings are appropriate : sleazy bowling alleys , sterile and overlighted cafeterias , and the kind of lowlife barroom where it might be fun to sit down on a stool and shoot the breeze with the thug sitting next to you . Of course a great deal of the original dazzling understated dialogue doesn't survive , but some of it does , and it lifts the film out of the realm of those that sound as if they'd been written by a committee of recent English Lit majors . Some of the cutting , though , us unaccountable . When Eddie and the gun dealer are doing business in a supermarket parking lot , the dealer asks him why his wife doesn't do all the shopping . Eddie's reply in the novel concludes , " I didn't understand it when they told me ; and you wouldn't understand it if I told you . " It doesn't appear on screen , and it helps establish Eddy's sense of resignation , and it's cool , and would only add a few seconds to the picture . The performances are all good , especially Mitchum's . He hit his stride at around this age , beat and tired , as in " Farewell My Lovely . " His Boston accent is impeccable and , well , he didn't get it growing up in Bridgeport . His wife is believably middle-aged and a bit dumpy , and the scene in which the two grapple naughtily for a few seconds is endearing . We come to like Eddie , just a good guy trying to keep his nose above water and , alas , as so often , good guys get it in the neck while the evil flourish as the green bay tree .
One of the funniest episodes .	" Married With Children " certainly hit its stride during this , the fourth season . The characters had been thoroughly defined so that jokes could be carried over from one episode to the next , and the writers by this time knew precisely what they were doing . Brief summary , for those who demand A LOT OF INFORMATION . Al comes downstairs in the middle of the night with an agonizing toothache . Finds nubile daughter Kelly necking with some Goth guy in the darkened living room . Throws punk out after banging his head against the wall . ( Twice - - is that precise enough ? ) Al tries an ice cold bottle of beer to relax him , with expectable results . The problem is that he's terrified of dentists . The family talks him into seeing " Doctor Plierson " anyway . Ushered in by the dental assistant , a gushy Tracy Lords , Al shakily takes his place in the chair , clutching the ducky and balloons he acquired in the waiting room . Enter the dentist , Joe Flaherty from Second City . The first thing the dentist does is grab his assistant , bend her over , give her a big smooch , and grab her ass . Plierson reassures Al that he's a pro at this , that he's done these things a thousand times before , only not all in the same mouth . " Ill just numb you up with Novocaine , then I'll have a couple of drinks , and neither of us will feel anything . " Dental assistant comes in wearing an luxurious coat and asks , " Honey , does this look okay ? " " It's ' doctor ' in the office , " replies Plierson , " but yes . It looks much better than the one you bought yesterday . " " And more expensive , " she says sweetly . Plierson tells her to bring in the jumbo sized napkins and a tarp to cover the floor because he'll be up to his armpits in blood in a few minutes . Then Plierson paces around describing his ex wife , recently divorced after six months of marriage . " She got one and a half million , " he says bitterly . " But she deserved it . She gave up a promising career as a waitress to marry me . " Then Plierson is interrupted by a phone call from her lawyer . She wants the baseball cards he's spent his life collecting . " WHY ? , " screams Plierson into the phone , " Why can't I just give her the $150 the collection is worth ? Oh , I see . Because she knows I want the cards . " By this time he's shaking with fury and descends upon Al's mouth with a viciously whining drill . Al goes home to find that Peggy has spent their Thanksgiving money to buy a huge meal that Al can't possibly eat any of . I wouldn't argue the point but this may be the funniest episode ever , certainly ONE of the funniest . It's really Joe Flaherty's show . His voice and demeanor can never be taken seriously and there's a rich hint of lunacy in his stare . Full disclosure : I'm terrified of dentists too . For 20 years I couldn't even sit in a barber's chair without trembling . Did you ever try cutting your own hair for two full decades ? It's not a pretty picture .
" We killed everything that moved . "	An inexpert , black-and-white documentary consisting mostly of two dozen young vets from the Vietnam War at a panel presentation , describing the atrocities , martial and otherwise , that they witnessed , with an occasional break for a rant on race and an epilogue in which three of the guys describe their gradual realization of exactly what they'd done to " the gooks . " The panel includes both enlisted men and officers , whites , African-Americans , a Japanese-American and an American Indian . In all its artlessness , it's probably one of the most important documentaries of the last century and no one has seen it . Nobody really wants to hear some guy describe how a young Vietnamese girl was raped , then thrown together with a dozen other civilian villagers , and mowed down by American soldiers . And certainly no one wants to hear about the woman who was cut up and her body skinned . Or the two infants killed out of boredom by a helicopter crew . Evidently , we still don't want to hear about it . John Kerry ( unrecognizable ) is on the panel and during the 2004 campaign footage of his testimony before congress was resurrected and shown repeatedly on TV as evidence of his having turned against his brother-in-arms and his country . Kerry was accused of passing on rumors . Here are some of the sources of those rumors - - the guys who did it . So who are these guys ? Are they really anti-American traitors ? Are they here behind this table to get their fifteen minutes of fame ? Are they planning to use this public appearance as a springboard for future political careers ? If your hatred of them and their message is sufficiently intense you can probably spin it that way , but I can't . The guys are hardly theatrical in their presentations . They're clumsy and sometimes inarticulate . And they are the farthest thing imaginable from poster boys for a popular social movement . They're hairy and disheveled . Their raggedness is about equal to that of the Beatles on the Sergeant Pepper's album , or the later stages of Al Pacino's evolution in " Serpico . " Some of them are visibly uncomfortable and anxious , others comfortable and frank . This not being a dramatic performance , nobody breaks into sobs , not even when prompted to by a female interviewer . ( The subject explains why he wouldn't cry , although he felt like it : " I've still got that in my head . " ) Nobody even addresses the camera . The question , of course , isn't whether they're good guys or not . They're just plain guys who found themselves in a subculture as brutal as anything dreamed up by our current enemies in the Middle East , a subculture in which an adversary's head could be cut off and stuck on the end of a stake and the act condoned by officers . In science , we ask whether or not a thing is " significant " by comparing its observed frequency to its expected frequency . Were there so many acts of horror in Vietnam that they amounted to more than one or two rotten apples in the barrel ? But there's another way of looking at information . You don't ask about frequencies if a UFO lands on your front lawn . There it sits , in front of you . One instance is enough to convince you that something is up . There were 125 honorably discharged veterans testifying at this meeting and claiming that inhumanity was SOP in Vietnam . Something was up . The real question is , Are they believable ? You bet . It's unfortunate that so few people have seen this . If it had been required viewing for some of us we might not be repeating the same mistakes now .
Not to Be Missed .	Everything works together in this romantic adventure . Down the Ulanga with seedy Bogie and starchy Hepburn in the beaten-up old African Queen . Ride the rapids , go over a waterfall , suffer the slings and arrows of the German fort at Shona , get half eaten by clouds of flying gnats , be leeched by slimy critters as you haul the boat by hand through mephitic swamps , half die from fever , come within an inch of being hanged by Theodore Bikel and Peter ( " I think I shall hang you twice " ) Bull aboard the German riverboat - - and have more fun doing it than you could have imagined . It's not all action . There is a tentative and touching romance developed between Humphrey Bogart as the skipper of the decrepit launch and Katherine Hepburn as the skinny , psalm-singing old maid who convinces him that the Louisa , the German gunboat , must be sunk with improvised torpedoes . Hepburn is a tough babe in this movie , tougher than Bogart . She stoically endures the death of her missionary brother , Robert Morley , at the hands of the marauding Germans when the First World War begins . Instead of being frightened by the rapids , she's thrilled by them . And she pushes the common-sensical Bogart to heights of inspiration , strength , and heroism . Bogart gives the role everything he's got - - and that's a lot . He cultivates not another variation on his familiar screen persona but a genuine portrait of a character that already seems familiar to us but which we've never associated with Bogart before . He's always been a dapper urbanite , but here we see him chuckling gleefully as he kicks the temperamental engine on his boat . Drunk , he brings up his " poor old mother " and is about to weep . One of his best scenes has him at tea with Morley and Hepburn , uncomfortable with all that politesse and distracted by his gastric motility . Morley reads the newspaper and announces that a rival of his has just been promoted to Bishop . Bogart jumps in his chair , startled , and says , " Huh " ? Then his belly begins to groan audibly - - very audibly . " Have some more tea , Mister Allnut , " says Hepburn , doing her best to ignore the rumbles . It's much funnier than Eddy Murphy's family all ventilating their bowels at the dinner table in " The Nutty Professor . " See it at once or be hanged twice .
Arguably the funniest episode .	In my admittedly warped opinion , this is about as good as situation comedy gets . Al wants to become famous in the world of shoes , and Kelly's assignment from the Larry Storch School of Acting is to shoot a movie . The two combine their lack of skills and make a movie about shoes . They misspell the title , which comes out " SHEOS . " The movie is shown at the Hammond , Indiana , Film Festival before an audience of egghead film buffs , plus a hissing and booing Marcy . The film is only three minutes long , and it stinks to high heaven . " Sheos " is in cheap black and white and tells the story of the things that animals have put on their feet since emerging from the primordial ooze ( a tiny plastic swimming pool in the Bundy's back yard ) . Al's narration informs us that the cave men tried various kinds of foot gear , and we see his feet walking on sticks , on Teflon frying pans , and on plastic inflatable women . A cut to a parody of Michelangelo's " Creation " from the Sistine Chapel , showing Al as God , passing on to Kelly's outstretched hand a woman's shoe . The narration tells us that no one knows what will happen next because we're all waiting for the next shoe to drop . A shot of Al on his lounge chair . He utters the word " Rosebud , " then dies and a shoe drops from his hand to the lawn . The screen cuts to " FIN " . The audience goes wild . Al and Kelly win a $10 , 000 grant from the National Endowment of the Arts and shoot another movie , " A Day in the Life of a Shoe Salesman , " which has some equally hilarious moments but a description of which is precluded by considerations of space . You can't help wondering how much of the humor in this episode is going to get past the coveted younger audience . They don't get to see Kelly's belly button , for instance . And many of the laughs hang on access to what used to be a shared cultural data base . I guess you don't have to recognize the parody of Michelangelo's painting , but you lose half the humor if you don't . And you don't have to know Richard Strauss composed the theme song , but unless you've seen " 2001 : A Space Odyssey , " you miss half the humor . ( Lots of kids don't watch " old movies " , and Kubrik's " 2001 " came out in 1968 , before they were born . ) When " FIN " appears on the screen , how many kids will think " fish " ? And then there's " Rosebud . "
Best in Show .	A lot of directors have taken a crack at the comedy-laced thriller , among them , most notably , Alfred Hitchcock , but probably none have topped this for sheer entertainment value . Cary Grant is a stereotypical Madison Avenue advertising man in the 1950s , shallow and given to " expedient exaggerations . " He's urban , well groomed , and tan as only Cary Grant can be tan . By accident , he is misidentified as George Kaplan , a non-existent government agent . He's kidnapped by foreign operatives who try to kill him . When he manages to escape he's framed for a murder . With the police after him , he boards a train for Chicago in pursuit of the real " Kaplan " , who of course is nothing more than a CIA-inspired fiction who occupies prop hotel rooms , wears prop clothes , and has prop dandruff . On the train he bumps into the savagely seductive Eva Marie Saint . This at least is no accident . She's a double agent , working for the suave spy , James Mason , and secretly for the CIA's Leo G . Carroll . The double pursuit - - the cops after Grant , Grant after " Kaplan " - - becomes twisted and winds up on the faces of the four presidents at Mount Rushmore in South Dakota . At the exciting climax , Cary Grant has shed some of his callousness and has committed his love and his life to Eva Marie Saint . His monogrammed matchbooks , " R . O . T . " , standing for Roger Thornhill and also for " rot " are no longer relevant . There are some splendid examples of black and white feature films . Who could improve on Gregg Toland's photography in " Citizen Kane " or the striking and sinuous contrasts in " The Maltese Falcon " or the bleak gaiety captured in " La Dolce Vita " ? But this one cries out for a big screen , color , and surround sound to accommodate composer Bernard Hermann's musical score , that opens and closes with a wild fandango . Okay . Visualize one of the sequences here , probably the best known . Kaplan has supposedly agreed to meet Grant at " Prairie Stop , Indiana . " It's nothing more than a spot in the middle of a two-dimensionally flat wasteland - - no trees , no buildings , no hills , nothing but vast , tawny plowed plots and a parched cornfield nearby , all shimmering in the heat . Grant waits silently as the occasional car whizzes past . Nothing is happening . Then a man is dropped off across the highway . The two strangers are alone , staring at each other across the pavement . Minutes go by as they do nothing but stare , Grant puzzled ( " Is this Kaplan ? " ) , the other inexpressive . The other guy turns out to be a know-nothing local and after he departs on a bus , Grant is attacked by an airplane and barely escapes with his life . For the many people who have seen this sequence , let me ask them to imagine this shot in the traditional small screen ratio and done in black and white . It would lose half its impact . Some critics have , I think , over-interpreted the movie . I doubt that the title is taken from from Hamlet : " I am but mad north-northwest : when the wind is southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw . " There's Grant's ambiguous relationship with his mother ( a favorite Hitchcock theme in serious contexts ) , the wary love story , the development of Grant's character . But in this instance those features are trivialized . It's really a complicated , sublimely executed chase thriller at heart . Ernest Lehman's script includes many amusing incidents and some of them are very funny indeed . Not just snappy dialog - - " Something wrong with your eyes , Mister ? " " Yes , they're sensitive to questions . " But whole scenes that are laugh-out-loud comic - - Grant making a fool of himself at a public auction in order to attract the attention of the police . ( The scene was prefigured in the much earlier " All Through the Night " and later imitated in " The Prize . " ) The love affair between Grant and Saint begins with a dutiful seduction and ends with marriage - - too quickly , too jury-rigged , too required by the plot - - and some of the dialog between them is clumsy , but who cares ? It's not art , but so little on the screen is . It's about as good an entertainment as you're likely to find , better than any of the chase thrillers coming out today . If I see another car chase that ends in an exploding fireball I'll write an angry OpEd piece for the New York Times .
Superlative .	The best black comedy ever made . I could watch it a thousand times and still laugh . Oh - - dated , sure . There no longer is a Soviet Union , although there are plenty of people willing to barbecue one another nuclearly - - as in India and Pakistan . I'd like to mention the writer on this , the late Terry Southern , who had lots of input into some pretty funny movies , not to mention his short stories or novellas . He's the guy who came up with " pre-version . " Kubrik did a fine job . He lost his sense of humour afterward . The acting couldn't be better . George C . Scott embeds himself in one's brain as the general . And Peter Sellers . " Look , Mein Fuhrer - - I can VALK ! " They wanted him to play King Kong , the pilot , but it didn't work out . Doesn't matter . It's hard to imagine how he would have improved upon Slim Pickens . " Two pairs a nylon stockin's . Two pair a prophylactics . Shoot . A fella could have a good time on this in Vegas . " The final scenes . Credits roll . Atomic blast follows atomic blast whilst Vera sings " Keep Smiling . " DO NOT MISS THIS ONE , or you'll answer for it . Signed : The Mafia . If you miss it , you will miss something worth seeing .
A lesson in making a movie .	A story about four people living on a modest Texas ranch , their interactions , troubles and joys , and the ways they resolve their conflicts . The owner of the ranch is the elderly Homer Bannon ( Melvyn Douglas ) . His surviving son is Hud ( Paul Newman ) . Hud's nephew , Lon ( Brandon De Wilde ) is the naive seventeen-year-old , and Alma ( Patricia Neal ) is their hired cook and housekeeper . The setting is the dry , windswept cattle country of West Texas , not far from a small town in which everyone seems to know everyone else . The film has been criticized as too mechanistic , too full of stereotypes , and it's easy to see why . The principals are easy to categorize . An adjective or two will seem to suffice . The " honorable " , old Melvyn Douglas . The " mean " , unprincipled Paul Newman . The " inexperienced " Brandon De Wilde . The " down-to-earth " and sensitive Pat Neal . But this approach , I think , overlooks the subtlety of the characters . The psychologist Gordon Allport proposed that people were made up of many traits ( extraverted / introverted , for instance ) . Allport was able to dig up 3 , 000 trait-like names from an ordinary dictionary . He noted that some were more important than others . The important ones were " central traits " that showed up consistently in a person's behavior . The less important he called " secondary traits " . They were tied to particular situations or moods and were real but transient . You might , for instance , be reserved with everyone else ( a central trait ) but warm and affectionate with your dog and canary ( a secondary trait ) . " Hud " is able to make the same distinction . Sure , the old guy is and overstuffed with old-time pride and honor . That's him in a nut shell . But he's also pretty huffy with people whose morals he's not entirely comfortable with , and there's evidence that he's been antagonistic towards Hud since Hud's childhood . He even admits it . ( His honesty is a central trait , remember ? ) The same is true of the other three main characters . Hud is a mean SOB but " even Hud gets lonesome sometimes . " The kid is more like the old man , thoughtful and fundamentally decent , but he has a kinda hankerin ' for the wild side too , which he sometimes indulges . The same is true for Alma , a hard-working , good woman , with urges she keeps in check . What does this mean on screen ? It means the characters , as written , are fully fleshed . They don't seem like characters in a movie but rather as people we know , with genuine complexities of character . Kids may not understand why this film is as good as it is - - and it's very good - - but adults should be able to " get it " . The performances are excellent , with De Wilde's the weakest . Paul Newman may be handsome but he has a clipped , nasal , argumentative Texan tone of voice that's an immediate turn off . He should never run for elective office . And he does a marvelous drunk , lurching around in a muscular way - - just enough . I'll mention only one example of a thoroughly realized scene . Pat Neal has a brief conversation with De Wilde while she's waiting for the bus to leave town . De Wilde : " We're sure going to miss you , Alma . " Neal : " Oh , you'll get along . ( pause ) Don't you be lazy now , you hear ? " And her face twists with anguish for a second or two before she and De Wilde fling themselves into a wordless , helpless hug . I'm not sure there have been that many more understated but wrenching scenes on film . The script ( by Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank , Jr . ) also gives De Wilde a certain believability that his performance does not . Sitting in a bar with Newman , a little drunk , flirting with some gal down the bar ( " I'd sure like to take her the long way home " ) , De Wilde gets to his feet , practically puffing out his chest with an beer-fueled , almost-achieved adult masculinity , and says , " I think I'll go shoot some more nickels into that juke . " Nothing more is made of this endearing , pathetic bravado . I have to mention the photography of James Wong Howe too . Such crisp black and white images . It's harder to see on the small screen , but Howe manages to capture the precise outlines of distant thunder clouds while keeping the middle ground in focus . And we can almost feel the atmosphere of the ranch's yard when Newman and De Wilde are dunking their heads in the trough to sober up after a night on the town while a handful of stunningly white moths whirl and flutter around their torsos under a naked light bulb . This is one of several excellent movies Newman made during the 1960s , and it was a shocker in its time - - the mass slaughter of the cattle , Newman's bitter dialog , " This world is so full of crap , you're bound to step into it sooner or later . " Oh , it's nothing now , but it was a big surprise in 1963 . A fine film all around and it shouldn't be missed .
Zen and the Art of Noodle Eating	No , a Japanese comedy isn't an oxymoron . In this one you can forget all the swordplay of the Samurai movies , and all the tragedy of the modern dramas . This one is really funny . The plot is skeletal . Two guys happen upon a woman named Tampopo ( " Dandelion " ) trying to manage a run-down noodle shop and they decide to help her turn the place into an economic and gastronomic four-diamond establishment . They succeed . That's the plot . The whole plot . But the film is fleshed out with episodes , usually unrelated to one another , some of them as amusing as anything ever put on the screen . Every single sidesplitting one is played and directed in a straight-faced way . I'll give just one example . A gangster and his beautiful moll are about to make love . They kiss passionately . The camera moves in for a closeup of their lips and we see that a raw egg is being slipped back and forth between mouths . The couple progress to foreplay in the nude . The foreplay consists of the man slapping a clear plastic pint of live shrimp upside down on his lover's belly . The shrimp skitter around on her flesh and she titters and writhes with desire . Later , alas , the young man is shot multiple times by rival mobsters . He's sprawled on his back in the dirt , his white clothes soaked with blood . She rushes to him and kneels beside him , weeping . He goes into the cliche of the " last dying words , " barely able to gasp them out . What does he tell her ? That he loves her ? That he regrets his disreputable life ? No - - he launches into an outrageously long story about hunting boars when he was a child . The boars would eat nothing but yams , when the yams were ripe . They became stuffed with yams and nothing but yams . Then when they were hunted down , the boars yielded long strings of intestines that were packed with yams . " They were like yam sausages , you see . " I don't think I caught the tail end of his narrative because I was dissolved in laughter . The whole thing revolves around food in its various forms . People rise from the dead to cook a final meal for their grieving families . They prepare the most mouthwatering rice omelettes imaginable . Proper young ladies learn how to eat noodles without making vulgar sounds . They do all sorts of things with and about food . Cuisine is to this movie what sex is to Italian comedies . Do not be put off by the fact that this movie has subtitles . In poor movies subtitles are a distracting nuisance . But in this case , you'll hardly notice them , hardly be able to read them through the laughter .
Kubrick's Most Moving Film .	It's easy to snare an audience by making a movie about an execution , which is why such movies seem so common - - " Ted Bundy , " " I Want to Live " , " The Book of Daniel . " Sometimes the whole story is about the technical aspects of the execution - - " The Execution of Private Slovick . " It may be easier for an audience to identify with someone about to be executed than it is to identify with someone in a particularized conflict . Should Marlon Brando squeal on his friends and employers in " On the Waterfront " ? Well , yes , but none of us have ever been in Terry Malloy's shoes nor will we ever be , whereas we are all going to face execution some day . In a sense , the audience is gripped and watches with fascinated horror because it's their own deaths taking place on screen . " Paths of Glory " centers around the execution by firing squad of three French soldiers during World War I for cowardice in the face of the enemy . They are picked at random from three companies , on the order of a general ( George MacReady ) and defended in court by their regimental commander Col . Dax ( Kirk Douglas ) . MacReady blames them , instead of himself , for a failed attack against an impossible German position and wants to set an example for the rest of the French army . " If those sweethearts won't face German bullets , they'll face FRENCH ones . " And anyway , killing a few of the troops now and again is a boost to their morale . Kubrick takes full advantage of the dramatic elements adumbrating the three deaths . One soldier is simple-minded and desperate , and he turns to religion , blubbering with fear . One is bitter and combative and gets his skull fractured , so he must be propped up unconscious on a stretcher to be shot . The third is frightened but faces his death with dignity . That's about as far as the conventional elements go in this superb movie . Facile clichés are avoided . Here's an example of what I mean . One of the prisoners ( Ralph Meeker ) has been chosen to die by his company commander ( Wayne Morris ) because Meeker has seen Morris behave like a drunken , murdering coward on a night patrol . Douglas suspects this , and chooses Morris to head the firing squad . Morris , deeply humiliated and remorseful , offers Meeker a blindfold . Meeker says nothing , just snorts in the negative . Morris mumbles that he's sorry , then leaves . A less original treatment of this incident would have Meeker delivering a speech to the cowardly Morris . " I may die now but you'll be dying every day for the rest of your life . " ( Hey , that's pretty good ! ) Or maybe , " Forget it , Lieutenant . You'll be joining me soon enough . " Something like that , anyway . Instead , Meeker neither absolves him nor heaps calumny upon him . Meeker has something more important on his mind than dealing with this quivering moron and his guilt . Well , one more example of what I mean by the avoidance of clichés . The court martial adjourns to consider a verdict . Fade to black . Open with the prisoners being marched to the execution posts . No scene in which everyone sits around biting his fingernails and waiting to hear the verdict . Nobody announces the prisoners have been found guilty and nobody sentences them to death . We don't see MacReady smiling villainously or Douglas looking stunned . I don't want to run out of space so I'll limit this comment to a round of applause for the final scene of anguished French troops getting drunk in a bar , whistling , clapping , pounding on the tables , as a winsome young German girl is brought out by the inn keeper and ordered to sing a song . She begins to sing a German folk song timidly and softly . The soldiers gradually cease their rowdy behavior and listen to her plaintive untrained voice . Except for the pretty girl singing on the stage the bar room becomes utterly still and silent , and then one by one the men begin to hum the little tune along with her . They are all sad and some of them weep . The catharsis is absolutely necessary in a film so filled with tension , anger , and blood . This is Kubrick's most emotional film and shouldn't be missed . His earlier films were good but derivative and his later films devoid of passion . This one hits all the right notes , and the performances are unimpeachable .
Through American Eyes	I don't know that this is quite the equivalent of Ken Burns ' " The Civil War " - - but what could be ? The general outlines of World War II are so well known ( Kids : We won ) that I'll skip them and just make a few comments . The presentation is divided roughly into three equal parts : ( 1 ) Life on the home front in Mobile , Alabama ; Luverne , Minnesota ; Sacramento , California ; and Waterbury , Connecticut ; ( 2 ) Combat , with some references ( not many ) to overall strategy ; and ( 3 ) Interviews with the surviving men and women who participated in the war . There are no reenactments , thank God . They're coming to be our substitute for B movies on documentary TV channels . There are no interviews with generals and admirals or today's War College instructors explaining why we did what we did . No British , German , Japanese , or otherwise exotic interviewees either . This is the war as seen strictly through American eyes although , as the narrator says , we suffered far less , relatively speaking , than many of the other combatants . That's just as well . It's an ipsative choice . If Burns had tried to cover just the Allies , some viewers would still be objecting . " Why don't we see more of Britain's suffering ? " Or , " What about the Poles ? " America suffered less but we suffered enough . There are about four minutes of color footage from a typical war-time wedding . We've all been there . The bride in frothy white , the groom in Army uniform , the cake , the two dozen assembled guests at the tables , with tiny glasses of punch , smiling nervously . It isn't until the second viewing that I realized that the uniformed groom was the only male present between the ages of eighteen and forty . All the other men were busy elsewhere . The music is chosen or composed by Wynton Marsalis , an ace trumpeter whose grasp of music includes all known forms . Mostly here , his score is alternately folksy , bluesy , or threnodic , and sometimes he quotes composers like Elgar and Faure . The score is punctuated with period music , like Benny Goodman and Artie Shaw . You won't come away whistling any of the tunes . Marsalis isn't the bombastic Richard Rogers of " Victory at Sea . " He's unobtrusive , almost self effacing . The same can't be said of the film's producer , Ken Burns , who is almost childlike in his egocentricity and his commitment . " Ewww , Tom Hanks , " he exults . It would be easy to smear him a little if he weren't so good at what he does . The series , incidentally , was supported in large part by grants from Bank of America and General Motors . ( At least they got SOME things right . ) Another reviewer denigrated the series because it came from " the bolsheviks " at Public Broadcasting , which I guess makes General Motors a bunch of communists . Surprisingly little of the combat footage is familiar . A few rip offs from " Memphis Belle , " " The Battle of Midway , " and " The Battle of San Pietro , " and not much more . Just as well . Those shelves had been just about emptied by all the documentaries that have played on The History Channel and The Military Channel . Is the presentation balanced ? Or - - let me put it another way - - how much political correctness need we bear ? Well , again , surprisingly little . It's a candid documentary rather than a critical one . The internment of Japanese-American civilians is described and shown but not dwelt upon . It's another mistake , a war-time tragedy , not an occasion for breast beating and white guilt . The good people of Mobile , Alabama , seem to have as much trouble with the influx of what they call " rednecks " than they do with what they call " Negroes . " I kind of missed David McCullough's narration from " The Civil War . " He's a cool and distanced historian , whereas Keith David's sonorous narration here is more dramatic . And I missed the sweetness and simplicity of " Ashokan Farewell . " The film is about war . And war is about loneliness , deprivation , and death . It's easy to be moved by the subject when one imagines what we learn from these episodes about America multiplied a dozen times over by the suffering endured by other nations , victors and vanquished alike . But Burns has the good taste not to jerk the easiest tears . Nobody breaks down and sobs . The P-47 pilot who killed hundreds of Germans describes the paralysis of his trigger fingers and the nightmares that haunted him for years after the war , but he does so dispassionately , a careful observer of the symptoms that stand for the greater whole . It's about as good as it's ever going to get . These remarks cover only Parts 1 and 2 of the series .
Yes , the show MUST go on !	A fine MGM musical with Fred Astaire as an aging hoofer , Cyd Charisse as the condescending ballerina , Jack Buchanan as the director of the show , and Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant as Astaire's friends and co-stars . There are many musicals that have great numbers but discardable plots . In this case , the librettists were Betty Comden and Adolf Green , two of the best and most prolific . And the plot is the glue that holds the numbers together . Comden and Green were responsible for a couple of Broadway successes , in addition to Hollywood's " On the Town " and " Singin ' in the Rain . " Their script here has not only general appeal but biting wit . The choreography is by Michael Kidd whose athletic style ( " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers " ) wouldn't seem to mesh too well with Astaire's more graceful ballroom techniques , but actually it works out okay . It turns Astaire and Charisse into paragons of elegance compared to the goings-on around them . Oscar Levant is hilarious . He's always hilarious if you know Oscar Levant and the manifestations of his neuroses . Notice in the " That's Entertainment " number , where he shares the dancing with Astaire , Fabray , and Buchanan . He's the only one who glances at his feet , as if curious to see where they're going . The director , Vincent Minelli , uses a lot of extras and seems to know exactly what to do with them . ( I think anyone who's worked as an extra would notice this first of all ; right , Buckie ? ) Minelli puts color to wonderful use in every scene too . Each new set looks like he jumped heedlessly , feet first , into the visible spectrum . The acting is up to par , and Levant and Buchanan are especially good , or at least especially funny . ( There's tension in the plot but not drama . ) Minelli had some kind of supernal vision too . When the show fails because of an excess of pomposity and ambition , we should have seen a series of spinning newspapers with fictitious names ( " New York Star " , " Midvale News " , " Zinzinnati Beobachter " ) bringing us headlines like " BIG SHOW FLOPS " and " TOO SNOOTY FOR FOLKS " , but instead a lugubrious chorus introduces us to a black-and-white sketch of a gigantic egg . I was a kid when I first saw this in a theater and couldn't stop laughing at the egg , and now , at the age of 142 , I still find it amusing , although I no longer laugh at it for fear of expelling my false teeth into the guacamole . Once , upon laughing too hard in a fancy restaurant , my glass eyeball achieved such a hyperbolic trajectory that - - well , it gave the diners two tables downwind a rare opportunity to become very unpleasant . No reason to have more than four martini glasses on a single table at the same time anyway . Alas , I recall one part of the movie that didn't work for me and doesn't work for me now . The long , usually climactic ballet had become a staple of musicals . Some were exhilarating - - " Singin ' in the Rain . " Some struck me as simply overblown - - " An American in Paris . " And some went nowhere , as does this one , " The Girl Hunt . " I suppose at the time , what with Raymond Chandler and Mickey Spillane , it was more of a novelty , but those writers were already being parodied to death by people like Bob Hope . The numbers aren't based on monuments to the Great American Songbook either . You've heard most of them before but they aren't standout standards . One number , occurring about half way through the film , " Dancing in the Dark " , is among the best that Astaire has put on film with any partner . Not necessarily the most fun or the most sparkling , but romantic , relevant to the plot and technically difficult . Astaire and Charisse twirl their way up a set of a dozen or so steps , for instance . They make it look SO easy but if you or I were to do it we'd break both legs in the first few seconds . That brings me to Cyd Charisse and legs . That's a problem , because I'm not sure I want to go much beyond that point . What a dish , with legs of infinite length , as in the old Flashman comics , so that one feels , were she really to stretch , she could touch her toes to the horizon . You have to see this , I'm afraid . The consequences of not doing so would be dire . Astaire doesn't do pirouettes with hatracks or mops , and he doesn't prance on the ceiling , because he doesn't have to . The performers are at the top of their games , the music is MGM-gorgeous , and the story is funny .
Mission Impossible	This is a very difficult film to evaluate . I'm not sure exactly how closely the narrative follows the historical facts , for one thing . Certainly some of the dialog is fictional , but it's less the dialog than the layout of the situation that needs to be understood , and the movie is weak on that point . One of the docuchannels , perhaps Discovery , showed a two-hour special on this incident , shortly after the movie was released . The documentary is a lot easier to understand than the movie itself . I emphasize historical accuracy because the rest of the film is fairly competent and doesn't need much in the way of comment . No real acting is called for . The photography is adequate , tinted beige with flying dust during daylight sequences , almost as much as silent films might have been , and a sort of sickly green at night . I had a very hard time keeping up with the location of the various units , or remnants of units , and with just exactly who was who , except for Sam Shepherd who is easily identifiable . The special effects were up to what one would expect of an expensive modern movie . There was an abundance of realistic gore , of bullets clanking off metal , and so forth . Maybe a bit too much . It was inevitable that " Saving Private Ryan " would initiate a new level of graphic violence . The movie delineates four groups of people . ( 1 ) The heroic American elite units , Rangers and Delta Force . ( 2 ) The villainous , practically cannibalistic rabble of the Somali " militia . " ( 3 ) The resentful and reluctantly cooperative Pakistanis . And ( 4 ) the Somali civilians who are suffering the most . It's a brave film because its subject is an uninvited intervention in a remote anarchistic country done for humanitarian reasons , and it was a failure . We were supposed to relieve starvation and introduce order into a social universe of moral nihilism . I remember feeling that we were going to have trouble getting along in this place that nobody had ever heard of when clips were shown on TV news of Marines standing guard on trucks that were trundling along the unpaved streets . A handful of laughing skinny kids were running alongside the trucks and knocking cartons of food off into the dust . The angry Marines , used to more discipline , were swatting and shouting at the children . For the first few days , the " militia " lay low . ( " Militia " is in quotes because they weren't militia , just warring factions led by charismatic leaders . ) After they realized they weren't going to be annihilated , that the UN actually DIDN'T intend to kill everyone and take over , they emerged from hiding doing what they did best , running around with automatic weapons , often mounted on the beds of old pick-ups , and shooting at one another . Well , this was what we had come to stop , right ? According to respectable reports in the New Yorker and elsewhere , it was decided on our part that the biggest nuisance of all was one particular warlord . He , out of many contenders , was identified as the " enemy " and it was seen as necessary to arrest him , if we could find him first . The search and the attempt at capture , which this movie depicts , seems largely to have been done out of rage and frustration . Well , we didn't get the guy we were after , since this wasn't fiction . And we lost eighteen American men ( all enlisted men ) , and the Pakistanis lost two dozen as well , though the film doesn't mention it . I was gripped by the movie from beginning to end . What I took away from it was a feeling that there are simply some missions that are impossible . After all , our most highly trained troops took high tech weapons of all sorts and deployed them against a horde of disorganized hostiles armed with nothing more than small arms and grenades launchers . And we sent our men into a country in which little laughing kids could PO the Marines , a country we understood nothing about , against an " enemy " that ourselves had defined , in a city in which we didn't know our way around . George F . Will put it very well : " We have no obligation to do that which is impossible . " The Gulf War of course was a much larger military enterprise . And when we think of the last war we fought , we think of our overwhelming victory there . I wish that every living person who hungers for war at this moment could see " Blackhawk Down " so that they could envisage a different scenario , a different set of scenes than our airplanes bombing missile bases amidst pretty fireworks , our tanks blowing the hatches off those of the bad guys . It's possible that instead of ending in a quick victory , our next military intervention may end up tragically , more of a bloody nose than an adrenalin rush .
Charming MGM Musical .	The eldest of the seven Pontiphy brothers ( Howard Keel ) , who live in a filthy ramshackle farmhouse in the Idaho mountains of 1850 , comes to town looking for a wife . He finds one in the person of Jane Powell , a cook in the local boarding house . Powell works her buns off cleaning up this pig stye and making dinner . She loves him , see , but to him , as he puts it , " One woman's pretty much like another . " What a family this is . To call them " swine " is an insult to swine . They're like a bunch of reprobates rounded up to be deloused by the Salvation Army . They fight all the time . And when Powell demands that they surrender their long johns to the laundry , one of them discovers that his buttons are missing and his underclothes have been stitched together . That's how long it's been since he was out of them . Powell manages to get them in shape , at least superficially , teaching them manners and seeing that they dress in clean working clothes . Keel and Powell take the newly tamed brothers to a competitive barn raising . Provoked by their opposition , they punch the other men out and fall in love with their girl friends . They spend some time mooning over the women until Keel finally mobilizes them . Following the example set by the Romans and the Sabine women in Jane Powell's copy of " Plutarch's Lives , " they ride into town , kidnap the girls , and abscond with them to the farmhouse , sealed off now until Spring by an avalanche . Lamentably , they forgot to kidnap a preacher . Powell is shocked and the six women are hysterical . The men must sleep in the barn until Spring , when they finally get to meet their brides and bond with them . By the time the families reach the farm , everyone is eager for marriage . The story has a fey quality . Due to budget restrictions , the film was shot entirely on a sound stage but , fortunately , the sets and backgrounds give the impression of deliberate stylization rather than penury . ( Another musical of the period , " Brigadoon " , didn't come off too well on a stage . ) The brides are largely indistinguishable - - except for Julie Newmar who would stand out in any crowd . And the MEN - - some of the busiest and best-known dancers in show business - - Jacques D'Amboise , Matt Mattox , Tommy Rall , and Russ Tamblyn , for instance . Well , Russ Tamblyn was a gymnast rather than a dancer but he fits nicely into this exalted company . ( You ought to hear D'Amboise speak in his native Brooklynese : " Da goil has as hahd a job as da man . " ) The brides are quite skilled too , especially Nancy Kilgas as Alice , who is petite and enchanted and an exquisite talent . I don't want to carry on too much about dancers but it's a tough and demanding racket . Anybody can act . Anybody can sing . I know because I can do both , miserably . Actors can be chosen for their looks or their voices . Danny Aiello was discovered working on the subway . Ben Johnson was a horse wrangler . Lana Turner , famously and probably apocryphally , was discovered sitting on a stool in Schwab's Drug Store in Hollywood . Vera Miles was Miss Oklahoma . See what I mean ? But nobody ever saw someone on the subway and said , " How would you like to come to Hollywood and be a dancer ? " It's a psychokinetic talent that you must be born with and cultivate with some devotion . You have to be as fit as a running back and must learn to direct that physical force into precisely defined channels . I know , because I can't do it . Rather than go on , let me just suggest you watch the barn raising sequence in " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers " and keep track of Michael Kidd's muscular choreography . The story may be a fairy tale but the male dancers are anything but pixillated . Howard Keel is bluff and masculine . Jane Powell is tiny and winsome . Both are professional singers , and Powell can dance in a controlled fashion as well . The songs vary from mock melancholy to exuberant and Johnny Mercer's rude lyrics can be sly . " I'm a lonesome polecat . . . can't make no vows , to a herd of cows . . . a man can't sleep , when he sleeps with sheep . . . can't shoot the breeze , with a bunch of trees . " Most musicals are notable chiefly for their songs . The plots are discountable ( eg . , Fred and Ginger ) or , if more ambitious , just boring ( eg . , " An American in Paris " ) . But this story , like a few others ( eg . , " The Bandwagon " or " Singin ' in the Rain " ) can , like Jane Powell's stew , " stand on its own two feet . " No point going much further . See it . You'll enjoy it .
Without a Net	One of the best contructed full-length comedies of the twenties . Harold Lloyd was not as outrageously inventive as Chaplin , nor as sentimental . His style was a kind of minimalist one , taking a simple idea - - say , being a hasseled salesman in a clothing store and needing desperately to become a success - - and building on that small situation until , by the hilarious climax , he finds himself swinging from the bent minute hand of an oversized clock on the side of a building many stories above the street . ( Human flies were popular around this time , as were flagpole sitters and goldfish eaters . ) When a mouse crawls up the leg of his trousers , not only does Loyd go through a sort of break dance trying to get rid of it but when he finally does shake it out , the mouse falls down the wall of the building and in the process removes a toupee from a spectator peering out of a lower window . All of this without matte work . Not to say that the earlier scenes in the store aren't extremely amusing , because they are . Loyd had a very mobile face and like most silent comedians a deft physical manner . He makes a splendidly fawning salesman . A very funny movie indeed , and thrilling as well . Any five minutes of the climax , taken at random , makes one dizzier than whole sections of Clint Eastwood or Sylvester Stallone hanging around the Eiger or elsewhere in the Alps . Somehow , Loyd managed to make a self-deprecatory joke out of his athletic skill , while nowadays stars use what amount of it they have as an opportunity to show off their bravery and , when possible , their bulging muscles . Let's hear it for the silents .
One spooky movie .	Scarier than cannibalistic zombies or mutant rats , this is a fictional story built around a real incident . In the early years of the atomic age , Emilio Estevez is a scientist working for the Atomic Energy Commission and is involved in testing bombs in Nevada . We don't hear much about it , but man were those tests badly bungled . These were above-ground tests of dirty devices . Sheen and some airborn troops are exposed to the blasts , first from far away , then closer . The last one is too close . We don't know it until we see the trucks delivering the troops to their positions . The men are hustled off and the trucks zoom away in a cloud of dust . The dugouts to have been provided for the men are not there . One of them looks up at the tower . In previous tests we've seen the tower as no more than a spike on the distant desert horizon . This time the monster is close enough to make out details of its structure . " Wow , " says the soldier , " What's the range on THAT one ? " No answer is forthcoming . Later we learn the records show the distance as twenty miles , about nineteen miles extra thrown in to cover someone's behind . In the early tests a lot of colorful footage was shot of our brave soldiers emerging from their trenches and marching towards the demonic cauliflower cloud . It's hard to imagine why they were there in the first place except to inoculate the public to the idea of atomic war . See them walk into the dust ? They're as safe as in their mother's arms . Nothing to be afraid of . I once asked a professor of chemistry who was familiar with the outlines of the testing program whether the authorities realized the danger they were putting the troops in , and he replied , " They knew . " The movie doesn't mention it , but the troops weren't the only people put at risk . The detonations raised clouds of pretty tangerine dirt that drifted across the sky over southern Utah , bringing many of the resident of St . George out to view the colorful sunsets and breathe the fallout , with the expectable results . The drama is relatively low key , especially for a TV movie , far less flamboyant than , say , " Fat Man and Little Boy . " The most touching scene in the movie , probably , is when a handful of soldiers are invited to a party given by some young women . But when they return from one of the tests , they are denied entrance to the party because they may have been irradiated and might be dangerous to be around . Nobody goes into fits of screaming anger . It's not that kind of story . All we have is a rather long shot of the disappointed men standing wordlessly at parade rest outside the screen door . The photography is particularly good . Most of the outdoor scenes are tinted a jaundiced yellow , as if already poisoned . The colors are all earth tones , but not depressing in themselves . And the desert is not ominous in any way . The earth is not sentient or smart , except that part of it that we humans represent . The film has no zombies or man-eating fish , but it's scarier than you might imagine . The most frightening thing about it is not the vastness of the desert , nor even the bomb itself , but rather the minds that put the bomb where it is , and the troops where they were , and then decided the bomb should explode . What were those minds thinking ? We've never had an explanation and the movie gives us none . It's unlikely that we'll find out whether it was by accident or design that these lives were ruined . PS : I just viewed this again for the first time since its release and expected to find the message overstated this time , but was wrong . Now that I'm more mature and a little more familiar with death in its more prosaic forms I find the movie more powerful than ever . It took courage to make it .
Larger Than Life .	The thing has become an icon of vernacular culture . A decade or so ago an artist arranged to have a huge balloon of King Kong blown up and attached to the top of the Empire State Building . It didn't work . The consarned thing kept deflating and flapping around in the unanticipated wind . No matter . The image of Kong beating his chest , stripping off Fay Wray's clothes , fighting the Tyrannosaurus , shaking the men off the log into the spider pit , and finally being killed by those damned planes will survive Cristo's - - or anybody else's - - attempt to turn Kong into a work of art . Mainly , it's a work of technology . It was , to say the least , a labor-intensive project under people like Willis O'Brien , Meriam C . Cooper , and Ernest Shoedsack . What gets me about it is that it's so much more than that . King Kong , who was no more than a fourteen-inch puppet , let's face facts , was turned into a genuine actor . Look at his facial expressions . When he's enraged he LOOKS enraged . When he's sad , he looks sad . Now , those are easy expressions to form on a plastic , sculpted face . Blind people have sculpted accurate impressions of emotions like " rage " or " fear " , not to mention Edvard Munch , who was nuts . But " puzzlement " ? Check out Kong's expression when he's been seriously wounded by the constant shooting of the nasty airplanes and he picks at his wounds and looks at the blood on his fingertips . We sense that the animal is perfectly comfortable with fighting dinosaurs but has no idea of what he's now dealing with . I'm telling you , when he fell from the building to the ground I cried . I cried like a baby . By the way , when Fay Wray surfaces after the long plunge into the water , her garments slip off her shoulder and you can see what she's got .
Habitat for Humanity	James Stewart , a prize-winning photographer , is cooped up in his Greenwich Village apartment with a broken leg . Bored , he watches his diverse neighbors around the courtyard . One of them , a salesman ( Raymond Burr ) , seems to dispose of his nagging , invalid wife by chopping her up and removing her body in sections , but Stewart has no evidence . Gradually , he draws his nurse ( Thelma Ritter ) into his web of convictions , then his girl friend ( Grace Kelly , than whom no girl friend is more gracious - - or better looking for that matter , all that nacreous beauty coiled around a soft pink core ) . But he is unable to convince his " ornery old friend " , the police detective , Wendell Corey , that anything is wrong . The climax reveals Burr to be a murderer , breaks Stewart's other leg , and smooths over some riffs in the Stewart / Kelly relationship . This is one of Hitchcock's best . It raises certain ethical questions , of course . Is it right for people to spy on one another ? But the philosophical issues are minor compared to the virtues displayed by this film if taken as a simple mystery thriller . Everything comes together . It's from Hitchcock's best period , the 1950s , and the director does a laudable job . But it's one of those movies that requires the services of a crew that really knows its business , and they deliver . The performances by the principals is excellent , especially Stewart , on whose smallest movements the story depends . But the movie wouldn't be the success that it is without Franz Waxman's score , Robert Burks ' photography , Sam Comer and Ray Moyer's set decoration , and the Sound Department . These aren't the kind of crew members who get noticed , except among their peers , but they put together a winner in this instance . Here's one example of what I mean . One of Stewart's neighbors , " Miss Lonelyhearts , " lives alone and is given to having dinners with imaginary suitors . One night , after suitable preliminary libations , she goes out and picks up a younger man and brings him home . Instead of the decorous development of a romance , the testosterone-driven dude becomes aggressive and Miss Lonelyhearts must slap him to get him to stop . He leaves in a high dudgeon , or maybe , given the circumstances , a low dudgeon . Now , Stewart is watching this from his window across the courtyard . It's late evening and rather noisy . A pop song is playing somewhere . Stewart can't hear what's being said , and he can barely see the events through the half-closed blinds of Miss Lonelyhearts ' apartment . Yet the sound of that slap registers , faintly but still audibly . It's the only clear sound we hear or need to hear from her apartment . It acts as punctuation , a period putting an end to this particular cardboard fantasy . The set is functional and evocative . There are about two dozen windows around the courtyard and Stewart can see almost all of them . The less important apartments are off to the side so he must bend over , but the other are accessible . ( It's mid summer and the temperature is in the 90s , so everyone's windows tend to be open . ) The construction of the set even yields a tiny sliver of the street across the way , and , with the help of a telephoto lens , even an interior glimpse of the restaurant on the other side of the street . And events of varying importance occur in these tiny porticoes . A murderer may be seen toting body parts off in a suitcase , just for a few seconds , on the sidewalk , or a photographer's girl may give him the high sign when he sends her off on an errand . The interior of Stewart's apartment is designed with precision . It's what I think is called a studio apartment - - just one room , not overly big , combining bedroom and dining room . There's a miniature kitchen off to the side , the interior of which we never see , and a bathroom , ditto . The place is cluttered with Stewart's memorabilia and other junk . How he can get around in that wheelchair amid the chaos we'll never know . If he had two functional legs he's STILL have to edge around sideways . And , man , do we get the feeling of heat , and of involvement with other people , so open and involved that they can't seem to get out of each other's way . That's why , when a miniature dog is strangled , and the owner across the courtyard screams out that nobody knows the meaning of " neighbor " anymore , it rings false . None can be unaware of his surroundings . James Stewart is not a likable guy in this movie . He's edgy . He's superior , argumentative , neither invites nor projects warmth , is sometimes snotty to his visitors or even hostile . It's hard to imagine why his detective friend would have anything much to do with him . And he plays Grace Kelly like a hooked fish on a very light line . Kelly wants to get married and Stewart wants to keep things " status quo . " She wants him to give up his adventurous , perambulatory life , wear dark flannel suits , and settle down to taking fashion portraits , which is definitely not his bliss . Kelly herself is always impeccably dressed , carries expensive luggage , and is perfectly satisfied with the comfortable life she leads among the social elite . At the end , in a consummately phony compromise , we see Stewart sleeping peacefully and smiling , the temperature now having dropped into the 70s , while Kelly sits curled on his couch and , after a glance at him , puts aside the book she's been pretending to read , " Beyond the High Himalayas " , and takes up a copy of Harper's Bazaar . Can anyone believe that this marriage will be a happy one ? It's full of intrigue and suspense , finely done , and not to be missed . Not profound - - just " deep " enough .
Ignore it at peril .	As a dramatic actor Al Gore is no Lawrence Olivier . And as an inspirational speaker he's no Billy Graham . And he's not especially photogenic . To be perfectly honest , he has only three main virtues on display in this documentary . ( 1 ) He speaks slowly and clearly , even at his most hortatory . ( 2 ) He's obviously got brains . ( 3 ) He's got vision . Mostly this is his filmed lecture , the one he's been giving around the country and abroad . There's a good deal of graphics that illustrate in a simple way some of the more complicated statistical points he's making , and lots of easy-to-read maps . The text of the lecture is straightforward with no more than a minimal amount of scientific jargon . It has few jokes . And it bashes no one openly so that , unlike , say , Rush Limbaugh or Keith Olbermann or Hannity and O'Reilly , the presentation handicaps itself by not being able to cash in on collective anger . His counterpart would be more like George F . Will , except that this particular social problem is neither liberal nor conservative in its properties . The emotions elicited are not rage and not adulation for the speaker , but awe at the magnitude of the problem being addressed and anxiety over the possibility that it may not be addressed at all . The guy really believes that global warming is underway and that it is in fact increasing and that we are among the leading contributors . Well , he's convinced me . Not that it took much convincing . A year or so ago , having read so often than global warming was " a theory " and that it was " controversial , " I went to the bother of looking up some of the research that is repeatedly cited to refute global warming . I'm not a climatologist but I have spent thirty years in research and I know how the machine works . In reading the contrary research reports on global warming I was really surprised . Even in my own field , behavioral science , I've never seen such openly corrupt research taken seriously . Here's one technique that's used in the contrary studies , often funded by the American Petroleum Institute , to refute global warming . Find an exception to the rule and publish it as if it disproves the rule . In my own field , this would be as absurd as challenging the generalization that all people speak languages by finding someone who is mute and publishing a case study . Thus , " all people speak " can become only " a theory " or a " controversial " idea . Should it have won an Oscar ? I don't know . It's competently done , the issue is of manifest importance , and the emotional tone is restrained and civilized . It's not innovative in the way that Errol Morris was or is , but , yes , it's pretty well done . I don't know what the other contenders were like . The only genuine problem with the film that I could find was a dumbed-down gumbaya type of folk song , " I've Gotta Wake Up , " played under the end credits .
A Better War Movie	No one would argue that this 1945 war film was a masterpiece . How could any 1945 war film be a masterpiece ? And yet this is an extremely effective telling of a true story , that of Al Schmidt , blinded on Guadalcanal , as played by John Garfield , who spent days wearing a blindfold to capture the nuances of a blind person's actions . Robert Leckie , in Helmet for My Pillow , denigrates Schmidt's popularity in favor of his foxhole mate , who was killed , writing that " the country must have needed live heroes . " Well , I suppose the country did . And they had one here . There is a single combat scene in the movie , bound to the studio lot , lasting only ten minutes or so , and occurring less than halfway through the film instead of being saved for the climax , but it is the scariest and most realistic depiction of men under fire that I can remember having seen on screen , including those in Saving Private Ryan . Men yell with fear , scream at each other and at the enemy , and bleed and die , without the aid of color , stereophonic sound , squibs , or gore . The performances are solid , if not bravura , including those of the ubiquitous 1940s support , John Ridgeley , and a radiant , youthful Eleanor Parker . The framing love story is spare , but it works , and ultimately is quite moving . A striking dream sequence is included . It's not Bunuel , but for a routine 1945 film , it stands out as original and effective . Albert Maltz has overwritten the script . It could have used the kind of pruning that might have introduced some much needed ambiguity . Still , there are odd verbal punctuations that have a surprising impact on the viewer - - " Why don't God strike me dead ? " And , " In the eyes , Lee . Get ' em in the eyes ! " Depths of anguish in a few corny words . And a surprising amount of bitterness expressed by wounded veterans in a 1945 war film . Notes that might seem false to a contemporary viewer but perhaps shouldn't : the dated vernacular which it's difficult to believe many of today's kids could think was actually ever spoken - - " privatgab , " " dope " , " drip , " " Gee , " " you dumb coot , " " dame , " " a swell guy , " and " feeling sorry for yourself . " Let us consider the historical context and be kind in our judgments . At the time , some of this goofy lingo was at the cutting edge . Real weak points ? Maltz speechified too much . The wounded veterans get together and argue with each other about how much of a collective future they have and the argument is oversimply resolved with a conclusion along the lines of , " Just because you have a silver plate in your head doesn't mean people will think you're a bad person . " There are sometimes voiceovers and silent prayers that are both unnecessary and downright corny . " Please , God , let him return to me , " and that sort of thing . Well , the film makers were operating within the constraints of their times . Maybe that's why the final fade is on a shot of Independence Hall and the inspiring strains of " America the Beautiful " swell in the back . None of this can undo the film's virtues , which are considerable , particularly the impact of that horrifying combat scene .
Inventive , amusing	Harold Loyd is pretty funny , and a good physical comic . Among Those Present deals with the contrast between high society and the rest of us . It seems to have been a more popular theme during the 1920s than it is now . ( Cf . , The Great Gatsby . ) Not that we don't have our share of contemporary explorations of the same issue , as in Trading Places , but now the contrast seems to be more about wealth and less about " class " in the old fashioned sense . The first half of Among Those Present has Loyd imitating a British aristocrat , telling ridiculous stories about " the hunt " to an assembly of awed guests at a tony party , and trying to ride a horse that others refer to as a " brute . " ( The subsequent ride is more imaginative than the similar one in Auntie Mame . ) In the second half , Loyd has lost his trousers escaping from a bull through a barbed wire fence but doesn't realize it . This is the most outlandishly amusing part of the film . No matter how Loyd tries to cover up the fact that he is pantsless , the attempt fails . It's like Laurel and Hardy trying to change trousers after their escape from prison . Probably the single funniest moment in the movie is when Loyd , still in his skivvies , finds himself hopping froglike past a couple of dignified ladies on a bench . ( I won't explain what led up to this . ) I laughed out loud a few times even though I wasn't in a particularly good mood while watching it . I mean , my brain hadn't been chemically altered or anything . It's quite amusing .
One of the most successful comedies of its decade .	I caught this on its first run in Honolulu after spending two years in a place with no movie theaters . I laughed all the way through it . I was certain that enthusiasm was the result of all the previous deprivation , and some of it was , but the luster hasn't worn off this film on subsequent viewings . It's still funny and at time hilarious . Federico Fabrizi ( Peter Sellers ) is an escaped convict who must find a way to unload a horde of stolen gold from a ship . He gets his friends together , they find a small fishing village suitable for bringing stolen gold ashore , con the aging movie star Tony Powell ( Victor Mature ) and his agent ( Martin Balsam ) into cooperating , claiming they are going to make a " neorealist " movie about unloading stolen gold . Seller's sister , Gina Romantica ( Britt Ekland ) will play opposite Tony Powell . ( Mature : What's neorealism ? " Balsam : " No money . " ) All of the villagers , including the mayor and the police chief , are used in the fake movie to unload the real stolen gold . Everybody gets caught . Sellers takes the rap and escapes again . The end . Now , it isn't surprising that Neal Simon has written a funny screenplay based on his play . He was at the top of his game at the time , and nobody is better at barbed exchanges than Neal Simon at his best . What's amazing about this film is that it is so far removed from Simon's usual bailiwick , the comic contretemps of New York Jews . Here he deals with Italian culture and he's got it just about perfect . The film , directed by Vittorio DeSica , who should know neorealism when he sees it , pokes fun at empty Italian bravado , the almost incestuous obsession with protecting the virtue of one's sister , the allegiance to national laws as a sometime thing , the police as little more than a largely ineffective nuisance , the pretentiousness of Italian films of the period ( Fellini and Antonioni are skewered ) , pompous film critics who see art where there be no art , the vanity of aging actors ( Mature : " I have the pupils of an eighteen-year-old boy ! " ) , the spell cast over ordinary nobodies by film-making , and a host of other targets . It's not just Simon's dialog that makes this outstanding . I can't believe that the comedy would be so effective without DeSica's willingness to puncture the Italian film industry and the culture that embraces it . Example : The fake film has been hastily thrown together and is shown as evidence in court . And , good God , what a horrifying abortion it is . The gang know nothing about movies . We see about five minutes of black and white film . They've used wide angle shots so that human faces turn into bulging gargoyles . In some scenes the camera is on its side . There are utterly pointless shots ( sometimes in slow or accelerated motion ) of people doing nothing of importance , of actors running nowhere ( " no matter how fast you run , you can't run away from yourself " ) , of Peter Seller's behind as he bends over , of rocks , of surf , of nothing . When the film flaps around the take-up reel , a man in the courtroom leaps to his feet in the applauding wildly . He announces that he's a film critic and that Sellers is a " a genius ! A primitive genius ! The best film to come out of Italy in forty years ! I cried ! I cried like a BABY ! " ( The judge throws him out and call him crazy . ) I can't continue this without laughing , but I have to mention one more gag . Sellers real name is Aldo Venucci and in his home he is bragging to his mother and sister that he is ashamed of nothing . To prove it , he throws open the window and shouts " I am Aldo VENUCCI ! " In the street below , two of the gang are shielding their faces and they hiss up a warning , " The po-lice ! The po-lice ! " Sellers instantly dashes from the window and hides in a bathtub . Consistently funny , a long jab at phoniness in its every manifestation . Recommended without qualification if you're in the mood for laughs .
Snappy and hilarious	It isn't the first time men were in drag on the screen and certainly not the last , but surely it must be the funniest example . I'll skip the plot and just make a few offhand observations . One is that the writers put a near-perfect polish on this script . They didn't simply throw gags and comic situations into the story hoping they would all add up to a funny movie . Instead they worked running gags into the dialog . Some of them are so utterly without symbolic - - or even sensible - - content that they become in themselves sidesplitting . " Type O blood . " It must come up half a dozen times in outrageously irrelevant contexts . And one that took me at least ten viewings to catch . I will now spell it out in case anyone out there is as dull as I've been . Near the beginning , when Joe and Jerry are still Joe and Jerry , Joe pitches some woo to Nellie Wymeyer in order to borrow her car , a Hupmobile 1929 . An hour into the film , long after this brief exchange has been forgotten , Josephine has cornered Sugar on " his " yacht and explains to her the origin of his impotence . It's an imaginative and tragic tale . It seems he met his only true love at the Grand Canyon . She was as blind as he was . They stood together on the edge of the highest cliff . He took off his glasses . She took off her glasses . He took a step towards her . She took a step towards him . " Oh , no ! " cries Sugar . " Yes . Eight hours later they brought her up - - by mule . " That's not the running gag though . The running gag is that while Josephine is improvising this blatantly phony yarn , making it up as he goes along , free associating , he mentions that the girl he loved was named Nellie and that her father was president of Hupmobile . Absolutely nothing more is made of the connection between Nellie Wymeyer's Hupmobile and this baloney Josephine is slicing - - in fact he skips rather blithely over it . I don't think I'll give away any other gags , which means I can't really describe the movie in any detail . But mention should be made of the score and the arrangements of the contemporary tunes , for which I guess Adolph Deutsch is responsible . They're wacky when that's called for and sweet in an old-fashioned way when ballads are required . " Stairway to the Stars " has never sounded so romantic , and " I'm Through With Love " more wistful . ( Catch the key change after Monroe finishes singing . ) The underscore is remarkable too - - a frenetic combination of bass and tenor saxophone . ( What else ? ) Monroe seems a bit thick waisted but it doesn't detract from her sex appeal because she's so Hollywood gorgeous . That transparent dress she almost has on during her love scene with Tony Curtis doesn't dampen her appeal either . The two male leads give unimpeachable performances . I know Tony Curtis has often been criticized for his " mannerisms " and his accent but they fit his character well enough in the Bing Crosby part , while Jack Lemon couldn't be improved upon in the Bob Hope part of the continually hoodwinked , constantly cackling breathlessly . All the supports are just about right too . Sid Polyakoff - - " Spielt mit der PhilharMONic ! " And where on this planet did casting find all those goons who play George Raft's companions . " These are my lawyers . All Harvard men . " Those FACES . I can't find anything bad to say about the movie . It's funny from beginning to end . If you haven't seen it yet , you owe it to yourself to catch it when you have a chance .
One of Neil Simon's Funniest	Simon is good at barbed exchanges , as in most of " The Odd Couple . " But he has a tendency to get serious sometimes and it rarely works , even when the serious ones have some occasional good one-liners in them . His drama tends to be dull , and his comedies funny , especially in domestic contexts and when they're dialogue dependent . This is different from his other familiar works . He really lets go here , forgets all about serious undertones , " meaningfulness , " depth of relationships , domesticity , continuity - - everything except the comic effect . He's the Edgar Allan Poe of comedy here . He hasn't written such a funny script since " After the Fox . " The plot itself , after the broth is reduced , is simple enough . Truman Capote invites five of the world's most famous detectives to a weekend at his spooky country mansion , tells them a murder will be committed at midnight , and challenges them to solve it or lose their reputations . What follows is hilarious . Not just sharply funny exchanges but entire situations that are in themselves outrageous , so that the verbal elements are like icing on the cake . It's the kind of movie in which a line like , " My chauffeur was injured by a falling gargoyle while standing outside in Chinese footprints , " makes an idiotic kind of sense . A movie in which a character can offer this as an explanation for his having been found in a gay bar : " I hate them queeries . Lots of dames go in those places anyway . I never kissed nobody . And I never done anything to a man that I wouldn't do with a woman . " A movie in which two old ladies are about to fall asleep in bed when one of them sniffs and says , " I smell gas . " The second says : " I can't help it . I'm old . " The first says , " No , no . Not THAT kind of gas . The other kind . The kind that KILLS . " And the second begins a reply with , " Sometimes MY gas . . . . " I could go on with these gags but why spoil it ? And anyway there are sight gags and situational discombobulations that are just as funny but would take far too long to describe . Not all of the gags and situations are equally funny . ( How could they be ? ) Nancy Walker plays a mute maid who's purpose in the movie eludes me . And some of the gags are silly rather than funny . But the weaknesses are minor and more than made up for by the movie's many virtues . Especially good is Peter Falk's Sam Diamond , who does an insane impression of Humphrey Bogart as Sam Spade . The actor played the same character in the later , less-successful " The Cheap Detective . " Simon even allows himself to play with the frame at the end . Falk and Eileen Brennan ( " my secretary and mistress " ) are driving away from the mansion and Brennan says , " I guess this means we won't be seeing each other anymore , Sam . " Falk : " Well , Angel , you can never tell . I'll be around . And if you need me , all you gotta do is whistle . You know how to whistle , don't you ? " Brennan : " Well , of course I know how to whistle , Sam . What a silly question . Everybody knows how to whistle - - " Falk looks disgusted , turns away from her to stare into the camera , and says , " Allright , allright . Forget it . You ruined it . " I won't go on any longer about this sometimes extremely amusing film . Anything I would say would ruin it , although I must add that this is one of those movies you can watch and enjoy repeatedly , and without necessarily being in exactly the right mood for it - - unlike , say , Marx Brothers movies or W . C . Fields . It's one of the most laugh-ridden products of its decade . Watch it .
One of the Funniest Sitcoms Ever .	I may be warped but I find this series to be among the handful of enduring classics among all the TV sitcoms that have been aired . Full disclosure ? Others include " I Love Lucy , " " The Honeymooners , " " Mary Tyler Moore , " and " Bob Newhart . " To sharpen up the taxonomy , I'll put " Married With Children " together with " The Honeymooners " in the " Outrageous " category , in which people get screamed at and bopped over the head . " Mary Tyler Moore " and " Bob Newhart " offer a more realistic , low-key set of comedic situations , much of the humor stemming from awkward situations , such as dating a man shorter than you are . We may call this category " Grounded . " " Lucy " falls between the two . There's been a lot of vulgarity on TV since " Married With Children " began twenty years ago , but most of the recent stuff has been without wit , let alone keen wit . And what unpromising material to begin with ! A shoe salesman and his selfish family living in a Chicago suburb . I mean - - if he had been a pilot or a doctor , or a couple of mixed race , think of the possibilities . But a poor shoe salesman ? How many jokes can you squeeze out of shoes ? ( Quite a few . ) I'll give an example of the kind of humor I find hilarious in this series , an example in which nobody get bonked on the head or screamed at . For some reason I forget , the two kids , Bud , the miles gloriosus , and succulent , blond , extravagantly stupid Kelly , decide to follow their Dad , Al Bundy , to work and secretly film his day on the job as a kind of cinema verite . They hide unseen behind the cash register and Al enters the empty shoe shop with a big smile and strips off his coat , ready to go to work , another day with his shoulder to the wheel , his nose to the grindstone , his wallet to whatever machine it is that empties wallets . Then Al sits down on one of the stools and buries his face quietly in his hands . The kids continue filming his motionless form . He is Rodin's " Thinker , " only trying to rid himself of thoughts . Dissolve to three hours later . The kids are still filming , looking at each other in disbelief . Al hasn't moved a muscle . One couldn't dream up a more perfect picture of comic despair . The Death of a Shoe Salesman , mingling pathos with humor . I suppose there was a slow deterioration in the quality of the shows . I haven't noticed any but I haven't seen all of them in sequence . Those things are inevitable , though . Every engine runs out of steam . It's one of Newton's laws and it's exemplified in " All in the Family , " which began its slow deflation after Show Number One . The only sign of desperation I saw in the writers was the introduction of a boring and distracting adopted kid named " Seven , " who faded away without explanation kind of quickly . There's quite a bit of vulgarity , though not nearly as much as , say , " NYPD Blue " or " Law & Order . " The humor is sometimes raunchy - - toilets and menstruation - - and it's certainly politically incorrect . That's one of the reasons I classified it as " Outrageous . " But so what ? It might not go over in middle-class Victorian circles but there are things going on now , unjust wars and suicide bombings by religious fanatics , that are truly obscene . This stuff is FUNNY . And , after all , if you find it offensive , then by all means you shouldn't watch a show that incorporates these topics as sources of laughter .
Fred and Ginger without the boring plot	This hilarious movie reminds me of one of those 1930s black-and-white Astaire / Rogers musicals : silly and boring plots involving mixed identities or whatever , illuminated periodically by stunning songs and dances . Now take away the boring parts . Each time I see this movie it seems funnier than the last . The outrageous verbal and visual gags are strung so tightly together that they scarcely leave breathing room between the guffaws . A joke occurs , and you think , " Well , that's it for a while , " but no - - another comes on top of it . Libertini as the dictator does his Senor Wences number before dinner . ( A general sense of chuckling here . ) When you think it's over , Libertini makes his fist say , " Quiero agua fria ! " and pours a glass of cold water into the funnel of his hand . The performers perfectly match their parts . Falk's CIA man is lunatic and confidently reassuring by turns . ( He buries his face in a napkin and bursts into a torrent of sobs at the prenuptial dinner table before Arkin's simple toast to the couple can even get started . ) Has there ever been a better straight man than Arkin is in this movie ? He seems to stumble through the story with his face frozen in disbelief at what is happening to him - - about to be shot by a firing squad he moans , " I've only had four women in my life , and two of them were my wife . " And Libertini boasting about how many thousands of dollars he paid for each piece in his art collection , a few paintings of tigers and nudes in day-glo colors on black velvet . ( I keep thinking he must have one of Elvis in a safe somewhere . ) On an airplane that is kidnapping Arkin and taking him to a Caribbean Island , flown by a Chinese crew , James Hong sits in front of Arkin and for several minutes cheerfully explains emergency procedures to him , how to blow up the life vest and use the oxygen mask , demonstrating his instructions , the lecture seems to go on and on - - all in Cantonese ! This is one of those comedies that makes me smile just thinking about it , the way that the puking fat man does in " Monty Python's Meaning of Life . " See it if you can .
People That Live	The movie itself is generally recognized as about as good ( or great ) as you can get , especially considering that it was shot in 33 days . But it often gets nailed for two scenes , one absent from the film , the other changed drastically . No Rosasharn is not seen in the film nursing the dying old man from her swollen breast . If the scene had been shot in 1939 ( or even suggested ) , the movie would never have been released . The second problem often pointed out is that the ending is too upbeat , what with Ma Joad's carrying on about how men live their lives in jerks while women flow along like Anna Livia Plurabelle , and " we're the people that live . " That last scene was written by Zanuck and was almost essential to a successful film in the late 1930s . Of course tragedies had been filmed for years , but ordinarily the tragic hero or heroine had earned his or her fate . Both audiences and authorities would have waxed wroth seeing an honest close-knit family crushed by an American economy that was totally inimical to their welfare . We need to look at art in the context of its time . From the Marxist perspective that Steinbeck used in writing the novel , Tom Joad ( Henry Fonda ) is the protagonist but the two most important characters are Ma Joad ( Jane Darwell ) and Casey the Preacher ( John Carradine ) . Ma represents what Marx called " false consciousness , " the tendency to attribute our misery to our own flaws , to bad luck , or God's will . Ma Joad's solution is retrograde - - to hold the " fambly " together . Casey , on the other hand , discovers " class consciousness . " It's not our fault . The flaw is systemic , and the solution lies in correcting the inequities in the system . Our allegiance has to transcend groups like the family and embrace all the exploited workers . The film endorses not Marx's revolution but a milder form of socialism - - the government-run labor camp with its democratic " sanitary units " , and the emerging union movement with its collective bargaining . Steinbeck's polemic is more acid . The novel has a reference to the extremely wealthy William Randolph Hearst ( better known as Charles Foster Kane ) who is described as have " a mean face and a mouth like a ahole . " There aren't many references to communism either in the novel or the film , just a few remarks about " Who is these Reds , anyways ? " Still pretty bold stuff for the 1930s with the public in one of its periodic Bolshevik scares ! No need for anxiety , though . By the late 1930s the Great Depression was easing up , and World War II was about to bring it to an end . Bakersfield now looks as if Tom Joad had made a successful escape and decided to open a chain of organic food stores . This is a marvelous film . To single out just one shot , note when the Joads drive through the first starving Hooverville . The camera is mounted on the front of the old truck and travels slowly , without any cuts or dialog , through groups of wary , singularly ratty looking people , men and women , young and old , some resembling photos of criminals from old Police Gazettes , who " don't look none too prosperous . " If nothing else , the film is a valuable corrective to the current view that people are poor because they're lazy . How did one third of a nation become so terribly lazy in the years following the 1929 stock market crash ?
Don't Miss This One .	The perfect film is not yet with us but this is movie making at its zenith . It's hard to imagine how this film could be improved upon . It's both gripping AND original . Each image on the screen is indelible . I'll give one example . Joseph Cotton waiting for Orson Welles at the gigantic ferris wheel , his coat flapping in the wintry breeze . The scene that follows references all the themes we have been introduced to previously - - crime , friendship , love , betrayal - - and it's very funny too . I mean , five hundred years of democracy and peace producing nothing more than the cuckoo clock . That scene could be played again and again without extinguishing the viewer's interest in it . Not that the movie depends entirely on set pieces . The continuity is provided not just by Holly Martins ' ( Joseph Cotton ) investigative perambulations but by incidents that link with one another or that restate the themes . By restating the theme , I'm referring to things that reveal Holly's failed attempts to replace Harry Lime ( Orson Welles ) in Anna's ( Valli ) life . Holly tries , for instance , to feed her some lines she has to learn for a play . " Harry used to do that . " The lines are in German and Holly flubs it until she gives up . And Anna's cat . Holly tries to play with it but it blows him off . " He only liked Harry . " The cat next appears in the street below , playing with the shoelaces of Harry , who is hiding in a dark doorway . By " incidents that link with one another , " I mean pieces of dialog or action that reflect one another and add to the sense of cohesion . Example : When Anna finds out that Holly is a police informant , she scolds him and says sarcastically , " Holly - - what a silly name ! " After the climactic chase , much later , Holly asks Calloway ( Trevor Howard ) to leave him at the gate so he can talk to Anna . Calloway tells him , " Be sensible , Martins . " And the reply is : " Haven't got a sensible name . " The lines resonate . Another example : twice Calloway and Martins drive past Anna while she is walking down the same road , leaving Harry's funeral - - one at the beginning and again at the very end . It's an adult movie with wit and elisions that are aimed at people who are not seeking black and white cartoon characters . It even manages to make us feel some sympathy for the villainous Harry when he's chased through the sewers . The story has to do with three people : a British officer who will not change his mind about a criminal , a friend of the criminal who does change his mind , and the criminal's lover who does not . Expect an up-beat ending ? Watch Valli walk past Holly Martins on her way out of the cemetery while the leaves fall . In all the films I've seen there are few more moving scenes , and its completely wordless . Everything seems to fit together here - - the direction , the performances , the score , the photography , and the writing . It's nearly a Gesamtkunstwerk and could have been shot in Wagner's Bayreuth instead of Vienna . Anton Karas's musical instrument wasn't chosen at random . It a traditional instrument in Austria and Germany . The word " zither " , by the way , is from an old Indo-European root that also gave us " sitar " and " guitar " . No need to go on about its virtues . If you miss this , you miss a milestone in cinematic history .
How to Spread Democracy .	One of the interviewees muses that rebuilding Iraq would be difficult , that there were 500 ways we could go wrong and only 2 or 3 in which we could go right . " We didn't realize , " she concludes , " that we were going to go through all 500 . " Is this a Bush-bashing propaganda piece ? Not really . Bush rarely comes up , partly because he was out of the loop on most of the important decisions , such as disbanding the Iraqi army , de-Ba'athifying the nation , and so forth . He'd evidently turned all of that over to the people who really get clobbered here , namely Cheney , Wolfowitz , Bremer , and especially Rumsfeld . The film lays out for us things that generally most of us already know about . It's not about combat , except insofar as combat appears as a consequence of mismanagement at higher levels . It doesn't jerk easy tears . A few soldiers tell us what it's like to be blown up . A few Iraqis describe kidnappings of their friends , neighbors , and children . But nobody breaks into sobs and shows us his wounds , and the anecdotes aren't detailed . The justification for the war is barely touched on , and Constitutional issues aren't raised . There's hardly any musical score and it's not melodramatic . The appeal is to logic and perception , not emotion , although nobody would call the film dull in any way . The interviewees we meet are sober and convincing , even as they confess their own misjudgments . Rumsfeld and the rest refused to be interviewed for obvious reasons . Their decision is understandable but it leaves the field open for critics of the war . The interviewer is not especially hostile , even to subjects who believe the reconstruction was handled well , like Walter Slocumbe . But the critics are not rabid left-wingers either , just military people , diplomats , and cogs in the wheel of nation rebuilding . What a tragic waste this has been . Never mind the physical and mental suffering of everyone involved - - except , evidently , those who are ultimately responsible for the tragedy . As of the time this film was released in 2007 , the eventual cost of the war in Iraq was estimated by two highly respected economists ( one a Nobelist ) at $1 . 86 trillion . Think of what we could do with that amount domestically . And , ironically , who has benefited the most from this ill-conceived and hasty invasion ? Our adversary for the past 30 years , Iran . We eliminated their greatest enemy . The film prompts considerations that go beyond Iraq . Maybe some nations simply don't have the infrastructure for the kind of Jeffersonian democracy that we enjoy . Maybe at some level , communities are best suited for a kind of benign totalitarianism . In city neighborhoods dominated by the Mafia , corruption is endemic but there are only occasional outbursts of violence . And the neighborhood runs smoothly when everyone knows what's expected of him . It's unjust but within its limitations it works . During the chaos of 2007 , one of the Iraqis interviewed on the street shouts , " If this is democracy , we don't want it . Give us a strong man and bring us order . " Something like that .
Don't Forgo Fargo	Boy , is this a good movie . In its bare bones it is a crime drama but the Coen brothers constantly undercut the seriousness with a quirky irony . The acting , the script , and the direction lift the movie light years above most of the movies of its decade . The performances , for instance , everyone speaks with what passes for an upper Midwestern accent , a very pronounced accent , let's say . So when characters are doing wicked things on screen , it's rather like watching people dressed in clown suits do nasty things . It's utterly impossible to take it very seriously - - only just seriously enough for us to feel sorry for the victims and to disapprove of the bad guys , but no more than that . Everyone except the two killers are forced by their culture to speak and act cheerfully . They never swear either . " You're darn tootin ' , " they say . The casting couldn't be better , with Frances McDormand , Steve Buscemi , and Bill Macy outstanding . The script is likewise splendidly done . It's full of scenes that seem peripheral except that they add to our understanding of the characters and often lead to later payoffs . Without taking the space to describe them , I will simply mention the scene in the restaurant between MacDormand and her Japanese friend from high school . Why is it in there at all ? ( My God , those hotel restaurants are depressingly ugly . ) Well - - among other things , such as establishing the kind of milieu these folks consider Ritzy , it tells us quite a bit about how MacDormand handles attempts to violate her inherent good nature . When the Japanese guy tries to sit next to her she tells him firmly that she'd prefer it if he sat across the table so that she can see him more easily . When he breaks down in tears she whispers that it's all okay . She is polite , a little distant without being unfriendly , completely practical , and absolutely iron bound in her values . Nobody is going to take advantage of or discompose this hyper pregnant babe . Further , this scene is a set up for a later one . After MacDormand learns that the Japanese guy has told her a gaggle of lies , she wakes up to the fact that , yes , people can tell untruths - - and she returns to interview Macy a second time . In another scene , when she's pressing one of the criminals during an interview , he excuses himself for a moment and she spots him taking off in his car . She exclaims , " Oh , for Pete's sake , he's FLEEIN ' THE INTERVIEW . " It's impossible to improve on a line like that , or on MacDormand's delivery of it . The third element of the film that makes it superior is the direction . The pauses come at the right times . A woman is sitting on her couch watching a soap opera on TV . Through the glass door of her apartment she sees a man approach . He's wearing a black ski mask and carrying a crowbar . He walks up to her door and shades his eyes while trying to peer inside . Now in an ordinary action movie , by this time the woman would be screeching and speeding down the hallway . Not here . The victim sits there staring at the intruder as he fiddles at the door , half horrified and half curious . " Who is this guy ? He's not the meter reader , is he ? " Coen the director has an eye for the suggestive picturesque too . Bill Macy has asked his father-in-law for a large loan for some sure-fire business proposition , but Dad offers him only a finder's fee . We see Macy's deflated face as his disappointment sets in . Cut . Now we're looking at a white screen punctuated by four or five bare trees equidistant from one another , and there is a tiny car in the middle of the whiteness . Then Macy's tiny figure trudges into the bottom of the shot and we realize we're looking at a snow-filled parking lot with only one ordinary-sized car in the center of it . Wintery weather plays an important part in the movie . People die in it , drive off the road because of it , stand shivering in it . Two freezing people are conversing on the street while one shovels snow . The shoveler stops , gazes up at the sky , and remarks that it " ought to be really cold tomorrow . " Cars and ambulances tend to drive in and out of white outs during blizzards and blowing snow . MacDormand is driving her murdering prisoner through a blank white landscape in which nothing much is visible and she is mildly remonstrating with him , saying something like , " Why did you do it , for a little bit of money ? It's a perfect day , and here you are . " ( A perfect day ! ) There are seven murders in this movie . Only three take place on screen . The others either take place off screen or else the director has the good sense to cut at the moment the gun fires or the ax blade lands . " Fargo " is one of perhaps half a dozen movies from the 1990s that I would consider buying on DVD . It's an original and refreshingly adult picture . Don't miss it .
Superlative	I first read this story when it was serialized in Playboy , with neatly understated illustrations by Punchatz , one of America's premiers . I read the book too , after having kept one ear on the TV hearings . I couldn't follow any of it . I gathered that most of the pols involved were liars and cheats , but what else was new ? So when this film appeared I attended it at Tassafaran Mall in South San Francisco , hoping that the details would be logically laid out . No dice . I still couldn't follow it . Information was introduced into the story coming out of nowhere . What's the big deal about shredding at CREEP ? Wouldn't they habitually shred all the used documents routinely . What I got instead of an exercise in ratiocination was a character study with a convoluted mystery background , kind of like Raymond Chandler without the Weltschmertz . And what a splendid study it is ! Redford has never been better . The part of mid-Western WASP Woodward fits him perfectly . Tall , methodical , truthful even at his own expense , his acting is effectively minimal . He rolls his eyes at exactly the right moments . Redford stands in contrast to Hoffman's Bernstein , a short , dark , wiry , pushy Jewish macher who seems not to walk but to dart from place to place . Yet neither of them plays a stereotype ; they invest their parts with genuinely differentiated personalities . The rest of the cast , down to the smallest bits , could not be improved upon . And what a cast ! The cynical , tough , courageous , profane Ben Bradlee . He hands the manuscript back to Woodstein and strides away between the rows of empty desks in the newsroom , banging his knuckles lightly on one as he passes . Robards outdoes himself . Jack Warden and Martin Balsam are equally fine . ( Did they remininisce about working together so closely in " Twelve Angry Men " fifteen or so years earlier ? Probably not . ) Performers like Lindsay Crouse have only a few minutes of screen time , Jane Alexander only a bit more , but they are memorable . I'll avoid going over the story and just present in no special order some of the points I found so impressive . At conferences in the Washington Post , all the editors are given to wisecracks , but they almost always check Bradlee's reactions out of the corner of their eyes . The humor , and there is some , is both verbal and physical . When Redford comments during an interview that he is a Republican , Hoffman looks up and stares at him . Redford responds with a prototypical double take . During an amusing scene in which Bradlee is having a conversation with a defensive " frazzled " informant , ashes fall from Hoffman's cigarette onto the couch and an annoyed Redford brushes them onto the floor . Hoffman returns from his agonizing interview with Alexander and is even more hyper than usual because he is on a caffeine jag . There is no music until half an hour into the film , and after that it is only insidiously introduced more often , mostly nothing more than variations on a minimal set of four minor notes . There are practically no show-offy bravura shots , though the photography is outstanding . One shot stands out . A crane lifts the camera above the heads of Redford and Hoffman as they work at a circular desk in the Library of Congress . It rises impossibly high . Then , a dissolve , and it rises even higher , slowly until it must be tucked into the library's dome hanging from pulleys . I checked out that room in the Library of Congress and can't imagine how else it was done . The layout of the floor comes to resemble the rose window of a cathedral . The lighting varies from shadowy ( but not underlighted ) ominous scenes and sterile flourescence , sometimes , as in the garage scenes , combining both . Weaknesses are hardly worth mentioning , but I guess I could have done without some of the repetitiousness . That their " lives are in danger " is mentioned four times , twice during the same conversation , as if to emphasize what really needs no emphasis . The " L , P , and M " business also is gone over too many times . None of that detracts from the film's many virtues . What bothers me more about the story has nothing to do with the movie . After this story broke everyone seemed to want to be Woodward and Bernstein . The easiest way to do this was to go after big game . It established a new and perhaps unhealthy tradition in journalism . Franklin D . Roosevelt was a cripple . Yet , by common agreement , no shots of him in his wheelchair ever appeared in the media . For that matter , he had a comfortable menage a trois while he was in the White House , and no mention was made of it . Everyone knew about Kennedy's transgressions but they were considered a private matter in the early 1960s . Even a dullard like Eisenhower had Kay Sommersby . That's all changed now and I'm not sure the change is for the better . Do we really care that a president can use a word like [ expletive deleted ] in a private conversation , or whether another defines " sexual relations " in a way that you or I might not ? Or that another might have snorted coke during the wilder days of his youth ? Do we really care ? SHOULD we care ? The French must be convulsed with laughter at us .
About as Good as They Come .	A lot of people seem to gush over this picture - - " It's my favorite musical , " said one critic , and Kelly replied , " That's good to know . " Well , it's hard to believe in lists of best or worst things because everything is made up of several dimensions . Some are good and some are bad . Sometimes very bad . Nobody would argue that Hitler was a nice guy but he DID love his dog , Blondi . However , I have to agree that within the limits of the genre this is probably the most satisfying musical I've ever seen . There is not a single musical number that is a dud . Kelly and Donen avoid Kelly's usual repetitive steps and he really stretches out on this one . There is about a one minute sequence in the " Broadway Rhythm " finale just after Kelly sings " Gotta Dance " from his knees that is given over to his solo . His dance is full of balletic leaps and jagged edges . It's a moment on unequaled exhilaration . He seems at time suspended by wires . I'll skip over the contributions of Cyd Charrise - - my God , those LEGS , like a more than usually sinewy giraffe - - and Donald O'Connor . You cannot NOT laugh at O'Connor's number , " Make ' Em Laugh . " Even after several viewings . The most charming ( and best-known ) number is Kelly's " Singin ' in the Rain , " but it's not the most technically accomplished . I'd give that honor to " Moses Supposes . " The whole movie is of course as corny as they come , although it probably didn't seem so in 1952 when it was released . There's nothing pretentious about it . Kelly had an unfortunate tendency to step out of his class with films like " Invitation to the Dance , " and to be involved in musicals with dramatic underpinnings like the overblown " American in Paris . " The thing about this MGM musical - - and a few others like " On The Town " and " The Bandwagon " is that they were funny as hell IN BETWEEN the musical numbers . Nobody could ever criticize Astaire's dancing . He was great , a much better dancer than Kelly in many ways , but his 1930s musicals with Ginger Rogers were appealing mainly because of their musical numbers . Betty Comden and Adolph Green in the 1940s added stories that could stand on their own as a comedies . There's something about singing as opposed to dancing too . Anybody can sing - - however lousily . You can sing . I can sing . My pet canary sings . Not well , but we all can do it . But dancing is a skill of a different order and to do it well we need the attention of Terpsichore . All those steps that seem so effortlessly improvised on screen ( the taps are always dubbed in later ) must be memorized one by one by the performers . Tap ? Okay - - heel or toe ? Thirty seconds of unedited dancing on screen represents about 100 hours of memorization and practice . Not to mention that you have to be in as good a physical shape as a running back . " Singin ' in the Rain " is a perfect example of how a nearly perfect musical should be made . Okay , Debbie Reynolds isn't much of a dancer and she can't sing well , but so what ? The overall impact of the movie is so warm and fuzzy that it doesn't matter . It's like nibbling some kind of tiny and exquisite pastry , not a big deal , but the equal of any experience .
Can't Give You Anything But Love .	Cary Grant is a quiet paleontologist in New York who has never seen anything except the inside of a museum . He's waiting anxiously for the arrival of the bone , the " intercostal clavicle , " that will enable him to finish his four-year reconstruction of a Brontosaurus skeleton . Meanwhile he's trying to coax a million-dollar contribution to the museum from Mrs . Carlton Random . He's never met the elderly woman but has been dealing with her lawyer . During a friendly golf game with the lawyer , he bumps into Katherine Hepburn . She twists his uneventful life into knots . By the end of the movie he has apparently lost his million-dollar grant , his fiancée , his reputation , his new bone , his Brontosaurus reconstruction , and his eyeglasses - - except that at the last moment Hepburn shows up and restores everything to order . Well , almost . It's a delightfully silly movie with no aim other than to make the audience laugh and it succeeds wildly . Director Howard Hawks was educated at prep school and an Ivy League university and was not much of a scholar , so he dropped out . He appears never to have forgiven the eggheads who gave him bad grades because he took it out on intellectuals for the rest of his life . Intellectualism became for him a kind of " false consciousness " that needed damping - - or better yet extinction - - by giving in to impulses drawn from subcortical structures . I don't want to mix Marx and Freud but that's called " regression in the service of the ego " , or " having a good time . " It's often said of an admired old movie that they don't make them like this anymore . That's nonsense . They remake old classics all the time . They just do a lousy job at it . In this instance I'm not at all sure that they COULD make it again even if they tried . ( And they have imitated the style - - Peter Bogdanovich's " What's Up , Doc ? " ) But who could direct such an up-tempo film today ? If you stopped a DVD of the movie at random , it would likely freeze on three people talking at the same time . The style may have died with Billy Wilder . And who could replace Cary Grant ? Katherine Hepburn is good , but she can be imitated by people like Jennifer Jason Leigh ( " The Hudsucker Proxy " ) . Nobody could replace Cary Grant . Nobody did befuddlement better . And on those rare occasions when Grant acts goofy without knowing that he's doing so , he's spectacularly naive . Scene : Grant walks into a butcher store to buy food for the leopard . He orders thirty pounds of sirloin steak . The owner gawks and asks if Grant wants it sliced or ground up . " Neither , " Grant replies nonchalantly , " it's going to be eaten raw . " And when he finishes that line , he's smiling pleasantly and he nods , slightly but emphatically , as if the reasoning behind his part of the exchange is immediately obvious to everyone else . The actor doesn't exist who could reproduce that gesture . The others in the cast are irreplaceable too . Fritz Feld as the all-knowing psychiatrist with a twitch . Walter Catlett from vaudeville as the cross-eyed chief of police . Barry Fitzgerald as the feisty drunken Irish gardener . There simply aren't those kind of character actors around anymore . And no such type would be accepted by modern audiences , let alone an entire cast full of nothing but such types . And the audience has become used to larger , splashier , more expensive films . Would they pay ten dollars to watch a movie in which the Connecticut woods are obviously on an RKO sound stage ? In black and white ? The indisputable success of this movie raises questions about the nature of comedy itself . How come we laugh at stories like this ? ( Step carefully , please . We don't want to disturb Freud again . ) Well , considerations of space preclude an answer . For a full explanation , see my forthcoming book , " Laughter : Triumph or Disaster ? " , in which I demonstrate conclusively that the ludic impulse in man frequently manifests itself in terms of conflict .
Sui generis	I don't know how this film can be criticized as " dated , " except in the most superficial sense of the word . It stands by itself . There hasn't been another movie quite like it , before or since . Essentially a straightforward tale of a policeman unraveling a gangster plot , it alternates between trouvee scenes that look and sound as unrehearsed as real life , and spectacular moments involving chases and shootings . It's still a highly stylized film of course . Every shot change but one is a cut , not a fade or dissolve . Most people speak more lines when found in Steve McQueen's circumstances , or so I would think . Most men don't come home to find Jackie Bissett asleep in their beds , a pity . There has probably never been a pursuit like that filmed in the hills of Colma , which is known locally as " the city that waits for the city that waits to die , to die . " I once saw a high-speed pursuit in the streets of Philadelphia and was amazed at how slowly and carefully both the police and their quarry were driving - - slowing down for stop signs and all that . When the broth is reduced , the plot isn't unlike many John Wayne movies . He's a loner , dedicated to his job , living an otherwise uneventful life in a modest apartment , except for one thing , Jacqueline Bissett . His other contacts are distant or perfunctory . His relationship with Don Gordon is defined in the first few minutes as strictly professional , nothing more . He's respected but not loved until Bissett appears in his life . How did he get that way ? Who knows ? Who CARES , really ? A person's development can't be explained in a few minutes of screen time , even if we knew what caused it , without recourse to revelations that have always been clichés - - he had zits during adolescence , or they took away his sled when he was just a kid . Not even cheap shots at sympathy mongering - - he lost his wife recently - - are brought in . Bissett is important to the plot because she represents the possibility of his returning to the human race as a person capable of warm and deeply emotional relationships , however clumsy his expressions of warmth may still be . The conflict between McQueen and Bissett involves her inability to accept the gruesome aspects of the life he leads , a common device . ( See John Wayne and Patricia Neal in " Operation Pacific , " or Al Pacino and Diane Venora in " Heat " . ) Bissett finally yields and accepts the conditions . Any other ending would have been pretty bleak ( she leaves him and he becomes even more bitter and lonely as he ages ) or unbelievable ( he resigns from the SFPD and becomes a Zen Buddhist monk ) . Superficially it seems that McQueen has " won " the contest , but actually it is Bissett who comes out as the more admirable , flexible , capable of changing and adapting , open to further development in her interests . And as far as that goes , the movie ends ambiguously . Bissett has come back to him , but as McQueen puts his gun aside and washes his face in the bathroom he looks up and stares in the mirror , expressionless . If he doesn't change , the relationship with Bissett is in jeopardy . She will continue to embrace life ( I'm glad I don't have to try defining a term like that ) while leaving him behind . The movie was released in 1968 , probably shot in 1967 , the height of Haight-Ashbury and the flower power movement . If this movie were as dated as some people think , the writers and Yates would have worked in a bunch of timely but far from timeless hippies and their lore . The temptation must have been there but was successfully resisted . The city is used iconically and without touristy shots . Nothing has dated , except that Enrico's is now closed . McQueen unholsters his pistol only once , and fires only two shots . If it were done today , can you imagine the final shootout without the hero and villain using two Uzis each and puncturing every wall , shattering every mirror , and exploding every squib in sight ? The car chase now looks familiar , of course , because it has been imitated a hundred times since " Bullitt " appeared . Around the time of " The Seven Ups , " they got tired of just using cars and worked in elevated subway trains , garbage trucks , buses , motorcycles , and so on . The imitations now seem dated in a way this movie simply does not . Whatever happened to our sense of historical depth ? This was a breakthrough film and it remains one . Final note : Watch the crane shot near the end as the 707 is recalled to its perch at the terminal . The camera glides down and allows the nose of the airplane to fill the screen , jigging slightly on his shock absorders , its windshields like eyes , its bulbous black radar dome like the nose on the face of a clown , a hideous and frightening clown . It's a magnificent shot .
Late Bloomer Endures - - Movie , not Director .	I don't know exactly what's left to say about " Citizen Kane " , about it's technical dazzle or the maturity of its plot , but it's interesting to note that its prominence gained height only gradually . At first , if not disregarded , it was mostly unnoticed , probably because William Randolph Hearst and his newspaper chain ( pre-TV and pre-blog ) avoided any mention of it . Only in the last 20 years or so has it been recognized for the masterpiece that it is . Of course everyone's heard of it by now , and though most of us admire it , some despise it . I suspect that if some of us dislike it , it's not because of the film itself , but because the majority adore it . This is known as " contrarianism " and I blame the Frogs for it . The French - - I can carry on with these Olympian generalizations , can't it ? I mean , I'm protected by the First Amendment , right ? The French have this tendency to turn common values upside down . That's what gave the world Jerry Lewis . Not that I intend to put France and its couture down entirely . The single best sandwich I ever ate was in the Gare du Nord . But , really , take the anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss as an example . Greek mythology ? Pfui . Let's look more closely at Tlingit myths . The Tlingit are not proto-scientists or philosophers . They're a bunch of clam diggers in the Northwest . I should know , having lived with them . Where was I ? Oh , yes . That sandwich . Wow . Getting back to " Citizen Kane , " I watch it now and again - - not too often because I have it memorized . But here's an example of why I think it's a masterpiece . Okay . Charles Foster Kane has forced his wife , who has a mediocre voice , to push herself into becoming an opera star with the help of his vast financial resources . She fails and tries to poison herself . Here's how that scene plays out on screen . The camera is shooting poor half-dead Dorothy Comingore in fuzzy close up , looking anything but glamorous , breathing heavily , covered with sweat , unconscious , her face away from the door on which Kane and his minions are banging . Behind her figure is a table on which we see the suicide apparatus - - bottles and glasses . It's a rear projection , meaning that Comingore was being filmed while a screen behind her ( previously shot ) is being shown behind her . And - - within THAT back projection - - there is a third projection screen of the door , which finally swings open and admits Kane . Back projections were in common use in 1941 - - but a projection within a projection ? ( Welles used the same technique later , in " Lady From Shanghai . " ) Okay . As someone said , Welles was a kid with a new toy - - the camera . But he turned it into a model that did barrel rolls and crazy eights . Few have done it better since then - - and Welles ' technique was tacked onto an adult story with no bad guys and no good guys , yet gripping . A young man loses his illusions as he ages . ( Don't we all ? ) Welles ' output went downhill from there , his apologists notwithstanding , not because of a monstrous ego . That's too easy . He couldn't bring himself to finish the editing because it was never again to meet his demanding expectations . Don't let revisionists beguile you . It's one of the best movies ever made , and you can measure its quality along any number of dimensions , from Greg Toland's revolutionary photograph to Benny Hermann's subtle but apt score . It's pretty good .
Asymptote	If you think about the likelihood of something happening , you can quantify it . Something can be theoretically 100 % impossible , it can be 100 % certain , or it can be fifty-fifty ( such as the likelihood of getting " heads " when you flip a coin ) . The problem is that although we like to believe that likelihoods can reach 100 % in either direction , in real life they don't . Nothing is absolutely impossible , and nothing is absolutely certain . ( Are you quite sure the sun will rise tomorrow ? ) The real values can approach either extreme , but they never reach it . When the values have gotten as close to the extremes as they possibly can , they are said to have " reached asymptote . " Apologies for the tedious introduction but it has relevance . Forgetting about probabilities and looking at values like " good " and " bad , " this movie is at asymptote . It approaches perfection in its category ( domestic comedy ) as closely as any film can . It isn't perfect - - nothing is - - but this is as good as it gets . It has everything you can expect from this sort of movie - - great laughs , sophisticated humor as well as physical , splendid acting all around with especially sparkling rapport between Tracy and Hepburn ( during an argument he tells her , " Oh , you're gonna give me that Bryn Mawr stuff . . . " ) , a sprightly score , undertones of seriousness in the issues dealt with ( the division of labor within the family , women's rights ) on the order of Shakespeare's dark comedies - - it has it all . The weaknesses are not worth mentioning . And I don't want to go over all the gags in the dialogue and situations . But I will mention two scenes that are outstanding for different reasons , one of them not funny at all . The first is the scene in which Judy Holliday meets Hepburn in the latter's office and is questioned about her motives for shooting her husband . I always take particular note of Hepburn's acting in this scene , because she gives it away to Holliday . She never cracks a smile or interrupts as Holliday pours out her woes . It would be easy to steal this scene . All Hepburn would have to do is nod her head a few times , slip in a question a bit too quickly , smile at Holliday's commonness , or fiddle with a pencil . Barbra Streisand would have done it instinctively . But Hepburn plays the scene absolutely straight , serious , and only speaks or moves when it's clearly called for . It's quite a scene for a comedy . Holliday ends it by breaking down and sobbing , " I had three children . She was breakin ' up my marriage ! " The second consists of only one or two shots . Hepburn asks the jury in her summation to visualize the main participants in this crime as members of the opposite sex . So , as the jury stares at them , Jean Hagen and Judy Holliday dissolve into men . Then we see Tom Ewell in the witness's seat . With his low-brow manner and oddball masculinity he is about the least likely roue imaginable . But he dissolves into a woman dressed in black anyway , garishly made up , wearing truly ugly clothes , and he assumes a furtive guilty expression , shifts uneasily in his chair , and lifts his right arm , letting his right hand dangle limply from his wrist . The effect is unforgettable . And - - oh , yes - - thanks , I suppose , to Kanin and Gordon and Cukor , some of the verbal humor in this very WASPish comedy comes out Jewish . Ewell , questioned about his wife's abusing him , describes how she waits until he falls asleep at night , and then - - pow , pow , pow - - punches him on the mouth . Time after time , night after night - - pow , pow , pow . Tracy says , " And this caused you a great deal of distress , didn't it ? " " Yes , " replies Ewell , " also sleepless nights . " There may be domestic comedies as good as this one , but there isn't likely to be a better one . I avoid saying there will " never " be a better one because the likelihood of my original judgment being correct can never reach asymptote .
The best Hamlet ever - - so far .	I think it's safe to say this is the best Hamlet so far . Not that I've seen them all but it's hard to imagine how anything in this production could be much improved upon . The story , admittedly , is kind of dumb . Everybody since Samuel Johnson has been trying to figure out why Hamlet just didn't go ahead and kill Claudius . Ernest Jones psychoanalyzed Hamlet to uncover his hidden motives . But the answer is a simple one . If Hamlet had obeyed his father's ghost , marched down the steps , and killed Claudius on the spot , that would have been the end of the play , as well as the end of Act I or whatever it was . You might as well ask , when the Indians are chasing the stagecoach , why don't they just shoot the horses ? But the dialog never goes wrong , even though Olivier has deleted some unnecessary files and defragged the rest . As one lady said after viewing the film , " I don't know what's supposed to be so great about it . It's all made up out of old quotations . " Some of the old quotations , usually corrupted , have entered the English lexicon without our awareness . " Every dog has his day . " " Neither a borrower nor a lender be . " " The play's the thing . " " There's method in his madness . " " To be or not to be . " " Alas , poor Yorick . " " In my mind's eye . " The production design in this black and white film is spare . Hardly any superfluous furniture . And it's obviously bound to the studio , and yet it's extremely effective . It has the kind of fog you never see in real life . The last scene , of Hamlet's body being born up the stairway to the tower , takes us on a leisurely tour of previous settings - - the bed chamber , the king's prayer room - - like Welles ' camera in the climactic shot of Citizen Kane , moving over the expensive worthless material goods left over from Kane's life . The performances and direction themselves would turn this into a memorable movie . First of all , what a cast ! Christopher Lee ( Dracula ) as a spear carrier . Peter Cushing , another Hammer veteran , as a gay servant . Anthony Quayle . Stanley Holloway ( Liza Doolittle's garbageman father in My Fair Lady ) as a quick-witted gravedigger . And Olivier himself , brooding and animated by turns , and doing a splendid job of mock fencing , a truly physical presence . It won several Academy Awards , including best picture and best actor . I wonder if it would win anything today . Awards seem to have become hardly more than glitzy settings in which Oscars are given to the biggest pictures that bring in the most money . Well , no sense being too cynical . Let's just say that Olivier's Hamlet is worth about two or three dozen Pearl Harbors and Titanics . If you get a chance to see this , or rent it , don't let the fact that Shakespeare wrote it keep you from watching it . The old guy had a way with words . And , after all , you have incest , five murders and one suicide , and some sneakily bawdy lingo . ( " Did you think I meant country matters " ? )
In Primis	This one really isn't to be missed , certainly among the best of the courtroom dramas . The acting . Well , first of all , nobody is bad . The most nearly negligible performance is by Wesley Addy , who at least looks the part of the elegant doctor and who is a competent actor . The other principals are outstanding . Charlotte Rampling with that odd face - - sultriness imposed kicking and screaming upon boniness - - is unusually good and even manages to project a kind of believable guilty remorse , which has never been her strong suit . James Mason is ( almost ) unflappable as Concannon , attorney for the defense . Marvelous , the way he puts quotation marks around the word " expert " while questioning the plaintiff's witness . Edward Binns is stolid as the savvy but moral bishop who wants to wrap things up without making waves . " What is the truth ? " , he asks Newman . Jack Warden is plumply likable , as always . He's seems to have aged more than Binns , with whom he'd worked a quarter of a century earlier in " Twelve Angry Men . " Lindsay Crouse in a small but crucial role is appealingly Irish . Milo O'Shea is sliminess itself . I don't know why , perhaps his impish accent , but there is always something amusing about him , as if unable to quite shake what Erving Goffman called " role distance , " the knowledge that he's playing a part accompanied by an awareness of the absurdity of doing so . Even Bruce Willis is in this , playing a visitor to the courtroom . I was an atmosphere person in a Boston courtroom too , in " From the Hip " - - a far superior movie . ( Ask anybody . ) And Paul Newman is flawless . Robert Redford was supposed to play Frankie Galvin , but he wouldn't have been up to the part . The role requires the compelling anguish that Newman brings to it , and he does it perfectly . Redford is much too cool for that . I will mention just one scene of Newman's that is emblematic . He stands in his darkened office - - Warden watching soundlessly from the background - - and calls the defendants ' law firm about a settlement they have already withdrawn . He paces around talking into the phone , hardly able to breathe , congested with not just mucous but self hatred , cajoling them , pounding on the desk with his knuckles , filled with an empty bravado . Redford couldn't do it . Practically nobody could do it . Almost everything fits together perfectly in this film . Sidney Lumet opens with a shot of Newman alone in silhouette playing a pinball machine in a Boston bar , drinking beer . The pinball game serves as a token for the trajectory of his life during the course of the film . Wardrobe : first-rate . How " New England . " Multi-layered dark clothing , ( in Newman's case black ) , woolly and fussy . Sound : excellent . Little noises , hardly noticeable , form almost a background score . The old wooden floors creak when people step on them . An example of one or two good creaks : the scene in Concannon's office when he is welcoming Laura back to the law . Twirled-up telephone lines squeak when someone pulls on them . The tinkling of ice cubes in liquor glasses . The heavy breathing of nervous or defeated people . The slamming of ancient desk drawers . Garbage trucks whining in the city streets at dawn . Production design : as good as it gets . Everything looks old , as if it has been used and lived in for years , not shabby but burnished with age , all mahogany wood and scarlet carpets . Lighting and photography : up there with the best . Most scenes are dark - - it's midwinter in Boston - - but not too dark , cleverly lighted . The snow in the streets is literally blue , as if it had just leaped out of an impressionist landscape . Tree branches glisten with moisture on slick night-time streets . Tinsel draped along a bar ceiling twinkles with fraudulent joy . The weakness ? The movie is so good I hate to mention it , but the script leaves something to be desired . It almost betrays the characters . I don't mind the legal absurdities so much . Okay , so things would never really happen this way . The judge would have to grant a continuance and so forth . It's not so much that as the motivation and the set speeches that are bothersome , especially Newman's , and they're critical . The banter and small talk are fine . Mamet's small talk is almost always fine . But Newman's conversion from a drunken , cynical ambulance chaser to a principled attorney of reawakened morals in the course of two-minute photo session with a comatose patient is patently unbelievable . Where did all that conscience ( if that's what it is ? ) suddenly come from ? He flops backwards as if stunned . Why ? The script does its best to back up his epiphany . The images of his patient develop as a real person , not just a dollar sign , on the Polaroid photos , a mirror image of what's going on in his mind . But as Warden repeatedly points out , his job is to win some money for his clients so they can leave their comatose sister in good care and get on with their lives in Tucson . Instead he turns down the church's offer because he sees a trial as a challenge to his personal pride , as a " means of redemption " . ( Is that kind of pride a mortal or a venial sin ? ) He loses sight of what the whole legal process is about because of this self-involvement . It wouldn't be so bad if he realized this , if he found himself in conflict , but in fact he never gives it a thought . Finally , Newman's summation : it sounds as if it had been put together by some high school kid whose homework assignment was to write an essay ( of at least two hundred words ) about " what life means to me . " " I believe there is justice in our hearts , " says Newman , more to himself than to the jury . No kidding . None of this criticism can subtract from all the other virtues of the film . It's among the best of its kind .
