Stunningly stinky schlock	I've seen more than my fair share of malodorous cinematic stinkers , so claiming that this horrifically horrendous dud is perhaps the smelliest celluloid skunk I've ever had the grave misfortune to stumble across is say a whole lot . Things get off to an unpromising start with a lone man stranded on a remote island wandering through the woods . His meandering thoughts serve as insufferably tedious narration . The man finds a cave and ventures inside . He discovers a bunch of old computers . He watches about twenty entire minutes worth of stock footage of both World Wars , Woodstock and Vietnam . Sound exciting ? Well , trust me it sure ain't . Boring ? Most definitely . It's more boring than watching two snails copulate for five hours straight . The story proper finally kicks in and things only get worse . Much , much worse . Poor Robert Vaughn , a long way off from " The Man from U . N . C . L . E . , " portrays a drippy stuffed shirt bargain basement James Bond-style government secret agent who discovers a nefarious Nazi plot in South America to start a Fourth Reich through cloning . Cranky superior Keenan Wynn huffs and puffs his disapproval . Leo Gordon is shamefully wasted in a nothing bit part as a useless FBI chief . The ubiquitous Aldo Ray pops up as an evil Nazi rat . None other than Hitler himself ( badly played by a pitifully unconvincing actor ) turns out to be behind the whole thing . Wynn also is revealed as being in cahoots with the Nazis ( that's a big surprise - - NOT ! ) . The limp direction by Kenneth Hartford and notorious Grade Z blunder wonder supreme David L . Hewitt ( who also co-wrote the stale cookie cutter script ) , David E . Jackson's ugly , washed-out cinematography , the lethargic pacing , the infrequent and ineptly staged action scenes ( the undeniable low point occurs when Vaughn very meekly fights a clone of himself ) , William Loose's terrible droning slushy score , the crummy acting , and the dreadful tin-eared dialogue ( " I think you could do with a little less bump and a lot more grind " ) are all uniformly abominable . Naturally , this gruelingly godawful ordeal spent two years gathering dust on the shelves before it was purchased by legendary cruddy late-night TV titans Gold Key Entertainment so it could be rerun an endless amount of times at 1 : 00 a . m . in the morning much to the dismay of insomniacs the world over . This appalling atrocity comes across like a fifth-rate watered-down version of an " Ilsa " picture . The absolute pits .
Big bore is more like it	This so-dumb-it's-numbing Sasquatch cinema stinker holds the dubious honor of being possibly the first-ever American movie made about the legendary Bigfoot . Alas , it's also one of the worst-ever movies ever made about Bigfoot . A small tribe of Sasquatchs - - one giant bad male , three babbling females , and a homely , noisy " whattheheckisit ? " - type hybrid baby critter - - abduct luscious young human babes for unsavory procreative purposes . Everybody involved with this putrid turkey comes out stinking worse than filthy old socks . Bouncy , buxom blonde bombshell Joi Lansing , clad only in a skimpy pink nightie , runs shrieking through the woods with a grunting , lecherous Bigfoot in hot pursuit . Robert Mitchum's no-talent son Chris , trying to look tough with his scruffy beard and bandanna , makes for a pitifully unconvincing biker hero . John Carradine , sporting a hideously overdone Southern drawl and a juicy hamminess that could be made into a dozen cans of Spam , gives an unbearably unrestrained performance as traveling salesman Jasper B . Hawke , who wants to nab himself a Bigfoot so he can make a bundle exploiting the beast to the ninth degree . Robert Mitchum's no-talent brother John grates on the nerves with his insufferably whiny turn as Carradine's sniveling partner . Former cowboy movie star Ken Maynard came out of retirement to do a useless bit as an elderly shopkeeper . Comic actor Doodles Weaver briefly appears as a forest ranger . Such familiar B-picture faces as William Bonner , Jennifer Bishop and Russ Meyer starlet Haji ( the latter having a very bad overbleached bouffant ' do day ) pop up as members of a sickeningly wimpy chopper gang . The Bigfoot creatures are stupendously sorry-looking : With their tatty , you-can-see-the-seams brown gorilla costumes , buggy eyes and rubbery , puffed-out monkey faces , they resemble rejects from a fifth-rate carnival freakshow . There's little action , nudity , violence or excitement to speak of ( at one point Bigfoot wrestles a portly , out-of-it bear , but even this scene is so maladroitly staged that it fails to alleviate the incessant tedium ) . But there's plenty of dreadful dialogue ( " As a former student of archeology I recognize these markings as having a peculiar significance " ) . Among the other malevolent cinematic blunders to be found within this beyond bad Bigfoot bogusity are stubbornly stationary cinematography , a hopelessly dated " groovy " semi-psychedelic rock score , a draggy pace , a meandering narrative and , last and definitely least , Robert F . Slatzer's horribly ham-fisted so-called " direction . " The absolute pits .
Accursed bilge	Representing the ugly , filthy , unwashed hind end of Sasquatch cinema , this dreadful direct-to-TV hodgepodge profoundly reeks more than the allegedly malodorous mythical monster . A little boy and his yippy dog are attacked by Bigfoot in the opening scene ; this occurrence is never tied in with the rest of the flick . Next a pompous high school science teacher gives an interminable lecture about the origins and discovery of Bigfoot to his understandably disinterested class . An intense guy shows up to relate a grim story about his own nasty run-in with Sasquatch . Several years ago the intense guy was a high school teacher who with a coed student quintet in tow ventured into the wilderness to check out an ancient Indian burial ground . The expedition finds a mountain and climbs it . They uncover Sasquatch's secret subterranean tomb . They enter the tomb and run across a perfectly preserved mummified corpse . They remove the corpse , which turns out to be Bigfoot ( ! ) , from the tomb . Bigfoot awakens from his centuries of sleep and goes on the rampage . Man , is this patchwork muddle one beat movie . Don Fields ' static direction sorely lacks both finesse and energy , the performances are terribly wooden , the narration is very annoying ( Bigfoot is described as " a monster of evolution " ) , the pace lurches along at an excruciatingly sluggish clip , the story uses a confusing and disjointed flashback-ridden narrative structure with mind-deadening results , the cinematography offers a wealth of appalling mismatchings of footage shot in two separate eras , the cornball bellowing score sounds like it was lifted from some Grade Z 50's schlock creature feature , the faded color film stock is pure torture on the eyes , a stupefying surplus of extraneous filler abounds , the supposedly exciting climax is simply pitiful ( Sasquatch gets torched in a small brush fire ) , and the Bigfoot is a real letdown - - he's some short heavy-stepping schmo in a ragged bush league hair suit with a pop-eyed , inexpressive paper mache mask on his face ! The absolute pits .
Hideously cloying and sappy claptrap	A dorky animal lover father brings home a murderously cuddlesome female chimp named Tereza from his latest around the world exploits . He adopts the shrill , repulsively overaffectionate little bugger as a pet . Of course , the guy's bratty youngest son adores the foul beast , but the dude's bitchy wife and bullying older son vehemently disapprove . Things reach a full boil of sorts when a bunch of undisciplined juveniles kidnap Tereza and the previously estranged family all pull together when Tereza's absence makes the whole sickening wholesome clan realize how much they truly love her . Yep , once again the heart-tugging sappiness is showered excessively on the luckless viewer with an appalling lack of both restraint and subtlety . Further ruined by Josef Pinkava's prosy , zestless direction ( Pinkava also co-wrote the cornball script ) , plenty of tedious extraneous filler ( bicycles riding down the street , Tereza running amok in a school , assorted asinine animal antics at the zoo , a picture-taking outdoor excursion , and so on and on . . . ) , a slumberous , more slow-than-two-turtles-mating pace , Angelo Michajlov's mechanically bouncy cutesy-poo score , a rambling , barely coherent , largely uneventful narrative , stiffer-than-cardboard acting , numerous excruciatingly fumbled would-be humorous moments ( the gorilla puffing on a cigarette gag is especially lame ) , and one genuinely hair-raising scene in which the crack-voiced youngest son shriek-sings over the phone in a broken , nasal , pain-peeling quasi-soprano whine , this deservedly obscure family feature dud overall sizes up as a total worthless stinker .
Horrendous	We all know the story : Sweet little old lady ( legendary silent film actress Lillian Gish , who must have had one hell of a hefty phone bill to pay when she decided to appear in this dismal dippy dreck ) loses her dog in a New York City airport . The mangy loyal pooch makes a lengthy , laborious and perilous trek across the great big US of A in order to be reunited with his owner . En route the raggedy hound meets an assortment of pleasantly plastic generic one-note cardboard stereotypes of typically colorful American folks ( affable grandpappy , sad , lonely crippled kid , perky pregnant lady , philosophical drifter , and so on ) and has numerous misadventures with dognapers , burglars , and even a motorcyclist . WARNING : Big nasty SPOILER ahead . At the picture's heart-wrenching conclusion the rumpled rover and his old biddy owner cross paths again ( sniff , sniff , ahh , ain't that so nice and touching ? ) . Replete with pedestrian , by-the-numbers direction , a cruddy leave - no - cliché - unaccounted - for script , beauteous scenery , a sappy string score complete with faint angelic chorus , and a raft of embarrassingly cheesy guest star cameos - - Alan Hale , Jr . , Candy Clark , Jack Carter , Robert Walker , Jr . ( typecast as his usual aimless hippie wanderer ) , and , worst of all , O . J . Simpson as garrulous'n'gregarious gear-jammer Tucker the Trucker - - this flick overall sizes up as one incredibly lame , sappy and mush-headed family feature turkey that should have been put to sleep at the preliminary screen writing stage .
Just plain stinks	I have seen many an abominable slasher teenkill body count film in my lifetime , so it's saying a lot that this hideously lame'n'tame loser qualifies as perhaps the worst slice'n'dice stinker I have ever had the grace misfortune to suffer through . A demented Devil-worshiping Los Angeles police officer ( horribly overplayed to the annoyingly hammy hilt by the dorky , singularly unmenacing Bobby Ray Shafer ) stalks and bumps off six wholly unlikeable , peevish , beer-swilling jerk teens partying their empty heads off in some typically creepy abandoned house located deep in the remote woods ( boy , that's a fresh and novel premise for a horror film . . . NOT ! ) . Writer / director Wallace Potts does a simply super job of messing this putrid porker up big time : we've got nil suspense , painfully lurching pacing , grating false scares ( which include the ever-popular and irritating cat jumping out of a cupboard and startling the hell out of someone phony jolt ) , obnoxiously atrocious acting , bloodless and moronic murders ( a nightstick down the throat gag is especially execrable ) , no gratuitous sex or nudity to speak of , the flipped-out flatfoot cracks these horribly witless sub-Freddy Kruger one-liners every time he kills someone , and , naturally , there's an awesomely awful , groan-inducing and dissatisfying " he ain't dead yet " sequel set-up ending ( sadly enough , said " nobody asked for it " sequel was actually made , which only goes to show you can't keep either a bad loony fuzzball or even worse fright film series down ) . Mark ( " Blue Monkey , " " Deep Space " ) Williams did the mild , middling gore f / x . If you ever happen to catch " Psycho Cop " in your rear-view mirror or God forbid come across a copy of it for rent at your local mom'n'pop video rental outlet , by all means make as much distance as you can from both this chortling , insufferable maniacal ahole and his deplorable , no-account slasher flick series .
One of the most profoundly putrid pieces of lowbrow teen soft-core bilge to ever disgrace celluloid	This simply dreadful teen comedy sexploitation dud centers on the obnoxious , immature and unamusing antics of six seniors from Hollywood High School : the shrill , shallow and stupid little jerks make out , smoke pot , drink booze and display all the charm of a can of rancid tuna . The limp direction fails to wring a single laugh from the slight'n'senseless script . Moreover , the incredibly hateful , irritating and unappealing characters suck all the fun and joy out of this putrid picture . The usually solid Gary Graver's strangely sub-par cinematography , the grating profanity-ridden dialogue ( sample line : " We'd thought we'd feed you before we beeped you " ) , the groan-inducing no-brainer crude'n'raunchy puerile humor , Doug Goodwin's annoyingly bouncy score ( the cruddy theme song is especially unbearable ) , a dumb protracted poolside dance sequence , the painfully broad and overdrawn hammy acting from a lame no-name cast , the clumsy meandering narrative , and an insufferably ample amount of dull'n'draggy filler all sink this stinker like a 50 pound lead weight . Adding additional abject insult to already appalling injury is the fact that the DVD uses an ugly , murky , scratchy video source print . Not even the tasty abundant gratuitous female nudity can alleviate the mind-numbing rottenness of this absolutely atrocious turkey .
A most appropriately titled poverty row horror atrocity	Man , oh man , does the title for this horrendous hunk of low-budget gore-drenched horror junk aptly sum up the appalling dearth of quality to be found herein . A huge , toothy , tentacled carnivorous beast forces a dorky , peevish , totally unlikeable and unappealing wimpy teenage boy with dark sunglasses and a terribly unattractive shaggy hair cut ( the obnoxious Scott Davis ) to viciously kill a plethora of poor innocent folks so the foul thingie can ravenously devour their crunchy , scrumptious bodies . Yummy , yummy , yummy ! Everything about this shot-in-Super 8 atrocity wallows in the gutter-dwelling Amateur City dumps : we've got profoundly putrid acting , ugly , grainy , static cinematography by Richard Strait , awful ( non ) direction by Bret McCormick ( hiding behind the pseudonym Max Raven ) , a gruelingly draggy pace , Davis ' exceptionally lame stream-of-consciousness voice over commentary ( for your intense viewing displeasure Davis ' trebly mewling tenor affects a piercing nasal whine that could shatter immense sets of fine china if it was cranked up a few decibels higher ) , an excruciatingly high-pitched , melodramatic , extremely tough-on-the-ears score by Kim and Richard Davis and John Hudek , a phony-looking monster that's a really sad sight to behold , an inane opening nightmare montage which tersely sums up the entire plot and thus robs the rest of the picture of any suspense or surprises ( ! ) , and the messy , disjointed narrative is not only hard to stomach , but also difficult to follow as well . Granted , the outrageously moist and juicy make-up effects by Dark FX LTD . are suitably gruesome - - sliced open throats emit a copious jet stream of blood , a guy gets fatally whacked upside the head with a shovel , some old bat has her hand bitten off by the monster , the sniveling limp dishrag kid uses a pitchfork to feed the beast a handy helping of gleaming guts , that sort of sweet , charming , harmless stuff - - but alas are too hokey to be remotely convincing or upsetting . Early in the flick our utterly unsympathetic passive protagonist remarks , " I thought I was gonna vomit . " Yeah , I felt like puking too , buddy , primarily because this flick is so dishearteningly shoddy and ridiculous that not even a hardened bad film buff like yours truly can discern anything faintly enjoyable or entertaining about it . It's a complete , indefensible loser .
A total stinker	Sasquatch spent most of the 90s toiling away in such horrendously lame'n'tame children's movie bilge as " Little Bigfoot , " " Bigfoot : The Unforgettable Encounter , " and " Big and Hairy , " which makes this regional redneck horror / action hybrid a definite anomaly , but still nothing to get all excited about . In the misty backwoods of the Okaloosa Wilderness in Annistan , Alabama , a local Bigfoot creature murders the son of all-powerful rich jerk Milton St . John ( an embarrassingly poor turn by bona-fide exploitation legend David F . Friedman ) . St . John bankrolls an expedition led by insipid nice guy Dr . David Stone ( semi-sentient walking spam chunk Rick Montana in a stupendously lousy non-performance ) to find the foul fiend . Unbeknownst to Stone , the other members of the team are a stereotypically gung-ho , trigger-happy bunch of hillbilly yahoos specifically hired by St . John to bag the beast . R . G . Arledge's lax , ham-fisted direction strikes out in every conceivable department , thereby sinking this leaden bomb to an unforgivably schlocky sub-level of rank amateurishness : the sluggish pacing , putrid acting , wafer-thin cardboard characters , ill-judged stabs at lowbrow humor , the huge letdown creature ( it's some heavy-stepping zhlub in a rubber ghoul mask and black gorilla costume ) , weak off-screen killings , and dissatisfying sudden'n'senseless ending all leave a great deal to be desired . Those looking for a fun , worthwhile Bigfoot flick are strongly advised to search elsewhere .
A horrendously crappy'n'sappy piece of kiddie pic schlock	In the early 90's at the height of the appallingly cutesy direct-to-video Bigfoot kiddie flick craze there had to be at least one equally atrocious and icky-sweet sentimental claptrap yeti children's movie . This disgustingly gooey made-for-Canadian TV tripe starring a hideously wimpy , mewling , lovable'n'huggable emasculated diminutive teddy bear version of the Abominable Snowman scores a definite 10 + on the Vomitably Adorable and Overextended Cinematic Stinko Scale . Burly rocker Meat Loaf snarls it up something grumpy as Big Joe Grizzly , a cocky big game hunter who's hired by an evil multi-millionaire to capture a yeti for his spoiled brat son . The yeti eludes Big Jake's clutches and stows away on a plane that flies to America . The singularly charmless Chantallese Kent portrays the sickeningly twee little girl who befriends the yeti , whom the lass names Hank . Big Jake and his bumbling assistant Blubber ( the supremely annoying Richard Howland ) nab Hank and take him to New York City . The little girl goes to the Big Apple to get Hank back . Bob Keen , a special effects make-up artist whose credits include " Hardware , " " Monkey Boy , " and the " Hellraiser " films , made his unfortunate asleep-at-the-switch directorial debut with this ghastly offal . From the uniformly dire acting to the dreadful ( markedly less then ) special effects to the teeming surplus of stomach-turning heart-warming goo to the awful soundtrack of mawkish pop-slop tunes , " To Catch A Yeti " qualifies as anything but a good catch . The absolute celluloid dregs .
Positively putrid bottom-of-the-barrel direct-to-vid slasher schlock	It's been frequently said that direct-to-video movies are the true contemporary successors to the passionately lauded and beloved scuzzy , low-grade , artistically bankrupt , yet still scurrilously enjoyable scraped - from - the - bottom - of - the - celluloid - gutter drive-in movies of yore . Well , this suitably stinky straight-to-tape slasher atrocity explicitly proves that aforementioned statement to be an honest-to-goodness irrefutable fact . The flimsy , thinly written , just barely there story centers on Billy , a big , dumb , mute , sheltered , socially maladroit retard behemoth whose sole contact with the outside world is a mind-numbing overdose to senselessly exploitative hack ' em up slice'n'dice fright film sludge he's viewed from his bedroom window playing on an adjacent drive-in theater's large screen ( said slimy pics are actually clips from toxically terrible Troma tripe ) . One fateful day Billy escapes from his house and goes to the drive-in to brutally kill folks who include a nasty abusive babysitter , a ramrod security guard , a funky slang-slingin ' Hispanic marijuana dealer , the inevitable horny teen couple doing just what you think in back of a van , and more stereotypically jerky and obnoxious Generation X slacker aholes than you can shake an empty bong at . Boy , does this crudely produced and deplorably awful two-cent dreck ode to laughably chintzy and lousy 70's outdoor picture show crapola possess all the so - spectacularly - stinky - it's - strangely - smokin ' wrong right stuff : fumbling asleep-at-the-switch direction , a paltry script , a mercifully abbreviated 77 minute running time , flat , ugly , eye-straining shot-on-cruddy-digital-video photography , dreadful acting from an amateurishly rank no-name cast , a gratingly repetitious one-note score , ragged editing , a tediously sluggish pace , a few annoying false scares , a smattering of gratuitous nudity and soft-core sex , an ill-advised , would-be meaningful and pertinent subtext about the potentially hazardous effects of watching way too much violent , grossly pandering sleaze-bucket grind-house cinematic fifth , several badly executed murder set pieces , and no finesse , suspense , intelligence or vitality to speak of . In essence , this comparably abominable body count bomb sizes up as a bona-fide latter-day clunker equivalent to the deathlessly dismal ' 76 trash horror classic " Drive-In Massacre . "
Brain-numbingly atrocious no-budget zombie abomination	I must admit that I have this strange grudging respect for the ridiculously prolific and chronically ham-fisted schlock movie master Fred Olen Ray . Sure , a majority of Fred's flicks are total crap , but I still admire the tireless , albeit hopeless Mr . Ray for trying again and again and again to produce a halfway decent picture . I honestly think Fred gives his proverbial all to any given Grade Z dreckfest that he labors on ; the key problem is Fred's so-called " all " doesn't amount to diddly squat quality wise . Still , like I said before , at least the guy tries . " The Alien Dead " was Fred's second disastrously woebegone foray into pure cinematic sludge right after the still unreleased " The Brain Leeches " and it's probably one of the all-time worst pieces of witless'n'worthless celluloid swill Fred has ever regurgitated upon a hapless , unsuspecting public . the banal , no big freakin ' deal plot copiously rips off both " Night of the Living Dead " and " Shock Waves " : A fallen meteorite causes a bunch of bayou bumpkins to plumb mutate into ferocious , rot-faced , amphibious cannibalistic zombies who attack and devour lots of totally deserving hillbilly dorks and dorkettes in a heretofore sleepy and uneventful Florida swamp hamlet . Useless backwater sheriff Buster Crabbe ( who looks amazingly trim and fit in his unfortunate final filmic fling ) basically just takes up space and acts dumber than a tree stump . It's up to both snoopy newspaper reporter Ray Roberts and earnest game warden Mike Bonavia to save the day . Spectacularly shoddy and ramshackle , this agonizingly abysmal clinker represents an ungodly apotheosis of incredibly pitiful cinematic crumminess . We've got fumbling , clueless direction from the always dependably dreadful Mr . Ray ( who also cameos as a doomed hick hunter ) . Then there's a sorry cast of washed-up has-beens and understandably obscure never-wheres who couldn't act their way out of a moldy wet paper bag . The choppy editing , lousy cinematography ( the frequent excruciatingly slow fade-outs are especially crude while the strenuously drawn out slow-motion zombie attack is downright sad to behold ) , poor , scratchy , badly synced sound , lame , phony minimalistic make-up f / x , and comparably dismal ( extremely less than ) special f / x ( the crashing meteorite resembles a large orange flair ) are uniformly pathetic . Several cornball , intensely unlistenable country-and-western songs whine away on the soundtrack and a watery , off-key , annoyingly droning score likewise inflicts a massive headache on the luckless viewer . The really horrible campy dialogue , equally terrible and faltering attempts at deliberately dumb humor , and a wholly insufferable bunch of obnoxiously stupid redneck characters further diminish any entertainment value this turkey might have possessed . Keep your eyes peeled for an astonishingly obvious continuity gaffe involving a three-pronged pitchfork which magically sprouts an extra fourth prong after an old lady zombie gets impaled on it . Of course , there's plentiful , but weak gore ( a dog snacks on a bisected corpse , zoms graphically nosh on limbs and entrails , victims spit up mouthfuls of blood as they're being snacked on , that sort of lame , humdrum nonsense ) and even a little sprinkling of gratuitous female nudity courtesy of a skinny-dipping chick who gets assaulted by a zombie while swimming topless in a lake . In short , Fred Olen Ray's singularly screwy , cheerfully slipshod , and blatantly cruddy film-making anti-style is richly apparent in this early masterwork . In fact , if hideously maladroit cinematic offal was indeed a kind of warped , deviant and degenerate quasi-art form , then this smokin ' stinkeroonie would be its proudly putrid platonic essence .
The world ends with a whimper instead of a bang in this cruddy post-nuke sci-fi clinker	After her striking performance as Matt Dillon's unrepentant junkie nympho wife in the outstanding " Drugstore Cowboy " Kelly Lynch seemed to have one hell of a career ahead of her . Then along came the hilariously horrendous " Roadhouse " and Kelly's credibility as a serious actress went straight down the toilet . Well , it's a good thing that this deservedly obscure pot-holocaust sci-fi stinker never received much attention or otherwise Kelly would probably have never had a career to begin with . Lynch makes her unpromising and unprepossessing acting debut as Osa , who struggles to survive in your typically bleak , rotten and exacting desolate wasteland environment in which hope , jobs and especially water have become exceedingly scarce . Osa's family gets slaughtered by a bunch of mean , sneering , sadistic thugs ( Bill Moseley , Chop Top in " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre Part 2 , " pops up as one of the evil leering goons ) . After being trained to be proficient with a crossbow by obnoxiously hearty old coot Trooper , Osa proceeds to enact a harsh revenge on the thugs . Man , is this one beat flick : the leaden pace , dreadful dialogue ( " What are we going to do with you ? You ugly bag of sick st ! " ) , wooden acting , drab , plain cinematography which gives the film a bland , homely look ( the fact that the picture was shot on cheap , grainy film stock doesn't help matters any ) , curious lack of any hard , rough elements which could have supplied some desperately needed gritty conviction , an obvious climax that's telegraphed well in advance ( so much for tension ) , the meandering narrative , very colorless one-note characters ( the head nasty , snarling homosexual villain is actually named Mr . Big ! ) , poorly staged action scenes , bad guys who are too clean-cut and generic to be genuinely menacing , and , most damagingly , writer / director Oleg Egorov's pitiful inability to blend a hackneyed vengeance premise with a comparably threadbare post-nuke scenario with any flair , style , momentum or innovation all add up to one astoundingly crummy and unrewarding waste of time bomb . To sum up , this hideously lousy loser proves to be every bit as flat , arid and dreary as the barren , godforsaken desert landscape it takes place in .
An appallingly awful Bigfoot porno abomination	This astonishingly woeful no-budget early 70's porno atrocity might very well be the worst Bigfoot flick ever to disgrace celluloid . This singularly horrid groaner begins with a blurry , barely in focus , hard to read opening credits title card that clearly establishes the freakishly feeble messed-upness that's tenaciously sustained from ghastly start to hideous end . The story once more is your standard " here we go again " trite premise of six coed ( and decidedly libidinous ) young adults wandering into the woods in search of you-know-who . Forty murderously protracted minutes of preliminary copulation ensues , followed by a last reel ten minute appearance by unquestionably the sorriest , most abjectly unconvincing Sasquatch to ever haul its pitiful raggedy butt in front of a camera . This miserable monster is a laughable sight to behold : he's a hulking , heavy-breathing , repulsively greasy'n'grimy grungeball biker type with out of control shaggy hair , black shoe polish covering his beefy face , a nastily frayed , tattered , beaten all to hell fur coat and a puny penis hanging out of the open zipper of his filthy brown corduroy pants ! Bigfoot proceeds to wearily sodomize two ladies in a pair of harsh , but thankfully abbreviated rape scenes that almost put the infamous ventriloquist dummy sexual assault sequence in " Black Devil Doll from Hell " to shame as far as severely twisted and depraved cinematic misogyny is concerned . Technically , this dud is borderline Doris Wishmanesque in its staggering ineptitude : the tunelessly droning orchestral sludge score , the limply staged , strangely unenergetic and thus totally unerotic sex scenes , lots of ponderously drawn-out trekkin ' through the wilderness travelogue footage , the terminally clueless " I couldn't blurt out my lines or hit my marks with even the faintest hint of skill and ability " - style ( non ) acting , the scratchy sound , the obstinately stiff'n'stationary cinematography ( what few pans and tracking shots featured herein are very awkward ) , the tin-eared dialogue ( sample line : " Beep me now , lover ! Beep me ! " ) , the grimly spiritless , meandering and moribund pace , and the hopelessly listless , let's just get this sucker in the can perfunctory direction all ensure that this horrendous turkey is resolutely rotten in every conceivable department . Don't even bother giving this one a watch . It's not even fun in a so-shoddy-it's-sublime schlock sort of way . Instead it just plain stinks .
The most endless end-of-the-world sci-fi stinker you never want to see	Cute , doe-eyed , adorable brunette sprite Patty Shepard ( the extremely cuddly star of such enjoyably low-rent Spanish fright features as " Crypt of the Living Dead " and " The Witches ' Mountain " ) as the sultry , vampy , kittenish Carol , Pedro Maria Sanchez as her wimpy , passive limp dishrag husband Arthur , Craig Hill as sternly disciplined , grimly determined survivalist military hard-case Robert , Teresa Gimpera as Robert's emotional , histrionic wife Margie , and Fernando Hilbeck as Robert and Margie's bashful , optimistic , and imaginative son Chris , plus a Siamese cat , hole up in an underground shelter to avoid radioactive fall-out after a nuclear war occurs in this slow , talky , tiresomely pretentious , and gruelingly drab end-of-the-world snorefest . The quintet proceed to eat , fret , whine , play pool , throw tantrums , bicker , communicate with other survivors over the CB radio , and succumb to panic . Eventually several ridiculous complications transpire . Carol does a most arousing striptease . The cat dies mysteriously . Chris has sex with Carol and impregnates her . Arthur fatally overdoses on pills . Chris goes topside , receives a lethal dose of radiation , and keels over dead . Margie stabs herself to death with a knitting needle . Carol shoots Robert dead . Carol goes topside to face an uncertain future . All these hysterically overwrought moments are admittedly dopey and unintentionally riotous , but the definite " you gotta be kiddin ' me ! " preposterous howler highlight happens when the bratty , temperamental Carol shows up for supper in a yellow decontamination suit after being admonished for parading around the bunker while clad in only skimpy underwear ! Everything vies for Best of the Worst ( Dis ) honors in this incredibly horrible hoot : Jose Ulloa's stolid , lifeless direction ( Ulloa also co-wrote the stale , long-winded script ) , the interminably sluggish pace , Juan Pineda's deafeningly shrill , droning score , the tin-eared dialogue ( " We are going to have to fight to stay alive " ) , the drippy acting ( even the usually perky Patty seems heavily medicated ) , Antonio Millan's oppressively dark , constricted , and claustrophobic cinematography , the eye-wateringly ugly set design , and especially the dreadful , irritatingly anti-climactic conclusion are all uniformly the pits . Yet somehow the pic's pervasive pitifulness manages to acquire a certain laughable , lovably lunkheaded crapoid appeal .
Horrendous junk	If you ever wanted to see a gratingly overwrought Howard Stern all jacked up on speed horribly overplay a demented , cross-dressing , masturbating , mother-hating , whore-slaughtering , high decibel profanity-spewing , corpse-fornicating ( " I love beepin ' ' em when they're dead " ) , smack-shooting , brain-eating , gay-bashing , spastic fit-throwing , hallucinating , totally whacked out of his mind with a toxically murderous mixture of misogynistic rage and psychopathic fury racist lunatic serial killer who went around the bloodthirsty bend because his nasty abusive slut of a mommy liked to shove a beer bottle up his butt as a little boy and now gleefully butchers folks as a crazed nutjob adult when he isn't running around stark naked screaming unprintable vile epithets at the top of his lungs in a hideously redundant , tiresomely strident , completely uninsightful and so aggressively base that it's merely annoying instead of remotely amusing or offensive downright lousy gore opus , then this fetid , obnoxious , sex , rape , nudity and violence-laden worthless chunk of dreadfully puerile splatter porn schlock is just the movie for you . Me ? I'd rather rewatch the outstanding " Henry : Portrait of A Serial Killer " again than sit through this godawful interminable bilge a second time .
A really lame'n'tame Indonesian clone of your standard Italian cannibal jungle adventure romp	Rugged Robert ( hunky Barry Prima ) , snippy Rita ( homely eyesore Enny Haryono ) , and nerdy Tommy ( bespectacled beanpole dweeb Johann Mardjono ) are a trio of eager young college students who along with their macho guide Bisma ( chunky bearded wonder Rukman Herman ) find themselves in deep trouble when they encounter a lethal tribe of primitive cannibals deep in the jungle . Man , does this extremely cheap and crummy clunker strike out something rotten in every conceivable department : Sisworo Guatama Putra's flat , fumbling ( mis ) direction , the poky pace , Imam Tantowi's by-the-numbers hackneyed and predictable cookie cutter script , the slipshod editing , the bland acting , Lee Fioole's sub-par cinematography , the dreadful dubbing , precious little nudity , several poorly staged action scenes ( in one especially unimpressive scene a native feebly wrestles with a python ) , the mild gore , Gatot Sudarto's mostly insipid , only sporadically lively score , a pitifully dumb and nonexplicit attempted rape that's followed by an equally lousy off-screen castration , and the colorless , unappealing main characters ( Rita in particular is insufferably whiny ) all leave a great deal to be desired . The fact that the DVD source print is clearly taken a beat-up VHS tape complete with drop-outs and occasional faulty tracking doesn't help matters in the least . This stinker quite simply lacks the essential sleaze and vigor that it needs in order to qualify as an entertaining piece of trash . Only the beautiful jungle scenery and the inspired use of Kraftwork's insanely funky " We Are the Robots " as the opening credits theme song offer some relief from the overall stupefying tedium . A dismally dull and dissatisfying dud .
A dreary dud of a slasher spoof	A movie theater with a bad history of past gruesome murders reopens . Of course , the bloody killings start anew . Written , directed , shot , scored and edited with an appalling lack of flair and finesse by the singularly talentless Rick Sloane ( who later disgraced celluloid some more with the absolutely atrocious " Hobgoblins " ) , this horrendously ham-fisted attempt at a slasher spoof strikes out something rotten in every conceivable way : the excruciatingly lethargic pacing , the painfully static , grainy cinematography ( there's a stinky surplus of drab master shots featured throughout ) , an annoyingly droning and redundant hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , the flat ( non ) direction , a tediously talky and uneventful script , the groan-inducing sophomoric sense of lowbrow humor , the bloodless murder set pieces , a pitifully unscary killer ( he's just some wrinkled-up old guy in pasty make-up ) , the uniformly obnoxious and unappealing characters , a dissatisfyingly abrupt ending , and lifeless performances from a noticeably uninspired cast all ensure that watching this schlocky swill is about as fun and rewarding as eating rancid raw eels drenched with sour vinegar . This crud totally lacks the necessary crude charm and sleazy vigor required to be enjoyable junk . Instead it's just a bland , plodding and meandering stiff that never catches fire or becomes even remotely amusing in a so-shoddy-it's-smoking sort of way . Only a smidgen of nudity and the delightful presence of the always dependable Mary Woronov as a snarky , sardonic secretary provide a little relief from the overall crumminess of this lousy loser .
A really dreadful and unintentionally funny mess of an Italian werewolf horror flick	This appallingly awful hodgepodge affair is a dull , confused and meandering snorefest about Marco ( insipidly played by the ultra-boring Eddy Endolf , who also misdirected this putrid mess ) , a drab numbskull doofus whose mother practiced black magic and worshiped an evil ape creature . When dear mom renounced her unholy faith in the foul , hairy beast , ape thing got ticked off : he brutally butchered mommy and put a curse on Marco , who has to always wear a cross with seven jewels on it or otherwise he will transform into a hokey murderous werewolf-type hirsute humanoid creature . Marco has his cross swiped , a disastrous event which leads to several gory killings , seriously stupid and cheesy solarized nightmares , a bittersweet reunion with his loving cousin Carmelita ( the pretty , but colorless Anne Belle ) , nasty run-ins with a stolen jewelry ring , corrupt government officials , bumbling cops , and a phony whore fortune teller ( this later gal Marco makes love to ; he transforms into his lethal hairball alter ego in mid-coitus and tears out her throat ! ) , and creepy visions of a kinky devil cult who are not only led by famed Italian muscleman actor Gordon Mitchell ( who mostly just stands around and glowers ) , but also like to hold sick and twisted S & M-themed orgies in a smoky , reddish-hued dungeon basement ( even ape thing participates in the wicked debauchery ; he copulates with a beautiful blonde babe ! ) . Despite the wacky plot's largely unrealized potential for hardcore sleazy trash fright flick thrills , a few raunchy sex scenes , and the abundant violence and nudity , this hideously botched cinematic abomination sure ain't no gem . It's fatally undermined by flat direction , sluggish pacing , poor acting , shoddy make-up f / x , indifferently drawn characters , and , worst of all , an overly talky , rambling and ineptly structured script that awkwardly combines dumbfounding flashbacks and flashforwards , sloppily integrated subplots , dopey dream sequences and a horribly anti-climactic non-ending into one horrendously abysmal melange that doesn't possess the slightest trace of either cohesion or narrative drive . A real stinker .
Jerry Warren strikes out again with this pretty abominable Swedish yeti sci-fi / horror yawner	Jerry Warren's second contribution to the 50's yeti creature feature cycle after the shockingly good " Man Beast " was this simply abysmal atrocity . This time Jerry took a ' 59 Swedish sci-fi / horror flick and shot crummy new footage with frequent co-star John Carradine in standard drippy uptight professorial mode for a shoddily slapped together mess which Warren callously released upon an unsuspecting world in ' 62 . The only odd thing about this devious practice is that for once Jerry didn't butcher a south-of-the-border Mexican cheapie as was par for the course for Mr . Warren ( " Attack of the Mayan Mummy " and " The Face of the Screaming Werewolf " are among the other cinematic crimes against humanity Jerry committed during his dubious career ) . The movie relates the insufferably talky'n'tedious tale of an attempted alien invasion force which sets loose a large , lumbering , murderous yeti-like beast who runs amok and wreaks the expected destructive havoc all over the desolate snow-covered Lapland countryside . An international team of scientists , complete with an annoyingly bitchy token female in tow , investigate the spaceship landing site and eventually thwart the nefarious extraterrestrials . The technical credits are strictly from hunger : the dark cinematography unleashes a hideous torrent of unsightly horrible fade-outs , the blaring score sporadically drowns out the banal dialogue ( a minor blessing in disguise ) , screaming newspaper headlines are clumsily used to fill in gaping holes in the saggy story , the poky pace plods along with all the thrilling momentum of a snail on Quaaludes , the characters are all paper-thin cardboard cut-outs with all the appeal and charisma of a smelly dead skunk , most of the big scary moments take place off-screen , and the actors seem comatose throughout . Taking amphetamines prior to watching this clunker is optional , but nonetheless still strongly advised if you ever decide to give this stinker a stare .
One of the dullest & least enjoyable end-of-the-world movies ever made	In the mid-60's notoriously ill-regarded Grade Z exploitation feature hack Larry Buchanan made a handful of uniformly awful films - - " The Eye Creatures , " " It's Alive , " and this thuddingly dismal dud among ' em - - under the auspices of the legendary B-movie grindhouse studio American International Pictures . These flicks were so bad that AIP deemed them unworthy of theatrical releases and instead tossed them away as strictly direct-to-television fare , where these clinkers have since become firmly established as perennial late night cathode ray timekiller fodder . This is Larry's typically lousy $1 . 98 remake of Roger Corman's admittedly cheap , but still hugely enjoyable sci-fi doomsday classic " The Day the World Ended . " The basic premise remains the same : A motley assortment of people who are unscathed by a lethal nuclear blast hole up in a remote mountainside redoubt run by a hard-nosed survivalist . They quarrel and squabble with each other until a disfigured telepathic cannibal mutant finally attacks the shelter in the last reel . Harold Hoffman's drab , talky , studiously by-the-numbers trite script doesn't offer any fresh , compelling imaginative twists on the original , thus relegating this turkey to tepid Rehash City Snoozeville from cruddy start to dreary end . Moreover , Buchanan's lifeless direction fails abysmally to create either tension or momentum , allowing a stultifying surplus of tedious talk to bring the already leaden pace to a grindingly torpid snail-like clip . Robert C . Jessup's ratty , all-beat-to-unsightly-hell cinematography , the watery , tunelessly droning stock film library score , dreadfully unconvincing make-up ( the mutant looks like some wizened old guy with a severe sunburn and a glowing white fright wig ) , an irritatingly preachy and heavy-handed Christian morality , and the largely wooden acting ( only the always dependable Bill Thurman as a crusty old alcoholic rancher adds any much-needed vitality to the staggeringly static proceedings ) certainly don't help matters any as well . Overall , this insufferably atrocious wash-out sadly rates as one of the all-time worst and most dissatisfying end-of-the-world sci-fi losers to ever limp its crappy way onto celluloid .
The first and worst of the 50's yeti horror films	This rock-bottom ' 54 cheapie clinker is the first and worst fright feature made in the 50's about the legendary Abominable Snowman . This paltry carbon copy of " King Kong " ( natch ) , " The Werewolf of London , " and even the exemplary giant ant humdinger " Them ! " constitutes as a most unfortunate and inauspicious cinematic debut for the yeti . A stuffed-shirt botanist , his comparably blah assistant , and a bunch of anonymous oriental extras embark on a perilous pilgrimage into the Himalayas to discover a rare plant species . The expedition stumbles across a predatory yeti ( a very tall , gangly guy in a threadbare poorly stitched together mangy fur costume ) who in tried'n'true B-movie monster fashion makes off with the first available female he can get his grubby paws on . The team members manage to get the fair damsel back and capture the humanoid beast . They bring it to Los Angeles , only to have the ratty hairball escape and seek refuge in the City of Angel's grimy sewers . An air of total creative and budgetary impoverishment permeates every aspect of this sour lemon . There's lackluster direction by Billy Wilder's no-talent brother W . Lyle Wilder , lethargic pacing , primitive fade-outs , dry acting from a just - hitting - all - the - usual - preprogrammed - marks robotic cast , tedious running-off-at-the-mouth verbose narration ( " The first few days were uneventful , monotonous and routine , " the botanist comments early in the nonaction , a remark which serves as an apt concise critique of the film itself ) , a few stomach-knotting moments of goopy sentiment , and a pitifully unimpressive star monster . But what really deflates this celluloid lead balloon is its complete lack of any trashy vitality - - this excruciatingly sorry and static yeti stinker is so inert and lifeless that it just lies motionless on your TV screen for 71 painfully draggy and dreary minutes of sheer unbearable boredom .
A cinematic black hole from which there is no escape	You know a film is basically destined to stink worse than dirty old socks when the eternally quality-impaired Fred Olen Ray and the comparably talent-barren Jim Wynorski are listed as executive producers ( worse yet , Ray also co-wrote the " original " story ! ) , longtime hack actor Steve Barkett receives special guest star billing for his quick pre-credits appearance as a doomed astronaut and Martin Sheen's terminally drab , anything but a chip off the ol ' block brother Joe Estevez is the closet thing to a name actor in the entire cast . The horrendously derivative rag-bag premise writes a paltry check that the feeble film itself doesn't even come close to cashing : A huge , fanged , drooling dinosaurian beastie stows away on a spaceship which crash-lands in the dense , verdant , real ferny and swampy Florida bayou . Said bulky ugly creature proceeds to munch on lots of folks , causes several local animals to transform into murderous mutants ( the ferocious killer puppet armadillo is pretty laughable ) and even makes similarly infected humans metamorphosize into your standard blank-eyed , pasty-faced lethal zomboid ghouls . Steve Latshaw's flaccid direction fails to inject any sense of style or vigor into Pat Moran's threadbare script , which in turn serves as a horrible catalog of every last error one could possibly find in The Bad Movie Book of Serious Cinematic Sins . Said sins include a numbing surplus of dreary chitchat , painfully stilted dialogue ( among the choice clunky lines are " I like to watch the news sometimes , but Tom he calls it propaganda " and " This boy scout isn't going to help us find anything " ) , too much meandering around the woods in circles filler nonsense , a grave lack of any inspired or interesting individual flourishes , a poky stab at narrative thrust and , perhaps the picture's grossest , most unforgivable mistake of all , an insipid assortment of tiresomely one-note stereotypical characters ( feisty go-getter female reporter , pompous fat jerk scientist , arrogant macho dude trial guide , meek , skinny nerdy brainiac , shady , double-tongued corporate head and so on ) . The uniformly flat acting , Maxwell J . Beck's primitive cinematography ( the laborious fade-outs and clumsy creature on the prowl POV shots are especially shoddy ) , cheesy computer morphing f / x , the hokey-looking , pitifully unconvincing monster and Jeffrey Walton's droning , insufferably overwrought score definitely don't help matters any as well . Only some welcome gratuitous nudity ( ravishing brunette Blake Pickett in particular makes for a pleasingly ample eyeful sans shirt ) and a clever Hitchcock-style cameo by Sunshine State B-movie institution William Grefe as a photo on a dresser effectively detract from the otherwise overwhelmingly substantial tedium and ineptitude that's in alarming abundance in this truly wretched dreck .
A disappointingly lame'n'tame Indonesian women-in-prison stinker	Virginal innocent Indri finds herself at a house of prostitution run by ruthless pimp MG . Indri winds up incarcerated in MG's private prison after she refuses to make love to him . Of course , Indri and worldly top con Helga join forces and plan to escape . Maman Firmansyah's blah , uninspired direction and Piet Burnama's dull , talky script thoroughly undermine any trashy vitality this flick needs in order to qualify as a pleasing piece of babes-behind-bars exploitation junk : the sluggish pace painfully drags throughout , there's no gratuitous female nudity whatsoever ( the girls don't even show any skin during the obligatory group shower scene ! ) , the expected torture and degradation are both extremely tame and tepid , the moderate crummy gore likewise fails to impress , and even a ridiculous catfight sequence ain't nothing to get excited about . Thomas Susanto's pedestrian cinematography , the laughably lousy dubbing , the excruciatingly overlong 102 minute running time , the sappy theme song , and Gatot Sudarto's cornball score add further abject insult to already appalling injury . Only some decent last reel break-out action offers a little relief from the otherwise overly abundant stultifying tedium . A complete yawn-inducing dud .
Just plain bad	Question : What do you say about a disastrously ill-advised would-be " high concept " entry in the 70's cheerleader exploitation sub-genre which clumsily incorporates elements from the then equally trendy devil worship horror sub-genre , boasts a faded name Hall of Shame cast that includes such sadly slumming folks as a fat'n'tired Yvonne De Carlo , a severely pickled John Ireland , an extremely cranky Jack Kruschen , and the ubiquitous John Carradine in one of his customary abjectly humiliating nothing cameo parts , has almost no nudity to speak of ( this wimpy atrocity is actually rated PG ! ) , that's directed with appalling ineptitude by chronically all-thumbs Al Adamson protégé Greydon Clark and co-written with similarly shabby maladroitness by veteran hack screenwriter Alvin L . Fast ( who also penned the so - awful - it's - downright - awesome rocksploitation hoot " Bummer ! " ) , comes complete with a murderously irritating th-th-thumping disco score , features Lane Caudell ( the star of the delightfully dopey rocksploitation favorite " Hangin ' on a Star " ) in a supporting role that never allows him to warble a single note , has script supervision by Debra Hill ( future producer of the seasonal slasher classic " Halloween " ) , and was garishly photographed by future soon-to-be big deal cinematographer Dean ( " Romancing the Stone , " " Back to the Future " ) Cundey ? Answer : Nothing remotely good or positive , that's what ! ! !
Crude , unsubtle and terribly overwrought	I must confess that I had pretty high hopes for this horror movie considering its novel 19th century period setting , the claim that the story has some basis in documented historical fact , and a high pedigree cast which includes Donald Sutherland and Sissy Spacek . The plot about a wealthy family whose heretofore peaceful and opulent abode is suddenly beset by violent and frightening poltergeist activity in which the toothsome teenage daughter ( lovely Rosanna Arquette lookalike Rachel Hurd-Wood ) is the primary target of an angry and potent unrestful evil spirit certainly sounds promising , but alas said plot is severely undermined by director / co-screenwriter Courtney Solomon's dreadfully crude , hyperactive and increasingly tiresome shoot-the-fireworks style . The hyper-kinetic style with its clumsy emphasis on cheap scare tactics , over-amplified sound effects , irritatingly blaring music and a constantly darting here and there restless prowling camera wear the viewer down rather than work the viewer over like it should . Moreover , the needlessly hopped-up and histrionic hitting - you - over - the - head - with - a - frying - pan unsubtle style is jarringly at odds with the period setting , thereby negating any credibility the story might have had . Solomon makes another major narrative blunder by relating the story in flashback ; this particular story structure gives away from the very start that certain characters will survive the punishing ordeal alive and unscathed , which crucially robs the film of all of its tension . The final explanation for why the poltergeist activity is happening strives for poignancy , but Solomon's overwrought approach undermines the pathos substantially . Both Sutherland and Spacek struggle gamely to give the film a bit of class and dignity , only to have their noble efforts lost amidst the grating array of loud noises and tacky jump-out-at-you jolts . The fact that Solomon shamelessly lifts whole bits and pieces from such superior fright features as " The Entity " and " The Exorcist " adds additional appalling insult to already abject injury . If only the story had been done in a more low-key , thoughtful and understated manner this movie could have been a real solid and spooky little scarefest . As it is , very hysterical and ham-fisted , it's a crushing disappointment .
Horrible crud	WARNING This review features major SPOILERS Don't read this particular comment unless you've seen this film first . Shot in chintzy , unwieldy hand-held camera fashion from 1979 to 1981 on cheap , grainy , extremely unsightly all scratched-up Super 8mm film stock with the sound and dialogue poorly looped in post-production , this simply horrendous artsy fartsy college short film school project finally crept onto video in 1985 . Of course , none of this would mean jack if it wasn't for the fact that this hour long abomination stars a gawky , pudgy , insufferably whiny and unappealing Madonna as bisexual bad girl Bruna , a totally obnoxious and unsympathetic skank with a loyal cult of male and female lovers who falls for a moody , sullen , intensely unlikable hipster philosophy student college drop-out slacker jerk ( a highly annoying Jeremy Pattnosh , who also co-wrote the pompous , abysmal script and sings a majority of the atrocious tunes featured on the grating soundtrack ) . Bruna winds up being raped by her overly possessive lovers , which means that the viewer gets to see Madonna's normal-sized breasts prior to her obscenely overdone boob job she got for the pathetic documentary " Truth or Dare . " Worse yet , Bruna suffers further indignities when she's assaulted and molested in a ratty diner bathroom by loutish , grossly overbearing , motor-mouthed , wholly repugnant and irredeemable middle-aged creep Raymond Hall ( a hilariously seedy and degenerate Charles Kurtz , who's the sole actor in this misbegotten bomb who brings any vigor and conviction to his part ) . Bruna , assisted by Pattnosh and her lovers , abduct Hall and ritualistically carve the bastard up at a crazed Satanic party which concludes with the deranged participants drinking Hall's blood and consuming his flesh . Attempting to explore modern-day urban angst , despair and paranoia , with a marked emphasis on sexual deviancy and seething amorality run hideously amok , this stinker hits an infuriatingly steady succession of sour off-key notes throughout : a loud , shrill , abrasively confrontational tone which quickly wares out its welcome , a crummy visual texture that's sheer murder on the eyes , several protracted sub-MTV musical montage sequences ( the film hits its nadir when Pattnosh serenades Bruna in a grimy , graffiti-littered tunnel with an awful impromptu rap song called " Demon Lover " ) , uniformly foul and disgusting characters ( Kurtz's memorably vile sicko is actually the only remotely endearing person in the whole movie ! ) , a murky , half-hearted script which goes tediously overboard on pretentious blather , an irritating Hispanic narrator who makes asinine rambling comments at acerbating regular intervals ( " I mean , he even had an attitude , like a cat who had eaten a canary or a pigeon or something " ) , shoddy production values , and occasional horribly affected fancy-pants cinematic flourishes ( freeze frames , slow motion , archly elaborate wipes and dissolves ) . It comes as no surprise that Madonna , who was allegedly paid a whopping $100 bucks for her troubles , tried unsuccessfully to sue the filmmakers in order to prevent this dreck from being released . It's a genuine pity that she failed .
A dismally dull & dreary dud	Filipino horror films don't come much worse than this unbearably dull , drawn-out stiff which boasts a decent enough plot , but precious little energy in the telling of said story . In short , what we have here is a classic case of cruddy schlock movie-making that crucially lacks the necessary trashy vitality to pass muster as a fun , worthy fright flick . Jock Gaynor , who was also one of the co-producers ( " A Taste of Hell " ' s John Garwood was another one ) and designed the many boring underwater sequences featured herein , listlessly plays a treasure-seeking deep sea diver who discovers a fabled 1850 sunken galleon which contains the corpse of a legendary Moro tribe virgin princess . When Gaynor steals a priceless amulet from the princess ' skeletal remains , the skull-faced sea siren ( the gorgeous Iraida Arambulo , who's naked throughout the entire film except for a hokey monster mask that covers her cadaverous face ) comes back to life and forces Gaynor to kill seven virgins in order to appease the god that the princess was sacrificed to a century earlier . Despite a goodly serving of both gratuitous nudity and bloody violence , plus the enticing sight of sexy female leads Diane McBain and Kim Ramos walking about in skimpy bikinis , " The Deathhead Virgin " proves to be a static , lifeless , sleep-inducing waste of time thanks to Norman Foster's drab direction ( Foster , who started out as an actor prior to becoming a director , had a very uneven career which includes several episodes of Disney's " Davy Crockett " series ) , Fredy Conde's clunky , grainy cinematography , Ward Gaynor's arid , dead obvious , gab-ridden script , such excessive padding as tacky night club scenes , a horrible comic sequence in which Gaynor and his fellow diver buddy Larry Ward get drunk together on the beach , and a cock fight , the pitiful wasting of the great Vic Diaz in the nothing role of an investigating police chief who tries to piece together the whole fantastic story in a logical manner ( Vic does what he can with a thankless part , but even he's let down by lousy dubbing - - some drip with a flat , hollow tenor substitutes for Diaz's wonderfully ripe and oily baritone ! ) , cheesy solarization effects , uniformly indifferent performances from an understandably out of it cast , and Richard La Salle's slushy , overbearing score . So bad that it doesn't even qualify as enjoyable junk , this terribly lame loser of a flick should be avoided at all costs .
A really drab and forgettable jungle adventure exploitation snoozer	The central premise of this dull and meandering snorefest is ripe to bursting with potentially explosive trash flick promise : a motley bunch of insufferably bland British explorers go trekking into the dangerous jungle of Nairobi , Africa and discover the mythical wild jungle lass Tarzana , a total knockout who's really the daughter of a wealthy English lord who grew up in the jungle on her own after surviving a plane crash when she was just a little girl . Alas , talent-barren director Guido Malatesta and equally unskilled screenwriter Phillip Shaw severely undermine said promise with a regrettably poor execution : the slack pacing , the talky , agonizingly drawn-out script , the leaden acting , the infrequent , invariably flat and unexciting action scenes , the crummy dialogue ( " For one hundred thousand dollars I'm obliged to think of something " ) , the horribly unmelodious droning orchestral mush score , a tedious surplus of cheap'n'cheesy travelogue footage , and a tiresome assortment of boringly one-dimensional cardboard characters all add up to one supremely stinky and dissatisfying celluloid lemon . Okay , the sumptuously buxom and voluptuous Euro sleaze movie queen Femi Benussi cuts a striking figure as the luscious , mostly naked feral honey who comes complete with the standard collection of loyal animal companions ( a large elephant that Tarzana uses to ride around the jungle , a sickeningly cute lion , and , of course , the inescapable adorable comic relief klepto chimpanzee ) , but not even Femi's eminently delectable whole lotta woman physique can inject any much-needed vitality into this lifeless and lethargic washout .
A gruelingly sub-par & tedious haunted prison wash-out	The late 80's saw an inexplicable rash of supernatural horror films set in gloomy penitentiary settings . Renny Harlin's superbly gritty and moody " Prison " got the whole haunted hoosegow ball rolling ; it was immediately followed by the markedly inferior " The Chair , " John Saxon's enjoyably trashy " Death House , " the passable psycho picture " Destroyer , " and this hideously limp'n'lethargic exercise in hopelessly comatose tedium . Your usual annoying collection of horribly unsympathetic college student chowderheads lead by insufferably spineless tormented twerp Alex ( the hugely unappealing Nicholas Celozzi ) go to Alcatraz Island to investigate the bizarre circumstances surrounding the sudden gruesome death of up-and-coming rock star Sammy Mitchell ( blandly played by Toni Basil of " Hey Micky " fame ) . Alex's brother becomes possessed by the evil demonic spirit of a vicious cannibalistic US Civil War cavalry commandant and goes on the expected killing spree , thus forcing wimpy Alex to overcome his passivity and make a stand against this ghoulish specter . Although slickly photographed by Nicholas Von Sternberg , with a few decent gore set pieces and a fair amount of spooky atmosphere ( the film was shot on location in the dismal , rusty , rundown ruins of Alcatraz Island ) , " Slaughterhouse rock " nonetheless just doesn't cut it as a solid , effective fright feature . This is largely due to the uniformly obnoxious and unlikeable collegiate smartaleck characters , a tiresomely smirky bunch whose inane comic antics prove to be grating rather than amusing . The flat acting from a noticeably disinterested cast hurts matters all the more , with onetime " Playboy " playmate and undeniable blonde cutie pie hottie supreme Hope Marie Carlton doing an especially irritating Linnea Quigley impersonation as the token oversexed nympho bimbo . Dimitri Logothetis ' direction displays a modicum of flashy visual style , but the tone is unevenly pitched between grim seriousness and goofy , horrendously sophomoric silliness , and , most damagingly , Ted Landon's sloppy , inconsistent , overly complicated and finally quite confusing script miserably fails to develop the necessary internal logic to make the far-fetched story even remotely plausible . In other words , this stinker sadly succeeds in making a scant 90 minutes seem like an excruciatingly drawn-out cinematic jail sentence .
A disappointingly wimpy Hong Kong women-in-prison wash-out	In my ceaseless obsessive quest to watch the most obscure down'n'dirty exploitation features from all over the world I naturally had to have the rotten luck to stumble across this brain-numbing atrocity . Three ladies escape from a hellish women's penitentiary and go on the lam . They decide to get revenge on the various folks who are responsible for sending them to jail . Sound good ? Well , it definitely ain't . For starters , director Roy Rosenberg and writer Gary Capra , Jr . both fail to deliver the lowdown trashy goods : The girls don't show any skin during the obligatory group shower scene ( we see plenty of bare backs and legs , but no bare breasts or buttocks ! ) , plus there's not even a hint of lesbianism and the standard sexually abusive rapist degenerate guard is notably absent . In addition , the flick abruptly switches gears after the ladies break out and turns into a heavy-handed revenge thriller . Moreover , what little violence we get is depressingly tame stuff ( even the expected catfights are nothing to get excited about ) . Jimmy Yu's surprisingly glossy and impressive cinematography manages to rise above the general ineptitude . Ricky Chan's neatly varied score - - it's a groovy mix of pounding rock , lush orchestral mush , and funky soul - - likewise is quite cool . The film also deserves some faint praise for having the audacity to cast an obvious Asian girl sporting shoe polish on her face and an Afro wig atop her head as the token brassy black babe . But overall this clunker still sizes up as a totally blah and dissatisfying lemon .
There's no gas or gusto to be found in this rusty clunker of a futuristic 80's sci-fi dud	A severe gas shortage in the near future forces the government to ban the use of automobiles altogether and make the act of driving one a punishable capitol offense . However , a feisty pocket of rebellious gear-jamming metalhead race car enthusiasts called " burners " obstinately refuse to knuckle under Uncle Sam's oppressive reign , hording what little precious gas is left and happily tearin ' their souped-up cars across the desolate desert terrain . Crusty ace driver Red ( the always exuberant Darren McGavin , carrying on with greater flair and verve than the sub-par material deserves ) and rascally fellow old-timer Indie ( the solid George Touliatos ) are two such guys , whooping it up as they constantly elude getting nabbed by a band of hard-nosed police officers who are very eager to nail their annoyingly evasive hides . While the premise - - basically a science fiction version of a Burt Reynolds-style good ol ' boy outrunning the pigs car chase romp - - has promise , it's fatally ruined by David M . Robertson's limp'n'lifeless ( non ) direction and a paltry , insufficiently thought-out bare-bones script . Moreover , the futuristic setting is depicted with a critical lack of conviction : there are no special effects to speak of , the cars look plain and antiquated , and the spartan costume designs are simply pathetic . Worse yet , the fuzzball baddies led by a sleepwalking Doug McClure are hopelessly colorless and nonthreatening ; only a murderously crazed Native American nutcase trooper ( outrageously overplayed by Alex Diakun ) radiates any necessary sense of genuine menace . The redneck protagonists are equally insipid and unprepossessing ; the picture's already slack pace screeches to a dead halt during the excruciatingly blah romantic courtship scenes between Red's wimpy estranged son Cameron ( the gratingly whiny Robert Charles Wisden ) and Indie's fiery foxy daughter Jill ( vivaciously essayed by cute brunette hottie Mary Beth Rubens ) . But the movie's grossest , most egregious and unforgivable blunders have got to be the copious , but poorly staged and thus unexciting car race sequences and a gruelingly tedious surplus of hideously banal dialogue ( sample line : " Keep your pedal down and your sunny side up " ) . So , despite some good acting and nice photography , this worthless rusty clunker overall sadly remains in teeth-gnashing neutral from the dreary start right on down to the spiritless finish .
A really bad piece of 70's Southern-fried schlock	A pretty obscure back country moonshine opus that's best left buried and forgotten . Carol Lynley , who breezed her way into 70's film buff's hearts by badly lip-syncing to Maureen McGovern's repellently sappy Oscar-winning pop ballad " The Morning After " in the deathless disaster classic " The Poseidon Adventure , " strikes out big time as a snotty , uptight New York City corporate babe who inherits a backwoods moonshine operation from her recently deceased half uncle . Carol grudgingly takes over the illicit business , locking horns with sloppy , cocksure good old boy rotgut driver Gary Lockwood ( a long way down from the glorious " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " and coming on something awful with a rather uncomfortably credible portrayal of a totally disgusting dirt-bag ) over how the business out to be run . Further complications ensue when both the mob and the police decide it's time to either take over the bug juice business or shut it down entirely . While the basic premise could have made for some delectably dopey down-home dumb fun , director James Broderick unfortunately blows it abysmally by allowing the pace to crawl at a deadly slow rate , failing to deliver any bang-up exciting action ( the few car chases featured herein are too flatly staged to have any slam-bang stirring impact ) , placing way too much emphasis on the dreary , uneventful narrative which largely focuses on the very tiresome and redundant bickering between Lynley and Lockwood ( what their romance fails to set off in sparks it more than makes up for in sheer underwhelming boredom ) , and , worst of all , displaying an overall highly off-putting lackadaisical attitude towards the film in general . Additional damage is wrought by the shameful wasting of an extremely solid B-movie cast : late , great crotchety fuddy dud character actor Ryal Dano as Lockwood's flaky , hooch-saturated partner , Mary Woronov in a " blink and you'll miss her " nothing bit part as Lynley's stuffy , bespectacled boss , John Goff as a power hungry local yokel mob capo , blundering fat guy favorite Cliff Emmich ( Rip Torn's loyal , long-suffering chauffeur in the extraordinary " Payday " ) as a clumsy FBI agent , and the seemingly inexhaustible and omnipresent trash flick treasure George " Buck " Flower in one of his standard cantankerous old hillbilly cuss parts . Furthermore , although the technical credits are sound - - Don Peake supplies a spare , peppy score , Ron Wiggins belts out the lively country and western theme song " Runnin ' Moonshine " with agreeable redneck panache , future big deal mainstream movie cinematographer Tak Fujimoto gives the film a nice slick'n'polished look - - even said up to par behind-the-scenes contributions can't compensate for the film's crippling , entertainment-killing dearth of both sorely needed wit and vitality . In short , don't waste your money renting " Bad Georgia Road ; " buy yourself some moonshine and get mighty plastered instead .
A real snorefest	Wimpy stuffed shirt Armand Louque ( blandly played by veteran character actor Dean Jagger in a rare lead role ) joins a group of researchers who want to find and destroy the secret technique of creating zombies . Armand falls for the lovely Claire Duval ( fetching blonde Dorothy Stone ) , who uses the meek sap to get Armand's colleague Clifford Grayson ( the hopelessly wooden Robert Noland ) to marry her . Furious over being used and spurned by Claire , Armand uses his knowledge of voodoo to get revenge . Sound exciting ? Well , it sure ain't . For starters , Victor Halperin's static ( non ) direction lets the meandering and uneventful talk-ridden story plod along at an excruciatingly slow pace . Worse yet , Halperin crucially fails to bring any tension , atmosphere and momentum to the hideously tedious proceedings . The mostly blah acting from a largely insipid cast doesn't help matters any ; only George Cleveland as the hearty General Duval and E . Alyn Warren as the irascible Dr . Trevissant manage to enliven things a bit with their welcome and refreshing hammy histrionics . The drippy stock film library score , the painfully obvious stagebound sets , and the crude cinematography are pretty lousy and unimpressive as well . In fact , this feeble excuse for a fright feature is so crummy that not even the uncredited starkly staring eyes of the great Bela Lugosi can alleviate the brain-numbing boredom . A dismally dull dud .
Stranded in a tediously drawn-out snorefest	Touchy , whiny , hot-tempered Native American basketball superstar Jimmy War Eagle ( blandly played by George Bryson ) while en route to Central America with a large sum of disaster relief money in his possession is forced to crash-land his plane on a remote tropical island because of a severe storm . Jimmy buries the money in a swamp and seeks refuge at a primitive village where he befriends a nice priest ( amiable Federico Roberto ) and a lovely young lady ( the fetching Maria Grimn ) . Meanwhile a couple of no-count layabouts try to find Jimmy's money . While the plot has promise , director George Leskay crucially fails to inject any much-needed style or energy into the generally plodding proceedings . The talky , uneventful script , sluggish pace , numbing surplus of drab dialogue , and especially Jimmy's annoying incessant complaining about the white man's cruel mistreatment of Native Americans are all a grueling chore to endure . The gorgeous tropical scenery , Grimn's stunning brunette beauty , and a smidgen of action towards the very end offer a little relief from the overall tedium , but for the most part this film is way too dreary and drawn-out to provide any real fun and satisfying entertainment .
Jackie Vernon tries hard to salvage this cheesy and tiresome horror comedy romp	Humor and horror don't easily mix together into a solid , cohesive , evenly balanced and satisfactory whole . It takes real skill and expertise to make such a precarious blending of diametrically opposite elements work well together . Well , this totally ineffective and often painfully unamusing clinker makes for a particularly sad example of just how horrendous a horror comedy can be when said necessary skill and expertise never manage to materialize in the film itself . Late , great wiseguy comedian Jackie Vernon portrays a meek , hen-pecked construction worker who offs his peevish wench of a shrewish wife , chops her up into itty-bitty pieces , wraps the body parts up in tin foil , and stuffs the remains in a freezer . One day Jackie noshes on some of his old lady's remains and subsequently develops an unsavory cannibalistic hankering for tasty female flesh . Pretty soon Jackie starts killing comely , flirtatious , available young lasses so he can ravenously eat their sweet delicious meat in order to appease his insatiable sicko appetite . Wayne Beswick's flaccid direction fails to inject any much-needed hopped-up vitality into this tired'n'tasteless tripe , thus letting " Microwave Massacre " crawl along at an excruciatingly gradual and seemingly never-ending lethargic tempo . The unceasingly crude catalog of bad big breast jokes , cheesy gold chains , poor prostitute japes , hideously unsightly mountainous masses of overpermed curly white guy Afro coiffures , silly swinging singles jests , moronic profanity jibes , scanty denim hot pants , putrid fake penis gags , shabby bell bottom jeans , and sophomoric sexual hi-jinks all prove beyond a reasonable doubt that cheerfully rancid'n'raunchy 70's bathroom humor has dated as well as the leisure suit and 8-track tapes ( i . e . , not well at all ) . However , Jackie tries admirably in a rare substantial lead role ; his droll , low-key sense of nicely bemused " why me ? " humor supplies some faint entertainment in this otherwise extremely tiresome junk . Acclaimed fright film production designer Robert Burns cameos as a mangy derelict who scratches his crotch with a severed arm he unearths in Jackie's garbage can . It's a genuine shame that the negative of this woefully unfunny would-be horror black comedy wasn't tossed in a trash can along with the witless script .
Was this disjointed mess meant to be some kind of spoof ?	Man , is this messed-up movie an unbearably dumb , lousy and often downright dreary piece of junk ! A crazed , bloodthirsty trio kill and terrorize several luckless individuals around the titular area . The freaky threesome are actually a nice , happy dysfunctional family : a crackpot dad who likes to do the dirty murderous deed while wearing a rubbery Richard Nixon mask , a bumbling imbecile son , and another insane , sanguinary idiot male offspring with live maggots residing in his scrambled cranium ( ! ) . A clumsily sincere attempt at a perversely humorous , darkly tongue-in-cheek backroads psycho picture parody , this film's extremely forced , spiritless , grinding - its - wheels - in - the - mud slack execution completely ruins its chances at being a reasonably on-target and effective send-up : Richard Casey's wan , idle direction , mostly flat acting from a generally insipid cast ( only legendary gonzo rock critic Richard Meltzer manages to deliver a lively , up to par performance as a cranky , ill-fated drunken motorist ) , lethargic pacing , weak stabs at grotesque warped humor ( e . g . , one victim steps on a rake right after having his throat cut ) , and a plodding , disjointed narrative all prevent this potentially fun flick from ever kicking into high gear . However , both the fairly rollicking score by Keith Grady and Suzanne McDermott and the passably professional photography by David Golia and Bill Pope neatly rise above the pervasive mediocrity . If it had been done with more polish and vigor this wash-out could have made for an amusing and enjoyably quirky little horror black comedy , but since it's really bland and slapdash it instead qualifies as a very middling and forgettable cinematic dead end .
A pretty dull , slow and forgettable horror washout	Neil ( Martin Kove , the evil martial arts instructor in the " Karate Kid " movies ) and his hottie wife Sherry ( the lovely Mary Louise Weller ; Mandy Pepperidge in " Animal House " ) go to a remote Greek island to find Neil's kooky wayward sister Madeline ( the gorgeous Deborah Shelton , who also sings the ending credits theme song ) . They not only find Madeline , but also shady fortune hunter Frye ( a hale'n'hearty slice of fat , juicy ham from James Earl Jones ) and his blonde bimbo girlfriend Barbara ( the adorable Lydia Cornell ) . Frye awakens an ancient evil sea beast from its centuries of slumber . The creature proceeds to eat a few folks including Barbara while she's swimming topless . The superstitious villagers decide to sacrifice the virginal Madeline to the creature in order to placate it . " Blood Tide " is a good example of a promising story let down by an extremely flat and uninspired execution . The cast is fine ( besides the aforementioned folks , we also have Jose Ferror as the mayor and Lila Kedrova as a nun ) , the Greek locations are breathtakingly beautiful , the plot is fresh and interesting , Weller and Cornell look spectacular in skimpy bikinis , but alas Richard Jeffries ' slack direction keeps the pace crawling along at a gruelingly sluggish clip and fails to create the necessary tension and creepy atmosphere required to make the premise work like it should ( Jeffries later made amends for his bungling here by co-writing the script for the excellent " Scarecrows " ) . Moreover , we hardly get to see the monster and when we finally do it looks pretty hokey and unconvincing . The tedious surplus of drippy dialogue doesn't help matters any either . Only in the last ten minutes does the pace pick up and the suspense kick in , but by then it's way too little much too late to make this anything more than a might - have - been - something - better wasted opportunity .
Stuck in the jungle with Jess Franco	An expedition party made up of constantly bickering and obnoxious jerks go trekking into the dangerous African jungle in search of both a fortune in diamonds and a missing young lady named Diana ( luscious brunette looker Katja Biernet , clad solely in a skimpy loincloth that shows off a lot of her hot shapely body ) who's worshiped as a goddess by a deadly primitive tribe called the Mabutos . Director / screenwriter Jess Franco crucially fails to inject any style or vigor into the generally blah and meandering proceedings , allowing the sluggish pace to crawl along at an often agonizingly slow clip and staging the infrequent action scenes with a singular lack of skill and panache . The lousy dubbing , excess amount of grainy " National Geographic " - like animal stock footage , groovy , jazzy lounge score , terrible acting , talky , uneventful narrative , tepid soft-core sex scenes , and static photography don't help matters any as well . Fortunately , there's plenty of tasty gratuitous nudity on sight to alleviate the tedium to a reasonable extent : Besides the delectable Biernert , both Aline Mess as fierce , wicked high priestess Noba and Mari Carmen Nieto as the conniving , treacherous Lita are likewise real easy on the eyes . The beautiful jungle scenery is very nice , too . But overall this picture sizes up as barely watchable and hence instantly forgettable swill .
A pretty substandard 50's yeti monster horror flick	" Half Human " was one of a handful of 50's monster horror flicks made about the Abominable Snowman . Although it's a marginal improvement over the abysmal " Snow Creature , " it's alas still no great shakes as a movie . Once more an expedition into the treacherous snowy mountains stumbles across the yeti and its offspring . They also discover a primitive society who worship the yeti ala the backwoods Bigfoot cult in the infamous sanguinary Sasquatch splatter hoot " Night of the Demon . " Unfortunately , the hack American distributors who released this film in the States produced a severely truncated and oversimplified version of this Japanese-made item ( it was done by Toho Studios , the same outfit responsible for " Godzilla , " which coincidentally was also drastically recut for American release ) . They chopped out 30 minutes and replaced ' em with cheap-looking , frustratingly needless and useless insert filler sequences starring the ever-desperate John Carradine ( in his first and probably least humiliating of three Sasquatch cinema gigs ) along with fellow washed-up has-been character actor Morris Ankrum . The sequences with Carradine and Ankrum are acted and directed with all the skill and flair of a first grade elementary school play , thus draining all the punch and tension out of a picture which could have been reasonably effective and interesting on its own . Further damage is wrought by Carradine's asinine narrative commentary ( " Even in death his face still carried an expression of fear , shock and unadulterated terror " ) . In a shameless cost-cutting move Carradine's nonstop blathering drowns out all of the film's original dialogue , therefor eliminating the necessity of any dubbing . It's a testament to director Inoshiro ( " Rodan , " " Mothra " ) Honda's talent that a modicum of spooky atmosphere and a dash of poignant tragedy somehow manage to shine through this chintzy ragbag melange of dreary talk and eye-filling travelogue footage . Moreover , the yeti himself is quite impressive : brawny , limber , and toweringly gigantic , he's a genuinely redoubtable beastman . If there only had been less dull chitchat and more cool creature , this could have been a pretty enjoyable and enthralling romp . But there isn't , so it ain't .
Umberto Lenzi's disappointingly lackluster " danger on the road " psycho thriller	Misogynistic psycho wackjob Mark ( a creepily manic and intense performance by handsome beefcake hunk Joe Balogh ) wears mirror shades , suffers from a severe mommy complex , drives a fancy expensive Winnebago , and has a nasty penchant for picking up stray foxy young female hitchhikers whom he likes to rape , debase and brutally murder . Mark chooses the feisty Daniela ( gorgeous blonde hottie Josie Bissett , who went on to slightly more respectable work as a regular on the trashy nighttime soap opera " Melrose Place " ) as his next victim and abducts her . Daniela's obsessive boyfriend Kevin ( woodenly played by Jason Saucier ) gives chase . Limply directed by spaghetti splatter specialist Umberto ( " Nightmare City " ) Lenzi ( who also wrote the flat , clichéd , talky cookie cutter script ) , with slack pacing , nil suspense , mostly mild and goreless violence , atrocious acting , and a humdrum plot which offers no fresh twists or novel surprises , this strictly from hunger Eurodreck rip-off of " The Hitcher " qualifies as a real stinker . However , both Jerry Phillip's polished cinematography and Carlo Maria Cordio's throbbing rock score are up to par , while the copious gratuitous nudity rates as the single most watchable and enjoyable thing in this whole godforsaken turkey ( said nudity includes several scenes of Bissett in the buff and an especially tasty wet t-shirt contest ) . And hardcore Bissett bashers such as yours truly should get a kick out of the extensive degradation Josie suffers throughout the flick : she's drugged , gagged and handcuffed by our star loony , has her hair cut short and dyed black , gets photographed by nutso while nude and unconscious , and is even forced to watch the freak carve the word " pig " in Kevin's chest . Taking that last nugget into consideration , I guess this picture ain't so bad after all .
So-so historical drama offers too much talk and not enough action	The noble , wise King Sardanapolo ( a solid performance by Hoaward Duff ) and his more soft and naive younger brother Prince Sammash ( likable Luciano Marin ) get into a bitter feud over the affections of sweet and alluring innocent peasant girl Mirra ( gorgeous redhead stunner Jocelyn Lane ) . Meanwhile , the treacherous and ruthlessly ambitious General Arbace ( a perfectly hateful Giancarlo Sbragia ) plots against both siblings . Sounds pretty gripping and exciting , right ? Well , alas it just ain't . Director Silvio Amadio gets the film off to a sluggish start and unfortunately fails to gain any momentum later on , thus allowing the picture to grind along at a pretty slow and meandering rate . Moreover , the talky script by Gino De Santis , Diego Fabbri , and Sergio Spina becomes bogged down in drippy soap opera-style situations and way too much banal dialogue . This film only occasionally bursts to life with the sporadic exciting moment : a thrilling lion hunt , a few stirring rough'n'ready swordfights , and a rousing large scale last reel flood . The capable cast do their best with the static material . Both Tino Santoni's lush widescreen cinematography and the spirited score by Carlo Savini , Mario Mascimbene , and Angelo Francesco Lavagnino are up to par . Watchable , but overall really blah and hence instantly forgettable .
A huge letdown	1865 : A sadistic Union army commander forces several Confederate soldiers to walk across a minefield , brutally slaughtering the whole luckless lot of ' em in the process . 1985 : A small group of raw Army recruits go into the same backwoods territory where the massacre occurred for basic maneuvers . The motley assortment of scruffy grunts discover the hard way that the eerie land is crawling with vicious , inhospitable , creepily cadaverous skull-faced zombies who don't take kindly to any trespassers on their sacred terrain . The zoms are still alive because a little psychic boy who witnessed the massacre in 1865 refuses to let the poor buggers die . The kid's beautiful , still alive mother ( the strikingly comely Margaret Shendal ) falls for nice guy GI Ray ( hunky Maxwell Caulfield of " Grease 2 " and " The Boys Next Door " fame ) while the other less lucky squad members get stiffed by the shambling undead Civil War ghouls . Although the seemingly can't miss premise - - a genuinely inspired fright film amalgam of " 2000 Maniacs , " " Southern Comfort " and " Night of the Living Dead " - - promises a good , spooky " high concept " horror movie outing , " The Supernaturals " alas qualifies as a humongous letdown due largely to a terribly dry and rudimentary execution . Director Armand Mastroianni , the same guy responsible for the awfully boring slasher turkey " He Knows You're Alone , " crucially fails to build any necessary tension or momentum , thus allowing this dud to tediously slog towards a rather drawn-out , less-than-harrowing conclusion . Caulfield , Nichelle Nichols ( " Star Trek " ' s Lt . Uhura ) , Levar Burton , Bobby Di Cicco , Talia Balsam , and " Bad Ronald " ' s Scott Jacoby all contribute excellent , creditable performances , but not even their considerable acting skills can inject any much-needed vitality into this lifeless , lethargic loser . The nifty , scarcely seen zombie make-up by Mark Shostrom and Kevin Yagher , a typically nice , moody score by the great , grossly under-appreciated B-movie composer Robert O . ( " Mansion of the Doomed , " " Grizzly " ) Ragland , and Peter Collister's stately , proficient cinematography are all up to snuff , but sound technical credits can't compensate for this snoozer's unbearably dormant , extremely slow and soporific pacing , conspicuously meager two-cent production values , and a hopelessly muddled , confusing story that isn't unraveled in a clear , compelling manner . Co-written and co-produced by longtime hack horror filmmaker Joel Soisson , this stupendously lackluster Sandy Howard production proves to be as successful at evoking chills and involving the viewer as General Custer was at besting the Indians at the Battle of Little Big Horn .
A strictly so-so Satanic cult horror potboiler	Feisty Father Roche ( a lively and engaging performance by Donald Pleasence ) , comely Laurie ( lovely blonde looker Luan Peters ) , and drippy , skeptical New York City detective Milo ( the hopelessly dull Costa Skouras ) investigate the mysterious disappearances of several tourists on a Greek island and discover a nefarious cult of Devil worshipers led by the dapperly dastardly Baron Corofax ( splendidly played to the suavely sinister hilt by the great Peter Cushing ) . Blandly directed by Kostas Karagiannis , further undermined by sluggish pacing , a really talky and uneventful narrative , a crippling lack of tension and spooky atmosphere , and a restrictive PG rating which puts the kibosh on any gratuitous nudity and hardcore graphic violence , this standard Satanic cult horror potboiler barely passes muster as a merely adequate and acceptable diversion . While Brian Eno's spare , wonky electronic score , Aris Stavrou's pretty , picturesque photography , a decent sprinkling of splatter in the literally explosive climax , and the always welcome presences of both Cushing and Pleasence are all up to speed , this disappointingly tame'n'tepid timewaster overall still isn't anything to write home about . It's only worth seeing once and that's about it .
A strictly so-so " Exorcist " cash-in	The vengeful spirit of the old and evil witch Mother Gautere ( the hideously grotesque Tota Alba ) possesses the body of innocent little girl Susan Barnes ( the extremely homely and irritating Marian Salgado ) in order to get revenge on Mr . Barnes ( the bland Angel del Pozo ) , a widower politician who had Mother Gautere arrested and put in jail by the police for kidnapping a baby for a satanic sacrifice . " Blind Dead " series auteur Amando de Ossorio's flat , plodding direction and trite'n'talky script both crucially fail to provide the necessary tension and momentum required to make this fright feature an effective and absorbing shocker . Vincent Minaya's plain cinematography , the crummy dubbing , the primitive ( not so ) special effects , and the shoddy make-up don't help matters any . Only the nicely eerie and elegant score by Diego and Victor manages to be up to par . The solid cast do their best with the mediocre material : Julian Mateos as morally upright priest Father Juan , Lone Fleming as concerned housekeeper Miss Crawford , alluring brunette hottie Kali Hansa as a wicked gypsy witch , Daniel Martin as honest newspaper reporter William Grant , Maria Kosty as spiteful whore Esther , and ubiquitous rotund spaghetti Western regular Fernando Sancho in one of his customary hard-nosed police chief roles . The possession stuff is pretty run-of-the-mill : we get the usual levitations , excessive nasty swearing , and a manifestation of slimy toads . In one amusing scene Susan castrates a guy after strangling him . This movie also scores a few points for its surprisingly downbeat ending . But overall it sizes up as a merely adequate and acceptable timekiller .
A really so-so made-for-TV reunion flick	The second and final " The Munsters " reunion film alas isn't half as solid and funny as the very enjoyable " Munster , Go Home ! " . While the plot has potential - - evil criminal mastermind Dr . Diablo ( a frantically mugging Sid Caesar ) creates robot lookalikes of Herman and Grandpa in order to pull off an elaborate heist - - the execution of said plot unfortunately leaves a good deal to be desired . Don Weis ' flat direction crucially fails to capture the sweet charm and zany energy of the TV show . Instead the movie just plods along while the humor tends to feel both tired and forced . Harry L . Wolf's pedestrian cinematography , Vic Mizzy's mechanically bouncy score , and the shoddy make-up and ( not so ) special effects are also pretty blah and unremarkable . However , the cast do their best with the mediocre material : Fred Gwynne as lovably bumbling oaf Herman and Al Lewis as cranky old Grandpa play off each other well , Yvonne De Carlo is fine as usual , but isn't given much to do as Lily , Jo McDonnell makes for a cute and appealing Marilyn , Peter Fox contributes a likable performance as nice guy detective Glen , and Bob Hastings is a total robust hoot as a jolly opera-singing Phantom of the Opera . While not a complete disaster , this picture nonetheless lacks the essential spark to be anything more than a merely okay diversion .
Pretty blah historical drama	The city of Rome is under siege from an enemy army . After failing to slay the leader of the opposing army , brave General Mucius ( a solid and credible performance by brawny erstwhile Tarzan Gordon Scott ) mutilates his right hand by sticking it in a fire . However , Mucius does manage to develop a truce with kindly King Porsenna ( well played by Roldano Lupi ) and his noble son Arunte ( likable Gabriele Antonini ) . Alas , the evil , treacherous and unscrupulous General Tarquino ( a fine performance by Massimo Serato ) goes out of his way to foil said truce so he can become the tyrannical ruler of Rome . Sound gripping and thrilling ? Unfortunately , this film's potentially stirring plot gets greatly undermined by Giorgio Ferroni's pedestrian direction and Antonio Visone's extremely talky script . The plodding pace in particular saps much of the momentum and excitement from the meandering narrative . Moreover , the infrequent rough'n'ready swordfights are for the most part staged with precious little flair . Only an impressively massive last reel epic battle set piece finally manages to bring the picture to life . That said , both Augusto Tiezzi's crisp cinematography and especially Angelo Francesco Lavagnino's robust'n'rousing score are up to par . As an added plus , Gabriella Pallotta as Mucius ' loyal fiancé Clelia and Maria Pia Conte as the fetching Valeria are quite easy on the eyes . Watchable , but overall kind of dull and instantly forgettable .
A strictly okay 70's made-for-TV supernatural thriller	A classic example of a film which sadly fizzles when it really ought to sizzle . The basic premise is certainly intriguing enough : a handful of folks in planes and boats alike mysteriously vanish in the legendary Bermuda Triangle located just off the coast of Florida . Alas , William A . Graham's blandly by-the-numbers direction crucially fails to provide any much-needed suspense , vitality and spooky atmosphere . Instead the movie gets bogged down in a tedious surplus of dull talk , with precious few scares or action to alleviate the general boredom . The cast do their best with the meandering story : Fred MacMurray gives a typically robust and amiable performance as an affable retired wealthy businessman while both Sam Groom and Donna Mills are solid and engaging as an estranged young couple . Plus future " Different Strokes " TV sitcom star Dana Plato pops up as a spunky little girl whose mother disappears in the Devil's Triangle . Gayne Rescher's pretty , picturesque photography and Harry Sukman's suitably shivery'n'sinister score are likewise up to par . But only at the very end does this largely lethargic snoozer finally come to life and deliver some excitement with a fairly creepy zinger of a surprise ending , but by then it's way too little much too late to redeem this mediocre timewaster .
A strictly so-so film	Workoholic architect Mike Voray ( an engaging performance by the suave Jean-Pierre Aumont ) neglects his fed-up and unfaithful wife Lynn ( the fetching Alix Talton ) . One fateful day Lynn runs out on Mike . The police soon find out that Lynn was murdered and naturally suspect Mike of being the killer . Sound exciting ? Well , it just ain't . George Cahan's bland direction lacks flair and style . Moreover , Cahan allows the pace to plod along at a sluggish clip and crucially fails to build any tension or momentum . In addition , Bill Barrett's talky script gets bogged down in banal dialogue and sudsy soap operaish subplots . On the plus side , the Rio setting adds some much-needed exotic flavor to the tedious proceedings , Aumont's solid acting just manages to hold everything together , the supporting cast is solid , and both Americo Hoss ' stark black and white cinematography and the tasty flamenco score by Luiz Bonfra and Nicea Martins are up to speed . But overall this picture is way to slow and meandering to amount to anything more than an insipid and forgettable wash-out .
Not bad , but inferior to the original	I was expecting this film to be much worse than it was . It's passable and enjoyable enough , but the original was superior in many ways . For example , the original took its time developing the characters before the big wave hits the boat and capsizes it . Here we get roughly twenty minutes of sketchy character development and then BAM ! The wave hits the boat and a motley assortment of cardboard cut-outs . . . oops , I mean characters - - Kurt Russell as a former firefighter and mayor of New York , Emmy Rossum as his hottie daughter , Josh Lucas as a slick gambler , Richard Dreyfuss as a depressed gay architect , and so on - - struggle to get out of the ship before it sinks . Another problem is that it's fairly predictable as far as who lives and who dies . For instance , Kevin Dillon's obnoxious loudmouth loser meets a totally expected untimely fate . Freddy Rodriguez's helpful waiter likewise buys it early on just like Roddy McDowall before him . However , the death of two other characters later on did really surprise me . A third big flaw is the fact that nobody notices a humongous tidal wave in advance . I mean , wouldn't there be a sophisticated radar on the ship which would spot this enormous thing ? I guess not . And exactly where in the great big sea is this gargantuan luxury liner ? We are never told or find out . And the fact that there just happens to be a life raft with a flare gun in it for our survivors to board at the movie's end is a laughably ludicrous contrivance which totally negates credibility . Clearly , the script here is seriously lacking in substance . So why am I giving this honey a ? Well , for starters the cast all turn in solid performances : Russell makes for a properly strong and stalwart lead , Lucas has roguish charm to spare , Rossum is very cute and appealing , and Dreyfuss is his usual reliable self . Wolfgang Petersen's commendably tight and brisk direction keeps the movie rattling along at a steady clip ; there are no lulls to speak of . The breakneck pacing is both the film's greatest strength and biggest weakness at the same time . Sure , there isn't a dull moment , but you never truly care about the characters because they are given precious little screen time to effectively register as sympathetic human beings . Thankfully , we don't get any hammy histrionics from the admirably serious cast . The tension does build to a stirring and absorbing fever pitch as the film plugs along . The overturned ship is believably dangerous and littered with dead bodies ( a nice realistic touch in a film that's otherwise largely bereft of plausibility ) . And the special effects are both awesome and convincing ; the capsizing of the ship in particular is a genuinely exciting and harrowing set piece . So overall this ain't half bad , but the original was much better .
Pretty standard soft-core sexploitation fare	Naive boxer Johnny ( amiable lunkhead Steve Hodge ) gets ruthlessly pushed around by his greedy and mean-spirited manager Sammy Beal ( essayed with suitably slimy aplomb by John Tull ) , who in turn is having problems with nefarious mobster Louie ( a nicely sleazy Fred Finkleloffe ) . Veteran trash skinflick director Bethal Buckalew relates the sordid story at a plodding pace , but fortunately crams this schlock with more than enough gratuitous nudity and sizzling soft-core sex to make this junk a perfectly agreeable diversion . The exquisitely busty'n'lusty Uschi Digard steams up the screen by engaging in scorching hot raunchy sex with Sammy in a swimming pool . The ever-adorable Rene Bond likewise heats things up as a lovely hooker Sammy first terrorizes before doing just what you think with . Leggy and statuesque brunette knockout Mirka Madnadrazsky as the enticing Lisa may not be much of an actress , but she sure looks mighty tasty in the buff . The bluesy theme song provides a solid belly laugh . Ditto the surprise downbeat ending . The acting ain't much , although the always reliable George " Buck " Flower contributes a typically funny and robust turn as affably rundown and stuttering past-his-prime trainer Benny Bravo . Overall nothing special , but reasonably enjoyable fare for fans of this type of undemanding drive-in swill .
A strictly so-so 70's drive-in cheerleader comic romp	This strangely lackluster Crown International Pictures offering was a massive drive-in success , but alas it barely earns passing marks as a merely acceptable timewaster . The main problem with this film is that there's too much emphasis on the supposedly funny , but more often just plain dumb and annoying hotrod-racing antics of Rosedale High School students Robert ( " Massacre at Central High " ) Carradine and Michael Mullins . The much more luscious and enticing female stars Lisa Reeves and Jennifer ( " The Centerfold Girls " ) Ashley are relegated to secondary supporting status while the always appreciated and invigorating presence of the immensely adorable and angelic Rainbeaux Smith is shamefully wasted in a minor small part . Worse yet , this pretty tepid movie isn't anywhere near as raunchy or energetic as other entries in this funky sub-genre . Only a slight smattering of skin and the sporadic hoppin ' moment ( two couples tumbling down a hill , the mandatory chicks - peeling - out - of - their - threads locker room scene , the climactic " Rebel Without A Pause " - inspired chicken car race ) alleviate the general tedium . Still , dependably gruff character actor James Gammon makes for a marvelously hateful villain as a brutish football coach , Reeves , Ashley , Smith , Diane Lee Hart and Susan Player Jarreau are all real easy on the eyes ( and all of ' em take off their clothes , albeit only briefly ) , and the film does kill 90 minutes in a relatively painless and diverting manner . Director Joseph Ruben eventually graduated to bigger and better things with the superior 80's thrillers " The Stepfather " and " True Believer . "
Not half bad	Given that John " Bud " Cardos took over directorial chores three or four days into shooting after original director Tobe Hooper proved woefully out of his league handling a full-scale production crew , " The Dark " definitely isn't the wretched , foul-smelling unmitigated stinker it's often derisively written off as being . Granted , this modest sci-fi / horror tale of a pernicious extraterrestrial decapitating several Los Angeles residents ( the first victim is played by none other than Paris Hilton's real life mom Kathy Richards ! ) does suffer from a rather slow , meandering pace , a few dreary lulls in the action , choppy editing which frequently borders on confounding , and a muddled script ( the alien angle was tossed in at the last minute ; the beast was originally supposed to be a flesh-eating zombie ) , but otherwise it's technically sound . Cardos manages to create a reasonable amount of tension , stages the kill scenes with laudable restraint , and really delivers with the excitingly over-the-top grand payoff ending , a fiery , all-hell's-broken-loose , packs one hell of a bunch final face-off in which the rot-faced intergalactic ghoul turns many of L . A . ' s finest pigs into smoking strips of crisp bacon by shooting laser beams from its eyes . John Morrill's cinematography gives the film a slick , attractive look which successfully bellies the movie's low budget ( Lee Frost was an assistant cameraman ) , making especially impressive use of dissolves and super-impositions . Roger Kellaway's first-rate freaky score also warrants appraisal , boasting an odd , eerie , unintelligible ghostly whispering vocal ( " the daaa-rrk ! " ) that takes on a truly unnerving black mass-like incantatory quality . The superior B-movie cast rates as another significant plus . The always strong and commanding William ( " Rolling Thunder , " " Red Alert " ) Devane as an ex-con turned best-selling crime novelist who's obsessed with catching the alien after it butchers his only daughter , Richard Jaeckel as the rugged , hard-nosed cop on the case , Jacqueline Hyde as an eccentric old gypsy fortune teller , and Keenan Wynn as a gruff , but fair television station manager all contribute excellent performances . Appearing in nifty bits are Vivian ( " Parasite " ) Blaine as a haughty jet-setter , biker film vet Gary Littlejohn cunningly cast against type as a police officer , and a pre - " Miami Vice " Phillip Michael Thomas as a belligerent gang leader . The massive , shambling John Bloom , a bulky , imposing hulk of man who played the monster in Al Adamson's " Dracula Vs . Frakenstein " and the retarded guy in " The Incredible Two-Headed Transplant , " makes for a marvelously menacing murderous fiend . Even the novel casting of pint-sized Top 40 disc jockey Casey Kasem as a pathologist works surprisingly well , mainly because Kasem himself plays his minor part commendably straight . Only Cathy Lee Crosby as a crusading up-and-coming female TV reporter who wants to prove herself to her skeptical sexist pig male colleagues disappoints , proving once and for all that she's more of a pretty face than a genuine actress . Overall , this unjustly maligned movie ain't half bad .
A not half bad , but terribly slow & lackluster 70's post-nuke sci-fi / action flick	Being the hard-core aficionado of post-apocalyptic sci-fi / action features that I am , I naturally was pretty pumped at the prospect of finally seeing this extremely rare , forgotten and elusive genre entry after taping it in its uncut entirety off of cable . I didn't really know what to expect , since this was given a spotty release by Columbia and received extremely negative reviews by the handful of critics who bothered to see it during its fleeting theatrical run . After viewing it I can now say it's neither the best nor worst of its type . Instead , it rates as a strictly middling affair that basically does the trick but never totally amounts to anything truly special or resonant . The plot set-up is standard , but serviceable enough : Following a devastating nuclear holocaust the world has thoroughly degenerated into a bleak , harsh , desolate and dangerous hellhole where all hope has been lost , food is scarce , and vicious vulturous packs of roving ragtag psycho freaks called " ravagers " loot and kill with merciless abandon . A scuzzy band of filthy no-count " ravagers " led by ruthless sleazoid Anthony James viciously rape and murder the lovely wife ( bewitching blonde Alana Hamilton ) of cagey , cautious , constantly on the move loner Richard Harris , who narrowly avoids getting bagged himself . Harris makes a risky and arduous trek across the dry , barren , perilous wasteland , befriending both a lovably crackpot army sergeant ( a delightfully dotty Art Carney ) and a sassy lass ( ravishing brunette Ann Turkel ) during his journey . James and his grimy gang doggedly pursue Harris every step of the way . Harris and his newfound friends discover a heavily fortified redoubt run by benevolently jovial and avuncular dictator Ernest Borgnine . James and his foul flunkies close in to attack the fortress . Donald Sanford's neatly realized script keeps the story moving and further offers a provocative theme addressing the difficulty of regaining hope in the wake of a severe catastrophe which has rendered the world a most feral , unkind and godforsaken place . Unfortunately , Richard Compton's uneven direction runs hot and cold throughout , thereby scuppering a good deal of the sound script's potential . The film gets off to a cracking start , sags a lot at mid-point by becoming much too dull , talky and sluggish , but luckily gets back on thrilling track with a genuinely rousing conclusion . The cast is uniformly solid : Harris does well as the plausibly rumpled and rundown survival-weary protagonist , the ever-slimy lanky beanpole James makes for a splendidly scurvy villain , and both Turkel and Hamilton are quite charming as well as real easy on the eyes . Seymour Cassel as a doomed blind lawyer and the always dignified Woody Strode as a shrewd survivalist contribute nifty cameos . Fred Karlin's stirring score and Vincent Saizis ' grungy cinematography are likewise up to par . Tasty trivia tidbit : Gilda Texter , the cute blonde naked girl on the motorcycle in " Vanishing Point , " designed the ratty costumes . Alas , the often painfully poky pacing , infrequent outbursts of reasonably effective , albeit rather bland action , much too tame violence , and , most damagingly , a restrictive PG rating which prevents the picture from completely achieving the raw , gritty , no-holds-barred ferocious tone this baby desperately needs to fully work prevent " Ravagers " from being an all-out knock-your-socks-off winner . If it was only more lively and down'n'dirty nasty in both its content and execution then " Ravagers " would have rocked . As it is , very flawed and imperfect , but not without a few substantial merits , it's passable , but altogether nothing terribly potent or spectacular .
A strictly so-so woman-in-jeopardy thriller	Saucy free-spirited tart Marianne ( a sweetly disarming performance by the delectable Susan George ) will inherit a sizable sum of money from her wealthy , but severely dysfunctional family on her 21st birthday . Susan will also acquire several documents about the illegal activities of her crooked judge father ( well played by Leo Genn ) . Pretty soon Marianne finds herself in substantial danger . Director Pete ( " Frightmare " ) Walker crucially fails to wring much tension or momentum from the standard woman-in-peril thriller potboiler premise . Moreover , Walker lets the pace crawl along at a sluggish rate , thereby ensuring that a dull quality hangs heavy throughout most of the movie . Norman Langley's pretty , picturesque cinematography makes cool use of fades , dissolves and split screen . Cyril Ornadel's lush , elegant score , the scenic Portugal locations and the haunting melancholy theme song are all likewise solid and effective . Nice supporting turns by Barry Evans as loyal boyfriend Eli , the lovely Judy Huxtable as bitchy half-sister Hildegarde , and Christopher Sandford as bitter ex-suitor Sebastian . Susan George's deliciously considerable pulchritudinous presence keeps the picture watchable : Susan does a memorably sexy go-go dance during the groovy opening credits sequence and looks absolutely smashing in a skimpy black bikini . Unfortunately , Murray Smith's tediously talky script , an off-putting glum tone and the slow-going , largely uneventful plot make this feature a really draggy chore to endure . A merely decent timewaster .
A perfectly enjoyable , if altogether unremarkable made-for-TV timekiller	This failed pilot for a possible TV cop show plays like a watered down made-for-TV version of " The French Connection . " Your standard motley assortment of mismatched law enforcers - - wiseguy narcotics detective from the New York neighborhood Cliff Gorman , stuffy by-the-book FBI agent Donald Blakely , and an eager beaver rookie surveillance expert played by a very young and then unknown Richard Gere - - join together to thwart a nefarious Big Apple heroin drug ring ( late , great longtime favorite sleazeball character actor Joe Spinell pops up as one of the despicable no-count dope dealers ) . The story is every bit as trite and predictable as the above synopsis suggests , but fortunately the brisk direction by Barry ( " Wild in the Streets , " " Across 110th Street " ) Shear , several thrilling action scenes , solid acting from a good cast ( Gorman in particular is quite lively and engaging while Gere acquits himself nicely in one of his first-ever thespic gigs ) , and a pleasingly short'n'snappy 74 minute running time make this item a perfectly enjoyable , if altogether unremarkable diversion .
A pretty good , but flawed and occasionally tedious 70's R & B concert documentary	A cluttered , splintered and technically shabby 96 minute music documentary ragbag depicting a 15-hour special concert held in Ghana to celebrate that African country's 14th anniversary of independence . Many popular jazz and rhythm and blues artists are prominently featured herein , all of whom come through with 100 % on the money performances which are sloppily sandwiched between drably shot , sometimes interesting , but more often pretty tedious footage of tribal dances , resident talent acts which vary from authentically earthy ( the medicine man with the musical ball is simply amazing ) to slick and touristy shallow , star singers sampling Ghanaian cuisine , extensive background historical detail on the South African slave trade , a walk through dilapidated ruins , and pit stops at villages complete with excess shopping and amiable chats with locals . Luckily , the concert footage seriously cooks with high octane unleaded gas . The Staple Singers cut to the heart of the matter with the stirring workers ' rights anthem " When Will I Get Paid ? " and the rousing gospel rock number " Are You Sure ? , " while Roberta Flack wrenches the emotions with the poignant mid-tempo break-up tune " Trying Times . " The Voices of East Harlem engage in a fantastic impromptu a capella street jam and cut loose on the thrilling " Run Shaker Life . " Santana , assisted by excellent guest percussionist Willie Bobo , lay down the blistering instrumental " Jingo " before ripping away into a sensationally sensual , smoldering and spirited rendition of the great " Black Magic Woman . " Rumpled old bluesmen Les McCann and Eddie Harris do a wonderfully spontaneous beat box duet on the plane en route to the concert and team up on stage for the fine raspy-throated blues scorcher " Heyjorler . " Ike and Tina Turner deliver a positively smoking set which includes the cracked New Orleans R & B novelty gem " Ooh Poo Pah Doo , " the classic " River Deep , Mountain High , " and the especially awesome lowdown gritty blues wailer " I Smell Trouble " - - the latter highlighted by Ike's incredibly fiery protracted guitar solo . Lastly , Wilson Pickett closes the concert on an exciting note with a spectacularly incendiary version of " Land of A 1 , 000 Dances , " much to the enjoyment of a totally with-it audience . Although marred by uneven direction by Denis Sanders ( who also helmed the Big E concert picture " Elvis : That's the Way It Is " and the immortal 70's drive-in cult hoot " Invasion of the Bee Girls " ) , occasionally slack pacing , a crucial lack of narrative cohesion , Erik Daarstad's shaky cinematography ( Vilmos Zsigmund was one of the cameramen ) , and Sidney Levin's limp editing , the documentary's overall sincere tone , strong sense of time and history , the flavorsome evocation of an exotic foreign milieu , and , of course , the powerhouse strength of the concert performances make this flawed , yet still solid film well worth seeing .
A solid little low-budget slasher film	Six college kids driving back from a rock festival run afoul of a couple of psycho hillbilly brothers when their van breaks down on a remote rural road in the middle of nowhere . You can basically fill in the blanks as to what happens next , so it's a real testament to writer / director / producer / cinematographer / co-editor Marc Selz's skill and talent that this solid little low-budget indie horror shocker packs an unexpectedly strong and startling knock - the - wind - out - of - your - lungs lingering gut punch . This up to snuff number hits all the necessary slice'n'dice body count slasher bases to pass muster as a definite winner : capable direction , likable characters , a shivery gloom-doom synthesizer score , rough , grainy , yet still fairly polished photography which lends a pleasingly raw , stark and jump-out-at-you gritty immediacy to the grisly proceedings , genuinely hair-raising outbursts of ferociously gory and ugly violence , a tightly constructed plot , a refreshingly terse and to the point filler-free 75 minute running time , a substantial amount of hard , gripping and sweaty tension , and , best of all , one hell of a socko surprise twist ending . Overall , there's enough cinematic strengths present and accounted for to compensate for the hit-or-miss acting and extremely variable sound quality .
A pretty good , but uneven B-horror medical action thriller	This fun'n'funky little low-budget B-horror medical action item centers on an illegal underground black market human body organ ring which uses kidnapped young people as involuntary donors . P . J . Soles portrays the ruthless ice-cold bitch who runs the evil operation with tremendous lip-smacking venomous panache while the great William Smith lends his always welcome and commanding presence as the head surgeon . Rugged rancher Ross Hagen ( who also directed ) and his bitter , burnt-out former cop best buddy Hoke Howell hit the streets in search of Hagen's daughter after she gets abducted by crazed flunky Russ Tamblyn ( who gives a gloriously gonzo and over-the-top eye-rolling hambone performance ) . Meanwhile , Clint Howard pops up as a pathetic rapist orderly and his father Rance appears as a corrupt police detective . Gary Graver's typically accomplished cinematography gives the film a nice , polished look . The dialogue boasts a few hard-boiled gems ; my favorite is Howell's splendidly cynical and pessimistic philosophy : " The whole world is a stinking toilet that's just waiting to be flushed . " However , Hagen's direction is strictly hit-or-miss : The opening third is painfully slow and meandering , but fortunately the pace kicks in and the movie gets progressively better as it goes along , culminating in a rousing climax with a thrilling car chase and equally exciting shoot-out that really deliver the slam-bang stirring goods . And the scene where Tamblyn erupts into a psychotic rage and gleefully blows away a little boy is an absolute hoot ! Overall , this baby rates as a pretty solid , although flawed and uneven flick which makes for a perfectly acceptable and enjoyable time-killer .
A really creepy and hence pretty good sleazy 70's psycho flick	This reasonably tense , aberrant and absorbing low-grade early 70's psycho picture is nowhere near as vile or awful as its unjustly lousy reputation would suggest . Yeah , it's the unsparingly grim and twisted story of a depraved Oedipal wreck Norman Bates-style misogynistic pedophile sicko who after escaping from an experimental mental home racks up a tiny body count ( three folks in total ) and befriends a sweet , unsuspecting 11-year-old girl ( the adorable Geri Reischl ) who he considers to be the sole " pure " female he's ever made the acquaintance of , but thankfully both director Paul Leder and screenwriter William Norton ( who also co-wrote " Big Bad Mama " and " Day of the Animals " ) never let the perverse premise degenerate into total gag-inducing filthy sleaze . Instead , they show a surprising amount of taste and restraint , creating a genuinely icky and unsettling atmosphere by chiefly focusing on star lunatic Albert's seething psychosis and severe hang-ups concerning his domineering rich bch mommy . Zooey Hall as the outwardly calm and composed , yet internally volatile and dangerous Albert gives a believably creepy and admirably subdued performance ; Hall laudably eschews the pop-eyed raving histrionics most actors tend to do in such colorfully deranged roles in favor of a more unnervingly low-key approach which in turn makes Albert's sporadic psychotic outbursts that much more convincing and upsetting . Future " Marty Hartman , Mary Hartman " TV show star Greg Mullavey lends solid support as the hard-nosed detective determined to arrest Albert before things get too out of hand . Moreover , the grimy no-frills two-cent production values further lend a certain grungy verisimilitude to the overall bleakly credible proceedings , thus making this flesh-crawling item one of the most disturbingly plausible of 70's grind-house psycho features .
A pretty good and admirable , but seriously flawed Fred Williamson flick	Decent and valiant Vietnam war veteran Johnny Barrows ( a credible and engaging performance by stunningly handsome and charismatic 70's blaxploitation icon Fred Williamson ) gets dishonorably discharged after striking an antagonistic superior officer ( a pleasingly nasty cameo by Aaron Banks ) . Barrows goes back to his hometown and winds up totally destitute after two muggers steal all his money . Worse yet , Barrows has great difficulty finding gainful employment . Crusty Mafia don Luther Adler and his suave son Stuart Whitman offer Barrows a gig as an enforcer , but he politely declines their offer . Instead Barrows takes a demeaning job working as a janitor at a gas station owned by an odious racist redneck jerk ( expertly played by the great R . G . Armstrong ) . Barrows gets arrested by the cops after getting into an ugly fight with Armstrong over his paltry salary . Worse yet , Adler gets rubbed out and Whitman winds up in the hospital after both of them are gunned down by rival drug-dealing gangster Anthony Caruso and his two no-count sons Mike Henry ( foul-mouthed hothead ) and Roddy McDowall ( effiminate toady ) . Whitman offers Barrows $100 , 000 dollars to bump off Caruso and his sons . Now what do think Johnny's going to do ? Although severely marred by poky pacing , a stupefying surplus of tedious talk , a meandering narrative , and an often painfully conspicuous low budget , there's nonetheless a definite sincerity apparent here that's both strangely endearing and weirdly engrossing . Williamson's direction never transcends the merely competent , but he does show a fair amount of flair , a modicum of style , and , most importantly , a true sense of earnest ambition . The opening third is a very clunky chore to endure , but things fortunately pick up in the exciting third act and culminate in an extremely shocking surprise bummer ending which packs quite a punch . Moreover , the music is properly funky , the theme song is a groovy blast , there are a few sharp , snappy edits , and Robert Carimico's laudably polished cinematography makes artful use of fades , dissolves and super-impositions . Elliott Gould contributes an amusingly droll special appearance as a flaky philosophical homeless man who shows Barrows the ropes on how to scrape by as a bum . Jenny Sherman also impresses as Whitman's lovely and loyal girlfriend . The climactic martial arts fight between Banks and Williamson is an absolute hoot . Moral : Peace is hell . All in all , " Mean Johnny Barrows " rates as a pretty good , but flawed effort that's worth checking out if you're a Fred Williamson fan .
Starts slow & clunky , but improves as it goes along	As other folks with their comments on this movie have stated this low-budget early 80's fright film has its fair share of flaws . First off the acting is strictly hit or miss . Melanie Verlin is merely adequate as the teen runaway heroine , John Hall and Charles Jackson are solid and engaging as the two nice young guys who give Verlin a lift , and John Amplas of George Romero's " Martin " is terrifically creepy as one of the vicious backwoods Satanists our luckless trio run afoul of . However , the actor who plays the priest is just terrible and the actress who plays the priest's daughter is likewise pretty bad . Thankfully , late , great tough guy character thesp supreme Lawrence Tierney contributes an excellent performance as Verlin's disgustingly incestuous and alcoholic cop stepfather . Moreover , the first forty-odd minutes of the feature are gruelingly slow , tedious and uneventful . The cheesy soft rock theme song is truly atrocious . The dialogue tends to be flat and stilted . On the plus side the rough , grainy cinematography does work ; it adds a certain gritty documentary-like believability to the horrific proceedings . The deranged family of bloodthirsty redneck Devil worshipers are genuinely scary , especially the crazed chortling fat guy and the eerily beautiful brunette . When the horror elements of the story finally kick in they are every bit as stark , brutal , nasty and frightening as they ought to be . The opening scene where a little girl is savagely beaten to death by the Satanists is positively bloodcurdling . A feeling of nightmarish hopelessness asserts itself in the second half and proves to be powerfully unsettling in its unsparing bleakness . The sequences where people are ritualistically sacrificed are definitely shocking and disturbing . Having the female victims locked up in cages like animals is a cool deviant touch . Tom Savini's minimal gore make-up is top-notch as usual . And the ending has a few neat touches of irony , with the best being how the initially reprehensible Tierney turns out to be the film's hero . Although it's way too imperfect and uneven to qualify as some kind of lost classic ( the clunky opening half is frankly a bit of a chore to slog through ) , " Midnight " overall rates as a pretty solid and effective little rural shocker that gets better as it goes along .
An enjoyable 70's made-for-TV " Jaws " cash-in	The tremendous blockbuster success of " Jaws " beget a whole slew of opportunistic cash-in copies which include " Tentacles , " " Piranha , " " Mako : Jaws of Death , " " Great White , " and this nifty little forgotten made-for-TV killer animal entry that not only emulates the Spielberg smash , but also has striking similarities to the more recent indie horror hit " Open Water . " A ferocious great white shark attacks two oil rig workers , killing one and seriously maiming the other . Smart , responsible maverick marine biologist Rick Dayner ( the likable Phillip Clark ) and cocky , hot-tempered diver Cabo Mendoza ( the equally engaging Richard Yniguez ) venture out into the sea on a dinky jalopy of a boat to bag the brutal beast . Things go extremely awry when the boat gets wrecked by a yacht full of drunken revelers and our two protagonists find themselves floundering in the water as the shark encircles them . Competently directed by William A . ( " Beyond the Bermuda Triangle " ) Graham , with a compact , but derivative script by Sandor Stern ( who also wrote the ' 79 " Amityville Horror , " " Red Alert , " and " Pin " ) , bright , sunny photography by George Romanis , and a rousing melodramatic score by Terry K . Meade , this teleflick starts out rather dull , slow and uneventful , but thankfully picks up steam and becomes a most tense , absorbing and exciting item when our two heroes go after the shark . Furthermore , Clark and Yniguez are excellent and appealing in the leads , with solid support from Jennifer Warren as Clark's loving , long-suffering artist girlfriend , Elizabeth Gill as Yniguez's spunky gal pal , and especially David Huddleston as a rascally old sea salt . Granted , we're not talking lost classic here , but overall this overlooked offering provides a good deal of fun that 70's made-for-TV fans in particular should get a big kick out of .
A not half bad , although very cheap 80's post-nuke sci-fi / action flick	Twenty years after a devastating Third World War , the nuclear fall-out has reduced the landscape into a vast harsh , desolate , infertile wasteland with feral radiation-contaminated nomadic hordes scuttling about . Among the many scattered tribes populating the planet are a pair of warring factions : the barbaric , slowly dying above ground dwelling Tyrogs and the more civil , untainted subterranean Drones . Ordered to capture an uncontaminated Drone woman to prevent the Tyrogs from becoming extinct , scruffy , but decent Tyrog super warrior Zerak ( a surprisingly credible turn from the Incredible Hulk himself , Lou Ferrigno , who sports a black eye-patch and a studded black leather outfit ) captures and subsequently befriends benign Drone lady Racela ( nicely played by the gorgeous Shari Shattuck ) . Uncomfortable with having Racela being used for desperate last chance procreation purposes by his grubby tribe , Zerak , assisted by a rescue party led by Racela's father , decides to spring her and go on the run , therefore starting a bloody feud between the Tyrogs and the Drones . Although quite obviously made on a paltry two-cent shoestring budget and technically real rough around the edges , " Desert Warrior " ain't half bad for a no-budget cheapie . Director Jim Goldman keeps the pace galloping along at a zestful clip . The action scenes are fairly violent and staged with a reasonable amount of vigor ( said action includes lively gun-play , a few down'n'dirty sword fights , and brutal hand-to-hand grappling ) . Marita A . Manuel supplies a bouncy , rousing synthesizer score . The generally grim tone only becomes repellently mushy at the very end . Cinematographer Fred Conrad gives the film a convincingly spare , grainy look . The other tribes are neatly varied ; the black clad sword-swinging ninjas and hairy hatchet-wielding caveman midgets are especially cool . The rather uneven acting is mostly up to snuff , with solid performances from Ferrigno and Shattuck . The script by Carl Kuntze and Bob Davies has a pleasingly thoughtful subtext on man's deep-seated need to survive , draws the characters in unusually complex shades of gray , and offers some intriguing insights into both civil and primitive ways of life ( the Tyrogs are crude , but hearty and honest people while the Drones hide their true rigid fascistic nature behind a polite , polished veneer ) . All in all , this movie sizes up as an acceptable and pretty enjoyable entry in the 80's post-nuke sci-fi / action genre .
A pretty cool episode with a sort of appearance by the legendary Bigfoot	Sasquatch makes a sort of appearance in this pretty cool and enjoyable episode of the popular long-running action adventure TV series . Shrewd and resourceful government special agent MacGyver ( excellently played by the likable and charismatic Richard Dean Anderson ) goes into the Alaskan wilderness for a basic maneuvers exercise . MacGyver stumbles across a rusty abandoned ship nestled on a remote woodland lake . Curiosity gets the best of MacGyver and he boards the boat . He immediately runs into a bestial , aggressive and inhospitable Bigfoot . He also finds and rescues a fair damsel in distress . The show starts off well enough , with a careful , involving build-up , an eerie aura of mystery , a bunch of Native Americans popping up to explain the legend of Bigfoot , and an imposingly monstrous Sasquatch all lending this episode a satisfying sense of genuine creepiness and uncertainty . WARNING : Possible SPOILERS ahead . Too bad the second half degenerates into formula action banality , with the Bigfoot alas ultimately revealed as an artful ruse devised to cover up a band of dastardly oil thieves . However , things nonetheless conclude on a pleasingly ambiguous note with the suggestion of a bonafide Bigfoot roaming around somewhere out there in the vast expansive forest .
Larry Buchanan strikes out again !	Mad scientist Keith Ritchie ( a dreadfully hammy performance by Tony Huston ) helps evil extraterrestrial Zontar come to Earth so it can take over our planet . It's up to the stalwart , practical Dr . Curt Taylor ( an admirably game John Agar doing his best with seriously subpar material ) to stop the foul alien fiend before it's too late . Poorly directed with characteristic staggering ineptitude by the one and only Larry Buchanan , with plenty of sidesplitting awful dialogue ( favorite line : " So , that's what you look like , Zontar ! You're slimy - - horrible ! " ) , an excruciatingly lethargic pace , static cinematography by Robert B . Alcott ( the endless barrage of drab master shots is sheer torture on the eyes ) , a painfully drawn-out and meandering narrative , lame and unpersuasive ( far from ) special effects ( the laughably tacky bat-like flying creatures are obviously hanging on wires and the titular unsightly beast looks just plain silly ) , a hideously slushy and droning stock film library score , and largely horrible and unimpressive acting ( Susan Bjurman in particular is simply pitiful as Ritchie's shrill , disapproving wife Martha ) , this often hilariously horrendous cheapo sci-fi clunker unfolds with a startling lack of style , verve , suspense , and competence . Buchanan regular Bill Thurman has a sizable supporting role as the local sheriff who falls under Zontar's wicked control . To his credit , Buchanan does manage to convey a few effectively eerie shots of empty and desolate streets , but overall this Grade Z dreck sizes up as yet another amusingly atrocious stinker from one of the most notorious schlockmeisters to ever misuse a camera .
A nifty 50's horror creature feature romp	Chipper newlywed Joyce Webster ( a typically fine and robust portrayal by the ever lovely Beverly Garland ) gets dumped by her husband Paul ( dashing hunk Richard Crane ) on their wedding night . Joyce tracks Paul down to a remote swampland area of Louisiana and discovers much to her dismay that Paul is slowly mutating into a hideous alligator man hybrid . Director Roy Del Ruth , working from a silly , yet sincere script by Orville H . Hampton , maintains a constant pace throughout , treats the admittedly absurd premise with dead seriousness , and does an expert job of creating a flavorful brooding bayou atmosphere . Lon Chaney , Jr . contributes a lively turn as gruff , hearty , lecherous hook-handed local yokel troublemaker Manon , plus there are nice supporting performances by Frieda Inescort as Paul's stern , but loyal mother Lavinia Hawthorne , George MacReady as earnest physician Dr . Mark Sinclair , and Douglas Kennedy as helpful psychiatrist Dr . Wayne MacGregor . Cranes deserves extra praise for effectively evoking sympathy for the grotesque , yet pitiable Paul . Karl Struss ' crisp black and white cinematography , the rousing climax , Irving Getz's booming overwrought score , and the uncompromisingly downbeat ending further enhance the entertainment value of this immensely fun nonsense .
A nifty little thriller sleeper	Amiable federal investigator Steve Kady ( a fine and engaging performance by Jeremy Sisto ) goes to the peaceful remote rural hamlet of Rockwell Falls to take a consensus of the place's population . When Kady stumbles across the alarming fact that the population has remained at 436 for over a hundred years , he discovers that the friendly , yet undeniably strange townspeople are harboring a very evil and disturbing big secret . Director Michelle Maxwell MacLaren , working from a clever and intriguing script by Michael Kingston , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace and does a nice job of maintaining an eerily ambiguous atmosphere for the first two thirds of the movie . Moreover , MacLaren thankfully eschews cheap gore and flashy special effects in favor of putting a welcome and refreshing marked emphasis on the plot and the characters . Sisto excels in the lead ; he receives excellent support from rock singer Fred Durst as laid-back , likable Deputy Bobby Caine , the lovely Charlotte Sullivan as the feisty , enticing Courtney Lovett , Peter Outerbridge as the mean Deputy Christian Hecker , R . H . Thompson as the austere Sheriff Colcutt , David Fox as the sinister Dr . Harold James Greaver , and Frank Adamson as the folksy Mayor Grateman . Both Thomas Burstyn's crisp , sunny cinematography and Glenn Buhr's spooky'n'shuddery score are up to speed . The supremely chilling downbeat ending packs a real jolting punch , too . Offbeat , compelling and well worth watching .
A grim , brutal and disturbing crime drama sleeper	Rural Georgia in the early 70's . Passive teenager Billy Isaac ( a solid performance by Henry Thomas of " E . T . " fame ) aimlessly tags along with his brooding , edgy no-count criminal sociopath brother Chris Isaac ( a frighteningly intense James Wilder ) , Chris ' angry , volatile half brother low-life cohort Wayne Coleman ( chillingly played by Stephen Shellen ) , and their jolly dimwit pal George Dungee ( the excellent Errol Slue ) on an abrupt and senseless crime and killing spree which culminates in the horrible massacre of six members of the Alday family . Adroitly directed in a stark , gritty , no-frills semi-documentary style by Graeme Campbell , with a terse , compact script by Fleming B . Fuller , an unsparingly bleak , fatalistic tone , crisp , unadorned cinematography by Ludek Bogner , credible low-key acting from a fine non-star cast , a twangy , moody score by Mychael Danna , a harsh depiction of hoodlums as dumb , mean and thoroughly unappealing idiots , and shocking outbursts of nasty , ugly and upsetting violence , this grim and disturbing crime drama packs a very strong punch right to the gut . The tight , spare , stripped-down quality of the picture substantially adds to its overall harrowing plausibility ( it's based on a true story ) . An unjustly forgotten and underrated mean'n'lean thriller .
A hugely enjoyable 70's Bigfoot romp	When it comes to delivering plenty of sheer manic anything - for - a - cheap - sensationalistic - jolt supermarket tabloid style thrills , this delectably hokey hoot wins the top tacky prize with deliciously rip-roaring aplomb . Once again your standard motley bunch of instantly recognizable mighty macho man archetypes - - calmly rational leader , rugged rancher , nerdy anthropologist , crotchety mountain man , sloppy cook , noble Native American guy , radical skeptic jerk reporter - - venture into the mountainous Oregon wilderness in search of the eternally evasive , but always alluring Bigfoot . Granted , the trite premise sounds unpromising and the inclusion of the famous Patterson footage is unnecessary , but what this beaut lacks in originality it wholly compensates for with its thrillingly sparky and enthusiastic execution . Director Ed Ragozzino infuses the picture with a crackling sense of urgency , stoking the flick with a joyfully junky vibrancy ( the pace in particular hurtles along at a constant pile-driving tempo ) that's both entertaining and irresistible . Ed Hawkins ' bold , unapologetically lurid script likewise bristles with the same cheeky , dynamic , let's give the audience their grubby money's worth yellow journalism sensibility . The interplay between the expedition members is quite arresting ; the mountain man's hearty tall tales and the reporter's cynicism upsetting group morale are especially enthralling . George Lauris ' floridly dramatic narration , the whooshing , hyperactive cinematography ( dig those crazily lurching POV shots of Mr . Get A Bottle of Nair Already on the prowl ) , the nifty , harmonious country theme song " High in the Mountains , " a jarring grizzly bear attack scene , the fantastic white knuckle Sasquatch demolishes the group's camp grand finale , and Al Capps ' furiously bombastic , barnstorming orchestral score further enhance the infectiously schlocky merriment . While this movie doesn't score points for either restraint or subtlety , " Sasquatch , the Legend of Bigfoot " nonetheless in its own blithely low-rent " National Enquiror " - esquire way sizes up as lots of enjoyably trashy pseudo-doc fun .
Butch and Toby return for more enjoyably silly fun	Likable clod Toby ( the engaging Antonio Cantafora ) and his ill-tempered partner Butch ( bulky behemoth Paul Smith ) pose as a couple of priests in order to elude being arrested by the authorities in Africa . Toby and Butch deliver a statue of the Virgin Mary from Africa to Amsterdam . Unbenownst to the clueless duo , they're really smuggling diamonds . A bunch of equally inept mobsters give chase . Director / co-writer Giuliano Carnimeo and co-writer Pierre-Louis Alberti concoct a disarmingly inane , good-natured and inoffensive comedic romp that goes heavy on the always raucous and often uproarious broad humor , with off-the-wall slapstick chases and no-holds-barred wacky fights being the order of the day ( a lengthy riverboat chase in a canal and a hysterical bash'em up restaurant kitchen fight set piece rate as the definite sidesplitting highlights ) . The winningly breezy , natural and relaxed chemistry between Smith and Cantafora adds immensely to the picture's infectiously goofy charm ; they receive fine support from Jacques Herlin as the shrewd Inspector Nelson and Franco Pesce as the jolly Father Remos . The jaunty score by Juniper and the incredibly catchy theme song further energize the lively proceedings . A pleasingly dippy hoot .
An enjoyable sequel to the excellent original	Psychic alien siblings Tia ( a charming performance by the adorable Kim Richards ) and Tony ( a solid turn by Ike Eisenmann ) go to Los Angeles to check out human life in the big city . Trouble occurs when Tony gets abducted by evil , arrogant scientist Victor ( the always fine Christopher Lee in smoothly sinister form ) and his greedy accomplice Letha ( a perfectly wicked portrayal by Bette Davis ) . It's up to Tia and an amiable gang of scruffy delinquent kids to rescue Tony from this dastardly duo . Director John Hough , working from an eventful script by Malcolm Marmorstein , relates the absorbing plot at a constant brisk pace , maintains a pleasingly lighthearted tone throughout , makes nice use of the gritty LA locations , and stages the thrilling action scenes with considerable flair ( a lively and lengthy car chase rates as the definite exciting highlight ) . Richards and Eisenmann are both excellent in their roles ; they receive sound support from Lee , Davis , Jack Soo as jolly truant officer Mr . Yokomoto , the ever-creepy Anthony James as cowardly flunky Sickle , Denver Dyle as the gregarious Uncle Bene , and Richard Bakalyan as gabby , irritable cab driver Eddie . AIP biker flick regular Adam Roarke has an uncredited bit part as a museum security guard . The street gang members are a genuinely likable bunch of harmless minor league miscreants . The special effects are pretty nifty . Lalo Schifrin's funky 70's TV cop show-style score totally hits the groovy spot . Frank V . Phillips ' polished cinematography is likewise up to par . A fun family feature .
A charming and enjoyable Bigfoot children's movie	This charmingly pleasant and tenderhearted sequel to the hugely successful " The Legend of Boggy Creek " is a follow-up in name only . Stories abound in a sleepy , self-contained fishing community of a supposedly vicious Bigfoot creature called " Big Bay Ty " that resides deep in the uninviting swamplands of Boggy Creek . Two bratty brothers and their older , more sensible tomboy sister ( a sweetly feisty performance by cute , pigtailed future " Different Strokes " sitcom star Dana Plato ) go venturing into the treacherous marsh to check out if the creature of local legend may be in fact a real live being . The trio get hopelessly lost in a fierce storm and the furry , bear-like , humongous , but very gentle and benevolent Sasquatch comes to the kids ' rescue . Tom Moore's casual , no-frills direction relates this simple story at a leisurely pace , astutely capturing the workaday minutiae of the rural town in compellingly exact detail , drawing the assorted country characters with great warmth and affection , and thankfully developing the sentiment in an organic , restrained , unforced manner that never degenerates into sticky-sappy mush . The adorable Dawn Wells ( Mary Ann on " Gilligan's Island " ) gives an engagingly plucky portrayal of the kids ' loving working class single mom while Jim Wilson and John Hofeus offer enjoyably irascible support as a couple of squabbling ol ' hayseed curmudgeonly coots . Robert Bethard's capable , sunny cinematography displays the woodsy setting in all its sumptuously tranquil , achingly pure and fragile untouched by civilization splendor . Darrell Deck's score adeptly blends flesh-crawling synthesizer shudders and jubilant banjo-pluckin ' country bluegrass into a tuneful sonic brew . In addition , this picture warrants special praise for the way it uncannily predicts the 90's kiddie feature Bigfoot vogue by a good 15-odd years in advance .
An excellent and unjustly overlooked 70's drive-in gem	A surprisingly taut and involving 70's B picture sleeper which has undeservedly slipped through the cracks and into obscurity . Gid Barker ( coolly played with firm inner resolve by Glenn Corbett ) , a fiercely self-reliant nonconformist loner Vietnam veteran , returns after a two year tour of duty to his jerkwater hometown of Benton , Florida to meet a decidedly chilly and unwelcoming committee that's more like a lynch mob . Back in the day Gid was a hell-raising womanizing troublemaker , so the guys in town are eager to put the thumbscrews to him . Gid winds up killing a man in self-defense when one dude picks a fight with him in a bar . Gid steals a souped-up pink Plymouth Fury and with his loyal , laid-back Native American pal Ray ( affable Doug Van ) and old flame Shirley ( sweet Ivy Jones ) in tow goes on the lam . The dead man's vengeful father ( a stern , steely Morgan Woodard ) forms a posse ( the always welcome Bill Thurman as an odious racist deputy among ' em ) to track Gid down . Gid in turn opens up a king-sized barrel of pure destruction on the seething , hateful little backwards hamlet . Skillfully directed by Robert J . Emery , this exciting and resolutely tough-minded winner packs an unexpectedly powerful punch , thanks to David Hall's compact , incisive script , a strikingly unflattering portrait of hicksville heartland America as a resentful hotbed of repressive toe-the-line conformity ( Gid's refusal to go along in order to get along makes him a much despised and ridiculed pariah ) , Vic Caeser's jaunty country and western score , complexly drawn characters , thrilling outbursts of deftly staged action , Jack Richards ' solid cinematography , across-the-board aces acting , and a painfully on-target " you can't go home " central message . A fine , gritty and shamefully neglected drive-in gem .
Just say nope to dope , kids	Here's a choice cheesy chunk of laughably overwrought anti-drug scare propaganda that was actually shown to high school kids in the 60s and 70s in order to dissuade them from getting hooked on the hard stuff . Clean-cut young John ( played by future mainstream movie character actor Kevin Tighe ) begins his downward spiral into dope and despair by doing bennies and beer . Evil , shifty drug dealer Pete ( the sleazy-looking Gerald LeRoy ) gets John to start smoking pot and then next thing you know poor John is strung out on smack ! Director Mel Marshall and screenwriter Edward Brennan lay on the anti-drug message something thick in this hilariously clumsy and unsubtle unintentional laugh riot . Patrick Miller's gloomy , heavy-handed narration is especially sidesplitting with its frequent use of then hip , now hopelessly dated " groovy " slang words . The ragged editing and raw , scratchy cinematography by Jay Lovins both add immensely to the overall campy amusement of this vintage 60's class room kitsch hoot .
A nifty and enjoyably spooky regional horror obscurity	Five people decide to spend a whole evening at Hanley House , a creepy rundown abode with a notorious local reputation for being haunted . Pretty soon weird things begin to happen : Strange noises can be heard emanating from the basement , cars won't start , and otherworldly voices speak to a mental medium from the other dimension . Will our brave quintet survive the night and still be alive come dawn ? Competently directed in a plain , straightforward manner by Louise Sherrill ( who also wrote the tight , compelling script ) , with stark , grainy black and white cinematography by Claude Fullerton , acceptable acting from a game no-name cast , a spare , wonky , droning score by David C . Parsons , a suitably spooky atmosphere , and a groovy-rockin ' R & B instrumental tune occasionally blasting away on the soundtrack , this fright feature makes for fun viewing . The dusty , desolate backwoods Texas setting adds some tasty regional flavor to the proceedings while the plot has a few nice twists and turns in it . While admittedly slow and talky in spots , the movie thankfully does improve and become more increasingly eerie and unsettling as it goes along . Fans of overlooked low-budget independent horror fare are advised to seek this one out .
Cool early 80's psycho horror flick starring 50's teen idol Frankie Avalon as a crazed killer	50's teen idol Frankie Avalon gives a surprisingly solid , credible and even fairly creepy performance as Paul , a crazed , murderous flute-playing mental patient who develops a psychic link with sweet gimpy teenage girl Marion ( appealingly played by the adorable Donna Wilkes of " Jaws 2 " and " Angel " fame ) after his blood is used for an operation she undergoes . Pauls escapes from the asylum , steals a van , and drives cross country so he can meet Marion in person , bumping off a few folks along the way . Monty Turner's gratingly redundant droning synthesizer score tends to be more annoying than effective , but fortunately Alan J . Levi's able direction , Steve Posey's polished cinematography , some witty dialogue ( " I've got a hangover that would make King Kong climb a wall " ) , a decent amount of gore , and the uniformly fine acting from an interesting cast are all up to par . A radically cast against type Avalon in particular has a field day with his juicy homicidal fruitcake part : Frankie plants a hatchet in a guy's face , strangles a hot young lady after making love to her , and , best of all , vigorously engages in a strenuous mano-a-mano no-holds-barred physical confrontation with veteran tough guy actor Richard Jaeckel ( who's excellent as usual as Marion's stern , cranky , overbearing dad ) . Lenny Montana , the hit-man who winds up sleeping with the fishes in " The Godfather , " served as a co-producer , co-wrote the script and pops up in a small supporting role as an amiable tugboat skipper . A fun little fright flick .
Taking the night train to Sadism City	Lisa and Margaret are two sweet , if less than innocent teenagers taking a train ride across the European countryside on Christmas Eve . The unlucky pair run afoul of a couple of vicious sleazy thugs and an icy cold wealthy woman on board the train who proceed to rape , torment , debase and eventually murder poor Lisa and Margaret . Director / co-writer Aldo Lado wrings plenty of gut-wrenching claustrophobic tension from the edgy , unsettling story , adroitly creates a gritty , threatening atmosphere rife with sadism and perversion , addresses the troubling issue of random everyday gratuitous violence with truly jolting results , and delivers a few savagely powerful moments of startling brutality ( the sequence where the virginal Lisa gets gruesomely violated with a knife is especially ugly and upsetting ) . The performances are uniformly excellent : Irene Miracle and Laura D'Angelo make for very attractive and appealing fair damsels in distress while Flavio Bucci and Gianfranco De Grassi are frightfully credible and disgusting as the greasy low-life criminal villains who are memorably first seen in the picture beating up a sidewalk Santa for his money . But top acting honors clearly go to the strikingly lovely blonde Macha Meril , who gives a positively chilling portrayal of the cruel , haughty rich bitch who gladly joins in on the hoodlum's ferocious degradation of Lisa and Margaret . Gabor Pogany's slick , handsome cinematography works wonders with the tightly confined setting while the great Ennio Morricone supplies a typically haunting , throbbing and melodic score . Demis Roussos ' beautiful ballad " A Flower Is All You Need " is used as an achingly ironic bookend for all the harsh barbarism . A nice'n'nasty Euroslime exploitation thriller .
A fun little mystery thriller quickie	Feisty mystery writer Cornelia van Gorder ( superbly played by Agnes Moorehead ) rents a country house called the Oaks for the summer . A lethal criminal called the Bat terrorizes the area . Meanwhile , bank president John Fleming ( a nicely weaselly Harvey Stephens ) has embezzled a million dollars . And suave Dr . Malcom Wells ( the always terrific Vincent Price ) knows more than he's telling about what's going on . Writer / director Crane Wilber relates the compellingly twisty story at a brisk pace and effectively creates a sizable amount of tension . Joseph Biroc's sharp black and white cinematography makes artful use of dissolves and vertical wipes . Louis Forbes ' shuddery score likewise does the trick . Moorehead and Price are both wonderful in their juicy lead roles ; they receive fine support from Lenita Lane as chatty , excitable maid Lizzie Allen , Gavin Gordon as the hard-nosed Lt . Andy Anderson , John Sutton as reliable , but suspicious chauffeur Warner , and Darla Hood of the Little Rascals fame as the adorable Judy Hollander . Moreover , the masked , clawed , black-clad the Bat makes for a nifty villain ; his true identity turns out to be a genuine surprise . Witty and concise , this movie overall rates as a hugely entertaining feature .
An enjoyably creepy 70's made-for-TV horror shocker	Roy Thinnes of " The Invaders " TV series fame gives a typically fine performance as David Norliss , a cynical and skeptical investigative reporter working on a book which debunks various supernatural occurrences and paranormal phenomena as phony baloney frauds . While researching his book Norliss crosses paths with widow Ellen Cort ( the ever-lovely and appealing Angie Dickinson ) , who claims that her recently deceased husband ( an impressively robust turn by Nick Dimitri , who sports some truly ghoulish make-up and uncanny yellow eyes ) has come back to life as a murderous gray-skinned zombie . Norliss finds out much to his dismay that this particular case is all too real and by no means yet another far-fetched hoax . Expertly directed by the late , great Dan ( " Trilogy of Terror " ) Curtis , with a smart and compelling script by William F . ( " Logan's Run " ) Nolan , an arrestingly creepy and mysterious atmosphere , an eerie and rousing score by Robert Cobert , a snappy pace , polished cinematography by Ben Colman , genuinely shocking and stirring outbursts of surprisingly brutal violence ( Angie blasts the zombie with a shotgun ! ) , and a thrilling fiery conclusion , this failed pilot for a possible spin-off show sizes up as an often quite scary , always engrossing and overall superior made-for-TV fright feature . Moreover , the sound acting from a solid cast counts as another major asset : Both Thinnes and Dickinson are strong and sympathetic , with bang-up support from Claude Akins as a hard-nosed sheriff , Don Porter as Norliss ' concerned publisher , Vonette ( " Blacula " ) McGhee as a helpful occult store owner , Stanley Adams as an excitable truck driver , and Patrick ( " The Cheerleaders " ) Wright as a deputy . Short ( it's only 72 minutes long ) , spooky and extremely well-done all around , " The Norliss Tapes " is definitely worth checking out .
A really fun & enjoyable late 80's killer bug gore horror hoot	A disgusting batch of cannibalistic cockroaches caused by your usual illegal'n'unscrupulous scientific mishap terrorize a heretofore dull and peaceful small island community . Sure , the plot sounds dumb and unpromising , but luckily the solid direction by Terrence Winkless ( who co-wrote " The Howling " ) , several quirky and engaging secondary characters ( Stephan Davies in particular steals the film with a sidesplitting portrayal of the burg's klutzy , sloppy , eccentric resident exterminator who prefers to be called " a pest control agent " ) , a clever script by Robert King which has occasional dollops of amusingly macabre black humor ( the single most bravura darkly funny comic moment is when endangered waitress Nancy Morgan butchers a bunch of roaches in her diner while " La Cucaracha " blasts on the soundtrack ) , pretty gruesome and creepy roach attack scenes , nasty and convincing make-up f / x by Cary Howe , a nice turn by the underrated Diana ( " Stripped to Kill , " " Spellbinder " ) Bellamy as a whiny old battle axe with a broken foot ( the scene where the roaches crawl into her cast is a real hoot ) , and a wonderfully wicked performance by gorgeous redhead Terri ( " The Terror Witin " ) Treas as a bitchy , cold-hearted evil lady scientist who derives erotic pleasure out of the roaches nibbling on her fingers make this baby a pleasantly enjoyable winner . The only flaw here is the three weak leads : Robert ( " Empire of the Ants " ) Lansing as the corrupt mayor , Lisa ( " Deadly Eyes " ) Langlois as Hizzoner's bimbo daughter , and Robert ( " Ghost Town " ) Luz as the earnest , drippy sheriff are all numbingly bland . That fault aside , " The Nest " overall rates as a superior revolt-of-nature killer animal fright feature .
An amusingly goofy Bigfoot romp	This refreshingly playful and tongue-in-cheek romp is part fact , part fiction and all enjoyable in its pleasingly facetious telling of a legendary backwoods Bigfoot who periodically pops up in the Georgia forest around an equally mythical mountain to scare the hell out of the local yokels . Klutzy middle-aged newspaper copy boy Bestoink Dooley ( winningly played by George Ellis ) , eager to nail a hot scoop , goes venturing up into the hills to find out if the stories about Mr . Out of Control Excess Body Hair have any basis in truth . Director Massey Cramer displays a light , frothy touch throughout ( Cramer co-wrote and produced the merely okay dope deal opus " The Florida Connection " ) . Joseph Shelton's sometimes sharp cinematography offers some eye-catching visuals of the eerily calm lakes and woods , plus several creepy shots of the creature prowling around the dense , fog-shrouded forest . A spooky atmosphere is effectively developed and the monster attack scenes are executed with a goodly amount of punch . Former yo-yo champion , spookshow performer , soft-core writer / director / producer and all-around extraordinary cinematic jack-of-all-trades exploitation huckster par excellence Donn Davison ( who's billed here as a " world traveler , lecturer , and psychic investigator " ) clearly shot inserts for this little killer-diller ; they were probably done for a belated 70's release in order to cash in on the then scorching hot Sasquatch craze . Davison makes for a wryly entertaining host as he cites facts about Bigfoot which include the famous Teddy Roosevelt incident and conducts droll interviews with wide-eyed folks who've had scary run-ins with the beast ( " Is this gonna be on television ? , " one awestruck gal asks Davison at the end of her interview ) . Tim York's tuneful'n'twangy country theme song " The Ballad of McCullough's Mountain " smokes in no uncertain terms ( " Some say he breathed fire like a dragon / Some say a giant ape with a human soul " ) . Okay , this silly picture sure ain't no celluloid masterpiece , but as far as Sasquatch cinema movies go it's well above average .
An excellent , involving and unfairly overlooked early 90's female psycho thriller sleeper	Female psycho movies - - " The Witch Who Came from the Sea , " " Silent Scream , " " The Babysitter , " et al . - - tend to possess an uncommon and therefor refreshing sensitivity , going out of their way to depict their troubled , murderous protagonists as people who were cruelly victimized early in life and hence themselves have become spiteful , vengeful victimizers . This eerie , unfairly overlooked sleeper , one of the few distaff serial killer entries in the largely male dominated 90's psycho movie genre , rates highly as a sterling addition to this unusual and intriguing cycle . Daphne Zuniga , who began her film career with appearances in the college-set 80's slasher items " The Dorm That Dripped Blood " and " The Intitiation , " delivers a striking , fantastic , scarily believable performance as an extremely pliant and puzzled , but still quite cunning and dangerous asylum escapee who assumes the personality of everyone she kills . James Wilder is solid and engaging as the feckless , irresponsible , swaggering cowboy loner who becomes Zuniga's latest victim . Willful , no-nonsense small country town deputy Alexandra Paul ( who's also Wilder's understandably bitter former girlfriend and jilted would-be wife ) and helpful nice guy FBI agent Don Harvey track Zuniga down , desperately trying to catch her before she racks up a hefty corpse tally . Fleming B . Fuller's direction completely hits the bull's eye : a goodly amount of tension is deftly created and maintained , the steady pace never slackens , the characters are credibly drawn ( the strained , regretful relationship between Wilder and Paul rings especially true ) , the lean , strong and compelling narrative doesn't overstay its welcome , the acting is uniformly top-notch ( Harvey , who's usually cast as hateful sadistic villains , does a rare pleasant and appealing turn in an atypical decent dude part ) , the bleak , parched desert locations are nicely taken advantage of , and the occasional outbursts of violence are properly brutal and genuinely startling ( the opening sequence in which Zuniga throttles a nurse with a wire coat hanger is particularly jolting ) . Zuniga's amazing , complicated , even pitiable and unexpectedly moving portrayal of the emotionally unstable and mercurial killer clinches the whole deal : she's alternately demure and sexy , fearsome and lethal , vulnerable and impenetrable , lucid and confused , a dizzying array of contrasting moods which makes her character in equal degrees frightfully unpredictable and wholly fascinating . More importantly , like the classic truly memorable and oddly affecting horror movie monsters of yore , Zuniga at heart is almost as much of a victim as the people she preys on , a tragic person who has to take on other people's identities because she can't live with the shame and the guilt she feels as herself after having killed her own abusive mother at a young , tender age . This latter element adds a stunningly effective dash of deeply poignant pathos which elevates this chillingly dead-on picture to the status of a surefire winner .
A hugely enjoyable serving of Spanish horror exploitation trash	This flick gets off to a rip-roaring start with a hapless lovely lass being tied to a stake and severely whipped prior to getting decapitated by a savage voodoo tribe . A motley group of explorers go to Africa to study the wildlife in the area where the ritual occurred back in 1910 . Come nightfall the expedition members fall pray to deadly zombie natives and equally lethal vampire ladies wearing skimpy leopard skin bikinis . Writer / director Amando De Ossorio delivers plenty of tasty gratuitous nudity , a smattering of grisly gore , a smidgen of steamy soft-core sex , and even a reasonable amount of misty'n'spooky gloom-doom atmosphere . De Ossorio treats the silly story with utmost seriousness , which in turn adds considerably to the film's tacky charm . The cast all give acceptable performances ; the ubiquitous Jack Taylor in particular does well as a stuffy professor . Better still , the women are all very hot and attractive : Kali Hansa , Maria Kosti , Loreta Tovar and Barbara Rey . Francisco Sanchez's bright , polished cinematography ( the occasional use of stylized slow motion is really nifty ) , the endearingly crummy dubbing , and Fernando Garcia Morcillo's funky-throbbing tribal score further add to the overall trashy fun .
A very brutal , chilling & potent end-of-the-world film	Cornel Wilde , widely regarded as one of the truest and purest of cinematic primitives due to his blunt , sinewy , straightforward and nonjudgmental presentation of " civilized " man and his disturbingly easy capacity for violence given the correct stimulus , here depicts a very chilling vision of societal collapse in this ecology-minded sci-fi end-of-the-world movie . Mankind's gross polluting of the environment begets a lethal virus which kills off the earth's crops , resulting in famine , mass panic and hysteria , rioting in the streets , and the violent breakdown of society itself . Rugged , resilient and resourceful former military man survivalist Nigel Davenport , his equally strong and durable wife Jean Wallace ( Wilde's real life spouse and frequent lead in his pictures ) , Davenport's fragile , virginal daughter ( " Vampire Circus " ' s adorable Lynn Frederick ) and son , the daughter's nice guy fiancé , a loutish brute and the brute's slutty wife leave London and make a perilous pilgrimage across the desolate , dangerous countryside . Many wayward travelers join the group and form a ragtag army which fends off a savage gang of murderous rapist bikers . Wilde relates this grim premise with his usual stark , spare and no-frills muscular style ( although the occasionally clumsy use of flash-forwards badly dates this film ) , keeping sentiment to a bare minimum , tautly maintaining a properly bleak tone , offering up an upsetting array of jarring visuals ( i . e . , a dry , barren landscape littered with animal corpses ) , and refusing to resort to cheap moralizing , but still clearly spelling out the harsh , albeit absolute necessity for killing in order to remain alive and persevere in a barbarous world . A bit crude and rough around the edges , but overall an extremely powerful and unsettling film .
Repent all you sinners or face the deadly wrath of Father Jonas !	In 1957 deranged and dangerous Catholic priest Father Jonas ( excellently played with frightening intensity by James Carver ) kills two fornicating teenagers . Thirty-three years later Father Jonas escapes from the cellar of the church he's been imprisoned in and returns to the monastery from his youth . Said monastery has been converted into a summer home where a pair of teenage couples go to celebrate prom night . Director Clay Borris and screenwriter Richard Beattie craft an extremely dark and twisted slice'n'dice body count fright feature that benefits substantially from a grimly serious tone , a creepy mood , a steady pace , several gory and nasty murder set pieces , a smidgen of steamy soft-core sex , a considerable amount of tension , and a brutal and harrowing last third . Better still , there's no silly disruptive humor to diminish the severity of the in-your-face harsh and unflinching horror ; Father Jonas in particular registers strongly as one extremely scary and vicious dude . In addition , the brooding religious angle gives the picture an extra sick and subversive edge . Nicole de Boer makes for an appealing heroine as the sweet and virginal Meagan ; she receives sound support from Alden Kane as Meagan's nice guy boyfriend Mark , Joy Tanner as shameless slut Laura , Alle Ghadbran as the equally brash Jeff , Brock Simpson as eager young priest Father Colin , and Fab Filippo as Mark's bratty peeping tom younger brother Jonathan . Rick Wincenty's polished , agile cinematography keeps the camera constantly moving and boasts a handful of fluid tracking shots . Paul Zaza's spooky'n'shuddery score likewise hits the skin-crawling spot . A superior slasher horror outing .
An enjoyably junky piece of 80's slasher trash	Hey , you ever have one of those nights when you couldn't decide if you wanted to see either a terminally brainless T & A laden " Porky's " on the beach sex'n'booze lowbrow comedy or a comparably vacuous seaside mystery horror slasher pic ? Well , you can actually see ' em both in one gloriously junky 90 minute sitting thanks to this crackerjack handy-dandy combo hybrid of the above-cited sub-genres . An enigmatic psycho biker dude whose face is obscured by a dark visor electrocutes a sizable volume of fun-loving , hooch-sodden , hormone-crazed hedonistic collegiate chowderheads partying their sun-tanned butts off during Easter vacation in Miami Beach , Florida . The murders totally baffle the local cops , who in time-honored B-pic tradition wish to keep the whole thing hush-hush so the resort town can still milk mucho money from the addle-pated twenty-something tourists . So , it's up to the token serious , self-disciplined nice college guy ( amiable Nicholas De Toth , who makes for a refreshingly earnest and unmacho reluctant protagonist ) and a sweet barmaid gal ( winningly played by the incredibly cute ultra-honey Sarah Buxton ) to find out who the true culprit is on their own . Done with the right amount of energy and competence to qualify as a perfectly acceptable and enjoyable serving of " screw intelligence and just give me the lowdown trashy horror exploitation flick goods " Saturday night schlock , this engagingly drecky beaut proves to be a whole lot of top-notch dopey fun . Director Umberto Lenzi , working from a slim , yet serviceable script by Larry Kirkpatrick ( who also wrote the equally dumb , but satisfying " Primal Rage " for Lenzi ) , keeps the proceedings lively and eventful by tossing in a rowdy gang of hog-ridin ' hellions called the Demons ( ! ) , a bunch of thrashing ' heavy metal tunes roaring ' away on the soundtrack ( the theme song " Don't Break My Heart " by Kristen really smokes ) , a few wet t-shirt contests , several grisly murder set pieces ( Alessandro Rambaldi did the great , gruesome gore f / x ) , a throbbing ' rock score by Goblin's Claidio Simonetti , crude condom gags , plenty of attractive babes in skimpy bikinis , a " Jaws " - style " let's keep this homicide stuff quiet ' cause it's bad for business " cover-up conspiracy sub-plot , more idiotic horny toad college revelers than you can shake an empty beer can at , and even a little gratuitous female nudity . The stand-out supporting cast adds greatly to the overall sleazy merriment : John Saxon lends his usual sturdy , hard-nosed , imposing presence as a mean , hectoring , buzz-crushing police captain with a kinky S & M bondage fetish for chains , leather and dog collars , Lance LeGault gruffs it up nicely as a stern hell-and-brimstone preacher , and Michael Parks makes the most out of a miner part as a fidgety , alcoholic coroner . Okay , it sure ain't no work of immaculate art , but " Welcome to Spring Break " definitely does the trick as a pleasingly upfront and undemanding timewaster .
A great deal of gleefully gory fun	A motley assortment of college kids on a cross country road trip take an ill-advised detour and find themselves in the quaint Southern hamlet of Pleasant Valley . They run afoul of the crazed cannibal local yokels who are celebrating their annual barbecue festival . Director / co-writer Tim Sullivan does a real bang-up job with this wickedly sick and twisted blackly humorous remake of the Herschell Gordon Lewis schlock splatter classic : Sullivan relates the story at a nonstop zippy pace , ably creates an amusing tongue-in-cheek tone ( the witty " Deliverance " dueling banjos parody is quite funny ) , and pours on the gruesome gore with infectiously demented glee ( grisly highlights include a hapless lass being quartered by horses , a guy drinking acid , a girl getting crushed by a huge bell , one poor dude having his privates eaten by a hick chick with sharp steel teeth , and a nasty double decapitation with barbed wire ) . Better still , several hot babes take off their clothes and bare their beautiful bodies . Why , we even got plenty of saucy sexual perversion going on that runs the gamut from bestiality to incestuous lesbianism ( the latter thanks to a delectable distaff pair of literal " kissin ' cousins " ) . Moreover , the game cast totally go to town on their roles . Robert Englund in particular has a field day as the jolly one-eyed Mayor Buckman . Lin Shayne as the sweetly insane Granny Boone , Giuseppe Andrews as the suavely deranged gentleman Harper Alexander , Scott Spiegel and Johnny Legend as a couple of merry singing minstrels , Wendy Kremer as wildcat hillbilly harlot Peaches , Bill McKinney as an unhinged chef , Travis Tritt as a creepy gas station attendant , Eli Roth as wacky stoner Justin , and Peter Stormare as the stuffy Professor Ackerman all likewise have a grand time with their parts . Steve Adcock's polished cinematography and Jonathan McHugh's spooky , flavorsome score do the trick just nice . A refreshingly gross and tasteless blast of a blithely depraved over-the-top comedic horror romp .
A delightfully sleazy and over the top piece of Southern Gothic horror trash	Absolutely absurd , preposterously hyperbolic and incredibly incomprehensible pseudo-Southern Gothic small town horror monster mystery rubbish , executed with such fervid go-for-broke zeal that it manages to become freakishly entertaining almost despite ( or perhaps even because of ) its brooding melodramatic atmosphere . 1964 : Newlyweds Ronny Cox and Bibi Besch get lost on a remote Mississippi backwoods road . Some horrible , monstrous sub-human cannibal thing that's in dire need of both a bath and especially a shave ( it's got the ugliest , nastiest hairy legs you never want to lay eyes on ) escapes from a cellar that it's been imprisoned in and rapes Besch , impregnating her in the process . 1982 : Cox and Besch now have a teenage son ( an admirably game portrayal by Paul Clemens , who tries very hard in an impossible role ) who's suffering from an odd , seemingly incurable disease . With sonny boy in tow , Cox ( who gives a hilarious deadpan performance , mouthing the most asinine dialogue with a remarkable poker face ) and Besch return to the seedy , squalid hillbilly hamlet located nearby the woods where Besch was attacked . Next thing you know , Junior starts periodically changing into a hideous , dangerous , gigantic humanoid insect creature , viciously slaughtering various scuzzball local yokels who in one way or another are accountable for his woeful plight . It ultimately transpires that the poor lad is possessed by the vengeful spirit of the unsightly flesh-eating furry-legged fiend , meaning that repercussions of past atrocities are finally catching up with the present . Got that ? The feverishly overwrought direction by Philippe Mora ( who previously did the excellent " Mad Dog Morgan " and went on to helm the wonderfully wretched " Howling II : Your Sister Is A Werewolf " ) , combined with American International Pictures composer Les Baxter's thunderous , suitably overblown score , Tom ( " Prophecy , " " Cat People " ) Burman's riotously rubbery and unconvincing make-up f / x , an impenetrably convoluted plot , a handful of outrageously gruesome and splatterific murders , a climactic transformation scene that's uproariously bungled by both Mora and Burman , and the alarmingly hammy acting from a manic supporting cast which includes a particularly hysterical Don Gordon as the scummy burg's oily , bewigged jerk of a mayor ( with his wire rim glasses and bad hairpiece Gordon bears an uncanny resemblance to noted sci-fi author Harlan Ellison ) , the adorable Kitty Moffat as a sweet , comely hick chick , John Dennis Johnson as Moffat's abusive , overbearing redneck dad , Luke Askew as a corrupt undertaker , Logan Ramsey as a belligerent fat cracker , Ron Soble as a boozy Native American who knows what's really going on , and a pre - " Designing Women " Mesach Taylor as the token black deputy ( only Sam Peckinpah regular L . Q . Jones as the earnest , yet feckless sheriff and the ever-reliable R . G . Armstrong as an equally sincere , but ineffectual folksy physician display any restraint amid all the eye-rolling histrionics , although their commendable subdued efforts prove to be all for naught ) , ensures that this sweaty , ludicrous and hopelessly muddled misbegotten mess plays like a gloriously ripe and ridiculous unintentional elaborate cinematic shaggy dog joke parody of the demonic possession fright film sub-genre .
Good , silly , very clever & witty B-horror / sci-fi flick fun	Okay , let's start this here review by stating for the record that this sure ain't no remarkably innovative or original genre-changing masterpiece of significant cinematic importance . In fact , this perfectly fun'n'funky little fright feature at heart is just your basic good'n'goofy B-movie sci-fi / horror romp that gets down to brass tacks , satisfies all the basic horror requirements ( gore , thrills , action , alien parasites and ornery zombies ) , and benefits tremendously from a refreshing dearth of high-faluting pretense . Moreover , it's genuinely heartening to see a recent horror film that isn't yet another sequel , remake or adaptation of either a video game or comic book . Instead , this appealingly giddy'n'goofy romp harks back to such choice 80's scarefests as " Slugs " and especially " Night of the Creeps . " The plot is pretty much very ordinary and run-of-the-mill stock formula stuff : a meteorite crashes in the woods nearby a sleepy podunk hick burg . Pernicious extraterrestrial slugs come out of the meteorite and taken over the body of rich local businessman Grant Grant ( a deliciously juicy and dynamic performance by the great Michael Rooker of " Henry : Portrait of A Serial Killer " fame ) . Grant starts acting mighty peculiar , stockpiling vast amounts of meat and dead animal bodies in his cellar . He also impregnates the town tramp so she can reproduce more alien slugs . Naturally the slugs are unleashed and a majority of the townspeople are turned into raving ghouls who spit acid saliva and have an insatiable appetite for meat . It's up to the sheriff ( winningly played by Nathan Fillion ) , assisted by Grant's lovely young babe trophy wife ( the engagingly perky Elizabeth Banks ) , to try to stop the alien menace before it destroys the whole world . Yikes ! Sure , the narrative is hokey , derivative , and nothing terribly new or special , but thankfully writer / director James Gunn ( who wrote the surprisingly good " Dawn of the Dead " remake ) brings a substantial amount of wit , verve and infectiously pure love and affection to the standard scenario . Gunn nicely creates a properly creepy mood in the opening third , keeps the pace crackling along at a speedy clip , and stages the shock moments with considerable brio ( the scene where a beautiful teenage hottie gets attacked by the slugs while taking a bath is a real dilly ) . Kudos also to the uniformly solid and spirited acting by the tip-top cast : Fillion makes for a strong and likable hero , Banks is a likewise assertive and attractive heroine , and Gregg Henry is an absolute hoot as the coarse , smarmy , foul-mouthed good old boy idiot mayor . Granted , " Slither " is no classic , but it's plenty of easy'n'breezy undemanding fright film fun that's highly amusing and entertaining in equal measure . And that alone makes it ideal viewing for a taking a break and relaxing from it all Saturday-night-at-the-movies type of creature feature experience .
A nifty little indie sci-fi winner	I first saw and fell in love with this immensely enjoyable low-budget science fiction treat on some Saturday afternoon creature feature show . It tells the story of a motley spaceship crew who find themselves stranded on a strange and unknown planet populated by hostile and hungry dinosaurs . The intrepid bunch soon learn that they must fight back against the dinosaurs or else they will all perish . Director James K . Shea brings a winning blend of flair and energy to the fun premise ; he maintains a snappy pace throughout and stages the dinosaur attack scenes with considerable vigor . The acting is pretty hit or miss , with top thespic honors going to the hulking James Whitworth ( Papa Jupitor in the original " The Hills Have Eyes " ) as the tough take-charge Jim . Henning Schellerup's cinematography gives the picture a fairly polished look . The wonky synthesizer score by Kelly Lammers and John O'Verlin likewise does the trick . The characters are nicely drawn and engaging . But it's the impressively ambitious special effects that really add a great deal to the movie's funky charm and effectiveness : The stop-motion animation dinosaurs are totally cool , plus Jim Danforth supplies a few neat matte paintings . Although admittedly modest and rough around the edges , this film overall still makes the grade as a very lively and entertaining romp .
An enjoyable thriller	Shrewd and evasive ex-Nazi and top assassin Oscar Snell ( nicely played suavely sinister aplomb by Bruno Cremer ) is determined to rub out King Faoud ( a suitably arrogant Lukas Ammann ) . Snell's sole weakness is his sweet tooth ; he leaves candy wrappers at the scene of his every crime . It's up to no-nonsense CIA agent Mark Stone ( a smooth and solid performance by Kerwin Matthews ) to find Snell and stop him before it's too late . Directors Federico Chenkens and Maurice Clothe ( the latter also co-wrote the compact and eventful script ) keep the movie humming along at a snappy pace and stage the plentiful rousing shoot-outs and down'n'dirty fisticuffs with a reasonable amount of skill and brio . The Rome , Italy locations add a pleasing extra exotic flavor to the lively proceedings . Moreover , there's also a welcome smattering of tasty peek-a-boo almost nudity from a bevy of beautiful ladies ( King Faoud's dancing harem girls are especially luscious ) . Popping up in neat parts are Marilu Tolo as fetching physician Sylva , Venantino Venantini as Stone's jolly partner Costa , Werner Peters as slippery underground crime kingpin Guardino , and the ever-imposing Gordon Mitchell as Guardino's brutish henchman Toni . Fausto Zuccoli's cinematography makes inspired occasional use of a hand-held camera . Gianni Marchetti's groovy , dreamy , get-down hip and playful swinging jazz score may be inappropriate , but it still sounds insanely cool just the same . A really fun and diverting romp .
An amiably inane and immaterial 70's drive-in romp	A trio of naive , but eager young Midwestern women go to California to teach summer school classes at Regency High School . Perky , willful Candice ( " Hollywood Boulevard , " " Chatterbox ! " ) Rialson starts up and coaches an all-female football team ; she also becomes romantically involved with gawky , but amicable fellow student teacher Christopher Barrett . Stuffy Bible banging chemistry teacher Pat ( " T . N . T . Jackson " ) Anderson manages to loosen up after she falls hard for surly juvenile delinquent Will Carney . Pert , liberated photography instructor Rhonda Leigh ( " Cover Girl Models " ) Hopkins has sex with both a two-faced male chauvinist jerk and a more decent , understanding guy . This thoroughly inane , amiable , episodic and animated New World Pictures comedic teen sexploitation item sizes up as a hugely enjoyable outing : writer / director Barbara ( " Humanoids from the Deep " ) Peeters keeps the pace quite zippy and the tone suitably lighthearted throughout , the ceaseless barrage of jokes about breasts , buttocks , fat guys , uptight high school authority figures , sex ( of course ) , dirty little old lady peeping toms , dorky middle-aged dudes on the make , and gross macho bozos are very crude , but still pretty funny , the expected romantic interludes are surprisingly tasteful and erotic , the Los Angeles strip club footage is authentically tacky , the sappy bleeding heart " let's give the kids a chance " posturing never becomes too icky-cute , the feminist subtext is slight , yet sincere , there's a reasonably decent automobile chase and a nice subplot about a stolen car ring , and the climactic women only football game manages to be really amusing , if nothing too spectacular . Moreover , the always dependable Dick Miller cuts loose with a riotously hammy performance as a crooked , sexist , vulgar macho swine football coach , the three female leads are sexy , lively and appealing , Eric ( " The Hills Have Eyes " ) Saarinen's handsome , agile cinematography provides lots of lovely , gorgeously lit visuals , and J . J . Jackson's bouncy , ebullient score will plant a mile-wide smile on your face that you won't take off for a week . Now , what more could you possibly want from a blissfully insubstantial , but infectiously effervescent and entertaining goofball time-waster ?
A lovably amateurish low-budget early 80's sci-fi / horror delight	A meteorite containing a large , toothy , voracious , slow-moving multi-tentacled extraterrestrial with an insatiable appetite for human flesh crashlands in a sleepy small town . The wicked intergalactic fiend promptly scarfs down two campers and then goes into the basement of a house where a teenage monster movie fan ( likably played by Charles George Hildebrandt ) lives , eating the kid's parents as well . And this is just in the first ten minutes alone ! The rest of the picture does a surprisingly expert job for the most part of maintaining a fast and frantic headlong clip . Sure , this blatantly cheap'n'chintzy homemade sci-fi / horror creature feature has its flaws - - clumsy direction , wooden acting from a game , but lame no-name cast , murky cinematography , occasionally sluggish pacing - - but there's a downright infectious sense of zesty go-for-it energy and enthusiasm evident throughout that's both quite endearing and hugely entertaining in equal measure . Moreover , this lively romp certainly doesn't skimp on the gleefully graphic and excessive outrageous splatter : gory highlights include a severed head being ravenously gorged on by the hungry beasts , a hilarious sequence with the nasty alien critters attacking a bunch of old ladies , plenty of shots of blood spurting all over walls and roofs , a college student having her head chomped off by the enormous main monster , and the main monster blowing up real messy at the exciting conclusion . Plus the characters are believable , well-developed and genuinely engaging to boot . The " it ain't over yet " sequel set-up final freeze frame is absolutely sidesplitting . A total howler of a low-budget campfest .
A really enjoyable 70's made-for-TV trucker flick	Mighty macho manly man idols don't come much tougher or grittier than truckers . At least , that's what such 70's features as " White Line Fever , " " Breaker ! Breaker ! , " and " Convoy " would like us to think . These films all helped to make truckers seem like modern-day American desperadoes of the asphalt trails who are the backbone of this great rugged country . Well , add this nifty made-for-TV item to this ever-worthwhile and enjoyable sub-genre . Criminally underrated guy's guy par excellence James Brolin once again proves he's most definitely got the stuff as Clayton Ray Dennis , an honest , hard-working , but immature and hopelessly broke Diesel demon who's struggling to retain both his integrity and independence . Clayton's currently having a difficult time of it : he's three weeks late on back payments to his rig , keeps getting stuck with crummy low-paying jobs , and his loving , but fed-up wife Jesse ( a fine , feisty Jennifer Warren ) is seriously thinking about leaving him . Desperate for cash , Clayton and his crotchety , garrulous road hog buddy KW ( a rambunctiously hearty slice of Grade A thespic ham by the incomparable Rip Torn ) decide to haul stolen cows for oily , lowdown dirty freight racketeer Pinky Pincus ( a deliciously slimy portrayal by Strother Martin ) . Pinky treats Clayton nice for a spell , then betrays Clayton by killing KW . So Clayton , who's not the sort to take anyone's crap lying down , opens up a gigantic can of whup-a clobbering on the fat , sniveling little weasel Pincus . Director Harvey Laidman keeps the pace chugging along at a speedy clip and stages the action scenes with considerable aplomb . Nice supporting performances by Melanie Griffith as a cute truckstop waitress , Lou Frizzell as an obnoxiously overzealous skip tracer , and Don Calfa and John Dennis Johnson as greasy gear jammers . Charles Bernstein's bang-up score deftly alternates between groovy romping rock and mellow melodic country mush . Juice Newton and the Silver Spurs supply a lovely , forlorn theme song , " Wouldn't Mind the Rain . " Granted , it ain't no " White Line Fever , " but this baby still rates as a solid and satisfying trucker's revenge opus just the same .
An unjustly overlooked sleeper	Sweet , clumsy grease monkey Bobby ( an endearing turn by the likable Paul LeMat ) is miserably dissatisfied with his dead-end garage mechanic job . Brassy , but tender-hearted counter-girl Rose ( the lovely , lissome , wholly bewitching Diane Hull ) is patiently waiting for the right man to walk into her life . Bobby and Rose meet cute , go on a swell date , get embroiled in a dire supermarket shoot-out , and become wanted , frightened , totally reluctant and hopelessly out of their element fugitives who hot foot it to Mexico in order to avoid being arrested by the police for a murder they didn't commit . Directed with a sure , easy hand and a sharp , observant eye by Floyd Mutrux ( who also wrote the tight , colorful and eventful script ) , further buoyed by William Fraker's bright , crisp , sunny cinematography , a nifty golden oldies soundtrack , fine location shooting ( shadowy , neon-lit pool halls , gaudy roller rinks , ratty Tijuana side streets ) , several amusingly quirky touches ( Bobby's hot rod failing to start after he pulls over and amiably chats with two motorcycle cops is an especially choice wryly funny moment ) , a relaxed , but steady pace , a few bracing'n'bravura action set pieces ( the harrowing automobile car crash set to the pounding , incessant beat of Little Eva's " The Loco-Motion " is particularly striking ) , and a gripping , realistic , grimly fatalistic and uncompromisingly downbeat tone which fiercely deromanticizes any sense of wrong-headed " glamour " intrinsic to the couple on the premise , this pleasant surprise rates as a pleasingly idiosyncratic and decidedly insouciant treat . LeMat and Hull make for a nice , appealing pair ; they receive bang-up support from Robert Carradine as Bobby's ambitious , upwardly mobile social climbing pal Moxey , Tim McIntire as coarse , irascible , but still engaging redneck Buford , Noble Willingham as Bobby's big-hearted , gregarious Uncle Charlie , Edward James Olmos as a shady , menacing pool hustler , and Cliff Emmich as a quarrelsome loudmouth restaurant patron . Solid and commendably tough-minded , " Aloha , Bobby and Rose " measures up as a worthwhile and unjustly under-appreciated little sleeper .
An excellent and very effective Grade B " danger on the road " thriller	Successful businessman Jeff Taylor ( a typically on the ball performance from the always dependable Kurt Russell ) and his wife Amy ( a solid , but underused Kathleen Quinlin ) are driving from Massachusetts to California in their expensive new car via the scenic dusty'n'desolate desert country backroads route . The car breaks down . Amy hitches a ride with a friendly trucker ( J . T . Walsh , who's magnificent as usual ) . When Jeff later tries to find Amy , he realizes that she's been abducted and he'll have to do whatever it takes to get her back alive and in one piece . Directed in briskly efficient fashion by Jonathan Mostow , powered along by Basil Poledouris ' thundering , bone-rattling score , Doug Milesome's crisp , accomplished cinematography , and an explosive , gut-kickingly effective metal-demolishing climactic car chase , " Breakdown " ' s basic plot liberally lifts elements from such diverse sources as " Duel , " " The Vanishing , " " The Hitcher , " and " Road Games , " but luckily what the derivative ragbag script lacks in originality is compensated for by an uncommonly spare , streamlined and unpretentious sense of lean , linear , to-the-point no-nonsense narrative economy . Characterizations are kept to a minimum ( although the late , great , sorely missed Walsh , big , bad and brawny greaseball supreme M . C . Gainey , gangly Jack Noseworthy , and grizzled blubberball Ritch Brinkley still scuzz it up something sweet as the evil leering hicks while familiar faces Rex Linn and Jack McGhee contribute cool bits as an earnest , but useless sheriff and a scruffy diner counterman , respectively ) , there are no dreary , dragged-out expository lulls to be found , and both the zippy pacing and grimy tension are finely honed to sharp , stinging points , thereby resulting in a neatly bracing and suspenseful medium budget thriller which became a surprise box office hit . This is the kind of movie they regrettably just don't make too much anymore : a tightly plotted , slickly mounted and expertly done straight down the line with no unnecessary flashy trimmings or fancy-shmancy highbrow messages B picture from a major studio that's actually very good of its type .
Vincent Price , Peter Lorre and Basil Rathbone all shine in this hugely enjoyable Edgar Allan Poe horror anthology treat	This immensely entertaining vintage 60's American International Pictures horror anthology treat based on a trio of delectably macabre Edgar Allan Poe short stories features Vincent Price in peak form in all three episodes . First and most spooky yarn , " Morella " - Young Lenora ( the lovely Maggie Pierce ) visits her estranged alcoholic father Locke ( a superbly anguished Price ) in his crumbling mansion and attempts to reconcile with him , which in turn incurs the deadly wrath of the vengeful spirit of her long deceased mother Morella ( the stunning Leona Gage ) . Second and funniest anecdote , " The Black Cat " - Peter Lorre gives a hilarious , spirited performance as wretched drunkard Montresor , a pathetic sot who befriends pompous wine expert Fortunato ( a deliciously droll Price ) . When Montresor discovers that Fortunato and his fetching , neglected wife Annabel ( the delightful Joyce Jameson ) are having an adulterous affair , he entombs them both alive behind a wall in his cellar . Third and creepiest segment , " The Case of M . Valdemar " - Evil mesmerist Carmichael ( a wonderfully wicked Basil Rathbone ) keeps dying millionaire Valdemar ( you-know-who again , excellent as ever ) alive in a tormented unconscious state , much to the dismay of both Valdemar's wife Helene ( the ravishing Debra Paget ) and loyal physician Dr . James ( the solid David Frankham ) . Roger Corman's typically tight and proficient direction , working from a smart and witty script by Richard Matheson , expertly maintains a brisk pace throughout , deftly creates a marvelously eerie brooding gloom-doom atmosphere ( the first and last anecdotes are particularly moody and effective , while the middle one offers plenty of uproarious pitch-black gallows humor ) , and coaxes fine acting from a tip-top cast . Lex Baxter's splendidly shivery'n'shuddery score and Floyd Crosby's crisp , handsome widescreen cinematography are likewise on the money outstanding . Good , ghoulish fun .
A choice chunk of 70's Southern-fried drive-in exploitation swill	Popular jazz singer Liz Wetherby ( played by real-life singer and 70's TV game show perennial Leslie Uggams ) gets into big trouble when her fancy expensive breaks down in the middle of nowhere in the Deep South . Poor Liz runs afoul of both slimy , crazed , talentless wannabe Elvis gigolo Eddie Collins ( deliciously overplayed with scuzzy aplomb by producer Michael Christian ) and Bertha ( a typically fat and juicy slice of prime histrionic ham by the one and only Shelley Winters ) , a faded former burlesque performer turned haggard and pathetic owner of a seedy lodge . Eddie sees Liz as his meal ticket out of the squalid hick hamlet where he's rotting away with the needy and neurotic Bertha . Eddie tries to force Liz to marry him , which begets tragic and disastrous consequences for everyone concerned . Director Richard Robinson uses several bizarre flourishes to relate the compellingly sordid and twisted story : he makes striking use of stunningly stylized slow motion for the more violent moments ( think Sam Peckinpah on Quaaludes ) and tastefully intercuts a brutal rape with footage of two mangy old coon dogs mating . David Worth's vivid , luridly picturesque cinematography and Grant Boatwright's wonky hillbilly bluegrass score add considerably to the pervasively scroungy atmosphere . The incredible cast includes Ted Cassidy ( Lurch on " The Adams Family " ) as a browbeaten disfigured handyman , a hilarious Slim Pickens as a perverted degenerate good ol ' boy sheriff , and Dub Taylor as an unhinged judge . The over-the-top gory bloodbath conclusion further enhances the overall tasty cheesiness of this choice rancid chunk of 70's Southern-fried drive-in exploitation swill .
More solid & sleazy Italian post-nuke sci-fi action fun	In yet another savage , desolate , society - has - gone - completely - down - the - toilet after the Big Nuclear Blast wasteland , only five super-warriors - - the humane , trustworthy Nisus ( Al Cliver , acting tough and sturdy with customary earnest conviction ) , dorky joker Jab ( the extremely obnoxious Harrison Mueller ) , surly Cro-Magnon Catch Dog ( sneering Daniel Stephen ) , quiet , but deadly Asian kung fu specialist Red Wolfe ( lithe'n'limber Al Yamanouchi ) and rugged survivalist Halakron ( the solid Peter Hooten ) - - are left to tame the new wild frontier and clean up the repulsive mutated trash making life difficult for all those decent folks attempting to rebuild civilization amid the barren rubble . Catch Dog gets booted from the group after he tries to force himself sexually on the feisty Maida ( strongly played by the lovely , willowy blonde Sabrina Siani , who hefts a mean pump shotgun and can kick a just as well as any dude ) . Nisus and Maida settle down with a peaceful group who are holed up at an oil refinery . Things are just ducky until a horde of foul , brutish , fascistic motorcycle-riding rape and murder happy Nazi marauders led by the evil , bald , power-crazed Hitler-like despot the Black One ( a wonderfully quirky , scenery-gulping slice of ice-cold camp villainy from good ol ' " Dr . Butcher " himself , Donal O'Brien ) , who has the traitorous Catch Dog in his employ as a flunky , come storming into town demanding all of the refinery's fuel . Nisus eats it early on , so it's up to Jab , Red Wolfe , and Halakron to take care of the Black One and his horrible cronies . Reuniting several cast and crew members from the enjoyable , but slightly blah " Endgame " ( Michele Soavi even returns to handle assistant director chores again ) , " 2020 : Texas Gladiators " rates as a sizable improvement , thanks to more focused , straightforward plotting and punchier pacing . Joe D'Amato's direction is strictly workmanlike , but fortunately still competent enough to create a grimly greasy'n'grungy atmospheric tone and satisfyingly deliver the necessary blood-spraying , butt-pulping , bullets a firing and bodies a falling action goods , with countless extras getting randomly snuffed at pleasingly regular intervals . Alex Carver's crafty script neatly tweaks standard raucous , rowdy , rollicking Western movie conventions , cleverly updating the plot of " The Magnificent Seven " to a gritty , bombed-out " Road Warrior " - style post-nuke sci-fi / action future : This exceedingly coarse , grimy , rough-edged effort features a lively no-holds-barred barroom brawl which comes complete with a fairly tense Russian roulette game that's directly lifted from " The Deer Hunter , " plenty of sweaty white-knuckle shoot-outs and stand-offs , clearly drawn black and white distinctions between the good guys and the bad guys ( the heavies are mean , dirty , heartless barbarians who cackle , leer and snarl a lot while the protagonists are true blue salt of the earth types with a firm , unyieldingly faithful moral code and a courageous willingness to sacrifice their own lives so that the beleaguered many who can't fend for themselves will prevail ) , and a tribe of noble bow-and-arrow wielding Native Americans astride charging horses leading the rousing attack on the Black One's army at the exciting conclusion . All in all , this one sizes up as a really good and thrilling little item .
A terrifically trashy piece of 70's Eurosleaze horror junk	A top-rate , exquisitely trashy and sexy Eurosleaze Gothic horror treat starring the gorgeously sleek'n'slender brunette hottie supreme Rosalba ( " Slaughter Hotel " ) Neri as a wicked bisexual Translyvanian vampire countess who every year sacrifices five virgins in order to appease Satan and retain her immortality . Furthermore , the thoroughly luscious Ms . Neri regularly bathes in the pure maidens ' blood to keep her youthful beauty . The eternally insipid Mark Damon offers twice the blandness as a studious , bookish dweeb and his more loose , fun-loving party hearty womanizing heel twin brother ( guess which one falls under Neri's evil , yet irresistibly alluring spell and winds up being turned into a vampire while searching for a precious rare glowing magical red amulet that Neri possesses ) . Fortunately Damon's drabness is more than compensated for by the spooky , misty atmosphere ( the sequence where a writhing nude Neri takes a bloodbath is truly striking and beautifully shot ) , a wonderful overabundance of gratuitous female nudity , a nice smattering of steamy soft-core sex , plentiful gory violence , some deliciously gaudy psychedelic visual flourishes ( the occasional use of shaky hand-held camera and prowling panning shots likewise seriously smoke ) , a robust , rousing , sweeping orchestral score , a bang-up nihilistic surprise ending , and Neri's searingly hot and hypnotic screen presence . A scuzzy hoot .
Good , goofy , lovably chintzy retro 50's creature feature fun	I must confess that I've got a special fondness for clunkily sincere el cheapo retro 50's contemporary horror creature features centering on the bloody exploits of a mean , nasty , butt-ugly humanoid beast that's quite obviously this poor putz in a none-too-convincing rubber suit . Among my all-time favorites in this particular sub-genre are the shamefully overlooked underwater " ALIEN " prototype " Destination Inner Space , " the so-crummy-it's-killer cheesebag classic " Track of the Moonbeast , " the snazzy subterranean " ALIEN " rip-off " Scared to Death , " the irresistibly abysmal Filipino clinker " Demon of Paradise , " and this sweet late 70's honey . We all know the endearingly clichéd plot for this one : the Imperial Electric Plant on the East Coast of California has been secretly dumping radioactive sludge in the ocean ; said toxic bilge creates a lumpy , hulking , lumbering , seriously unsightly mud-caked slimy mutant with a ghastly complexion and a murderous anti-social disposition that first snacks on cats and dogs before going on to butcher hapless folks around Venice and Marina Del Ray by slashing faces to a grisly pulp , tearing off limbs , cutting into soft flesh with its lethal clawed hands , and eventually attacking a young couple making out on a houseboat . Of course , the cops prove to be totally ineffectual , so it's up to several true blue everyman types - - a goody goody two shoes high school science teacher , a take-charge macho fisherman , and a few heroic teenagers - - to track down and kill the foul fiend before things get too out of hand . This charmingly chintzy and clumsy winner possesses all the usual low-budget grindhouse movie vices , namely murky cinematography , a cornball score , a standard-issue straight-down-the-line predictable story , an " it ain't over yet ! " open-ended sequel set-up conclusion , and laughably amateurish acting ( unsung fright film hambone Hy Pyke gets the top bad thesping dishonors with his grotesquely overdrawn eye-rolling comic cameo as a histrionic police chief ) . Paradoxically enough , it's the film's very glaring weaknesses that are part and parcel to its engagingly fumble-fingered allure , for writer / producer / director Stephan Traxler invests every last lovably cruddy frame with a winningly wobbly floundering enthusiasm and sense of wholehearted commitment which in turn makes " Slithis " loads of righteously inept goofball fun . Traxler scores bonus points for throwing in handy helpings of gore , a dash of nudity , lotsa crackling vitality , and , best of all , even some stinging social commentary with a sub-plot concerning the public's indifference to Slithis picking off luckless vulnerable and defenseless homeless people - - these on-target biting observations predate the similarly themed ( and equally underrated ) C . H . U . D . by a good six years !
" Don't mess with girls in the park ; that's not nice ! " An enjoyably sleazy distaff " Death Wish " clone	This entertainingly tacky'n'trashy distaff " Death Wish " copy stars the exceptionally gorgeous and well-endowed brunette hottie supreme Karin Mani as Billie Clark , a top-notch martial arts fighter and one woman wrecking crew who opens up a gigantic ten gallon drum of ferocious chopsocky whup-a on assorted no-count scuzzy muggers , rapists , drug dealers and street gang members after some nasty low-life criminals attack her beloved grand parents . The stunningly voluptuous Ms . Mani sinks her teeth into her feisty butt-stomping tough chick part with winningly spunky aplomb , beating jerky guys up with infectious glee and baring her smoking hot bod in a few utterly gratuitous , but much-appreciated nude scenes . Unfortunately , Mani possesses an extremely irritating chewing-on-marbles harsh and grating voice that's sheer murder on the ears ( my favorite moment concerning Mani's dubious delivery of her dialogue occurs when she quips " Don't mess with girls in the park ; that's not nice ! " after clobbering a few detestable hooligans . The delectable Karin's sole subsequent film role was in " Avenging Angel , " in which she does a truly eye-popping full-frontal nude scene , but doesn't have any lines . ) The film's single most sensationally sleazy sequence transpires when Mani gets briefly incarcerated on a contempt of court charge and shows her considerably substantial stuff in a group prison shower scene . Of course , Mani's lascivious lesbian cell mate tries to seduce her only to have her unwanted advances rebuffed with a severe beatdown ! Strangely enough , the lesbian forgives Mani and becomes her best buddy while she's behind bars . Given an extra galvanizing shot in the vigorously rough'n'ready arm by Edward Victor's punchy direction , a funky-rockin ' score , endearingly crummy acting by a game ( if lame ) cast , a constant snappy pace , numerous pull-out-all-the-stops exciting fight scenes , and Howard Anderson III's gritty photography , this immensely enjoyable down'n'dirty exploitation swill is essential viewing for hardcore fans of blithely low-grade low-budget grindhouse cinema junk .
A fun chopsocky revenge opus	Cocky and immature young Fong Su Yi ( nicely played by the handsome and likable Fei Meng ) accidentally kills a martial arts student in a fight . The two evil instructors of the martial arts school in turn murder Fong Su Yi's father . After undergoing strenuous and extensive training under the hard and exacting tutelage of his formidable mother ( an excellent performance by a fine actress who oddly receives no billing ) , Fong Su Yi vows to get his revenge . But getting revenge proves to be easier said than done . Director Chai Yang-Min relates the gripping story at a constant brisk pace , keeps the tone serious throughout , and stages the copious martial arts fights with considerable skill and panache . The unusually sound cinematography makes nifty use of swift pans and occasional graceful slow motion . The roaring dramatic score likewise does the trick . The martial arts fight set pieces are every bit as bloody , violent and exciting as they ought to be . Moreover , this film further benefits from solid acting from a capable cast : Meng is an engaging lead , Yasuaki Kurata and Wang Ching are appropriately hateful as the nasty main villains , and the adorable Lam Lam Lee lends charming support as sweet and fetching love interest Siu Ping . The flavorsome period setting and gorgeous countryside scenery are also up to speed . An enjoyable romp .
A really enjoyable vintage 70's made-for-TV disaster feature	A motley assortment of folks find themselves in considerable jeopardy when the ski lift gondola they are in jumps the track and leaves them hanging way up in the chilly winter air . Director William Wiard , working from a colorful and eventful script by J . G . Hawks and Laurence Health , maintains a steady pace throughout and develops a reasonable amount of tension . The solid acting from a bang-up cast qualifies as a major plus : Deborah Raffin as a sweet budding ski champion , Charles Frank as Raffin's loving boyfriend , Don Johnson as a cocky cowboy ace hot dog skier , Clu Gulager as a nice guy manager , Howard Duff as a mob informant , Gail Strickland as Duff's concerned mistress , Veronica Hamel as a perky newscaster , and Lisa ( " The Pom Pom Girls " ) Reeves as a foxy underage bar maid . The ski lift accident sequence and subsequent rescue operation are genuinely exciting and harrowing . The copious ski footage and gorgeous snow-covered mountainous landscapes are both truly breathtaking . A rowdy disco dance t-shirt contest rates as another definite highlight . Roland " Ozzie " Smith's pretty , picturesque cinematography really hits the spot . Only Barry De Vorzon's often sappy'n'syrupy score misses the mark . That minor criticism aside , this vintage 70's made-for-TV disaster item sizes up as a whole lot of fun .
A fun late 60's evil hag horror outing	Shrewd , resourceful and formidable old battleaxe Claire Marrable ( superbly played to the icy hilt by Geraldine Page ) loses both her husband and her affluent lifestyle . Ms . Marrable moves to Arizona , starts a pine tree garden , and begins bumping off her elderly housekeepers for their life savings so she can continue living high on the hog . Ms . Marrable meets her match in her new housekeeper Alice Dimmock ( a terrific performance by the wondrous Ruth Gordon ) , a cheery , smart and resilient little firecracker who suspects that something is amiss . Director Lee H . Katzin and screenwriter Theodore Apstein expertly create a deliciously sinister atmosphere , relate the engrossing story at a steady pace , and top everything off with a wickedly funny sense of pitch-black humor . This movie further benefits from fine acting from an excellent cast : Page really sinks her teeth into her juicy evil old bat role , Gordon projects her usual winningly spunky charm as the endearingly feisty Ms . Dimmock , plus there are sturdy supporting contributions from Rosemary Forsyth as sweet young widow neighbor Harriet Vaughn , Robert Fuller as the dashing Mike Darrah , Mildred Dunnock as the timid Edna Tinsley , Joan Huntington as Ms . Marrable's bitchy niece Julia Lawson , and Peter Brandon as Julia's conniving stockbroker husband George . The very ending offers one doozy of a marvelously ironic surprise plot twist while the arid desert setting adds to the overall creepy tone . Joseph Biroc's lush , vibrant cinematography makes neat occasional elegant use of fades and dissolves . Gerald Fried's moody , shivery , string-laden score likewise hits the spooky spot . Best of all , it's a total treat to watch Page and Gordon bounce off each other as they engage in a deadly game of wit and wills . A hugely enjoyable fright feature .
A gripping and suspenseful made-for-TV thriller	Sassy TV director Leigh Michaels ( an engagingly spunky and spirited performance by the lovely Lauren Hutton ) arrives in Los Angeles and moves into a swanky high-rise apartment . Some peeping tom creep starts stalking her from afar , taunting her with crank phone calls and sinister letters in the mail . But Leigh refuses to play victim and becomes determined to uncover the nut's true identity . Writer / director John Carpenter ably builds plenty of tension , maintains a brisk pace throughout , and stages one doozy of a harrowing climax . Moreover , there's a pertinent and provocative central message about how advances in technology make it easier for someone to invade another person's privacy . Hutton positively shines in the lead ; she gets fine support from David Birney as affable college professor Paul Winkless , Adrienne Barbeau as friendly lesbian coworker Sophie , Carpenter movie regular Charles Cyphers as unhelpful police detective Paul Hunt , Grainger Hines as smarmy technician Steve , and Len Lesser as a menacing burly man . Rober Hauser's sharp , polished cinematography and Harry Sukman's classy , rousing , shivery score are both up to par . Well worth a look .
A bleak , but eerie and absorbing horror mystery thriller	Tough , cynical lapsed Catholic police detective Jim Henderson ( a typically superb Christopher Plummer ) investigates the mysterious death of forlorn heroin addict prostitute Elizabeth Lucy ( a fine and heartbreaking performance by the divine Karen Black , who also sings a few hauntingly melancholy songs on the soundtrack ) . Henderson uncovers a nefarious Satanic cult and experiences a downward spiritual spiral similar to the one which led Lucy to her grim and untimely end . Strongly directed by Harvey Hart , crisply shot in sumptuous widescreen by Rene Verzier , elegantly scored to shivery perfection by Harry Freedman , and well acted by a stellar cast ( Jean-Louis Roux is especially impressive as the evil sect's suavely sinister leader ) , with a chilly and depressing tone , an intriguing , if somewhat muddled script by Robert Schlitt , plenty of spooky , uneasy and unnerving atmosphere , an interesting and imaginative back-and-forth nonlinear narrative structure , gritty Montreal locations , and a truly shocking zinger of a bummer ending , this engrossingly gloomy horror mystery thriller delivers a quite potent and lingering punch while provocatively exploring with unflinching severity the dire consequences beget by falling markedly short of one's religious principles .
A nice'n'spooky low-budget 70's drive-in horror flick	Spunky college student Jenny ( a breezy and engaging performance by the pretty Laurie Walters , who also popped up in " The Harrad Experiment " around the same time and later became a regular on the fluffy 70's sitcom " Eight Is Enough " ) and goofy aspiring newspaper reporter John ( winningly played by Joe Spano , who went on to become a prominent cast member of the gritty 80's police TV drama " Hill Street Blues ) take a road trip across the California countryside and discover an old , abandoned and decrepit health spa during their travels . They also meet and befriend nice elderly lady Agnes Abercrombie ( a pleasingly lively turn by wizened old crone Edna Macafee ) . Moreover , our young couple discover much to their dismay that rumors of the old spa being a front for a crazed cannibal cult aren't nearly as far-fetched as they initially thought . Director William Herbert elicits uniformly solid acting from the entire cast ( Walters and Spano in particular are very likable and impressive ) , keeps the pace bumping along at a steady clip , stages the shock scenes with a reasonable amount of flair , and effectively creates an eerie , mysterious and unnerving creeped-out atmosphere that's both strangely compelling and oddly unsettling in comparable measure . Charles R . Blaker's funky score neatly alternates between groovy'n'jazzy lounge tunes and more typically shivery'n'shuddery " scary " music . Larry Secrest's grainy , unpolished cinematography gives the film an appealingly rough'n'ragged look while making artful use of such fancy flourishes as dissolves , freeze frames and slow motion . John Sykes ' well-plotted script offers an intriguing set-up , a few dandy surprise twists , and a truly horrific climax . Excellent quintessentially 70's downbeat nihilistic ending , too . A bit slow , static and talky in spots , but overall a genuinely spooky and satisfying little fright film sleeper .
A hugely entertaining period action romp	Brave and noble El Kabir ( a solid and engaging performance by Mark Damon ) fights for his oppressed people in Egypt against evil and pompous Roman governor Petronio ( zestfully played to the hateful hilt by Livio Lorenzon ) . Director Ferdinando Baldi , who also co-wrote the engrossing script with Franco Airaldi and Anacleto Fontini , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace , maintains a serious tone throughout , and stages both the fierce gladiatorial bouts and rough'n'ready swordfights with considerable skill and flair . This film further benefits from fine acting by a sturdy cast : Damon makes for a very charming and appealing protagonist , Lorenzon has an absolute ball as the eminently despicable Petronio , plus there are praiseworthy contributions from the lovely Scilla Gabel as brash and beautiful princess Livia , Paolo Gozlino as Petronio's wicked partner Furio , Alberto Lupo as hard-nosed Roman general Octavian , Corrado Annicelli as wise adviser Longino , and the fetching Samira Ahmed as sweet fair maiden Meroe . Bitto Albertini's crisp and lively cinematography boasts plenty of impressive sweeping panoramic shots of the vast desert landscape . Carlo Rustichelli's robust , thrilling , flavorsome score likewise hits the stirring spot . A very good and satisfying film .
Joe Sarno's delightfully smart and racy 60's soft-core classic	Extremely prolific and dependable low-budget soft-core independent filmmaker Joe Sarno scored one of his biggest hits with this hugely enjoyable and for the time quite daring sexploitation gem . A bunch of bored suburbanites join a secret sex cult in which all the members wear masks and robes ala Stanley Kubrick's " Eyes Wide Shut . " When pretty teenager Kathy Lewis ( nicely played by the fetching Alice Linville ) discovers that her adulterous mother Geraldine ( a fine performance by the lovely Audrey Campbell of " Olga " infamy ) is having an affair , she falls under the seductive spell of sultry cult leader Yvette Talman ( a perfectly commanding portrayal by the almighty Dyanne Thorne of " Ilsa " notoriety ) . Writer / director Sarno presents a bold and revealing expose of sleepy upper middle class small American town morality and hypocrisy , depicting the wild debauched stuff that goes on behind closed doors with considerable incisiveness and commendable restraint ( the nudity is quite mild and the on-screen sex surprisingly chaste ) . Sarno also gives the interesting characters an unusual amount of depth and elicits mostly solid acting from a sturdy cast . W . B . Parker in particular excels with his deliciously smarmy turn as supremely sleazy and sinister sex cult ringleader Louis Muse ; Parker's rich , yet gravelly baritone voice and creepy screen presence suggest a seedy straight deviant version of Harvey Fierstein . Sam S . Fiedel's groovy swinging jazz score further enhances the kinky fun . James J . Markos ' crisp black and white cinematography likewise does the trick . Although rather tame by today's standards , this vintage 60's blast still nonetheless overall qualifies as a real wicked treat .
Billy Jack goes fishing	This unjustly obscure and pretty good quintessentially 70's " fight back " revenge drama could easily be subtitled " Billy Jack Goes Fishing . " Earnest , taciturn , fiercely self-reliant and independent no-nonsense blue collar Native American fisherman Joe Bass ( firmly played with a pleasing blend of stubbornness and a steely backbone by Henry Bal ) fights tenaciously for his fishing rights at a tiny North Michigan lakeside hamlet , butting heads with all-powerful rich racist jerk George Hanson ( a perfectly hateful Mike Millner ) . The already tense rivalry between Bass and Hanson intensifies to a dangerous fever pitch when Bass falls in love with Hanson's rebellious young daughter Karen ( sweetly essayed by the pretty Molly Mershon ) . This in turn leads to Joe being further harassed by the corrupt local authorities , who push Bass around so severely that he eventually has no choice but to exact a harsh revenge on Hanson and his cronies . Cleanly directed by Thomas G . Reeves ( who also produced and co-wrote the insightful script ) , with plain cinematography by Bob Baldwin , a fine bluesy country and western score ( the harmonic theme song sung by Elizabeth Perry is quite catchy ) , sound acting from a solid no-name cast , a strong lone autonomous man standing up to the crooked , imposing system central theme , a few thrilling outbursts of brutal violence , a well-observed depiction of small town social dynamics , a shockingly downbeat ending , and plenty of surprisingly tough-minded commentary on how the wealthy go out of their way to keep the oppressed poor in their place ( there's some equally meaty remarks about the white man's vile loathing towards and gross mistreatment of Native Americans as well ) , this modestly produced , occasionally a bit too slow and talky , but overall still gripping yarn packs a really potent wallop .
A hugely entertaining change-of-pace Hammer horror vampire / action / thriller hybrid romp	By the early 70's Hammer Studios began making attempts to revitalize their by now trite'n'tired period Gothic horror formula with varying degrees of success . This enjoyably daft contemporary blend of horror , action and spy suspense thriller rates as one of their more engagingly offbeat efforts . Something sinister is afoot in modern swinging 70's London . For starters , there's a dastardly Satanic cult made up of wealthy businessmen and powerful politicians who participate in sick and kinky unholy rituals . Moreover , the leader of said cult is none other than Dracula ( Christopher Lee , as fearsome and imposing as ever ) . Worse yet , brilliant , yet batty Professor Julian Keeley ( a delightfully dotty Freddie Jones ) has been commissioned by Dracula to create a virulent new strain of bubonic plague which could wipe out all mankind . It's up to occult expert Professor Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing in typically fine form ) , his comely granddaughter Jessica ( a pleasingly perky turn by ravishing redhead Joanna Lumley ) and stalwart Scotland Yard special agent Inspector Murray ( dashing Michael Coles ) to stop Dracula before it's too late . Alan Gibson's lively , stylish direction treats the outlandish premise with admirable seriousness and maintains a ceaseless barnstorming pace throughout . The action scenes and shock set pieces are staged with substantial go-for-it brio ( the use of strenuous slow motion is especially striking and effective ) . Brian Probyn's bright , sharp cinematography , the plentiful graphic gore , John ( " Horror Express " ) Cacavas ' funky , rousing , syncopated score , a smidgen of nudity , and sound acting from a tip-top cast all likewise hit the satisfying spot . Grood , groovy 70's fright feature fun .
A fun piece of 60's sci-fi action camp	Evil renegade Chinese General Chan Lu ( a nicely wicked portrayal by Martin Benson ) plans on launching a bunch of nuclear attacks on America from a series of underground tunnels . It's up to brave , but disgraced military man Commander Jonathan Shaw ( the dashing Kerwin Matthews ) to stop him before it's too late . Director Montgomery Tully , working from a silly script by L . Z . Hargreaves , relates the goofy plot at a steady pace and maintains a serious tone throughout . The admirably sincere acting from a game cast qualifies as a major asset : Viviane Ventura as foxy spelunker Tila Young , Robert Ayres as the ramrod Admiral Felix Hillebrand , Peter Arne as paranoid seismologist Arnold Kramer , Al Mulock as the rugged Sergeant Marvin Mulberry , Peter Elliott as Lu's nefarious scientist assistant Kengh Lee , and Ed Bishop as the stalwart Vince Cassidy . Kenneth Talbot's vibrant color cinematography and Ken Jones ' urgent , lively , rousing score are both up to speed . The nifty " Batman " - style whiplash cutaways , the clumsily staged action scenes , some gross miscasting ( several British actors play the Asian villains ! ) , the endearingly clunky ( not so ) special effects ( the back-screen projection is especially dodgy ) , and a big'n'bulky slowly trudging yellow tank car that shoots out deadly lasers which are really just bright beams of light all give this picture a certain lovably dippy kitschy charm . A pleasingly campy timekiller .
A nice'n'nasty Italian thriller	A trio of vicious criminals - - charming , but ruthless leader Aldo ( Ray Lovelock in fine wicked form ) , savage Walter ( essayed with frightening intensity by Flavio Andreni ) , and ferocious Neanderthalic brute Nino ( a positively simian portrayal by Stefano Cedrati ) - - pull off a bank heist and seek refuge in an isolated seaside villa when their getaway car breaks down . The loathsome threesome terrorize a quintet of teenage Catholic schoolgirls and Sister Cristina ( superbly played by Florinda Bolkan ) , the tough and resolute nun who's in charge of the girls . Naturally , the hoods have their foul way with several of the girls until Sister Cristina renounces her vows and exacts a harsh vengeance on the creeps . Director Franco Prosperi milks plenty of gut-wrenching tension from the grim and compelling story . Said story of course becomes more progressively mean and unpleasant as it unfolds , complete with rape , murder , humiliation , and the inevitable exciting last reel turn the tables revenge by the ladies on their vile and hateful tormentors . The startling outbursts of raw , ugly and strikingly stylized violence pack a really strong punch . This film further benefits from uniformly sound and credible acting from a capable cast : Lovelock excels as the deceptively laid-back and amiable Aldo ( Lovelock also sings the cool hard-rocking theme song ! ) , Andreni and Cedrati are genuinely repulsive and unappealing as a pair of extremely base and cruel degenerates , Bolkan does well as Sister Cristina , and Sherry Buchanan , Laura Tanziani , Laura Trotter , Karine Velier , and Annalisa Pesce are all quite fetching and believable as the scared and vulnerable schoolgirls . Roberto Pregadio's funky , syncopated score and Cristiano Pogany's sparkling widescreen cinematography are both up to snuff . A satisfying serving of in-your-face rough and unflinching celluloid sadism .
A choice cheesy chunk of 70's low budget psycho horror trash	Wacko sexually repressed mama's boy nutcase Matthew ( essayed with deliciously hammy relish by Fred Holbert ) kills his dear old dad by shoving him under a tractor and accidentally cuts off his own hand as well . After spending several years with the nuns at a local sanitarium and now sporting a hook for a hand , Matthew returns home to his beloved mother Daisy ( portrayed by Leigh Mitchell with a brunette wig ) and dorky new step dad Mack ( the geeky Robert Knox ) . Naturally , Matthew promptly winds up killing them both and hits the road . He winds up in Venice , California where he befriends Vera ( charmingly played by Mitchell again , this time sporting bright red hair ) , a nice free-spirited struggling artist who works as a prostitute on the side to keep herself afloat . Of course , Matthew immediately develops an unhealthy fixation on Vera and abducts her so she can replace his mommy . Director / co-writer Marc B . Ray effectively creates a properly seedy atmosphere and really pours on the tacky gore with the over-the-top grisly murder set pieces . Stephen H . Burum's rough , grainy cinematography makes exquisitely clunky use of shaky hand-held camera-work , cheesy freeze frames and chintzy fades and dissolves . There are plenty of unintentional campy laughs to be savored throughout , such as the priceless moment where an ailing elderly woman savagely beats Matthew up with her canes and Matthew's frequent hilariously hokey out of focus hallucinations of his pasty-faced dead mother and her lover further tormenting his already extremely twisted psyche . Better still , none other than Angus Scrimm ( the Tall Man in the " Phantasm " pictures ) briefly pops up as an ill-fated doctor . The wonderfully gruesome and hysterical climax concludes things on a suitably schlocky note , thus making this baby an absolute hoot for hardcore fans of trashy 70's drive-in horror junk .
A hugely enjoyable Japanese giant monster mash	A vicious trio of giant nasty flesh-eating reptilian birds called the Gyaos awaken and start preying on hapless human beings . It's up to gigantic flying fire-breathing prehistoric turtle Gamera to stop them before it's too late . Director Shusuke Kaneko , working from a smart script by Kaznori Ito , treats the story with commendable seriousness and maintains a constant brisk pace from start to finish . This film further benefits from solid and credible acting from an appealing cast , with especially praiseworthy work by Tsuyoshi Ihara as brave , eager , likable naval officer Yoshinari Yonemori , Shinobu Nakayama as tough , gutsy ornithologist Mayumi Nagamine , Akira Onodera as shrewd agent Naoya Kusangi , Ayako Fujitani as Naoya's cute , sweet psychic teenage daughter Asagi , Hirotaro Honda as sniveling cowardly wretch Mr . Saito , and Hatsunori Hasegawa as the hard-nosed Colonel Satake . Moreover , the first-rate special f / x are often stunning , the guy-in-a-rubber-suit beasts are genuinely gnarly and impressive , the elaborate mondo destructo scenes deliver the pulse-pounding goods , and the exciting monster fight sequences are staged with considerable aplomb . Ko Otani's spirited score really does the rousing trick . Junichi Tozawa's glossy , dynamic cinematography likewise scores a bull's eye . Why , we even got a pertinent ecological message tossed in for good measure . A very neat and immensely entertaining winner .
A truly weird and original one-of-a-kind oddity	Nebraska in the early 1900's : Dour , serious Oriole ( flinty Christina Raines ) and sweet , flighty Acacia ( the adorable Hilarie Thompson ) are a couple of strange half-breed sisters who live on a remote farm in the middle of nowhere . They give food and shelter to a gang of scruffy , but basically decent bikers : cocky leader Whizzer ( amiable Keith Carradine ) , excitable yahoo Jimbang ( Scott Glenn ) , rowdy good ol ' boy Giblets ( the ever-wacky Gary Busey ) , gawky , bespectacled nerd Golly ( the likable Mike Combs ) , mute Chupo ( Robert Walker ) , and feisty motorcycle mama China ( sexy , spunky spitfire Doria Cook ) . Oriole puts a hex on the bikers after Giblets attempts to rape Acacia . Director / co-writer Leo Garen concocts a genuinely bizarre and compelling handy dandy multi-genre period biker Gothic horror-Western combo that emphasizes a spooky and ambiguous atmosphere over snappy pacing and cheap scare scenes . This gloriously gaga feature perfectly epitomizes the anything-goes screwball experimental sensibility of the early 70's ; this in turn gives the movie a certain peculiar appeal . Charles Rosher , Jr . ' s pretty , picturesque cinematography makes snazzy use of fades , dissolves and freeze frames . Charles Bernstein's eerie , offbeat , flavorsome hillbilly bluegrass score likewise hits the spot . Dan " Grizzly Adams " Haggerty pops up in a small role as macho hot rodder Brother Billy . An engaging and interesting only-in-the-70's cinematic curio .
An enjoyably trashy early 80's low-budget " ALIEN " rip-off	Made right after the splendidly schlocky " Galaxy of Terror , " this choice cheesy chunk of early 80's sci-fi / horror drive-in exploitation junk rates as yet another lovably low-rent two-cent Roger Corman gem . This time a toothy , voracious rampaging mutant beast terrorizes a bunch of hapless folks in a remote outpost on a hostile desert planet . Allan Holzman's blunt'n'basic direction maintains a ceaseless snappy pace throughout and pours on the gruesome slimy gore with rip-snorting go-for-it aplomb . The ever-cool Jesse ( " Macon County Line " ) Vint makes for an excellent surly anti-hero as intergalactic troubleshooter Mike Colby . Late , great eccentric character actor Fox Harris ( the brain-fried lobotomized scientist who drives the car with the radioactive alien corpses in the trunk in the fantastic sci-fi cult black comedy blast " Repo Man " ) has a scenery-gulping hammy field day as a twitchy flipped-out physician whose cancerous liver is fed to the monster at the picture's incredible conclusion ( the grody thing literally pukes its guts out after eating the lethal organ ! ) . Better still , this fine freaky flick certainly doesn't skimp on the copious gratuitous nudity : adorable baby doll beauty Dawn Dunlap bares her whole bod while bagging a few rays in a sauna , stupendously slinky British blonde bombshell June Chadwick ( Lydie on the short-lived " V " TV series ) happily hops in the sack with Colby a mere five or six hours after making his acquaintance , and both Dawn and June even take a shower together . Susan Justin's obscenely heavy-breathing score , the cramped , claustrophobic set design , Holzman's rapid-fire editing and Tim Suhrstedt's appropriately lurid cinematography are all likewise up to par as well . A delightfully trashy hoot .
An unjustly obscure and overlooked 70's psycho crime thriller	Cruel and cunning misogynistic serial killer Danny ( superbly played with creepy intensity by John Karlen of " Dark Shadows " and " Daughters of Darkness " fame ) preys on nubile young lady hitchhikers in a small San Francisco town . It's up to tough , determined Detective Vince De Carlo ( a fine and convincing performance by James Luisi ) and his easygoing partner Mike ( a solid Martin Speer ; Dee Wallace husband in Wes Craven's horror classic " The Hills Have Eyes " ) to nab the foul fiend . Director Jeremy Hoenack , working from a tight and gripping script by Maralyn Thoma ( amazingly , Thoma has gone on to a hugely successful career as a head writer for various daytime TV soap operas ! ) , relates the grim and absorbing story at a steady pace , maintains a gritty , serious tone throughout , and develops a considerable amount of nerve-wracking suspense . Moreover , Hoenack admirably eschews for the most part the standard graphic sex and violence route of typical trashy 70's drive-in exploitation fare to focus more on the plot and characters . However , the violence against women is still pretty ugly and upsetting stuff , with the movie reaching its harrowing zenith with a gut-wrenching sequence depicting Danny brutalizing two frightened gals in back of his van . This film further benefits from credible acting by a sturdy cast : Luisi and Speer make for likable protagonists , Karlen excels as one memorably vicious and depraved mother-fixated wacko , plus there's neat supporting turns by Susan Sullivan as helpful psychologist Carol , Hilarie Thompson as the sweet Annie , and the ubiquitous George ' Buck ' Flower as old-timer witness Pete . Arthur R . Botham's pretty polished cinematography adds an impressive sense of scope with its occasional breathtaking aerial panoramic shots of San Francisco . Bryon Olson's shuddery score likewise hits the shivery spot . The startling downbeat ending packs a wicked punch . A real sleeper .
A surprisingly tasteful and compelling portrait of one of America's most notorious serial killers	Jeremy Renner gives a superbly subtle and convincing performance as Jeffrey Dahmer , a lonely , alienated chocolate factory worker and repressed , pathologically shy homosexual who picked up gay men , brought them back to his apartment , and killed them . Writer / director David Jacobson commendably downplays the expected grisly gore and lurid sensationalism to instead deliver a thoughtful and low-key study of an infamous human monster . Jacobson neither glorifies nor vilifies Dahmer and his ghastly exploits ; he merely presents Dahmer as he was in a stark , insightful and nonjudgmental way . Jacobson provides several illuminating flashbacks to Dahmer's sad , troubled childhood , his anguish and self-hatred about his homosexuality , and his problems with alcoholism . We only see Dahmer murder two people in the picture while his acts of necrophilia and cannibalism are lightly touched on . It's this film's admirable use of restraint which in turn adds immensely to its grimly unnerving effectiveness . Moreover , this movie further benefits from uniformly fine acting from a capable cast : Renner pulls off the remarkable feat of making Dahmer a sympathetic , yet still revolting and frightening human being ; he receives excellent support from Bruce Davison as Dahmer's decent , well-meaning father Lionel , Artel Kayaru as amiable , uninhibited near victim Rodney , Matt Newton as Dahmer's aggressive first victim Lance Bell , Dion Basco as hapless Asian victim Khamtay , and Kate Williamson as Dahmer's sweet Grandma . The moody , melodic score by Christina Aganolis , Mariana Bernoski and Willow Williamson and Chris Mauley's bright , polished cinematography are both up to par . Chilling , engrossing and well worth a look .
A very solid & spooky 80's zombie horror flick	If anyone out there wondered what a gore-eschewing , spooky atmosphere emphasizing , modestly produced , yet still capably acted and directed backwater Hickville , USA-set cross between " Macon County Line " and " Night of the Living Dead " would be like , this surprisingly sound lethal toxic mutants running murderously amok downhome horror feature will answer your questions quite nicely . All the staple Southern-fried drive-in movie ingredients are present and accounted for : two clean-cut young Northerner brothers are treated with utmost inhospitality by the belligerent local yokel residents of a tiny armpit stick burg they're just innocently passing through on a cross country road trip , some nefarious cost-cutting company surreptitiously dumps illegal radioactive gunk in the forest which in turn causes a few townies to transform into blue-faced nocturnal zombies with rapidly diminishing blood who kill hapless folks for their precious life fluids , a skeptical recovering alcoholic sheriff ( an excellent Bo Hopkins in his umpteenth redneck lawman role ) refuses to believe in any of it until it's too late , only a token sweet , sympathetic odd gal out barmaid / school teacher nice lady ( the quite fetching and appealing Jody Medford ) sides with the boys , and things eventually get distressfully out of hand , leading to a rousing last reel appearance by the National Guard to save the day in the nick of time . Yeah , nothing about this particular flick manages to be really surprising or original as far as the story is concerned . However , sometimes the story alone doesn't make a film good ; the performances and execution matter a lot , too . Luckily , said execution , specifically Al Adamson protégé John " Bud " Cardos ' punchy , right'n'tight proficient direction ( Cardos also gave us the superior 70's killer animal winner " Kingdom of the Spiders " and the not half bad sci-fi / horror offering " The Dark " ) and tireless , ever-reliable B-movie composer Richard ( " Parasite , " " The House on Sorority Row " ) Band's eerie , understated score , run on all cylinders with bang-up effectiveness . The performances are all on the money as well : the always intense and compelling Wings Hauser and the affable Lee Montgomery are strong and personable as our luckless sibling outsider protagonists , burly Marc Clement makes for a fabulously hateful villain as a bellicose hillbilly bully , and both Jennifer Warren as a smart , perceptive doctor and Cary Guffey ( the little tyke who gets abducted by the aliens in " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " ) as an ill-fated teenager who in the single most nail-biting moment gets attacked by the mutants in an abandoned high school bathroom contribute fine support . And , most unusual in an 80's horror picture with this premise , the expected graphic splatter gets refreshingly downplayed in favor of an at first sinisterly ambiguous and quietly unnerving flesh-crawling creepy tone which later thrillingly gives way to several stirring , zestfully staged shock scenes and action set pieces .
An above average 70's hick revenge picture starring the ever-beauteous Claudia Jennings	The irrepressible Claudia Jennings is her usual affable , fiery , smolderingly sensual self as Desiree , a spunky Cajun alligator poacher who's falsely accused of murder by a cretinous clan of vile sexist hillbilly male scuzzbuckets . Worse yet , these detestable rednecks rape and kill Desiree's little sister as well . Naturally , Desiree fights back , using her raw cunning and feminine wiles to exact a harsh revenge on her hateful tormentors . Claudia's perky , pulchritudinous presence always enlivened any given 70's drive-in exploitation feature she appeared in , which is definitely the case here . However , Claudia ain't the whole show : the formidable Bill Thurman plays a corrupt , treacherous sheriff with his usual enthralling solemnity , Janet ( " Ruby , " " Humongous " ) Baldwin is cute and endearing as Claudia's adorable younger sister , Sam Gilman hams it up deliciously as the nasty father of the no-account hayseed family , the marshy bayou backwoods setting is vividly rendered , and the mush-mouthed Lee Darwin energetically belts out a bunch of dippy , banjo-plucking country and western songs on the oddly infectious soundtrack . Cheap , dumb and tawdry , but done with a certain breezy'n'cheesy élan , " ' Gatorbait " rates as perfectly enjoyable low-budget down-home trash .
The adorable Pia Zadora lights up the screen in this enjoyably silly comic action romp	Sweet and naive , yet sassy and sexy Las Vegas casino lounge singer Bobbie Warren ( the adorably diminutive and dynamic Pia Zadora ) gets incarcerated at a brutal women's penitentiary after refusing to testify in court against her mobster boyfriend . The little songbird quickly changes her tune after she's assaulted in the shower by several vicious predatory lesbians . Bobbie is put in the protective custody of cranky senior cop Lt . Thurston ( a marvelously sardonic Telly Savalas ) and his cute eager beaver younger partner Clint Morgan ( an engaging performance by Desi Arnaz Jr . ) . Meanwhile , two assassins try to bump Bobbie off . Directed with considerable go-for-it flair by Matt ( " The Witch Who Came from the Sea " ) Cimber ( who also plays one of the hit-men ) , with a sprightly , jazzy score by Arthur B . Rubenstein , several thrilling action scenes ( a wild stunt involving a car racing through the lobby of a packed casino is the definite exciting highlight ) , garish , gleaming , lively cinematography by Eddy van der Emden , a snappy pace that rarely lets up , and enthusiastic acting from a bang-up cast , " Fake-Out " really delivers the infectiously silly and entertaining goods . Popping up in nifty supporting parts are Larry Storch as an obnoxiously slick sleazeball talent agent , George " Buck " Flower as an undercover policeman posing as a drunken cowboy gambler , and co-screenwriter John Goff in a funny bit as a gay man who hits on Savalas . Best of all , Pia Zadora positively lights up the screen with her endearingly perky and radiant presence : Whether she's heartily belting out a catchy song on stage during the opening credits or leading the tough lady prison inmates in a hilariously bawdy Jane Fonda-style work-out aerobic exercise session , the divine Ms . Z brings a charm , energy and bubbly good nature to her juicy starring role that's an absolute joy to watch .
Mario Bava's spirited spoof of Spaghetti Western movies	Stoical smoothie Roy Colt ( affable Brett Halsey ) and his more scruffy wild card buddy Winchester Jack ( the equally engaging Charles Southwood ) go searching for a fortune in gold . Shrewd spitfire Native American prostitute Manila ( winningly played by the lovely Marilu Tolo ) tags along . Meanwhile , irascible Russian villain the Reverend ( robustly essayed with lip-smacking brio by Teodora Corra ) also tries to find the gold . Director Mario Bava cheerfully pokes fun at the Spaghetti Western genre in this lively and amusing send-up that neatly combines elements from both " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " and " The Good , the Bad and the Ugly . " Moreover , Bava relates the wacky story at a constant brisk pace , gives the picture a suitably dirty'n'dusty look , and stages the stirring shoot-outs with considerable rip-roaring flair . This movie reaches its gut-busting peak during a hysterical sequence set in a brothel called Wimpy City . Halsey and Southwood display a loose , funny and appealing chemistry as our titular bumbling outlaw duo while Tolo almost steals the show with her wonderfully fiery portrayal of the cagey and enticing Manila . Kudos are also in order for Antonio Rinaldi's slick , often dazzling cinematography and Piero Umiliani's supremely funky'n'twangy score . A hugely enjoyable hoot .
Don't stay at the mangy mountaintop motel of death and doom !	The gloriously godawful , to hell with subtlety title does a most apt job of telling the viewer about the enjoyably atrocious lackluster quality evident in this supremely stinky , often uproariously rotten and hence strangely endearing all-thumbs down-home slasher flick . Dowdy , rotund , middle-aged motel proprietor Evelyn Chambers ( poorly played by dumpy , prune-faced , white-haired wizened old bag Anna Chappell , whose unfortunate resemblance to an ancient , withered troll doll supplies a majority of the feature's ripely abundant unintentional hilarity ) completely flips her bluish granny wig one proverbial dark and stormy night , dicing up her petty , haughty , querulous , wholly deserving assortment of obnoxious guests with a rusty old sickle . Said guests include a pair of bubble-headed libidinous newlyweds , a peripatetic carpenter , a low-level music studio executive on the make and two tasty sweet young thing lady hitchhikers the studio executive makes some smarmy moves on . With its flat-footed ( non ) direction by corn-pone B-movie auteur Jim ( " The Charge of the Model T's , " " The Aurora Encounter " ) McCullough , Sr . , dopey , cliché-ridden script by Jim McCullough , Jr . ( like father , like son , like pathetic , man ) , a clumsily shoehorned into the main clunky narrative " where the hell did that come from ? " last reel supernatural subplot , righteously wretched emoting from a non-star " we can't act for beans " cast ( hefty , rugged , carved-out-of-granite hillbilly character actor Bill Thurman earns top thesping dishonors for his hideously hammy portrayal of boozy , dissolute holy man gone to seed hick priest Reverand Bill McWiley ) , hilariously horrible make-up f / x , weirdly creepy dime-store gloom-doom atmosphere and great advertising slogan ( " Please do not disturb Evelyn . . . She already is ! " ) , " Mountaintop Motel Massacre " ( don't you just love that low-key moniker's artful use of inspired and imaginative alliteration ? ) certainly possesses all the right wrong stuff to pass muster as a prime schlocky slice of so - shoddy - it's - perversely - sublime nickel'n'dime horror exploitation drive-in trash .
An excellent , harrowing and engrossing subterranean horror winner	A motley group of eight people venture deep into a cave located in Central Asia . They find themselves trapped within the caverns and are hunted by a vicious predatory monster . Writer / director Olatunde Osunsanmi takes his time developing the well-drawn and genuinely likable characters , effectively creates and sustains plenty of sweat-inducing suspense , and offers a generous sprinkling of graphic gore during the ferocious attack scenes . The game no-name cast all give appealingly natural performances : Special kudos are in order for Mustafa Shakir as stalwart , rationale leader Gannon , Andrew Caple-Shaw as the macho , take-charge Ori , Danny Jacobs as nerdy aspiring writer Ambrose , Andres Saenz-Hudson as the spiritual Domingo , and Neno Pervan as jocular Russian Slava . Yasu Tanida's shaky , shadowy cinematography , a fascinatingly detailed depiction of cave exploring , Bryan Galvez's spooky'n'shuddery score , the dark , misty , claustrophobic atmosphere , the tight 81 minute running time , and the jarringly brutal and downbeat ending all further enhance the overall sound quality of this strong and startling low-budget indie shocker .
A highly enjoyable 70's made-for-TV killer animal flick	A boozy , burnt-out animal trainer sets a pair of deadly Bengal tigers free so they can terrorize a quiet California suburban hamlet . It's up to amiable detective Tom Skerritt ( who faced off with ferocious felines some more in " Savage Harvest " ) and rugged hunter Steve Forrest to bag the bloodthirsty beasts before things get too out of hand . Capably directed by Timothy Galfas , with a brisk pace , sharp , agile cinematography by Hugh Gagnier ( the occasional use of split screen is especially nifty ) , plenty of entertainingly trashy small town melodrama ( think " Peyton Place " with a couple of giant killer cats running amok in it ) , a lively , urgent , pile-driving bombastic score by Gerald Fried , a reasonable amount of tension , a rousing conclusion , and a solid cast which includes G . D . Spradlin as the stern , huffy , pompous police chief , Harry Morgan as a grumpy dirty old man priest , Diana Muldaur as a prim , uptight socialite , and Dabney Coleman as Forrest's easygoing buddy , this vintage 70's made-for-TV movie suspense thriller overall sizes up as a most enjoyable lethal animals on the rampage outing .
Good , silly 40's cheapie horror fun	Crazed , bitter , vengeful mad scientist Dr . Cameron ( veteran villainous character actor George Zucco in peak lip-smacking wicked form ) creates a special experimental serum which he uses to transform his gentle , dim-witted , but hulking gardener Petro ( sweetly played by Glenn Strange ) into a lethal and ferocious wolf-like humanoid beast . Dr . Cameron sics Pedro on the various folks responsible for his professional failure . Both Cameron's feisty daughter Lenore ( pretty brunette Anne Nagel ) and her aggressive go-getter newspaper reporter boyfriend Tom Gregory ( a charmingly robust Johnny Downs ) suspect that something is amiss . Competently directed by Sam Newfield , with a fun , if rather talky script by Fred Myton , plenty of nicely misty'n'spooky backwoods bayou atmosphere , stark black and white photography by Jack Greenhalgh , solid acting ( Strange brings a real touching pathos to his pitiable character while Zucco excels as a hatefully haughty heavy ) , a snappy pace , a booming , overwrought score by David Chudnow , a cool monster , and a stirring fiery conclusion , this modest fright feature overall sizes up as a perfectly enjoyable poverty-row low-budget horror potboiler .
A nice and informative documentary on one of the great British film producers	This nifty and illuminating documentary paints a compelling portrait of Euan Lloyd , who was one of the rare film producers who treated his cast and crew alike with great kindness and consideration . Moreover , Lloyd was one of the first independent producers to make ambitious pictures with big budgets and all-star casts . Among the folks interviewed herein are the ever-suave Roger Moore , Lloyd's actress daughter Rosalind Lloyd , actress Ingrid Pitt , character actor Kenneth Griffith , singer / songwriter Joan Armatrading , and second unit director John Glen . The doc traces Lloyd's humble beginnings and notes several career highlights . The most intriguing stories center on how Lloyd got a huge big name cast to act in " The Poppy is Also a Flower " for a dollar each , persuading Sean Connery to play the lead in the Western " Shalako , " his surprisingly pleasant experience working with Yul Brynner on the Western " Catlow , " his difficulties with troubled alcoholics Richard Burton and Richard Harris on " The Wild Geese , " taking a cut in pay to afford David Niven in " The Sea Wolves , " and how Lloyd stopped making movies in the mid 80's after the industry changed in the mid 80's . A cool little documentary .
Don't forget to take the trash out	Uptight yuppie businessman Ted ( well played to ramrod perfection by Dave R . Watkins ) gets infuriated after his sloppy neighbor Will ( likable Scott Hodges ) and Will's airhead blonde wife Kay ( a delightfully perky Becky Biggs ) continually neglect the proper disposal of their trash . So Ted summons lethal local urban legend monster the Garbage Man ( Dan Slemons in nifty pasty make-up ) to take care of Will and Kay . Director / co-writer Watkins concocts an amusing and enjoyable short movie parody that pokes merry fun at both the ridiculous touchy-feely petty-minded mentality of affluent upper middle-class suburbia and the cheery silliness of standard Grade B cheesy low-budget horror fare . The cast have a field day with their broad roles : Watkins , Hodges , and Biggs are all fine in the leads , Slemons makes for a gnarly snarling bogeyman figure , Christopher Thomas almost steals the whole show as eye-patched resident kook Crazy Willie , and Nate Hill lends sturdy support as Willie's equally flaky pal Cyrus . Daniel Solammon's shuddery and ominous synthesizer score hits the shivery spot . The crisp cinematography by Slemons likewise does the trick . A real hoot .
A prime piece of rousing Sonny Chiba martial arts trash	A tough rogue mercenary ( the almighty Sonny Chiba ) arrives in a town where two rival gangs are engaged in a harsh turf war over who's got exclusive dibs on an expensive stash of heroin . Chiba pits both gangs against each other for his own personal gain . Director Kazuhiko Yamaguchi maintains a fast , unflagging pace throughout , stages the copious fight scenes with excitingly bloody'n'brutal gusto , and even sprinkles a generous amount of gratuitous female nudity . The snazzy cinematography makes inspired use of split screen , freeze frames , and strikingly stylized strenuous slow motion . Moreover , the use of a shaky hand-held camera during the savage fight scenes adds an extra thrilling raw energy to the already lively proceedings . The groovy fuzztone guitar-burning score likewise hits the funky spot . With his hard-boiled charisma and surly screen presence , Chiba makes for a perfect blithely amoral and cynical anti-hero . He gets to show a more soft and sensitive side when his character befriends a little boy ; this surprisingly touching subplot has an especially sweet and moving payoff . Of course , Chiba truly shines with his ever vicious and unbridled displays of poke-your-eyes-out nasty and ferocious martial arts . A solid and satisfying chopsocky outing that's well worth checking out .
A strong , absorbing and effectively creepy horror winner	Classy , worried Claire Ward ( the lovely Jane Sibbett ) hires smooth private detective John March ( the likable John Terry ) to find out what her secretive , obsessive husband Charles Dexter Ward ( a typically fine , intense and gripping portrayal by the always reliable Chris Sarandon ) has been doing in a remote woodland farmhouse he's secluded himself in . The pair discover much to their horror and dismay that Ward has found the key to immortality , which naturally comes at a truly terrible price . Director Dan ( " The Return of the Living Dead " ) O'Bannon , working from an intricate and intelligent script by Brent V . Friedman ( said script is based on a H . P . Lovecraft short story ) , deftly creates and sustains an arrestingly eerie and mysterious mood , keeps the pace plugging along at a steady clip , and coaxes solid performances from a sturdy cast ( Robert Romanus in particular is very engaging as March's wiseguy partner Lonnie ) . Moreover , Irv Goodnoff's glossy , graceful cinematography , Richard ( " Re-Animator " ) Band's soaring , supremely spooky score , and Todd Masters ' wonderfully grotesque creature f / x are all up to par as well . The film reaches its marvelously clammy , creepy and claustrophobic nerve-wracking zenith when March , Claire and Lonnie venture into the farmhouse basement and encounter the ghastly mistakes of Ward's previous failed experiments . Best of all , the grimly serious tone , judicious use of gore and monster effects , and gradual build-up towards a startling climax ensure that this feature works remarkably well as one hell of a fiercely unsettling scarefest . An excellent and unjustly overlooked sleeper .
A solid and enjoyable 50's fright feature	Evil mob boss Frank Buchanan ( a perfectly nasty Michael Granger ) has ex-Nazi scientist Dr . Wilhelm Steigg ( a nice turn by Gregory Gaye ) reanimate the bodies of recently deceased criminals so Buchanan can get revenge on his enemies . Shrewd , hard-boiled police investigator Dr . Chet Walker ( an excellent and engaging performance by Richard Denning ) becomes determined to stop Buchanan . Capably directed by Edward L . Cahn , with a clever and compelling script by Curt Siodmak , a brisk pace , sharp , moody black and white cinematography by Fred Jackman , Jr . , genuinely creepy zombies , a spooky , rousing score by Mischa Bakaleinikoff , a tight 69 minute running time , and a thrilling conclusion , this nifty little quickie provides an inspired and entertaining blend of snappy straightforward horror and gritty film noirish crime thriller . The fine supporting cast includes S . John Launer as Walker's amiable partner Captain Dave Harris , Angela Stevens as Walker's lovely , concerned wife Angela , Pierre Watkin as the irritable Mayor Bremer , Lane Chandler as the ramrod General Saunders , and Tristram Coffin as the ill-fated District Attorney MacGraw . A fun flick .
Deliciously cheesy 70's Saturday morning Sid and Marty Krofft kidvid lunacy	For sublimely silly Sasquatch Saturday morning live action entertainment , there's only one show to see . Yep , it's this supremely screwy 70's TV series from Sid and Marty Krofft , those undisputed kings of such Me Decade kidvid insanity as " Land of the Lost " and " Sigmund and the Sea Monsters . " Eight years ago Bigfoot ( brawny thespian Ray Young ; the evil acidhead who freaks out in the disco in Jeff Lieberman's terrific " Blue Sunshine " ) discovered a lost male child in the Great Northwest wilderness of Southern California ( ! ) and raised the tyke to be a Tarzan-like lad called Wildboy ( Joseph Butcher , your basic vapid blonde Malibu surfer type ) . With his unruly mass of all-body hair and bulky , beefy build , Bigfoot resembles one of three things : 1 ) Chewbacca's brother , 2 ) a really hairy hippie , or 3 ) Greg Allman on a very bad day . Furthermore , Bigfoot speaks in barely coherent grunt'n'grumble tones , delivering a message about nature and the environment at the end of every show . He tosses rinky-dink paper mache boulders as if they were rinky-dink paper mache boulders . He survives avalanches without a scratch . And he runs and leaps in hilariously drawn-out slow motion ala Lee Majors in " The Six Million Dollar Man " while groovy-chillin ' music and funky synthesized sound effects accompany his every move . Naturally , Bigfoot and Wildboy have many exciting misadventures : they foil plutonium thieves , battle a mummy , encounter alien beings , and face off with a red-skinned " Incredible Hulk " - style monster ( played by Carel Struycken , who later become a regular on " Twin Peaks " and portrayed Lurch in the " Adams Family " films ) . Wildboy frequently gets captured by baddies and Bigfoot has to save his hapless'n'helpless wimpy hide time and time again . Sure , this show is undeniably a dippy hunk of total cheese , but it's the program's very blatant and abundant cheesiness which makes it a topflight tacky treasure .
Good , goofy fun	A prehistoric troglodyte ( Joe Cornelius in a hairy apesuit left over from " 2001 " ) gets discovered living in a cave in Britian . Stubborn , hard-nosed , dedicated anthropologist Dr . Brockton ( a remarkably sincere performance by legendary actress Joan Crawford in her last role ) wants to study him . Huffy local jerk Sam Murdock ( a deliciously hammy Michael Gough ) vehemently disapproves . Director Freddie Francis treats Aben Kandel's patently ridiculous script with jaw-dropping seriousness , thus ensuring that this picture qualifies as a choice chunk of pure gut-busting camp . The scenes depicting Dr . Brockton bonding with Trog are priceless : she teaches him how to wind up a toy doll and toss a ball ! Other unintentionally uproarious moments include Trog freaking out when he hears loud rock music and Trog mixing it up with a German Shepherd . Better still , the inevitable last reel mondo destructo rampage certainly delivers the rousing goods : Trog tosses a guy through a window , impales another man on a meat hook , overturns a car , and abducts a little girl ( the ubiquitous Chloe Franks of " Tales from the Crypt " and " Whoever Slew Auntie Roo ? " ) . The solid cast play their parts totally straight : Bernard Kay as the stalwart Inspector Graham , Kim Braden as Brockton's cute blonde daughter Anne , David Griffin as eager young scientist Malcom Travers , Thorley Walters as a firm magistrate , and Robert Hutton as renowned surgeon Dr . Richard Warren . Desmond Dickinson's sharp cinematography , John Scott's cool ooga-booga score , the cruddy ( far from ) special effects ( Trog's cave looks like it's made out of cardboard and paper mache - - and probably was ! ) , and some laughably lousy stop-motion animation dinosaurs further add to the infectiously inane fun of this enjoyably asinine hoot .
A very creepy & underrated 70's sci-fi medical horror chiller	Clonus is an isolated , rigidly closed off , and closely monitored facility where young , fit , healthy clones of wealthy , powerful people are created and raised for the specific purpose of serving as donors for an illicit underground black market organ ring whose central function is to keep its rich , privileged clientèle forever robust and youthful through the immoral and inhumane use of said clones . The clones are made docile , complacent and cooperative via brainwashing ( they're told that when they reach a certain age they'll leave the compound and find freedom in America , which is a particularly subversive bit of mind-twisting misinformation ) , strict supervision and lobotomies . Timothy Donnelly gives a fine , affecting performance as Richard , an unusually bright and perceptive clone who discovers what's going on , steals an incriminating videotape , and escapes from the compound so he can alert the outside world . A sterling example of how low-budget , independently produced films have the creative freedom to tackle a pertinent issue and incisively examine said issue's multi-layered ethical implications , " Parts : The Clonus Horror " makes for a splendidly chilling and provocative sci-fi / horror medical conspiracy thriller . Under Robert Fiveson's crisp , assured , clearly focused direction , which skillfully milks the rich subtext of Ron Smith and Bob Sullivan's insidious , sharply intelligent , uncomfortably prescient and penetrating script for maximum unease , this laudably audacious and decisive film dares to question the validity of certain cherished American institutions , mainly the medical community , the government and the upper class . The topical subject matter bracingly addresses such pressing themes as how cloning robs human beings of their basic worth and subsequently reduces them to pieces of meat ( the clones are called such impersonal pronouns as " it , " " them , " and " thing " ) , conformity vs . individuality , technology intruding on one's privacy ( everything the clones do gets recorded by hidden cameras ) , authoritarianism suppressing independence , how our caste system favors those with lots of money and clout , man's desire to conquer mortality , and even fate vs . free will . Given the recent controversy surrounding DNA breakthroughs and minute surveillance cameras popping up all over the place , these issues today now possess a more timely and unnerving resonance . Moreover , the acting is uniformly excellent , with especially bang-up turns by Dick Sargent as the cold , brilliant , unfeeling megalomaniacal smarmbag doctor behind the whole evil plot , Peter Graves as a crooked , unctuous ultra-conservative Republican presidential candidate who assists in the cover-up , Frank Ashmore as the mysterious millionaire who finances the sinister operation , Keenan Wynn as a kindly , helpful retired newspaper reporter , Lurene Tuttle as Wynn's feisty , excitable wife , and Paulette Breen as a fetching blonde clone Richard falls in love with . Further complimented by Max Beaufort's slick , fluid cinematography , and Hal David Schudson's spooky score ( the Gregorian chant singing is quite creepy ) , " Parts : The Clonus Horror " certainly doesn't deserve its current " what the hell ? " camp reputation . I personally consider it to be a very underrated little sleeper , a remarkably potent and confrontational affair that scores extra points for its sheer boldness and vehemently skeptical " nothing is what it seems " point of view .
A nifty indie psychological thriller	Lonely and paranoid agoraphobe Camden ( a likable performance by Robert C . Sabin ) takes in the seemingly friendly Randy ( a creepily intense portrayal by Tommy Sweeney ) as a boarder in his apartment . Unfortunately , Randy turns out to be a claustrophobic psychotic and Camden finds himself a frightened prisoner in his own home . Writer / director Gregory Lamberson , who also gave us the good'n'gory low-budget horror splatter hoot " Slime City , " ably crafts an absorbing and interesting psychological thriller that benefits substantially from well-drawn characters , a neatly moody score by Steve Brown , Stephen Buckley and Nelson Wakefield , an appropriately gritty New York City atmosphere , a funky wailin ' trash rock soundtrack , snazzy no-frills cinematography by Gene Davis , and an increasingly edgy and unsettling tone that becomes especially nerve-wracking in the harrowing last third . Sabin and Sweeney are both excellent in the juicy leads . The rest of the solid no-name cast are likewise fine : Peggy Crown as Camden's sweet newfound artist girlfriend Julie , Terry Spivey as Camden's friendly lawyer , Nelson Wakefield as sleazy hoodlum Jimmy , Amanda Fraser as a hot hooker , Christopher Caver as a mean pimp , and Denise Rusczyk as ditsy cokehead Sweet Thing . A real sleeper .
A nicely creepy and disturbing 70's psycho horror exploitation winner	Former 50's teen idol Tab Hunter gives a superbly chilling and convincing performance as Eddie Collins , a lonely , impotent and sexually frustrated high school gym teacher who was driven around the bend by his shameless whore mother who used to parade around naked in front of him as a little boy . Eddie viciously murders any lovely young lass who tries ( and fails ) to turn him on . Writer / director Curtis Hanson , who went on to win an Oscar for the terrific " L . A . Confidential , " does an expert job of creating and sustaining a creepy , clammy , clinical tone for this luridly compelling portrait of homicidal madness and seething misogyny . Moreover , Hanson astutely nails the whole right-on groovy swingin ' 70's zeitgeist , evokes a highly credible sense of everyday mundane reality and builds plenty of nerve-wracking tension which reaches a harrowing fever pitch in the terrifying final third . The abundant gratuitous distaff nudity , the seedy seaside Venice , California locations , the shockingly blunt'n'brutal violence and the profoundly unnerving conclusion all give this picture a raw , sleazy , unsettling edge that's mighty tough to shake . Nice supporting performances by Nadyne Turney as fed-up , long-suffering unhappy single gal Barbara , Isabel Jewell as a snoopy landlady , a pre - " Phantasm " Angus Scrimm as Jewell's husband , and longtime favorite 70's drive-in flick starlet Roberta Collins as a brassy call girl . Charles Bernstein's supremely spooky'n'shuddery score and Daniel Lacambre's crisp , polished cinematography are both up to par . The inspired casting of Tab Hunter in the warped lead qualifies as the film's masterstroke ; Hunter's blandly handsome boy next door persona makes for the perfect front for the severe dementia bubbling just underneath the surface . An excellent and unjustly overlooked little nugget .
An immensely enjoyable martial arts action winner	Nice guy college art student and ace martial artist Jake Lo ( an extremely likable and charismatic performance by Brandon Lee ) finds his life in considerable jeopardy after he witnesses ruthless and flamboyant Mafia kingpin Antonio Serrano ( deliciously played with lip-smacking hammy aplomb by Nick Mancuso ) bump off a Chinese rival . Tough renegade cop Mace Ryan ( Powers Boothe in peak brooding and rugged form ) and his feisty partner Karla Withers ( a wonderfully spunky turn by the lovely Kate Hodge ) use Jake as bait so they can nab Serrano . Ably directed by Dwight H . Little , with a nonstop snappy pace , fluid , glossy cinematography by Ric Waite , gritty urban Chicago locations , plenty of exciting and well-staged fights and shoot-outs ( Lee's fierce chopsocky confrontation with the ubiquitous Al Leong rates as a definite thrilling highlight ) , a smidgen of tasty female nudity , a roaring trashy rock soundtrack , some steamy soft-core sex , a rattling , rousing score by Christopher Young , an amusing line in welcome sarcastic humor , and loads of gloriously excessive bloody violence , this gleefully ridiculous actionfest may be wildly far-fetched and implausible from the get-go , but it's still a great deal of over-the-top loony fun all the same . Best of all , Lee not only displays real charm and appeal in the lead role , but also shows remarkable skill and agility in his numerous rough'n'tumble fight set pieces . The supporting cast likewise impresses , with especially praiseworthy work from Mancuso ( his blithely evil villain almost steals the whole show ) , Boothe , Hodge , Raymond J . Barry as crooked fed Agent Frank Stewart , Tzi Ma as vicious drug lord Kinman Tau , and Tony Longo as Serrano's brutish bodyguard Brunner . A real bang-up flick .
A hugely enjoyable low-budget " Bonnie and Clyde " cash-in copy	The Florida Everglades in the 1920's . Shrewd , handsome John Ashley ( a surprisingly solid turn by 50's rock'n'roll teen idol Fabian Forte , who also played Pretty Boy Floyd in Larry Buchanan's " A Bullet for Pretty Boy " ) and his sweet , flighty steady gal pal Laura ( a charming performance by the ever-radiant Karen Black ) are the leaders of an outlaw gang . The wild'n'rowdy bunch achieve considerable notoriety by robbing banks , running booze , breaking out of jail , and eluding the cops while embarking on a jolly crime spree in the southeast . Directed with a reasonable amount of flair and style by Luke Moberly and Bob Woodburn ( who also wrote the colorful and eventful script ) , this picture sizes up an an immensely enjoyable little " Bonnie and Clyde " cash-in copy . Fabian and Black make for a rather unlikely , but genuinely appealing and attractive criminal couple . Nice supporting contributions by Ken Miller as lecherous gang member Hanford , Paul Gleason as a hard-nosed sheriff , and Ivy Thayer as Laura's forlorn , regretful mother . Cliff Frates and Evie Karafotias are extremely cute and endearing as John and Laura as little kids in touching flashback sequences . Edmund Gibson's pretty , picturesque cinematography , Bill Walker's jaunty swing band score , the flavorsome period atmosphere ( the sepia-tinted black and white opening newsreel with a stern Walter Winchell-like narrator is especially tasty ) , and several rousing shoot-outs all likewise hit the spot . My sole criticism : the frequent groovy modern rock songs and music are painfully inappropriate and anachronistic . That minor quibble aside , this film overall rates as a tremendously fun and spirited romp .
A perfectly stupid sequel to the lovably idiotic original	Spunky Didi ( the always cute and perky Linnea Quigley ) and spoiled rich snob Holly Wells ( the delightful Ginger Lynn Allen ) are a couple of constantly sparring rookie cops who pose as strippers in order to stop evil villainess Spanish Fly ( essayed with deliciously hammy brio by Marina Benvenga ) from dumping a powerful aphrodisiac in Los Angeles ' water supply . Writer / director Rick Sloane aims low and elicits plenty of cheap laughs by making amusingly broad jokes about such naturally sidesplitting topics as phone sex , vomiting , and bondage . The cast have a field day with their roles : Quigley and Allen have a nice chemistry as the two sexy leads , Jayne Hamil is an absolute riot as snippy , uptight superior Miss Thelma Louise Devonshire , plus there are nifty supporting turns by Scott Layne as smarmy , sexist , conceited stud muffin patrolman Petrolino , Jo Steele as sassy receptionist Jeanie , Jay Richardson as the bumbling police commissioner , Toni Alessandrini as enticing stripper Aphrodite , Teagon Clive as beefy cyborg BimboCop ( an obvious parody of RoboCop ) , and Melissa Moore as brassy hooker Glaze . Tomas L . Calloway's decent cinematography is passable at best , although both Alan Der Marderosian's bouncy , funky score and the cool-rockin ' soundtrack are on the money gnarly . Look fast for Duane Whitaker ( Maynard in " Pulp Fiction " ) in a small role . Better still , the luscious Alessandrini struts her sizzling stuff with a much-appreciated striptease while Quigley and Allen steal the whole show with an equally yummy joint striptease act . Sure , this flick is undeniably dumb and silly , but it has a certain endearingly dopey charm to it that's impossible to dislike . Good , undemanding no-brainer fun .
A good'n'gory little straight-to-video horror shocker	Vicious serial killer Chambers ( a genuinely scary and intense portrayal of pure demonic evil by actor / stuntman James Binkley ) gets executed on the electric chair , but ain't down for the count just yet . Chambers comes back to ferocious and murderous life in a rundown hospital that's on the verge of closing . He naturally embarks on the expected gruesome killing spree , joyfully slaughtering both staff and patients alike while gaining additional strength by ripping the hearts out of his victims . Chambers specifically goes after Sara Wexler ( a strong and sympathetic performance by the very attractive and appealing brunette Meredith Henderson ) , a spunky , but troubled and depressed suicidal young lass he shares a special psychic bound with . Pretty soon only Sara , smartaleck teen Walter ( the likable Nathaniel Stephenson ) and feisty Nurse Grafton ( the solid Laura De Carteret ) are left to fend off the seemingly unstoppable supernatural maniac . Capably directed by make-up effects maestro Bob Keen , with slick , shadowy photography by David Mitchell , a constant snappy pace , an effectively spooky'n'shuddery score by Eric Cadesky and Nick Dyer , several grisly shock set pieces ( the sequence where Chambers blithely butchers an emergency room full of screaming and terrified folks is especially potent and unnerving ) , a suitably creepy claustrophobic atmosphere , and sound acting from a sturdy cast ( beloved genre icon Robert Englund in particular does well in a refreshing change-of-pace good guy part as a friendly , folksy sheriff ) , " Heartstopper " delivers a reasonable amount of thrills and tension as its grim and gripping story unfolds . With his big , bald head , deep , growly voice , powerful muscular build , and calmly malevolent demeanor , Chambers makes for a genuinely fearsome and imposing homicidal fiend . A good'n'gory little horror item that doesn't break any new or original ground , but still does the trick in a perfectly enjoyable and straightforward manner just the same .
A fun fantasy adventure flick	A commercial airliner crashes in a remote Amazon jungle . The motley group of survivors find themselves in a strange and dangerous world populated by big deadly spiders , giant scorpions , winged reptiles , killer sentient vines , a lethal native tribe , and a fearsome towering ape . Director / co-writer Leigh Scott relates the absorbing premise at a steady , snappy pace , maintains an admirably serious tone throughout , and stages the thrilling action scenes with a reasonable amount of flair . Moreover , the sturdy cast all deliver solid and spirited performances : Bruce Boxleitner as the huffy , enigmatic Lt . Challenger , Rhett Giles as the stalwart , resourceful John Roxton , Jeff Denton as the likable , sensible Ed Malone , Sarah Lieving as plucky photographer Rita Summerlee , Christina Rosenberg as fidgety , foxy California babe Dana , Chriss Anglin as nasty native tribe leader Olo , Amanda Ward as pretty stewardess Natalie , Boni Yamagisawa as feisty native girl Tianka , and Thomas Downey as the jerky Reggie . Steve Railsback contributes an especially lively turn as the deranged Larry . Steve Parker's crisp cinematography and Ralph Rieckermann's robust , rousing score are both up to speed . Plus there's a decent smidgen of gore , a dab of tasty female nudity , and a welcome absence of both pretense and cheesy oneliners . Granted , the CGI creatures are really tacky and unconvincing , but that criticism aside this flick overall sizes up as one hell of an enjoyable romp .
A hilariously horrendous low-budget action hoot	A bunch of nasty thugs who work for vicious crime kingpin Hawthorne ( a deliciously hammy portrayal by Tom Story ) kill both the father and fiancé of ace martial artist Alex Hunter ( a hopelessly wooden performance by real-life kickboxing champion Curtis Bush ) . The thugs severely beat Alex up , but don't finish him off . Big mistake . After being nursed back to health and extensively trained in the fine art of down'n'dirty streetfighting by tough , yet friendly crippled black Vietnam veteran Joshua ( amiable Rod Suiter ) , Alex decks himself out in black ninja garb , assumes the gnarly name the Dark Angel , and declares open season on no-count criminal scum who terrorize the streets of the city . Naturally , everything eventually culminates in the inevitable showdown between Alex and Hawthorne and his army of mean flunkies . Man , does this often uproariously atrocious honey possess all the right wrong stuff to qualify as a real four-star stinkeroonie : we've got totally all-thumbs ( mis ) direction by Mardy Smith , laughably lousy acting by a game , but lame no-name cast , tin-eared dialogue , a funky , syncopated synthesizer score by Danny Dennison , a by-the-numbers hackneyed and predictable script by Kathy Varner , clunky action set pieces , a gut-busting godawful ending credits theme song , and an " it ain't over yet " sequel set-up conclusion ( alas , said sequel has so far not been made ) . Moreover , this flick offers an inspired sense of the absurd . For example , every back alley , parking lot and street corner in the city just happens to have nefarious hoodlums on it . Plus Alex magically pops up out of nowhere to save the day time and time again . Bonus points are in order for Kim Reynolds as feisty meddlesome tabloid newspaper reporter Cassie : Although the lovely lass probably couldn't act her way out of a soggy cardboard box , Miss Reynolds still gets my respect because she apparently never bothers to wear underwear and takes a wholly gratuitous , but still much-appreciated bath so male viewers can drool over her luscious naked body . In addition , this movie really pours on the marvelously excessive brutal and gory over-the-top violence : throats are sliced open , heads are blown up , hands are cut off , and , in the undeniable sidesplitting splatter highlight , an irate female motorist runs over the head of a would-be carjacker . While by no means a genuinely good picture , this baby nonetheless does possess a certain clumsy sincerity which in turn greatly enhances its considerable campy charm . A complete cruddy riot .
A hugely enjoyable 70's redneck crime / action exploitation treat	Bored and brassy small town carhop waitress and aspiring country singer Bobbie Jo Baker ( a splendidly sassy'n'sexy portrayal by the luscious Lynda Carter of TV's " Wonder Woman " fame ) hooks up with brash wannabe Billy the Kid-style modern-day fugitive Lyle Wheeler ( a wonderfully robust and engaging performance by Marjoe Gortner ) and his rowdy gang of outlaws . The wild'n'crazy bunch embark on a merry crime spree in dusty New Mexico . Directed with tremendous rip-roaring flair by Mark Lester , with a compact , colorful script by " Unholy Rollers " director Vernon Zimmerman , a constant fast pace , bright , sunny cinematography by Stanley Wright , occasional outbursts of bloody violence , plenty of rousing action ( the car chases and shoot-outs are staged with considerable exciting aplomb ) , Carter's legendary eye-popping topless scenes , the catchy , reflective theme song " City Lights " sung by Bobby Bare , and an uncompromisingly downbeat ending , this sturdy little item really delivers the satisfying lowdown trashy exploitation picture goods . The bang-up cast qualifies as another substantial asset : Merrie Lynn Ross as Bobbie Jo's bubbly sister Pearl , Jesse Vint as Pearl's volatile boyfriend Slick , the adorable Belinda Balaski as Bobbie Jo's sweet best gal pal Essie , Gerrit Graham as groovy hippie commune leader Magic Ray , Gene Drew as mean hillbilly Sheriff Hicks , and " Devil Times Five " screenwriter John Durren as equally nasty Deputy Abel Gance . A fun romp .
A worthy sequel to the outstanding original	The first and probably best of four rather variable sequels to the fantastic ' 67 original begins with the almighty Charlton Heston as the unhinged and embittered Taylor disappearing into the dreaded Forbidden Zone . James Franciscus acquits himself reasonably well as Brent , an astronaut who crashlands on the planet of the apes who's looking for Taylor . Meanwhile an angry army of hostile gorillas led by the brutish General Ursus ( marvelously essayed with fiery aplomb by James Gregory ) go marching off into the Forbidden Zone to make war with the mutants who reside within it . It's with the deliciously deranged race of grotesque telepathic subterranean humanoid mutants that this film really comes into its own as one beautifully bent , batty and berserk mondo freako number : Besides being played by such excellent thespians as legendary acting teacher Jeff Corey , corpulent character actor Victor Buono , the imposing Don Pedro Colley , and fetching " Apes " sequel perennial Natalie Trundy , these gloriously gonzo kooks have developed a wonderfully wacko alternate religion that worships a lethal nuclear missile ( " Glory be to the bomb / And to the holy fall-out " ) . Ted Post's briskly efficient direction maintains a steady snappy pace throughout and stages the frequent stirring action scenes with exciting élan . Maurice Evans as the wise Dr . Zaius and Kim Hunter as the compassionate Zira make welcome encore appearances . Milton Krasner's crisp cinematography , Leonard Rosenman's primal , rousing score and the nifty special effects ( the matte paintings of a ruined New York City are simply spectacular ) are all up to par fine and impressive . Moreover , there's an ample amount of beefcake and cheesecake on display here : the gorgeous Linda Harrison looks positively smoking hot in her fur bikini outfit while both the brawny Heston and the equally muscular Franciscus spend a sizable bulk of their screen time clad solely in loincloths . The incredibly downbeat and startling nihilistic apocalyptic ending concludes things on a fabulously pessimistic note , with the superbly sonorous narration by ubiquitous voice actor extraordinaire Paul Frees qualifying as the tasty cherry on an already quite scrumptious oddball sci-fi cinema cake .
A compellingly stark and harsh allegory on human cruelty	Character actor Everett McGill gives an excellent performance in a rare substantial starring role as Oberlus , a bitter and misanthropic outcast harpooner with a grotesquely disfigured face which gives him a hideous lizard-like appearance . Oberlus is severely mistreated by his fellow sailors , so one night he escapes to a small remote island . Oberlus makes himself ruler of the island and declares war on the rest of mankind . Anyone luckless enough to wash up on the shore of this island becomes subject to Oberlus ' cruel tyranny . Cult director Monte Hellman offers an intriguing and provocative allegory on the darkest and most bestial aspects of human nature , specifically addressing how a man can be transformed into a foul and vicious monster by the inhumanity of others . McGill excels as the angry and venomous Oberlus ; he receives fine support from Fabio Testi as his mean chief tormentor Gamboa , the lovely Maru Valdivielso as the fiery , free-spirited Carmen , Joseph Culp as whiny intellectual Dominic , Michael Madsen as the cowed Sebastian , and Jack Taylor as a stern ship captain . Josep M . Civit's bright , crisp cinematography , Franco Campanino's haunting score ( the ending credits theme song sung by Joni Mitchell is truly beautiful ) , and the poignant ending further add to the overall hypnotic power of this offbeat and interesting item .
Shelley Winters excels in this enjoyably sleazy Depression-era mobster winner	The late , great , sorely missed Shelley Winters really lets it all hang out with her savage , forceful and brave portrayal of notorious Depression-era crime matron Kate " Ma " Barker , who along with her twisted sons embarks on a wild anything-goes crime spree in the Deep South . Her ungodly dysfunctional brood includes a scrawny and sweaty Robert De Niro as a pathetic heroin addict , Don Stroud as a volatile , temperamental brute , and Robert Walden of TV's " Lou Grant " fame as a sniveling passive homosexual with dominating Bruce Dern as his gay lover ( ! ) . Expertly directed by legendary B-movie maestro Roger Corman from an unsparingly harsh and caustic script by Robert Thom ( who also wrote the acrid screenplays for " Wild in the Streets , " " Death Race 2000 , " and " The Witch Who Came from the Sea " ) , this squalid whitetrash crime melodrama packs one hell of a mean and lingering punch . Kudos are in order for the uniformly excellent acting from a first-rate cast , with especially praiseworthy work by Pat Hingle as a rich businessman who's abducted by the dastardly Barker clan and Diane Varsi as a hardened , much-abused hooker . A very young and skinny pre-stardom De Niro is a real stand-out as a pitiful junkie who resorts to sniffing glue when he can't find any smack to shoot up . ( Winters actually recommended to Corman that he cast De Niro in this role . ) The conclusion likewise rates as a total corker , with Winters maniacally ranting and raving like an absolute lunatic as the police surround the Barker house . Winters also played Ma Barker on the " Batman " TV show . This gritty gangster gem rates highly as one of Corman's best and most underrated movies .
One of Andy Milligan's better horror films	Prissy priest Algernon Ford ( an effectively smug and sinister portrayal by Gavin Reed ) is really a vampire who's organizing a gala annual feast for his fellow bloodsuckers . Assisted by pathetic hunchback Spool ( the pitiable Berwick Kaler ) and a trio of grotesque green-skinned vampire women , Ford has grisly plans for two of his luckless lady relatives : pregnant Susan ( comely Jackie Skarvellis ) gets chosen to be a breeder for vampire babies while lovely Candace ( ravishing redhead Emma Jones ) will be used as a blood donor . Writer / director Andy Milligan , whose movies are usually hopelessly cheap , static and inept , here shows a surprisingly substantial amount of flair and finesse . The rough , grainy , but still fairly polished cinematography in particular is occasionally impressive . The neatly varied score alternates between lush orchestral film library music and wonky , droning , atonal synthesizer noises . The gloomy British countryside adds considerably to the spooky and decadent Gothic atmosphere . The solid acting from the competent cast rates as another sterling asset : Reed truly excels in the lead , with sturdy support from Skarvellis , Kaler , Jones , Richmond Ross as Susan's brave , likable boyfriend Paul Donati , Susan Heard as Algernon's fetching , reticent wife Alicia , Felicity Sentence as brassy maid Jessie , and Judith Head as fiery vampiress Elizabeth . In addition , this film takes some interesting liberties with the standard vampire lore : These bloodsuckers don't have fangs , can walk around in the sunlight , and take regular blood transfusions to keep themselves strong . The climactic vampires ' ball is both pleasingly lavish and appropriately gruesome . Nice dark surprise ending , too . A nifty vampire horror picture .
A delightfully scuzzy serving of pure 70's drive-in swill	Ruthless and unhinged predatory psycho nympho slut Victoria Waterman ( deliciously overplayed with lip-smacking wicked aplomb by foxy brunette knockout Maria De Aragon ) kills her ailing wealthy father Rideley Waterman ( a memorably grumpy Eric Allison ) so she can get her grubby hands on his substantial inheritance . Complications ensue when Victoria's sweet younger sister Gail ( lovely blonde looker Vicki Peters ) winds up receiving the bulk of Daddy's money . Director Robert Vincent O'Neill , working from a blithely sordid and shameless script by Peter Carpenter , Tony Crechales and Toby Sacher , cheerfully wallows in the sewer and really delivers the sensationally slimy goods : we've got plentiful tasty female nudity ( De Aragon in particular looks positively stunning sans clothes ) , sizzling soft-core sex , nasty plot twists , a little drug use , mean , greedy , back-stabbing amoral characters , occasional outbursts of wild gruesome violence , and a pleasingly grim bummer ending . Moreover , the cast have a completely field day with their juicy roles : De Aragon makes for a marvelously ferocious and intimidating femme fatale , co-writer Carpenter holds his own as hunky family doctor Craig Cooper , plus there are neat supporting turns by Reagan Wilson as Cooper's nice , loyal girlfriend Cheryl , Leslie Simms as doting nurse Turner , Arell Blanton as smugly evil blackmailer Larry , and Alex Rocco as a by-the-book lawyer . The garish cinematography by Robert Maxwell and Gary Graver further enhances the pervasive seaminess . Don Vincent's wailing , overwrought , groovy-stomping psychedelic rock score hits the funky bull's eye , too . A total trashy treat .
A hugely enjoyable and evenhanded depiction of the early 70's youth scene	Square middle-aged movie director Jim Carlton ( nicely played by George E . Carey , who also produced the picture and co-wrote the story ) befriends sweet , but foxy and enticing teenage babysitter Candy Wilson ( a winningly warm and sincere performance by gorgeously voluptuous brunette stunner Susan Romen ) . Candy shows Jim the real swinging 70's youth scene and eventually has a steamy May-December fling with him . Meanwhile , Jim's pathetic shrewish junkie wife Mona ( a perfectly bitchy Luanne Roberts ) runs afoul of slimy drug dealer Rich Harris ( a pleasingly nasty portrayal by James Almanzar ) . Director Tom Laughlin , working from a pretty thoughtful and sensitive , yet still quite trashy and melodramatic script by James E . McLarty ( who has a small part as friendly dock worker Smitty ) , admirably doesn't wallow in the sleaze to the ninth degree ; instead Laughlin offers a tasty , vivid and refreshingly nonjudgmental evocation of the happening early 70's youth culture ( the sequence where several affable hippies teach Jim the proper way to toke on a joint is a real hoot ! ) . Yes , this film does deliver a generous sprinkling of yummy female nudity and a few fairly hot soft-core sex scenes , but overall it's not the all-out crassly lurid piece of pandering sleaze that its premise suggests it might be . The hippie characters are shown in a positive light while Jim is drawn as a basically decent and well-meaning guy . Carey and Romen are both fine in the lead roles ; they receive sturdy support from Annik Borel as Harris ' kinky bisexual girlfriend Doris , Anthony Victor as browbeaten , sympathetic flunky Sancho , Bob Bernard as amiable longhair A . K . , and Gloria Hill as fetching , flighty hippie chick Mary Mary . Both Jack Steely's sharp cinematography and Robert O . Ragland's groovy-jammin ' score are up to par . A cool little flick .
A touching documentary about the more human side of Sam Peckinpah	Legendary tough guy director Sam Peckinpah's sister Fern Lea Peter reminisces about growing up with Sam . She talks about an incident when Sam fell off a horse and broke his back , how in the Peckinpah family you hunted always for food instead of sport , how her father was a judge and died at a fairly young age ( had her father lived Fern claims Sam would have turned out differently ) , a split between her and Sam that was later fixed when they both attended a Golden Boot Awards Show for him ( Peckinpah sadly died a few months after the show ) , how Sam got his artistic side from his mother , and how in his hometown Sam is not as revered as he should be . In addition , Fern points out how her father was a major influence on the Joel McCrea character in Sam's terrific Western gem " Ride the High Country . " This lovely and moving documentary gives the viewer some invaluable insight into how Sam's childhood days played a key role in shaping him into the troubled man and insanely brilliant artist that he grew up to become . This poignant documentary is absolutely essential viewing for Sam Peckinpah fans .
A nicely silly and enjoyable 70's crime caper yarn	Earnest , but rather inept treasury agent James Franciscus enlists the aid of an elderly erstwhile con man turned wise , amiable religious kook decent cat ( a delightfully droll Fred Astaire , who played a similar part in " The Towering Inferno " ) and the old dude's special collection of versatile police trained Dobermans so he can collar a brutish , browbeating , money-grubbing racketeer ( a robust , blustery turn by veteran Catskills comic Jack Carter ) and his gang of nasty goons . Ably directed by Byron Ross Chudnow , this honey sizes up as a really solid and on the mark semi-facetious crime caper yarn that's given an additional lift out of the rut by future big deal mainstream film composer Alan ( " Back to the Future , " " Predator " ) Silvestri's funky , with-it get-down groovy soul score , clear , expert cinematography by frequent Monte Hellman movie lenser Gregory ( " Ride in the Whirlwind , " " The Shooting " ) Sandor , the gorgeous Barbara Eden in scanty , sexy , revealing apparel ( you even get to see Barbara's navel ! ) , a winningly loopy sense of humor ( Fred calls his dobies his " family " ) , the always great Billy Barty as a circus midget , lots of first-rate stirring scenes of the Dobermans in strenuous gangster-thwarting action , and adroit occasional use of wipes , slow motion , hazy soft focus , and other such snazzy 70's cutting edge action film stylistic flourishes . Refreshingly straightforward and bereft of any pretense , this feature overall deserves a golden milkbone .
A compellingly stark and sordid depiction of the 60's New York gay bath house scene	Awkward young gay man Thomas ( an engagingly gawky performance by Gerard Jacuzzo ) goes to a bath house and encounters a diverse array of homosexual guys . Thomas strikes up a rapport with the friendly , but frustrated and unhappily married Mr . Jaffee ( superbly played with riveting gravitas by Robert Dahdah ) . Andy Milligan , working from a sharp , bold , incisive script by Hope Stansbury , does an expert job of creating and sustaining an arrestingly gritty and seedy atmosphere while delivering a rough-around-the-edges , yet touching and compassionate cinematic meditation on loneliness and the basic human need for direct emotional contact . This movie boasts several poignant and powerful moments , with Mr . Jaffee's sad monologue about the tragic untimely drowning death of his son rating as a positively gut-wrenching highlight . The first-rate naturalistic acting from a uniformly tip-top cast qualifies as another significant asset : Jacuzzo and Dahdah are outstanding in the leads , with fine support from Hal Borske as the bitter , spiteful Mavis , Hal Sherwood as the effeminate Miss Parrish , Richard Goldberger as the catty Thumbelina , and Ron Keith as an aggressive seducer . Milligan's raw and grainy 16mm black and white hand-held cinematography further adds to the jolting impact and immediacy of this intriguing short feature . Proof positive that Andy Milligan could make a genuinely good picture when given the right material to work with .
An absolute cruddy riot	Rugged , drippy Los Angeles Lt . James Long ( drab , pudgy chopsocky movie star Leo Fong ) and smooth FBI Agent Bill Bryant ( the always cool Richard Roundtree of " Shaft " fame ) join forces to thwart irritable , racist sicko illegal arms dealer Joe Marks ( a deliciously hammy over-the-top performance by the ubiquitous Cameron Mitchell ) and his vicious henchman Nighthawk ( a pleasingly nasty turn by Stack Pierce ) . Meanwhile , a heavily armed gang of ferocious hoodlums runs amok on the streets of the city , blithely blowing away scores of innocent bystanders in such public places as restaurants and supermarkets . Written , directed , edited and photographed with astounding hamfistedness by Frank Harris , with copious amounts of excessive violence , rank amateurish acting by a no-name supporting cast , a cheesy rockin ' synthesizer score , a nonstop quick pace , a few badly staged martial arts fight scenes , a smidgen of nudity , a terrible ending credits theme song , and an extremely high body count , this laughably lousy mid 80's action schlock gut-buster provides a wondrous wealth of unintentional laughs . Hope Holiday , who also co-starred with Mitchell in " Raw Force " and " Texas Lightning , " briefly pops up as an ill-fated whorehouse madam . A total tacky hoot .
Ugly , repulsive and unpleasant for sure , but still undeniably effective and upsetting stuff	The wicked Lord Cumberland ( splendidly played with venomous aplomb by Herbert Lom ) tortures and murders various hapless folks who have been accused of witchcraft in 18th century Austria . The vicious Albino ( the strikingly ugly Reggie Nalder in peak nasty form ) , naive young pupil Count Christian von Meruh ( a solid performance by a really young Udo Kier ) , and sadistic executioner Jeff Wilkens ( a perfectly hateful Herbert Fux ) assist Cumberland in his savage crusade . Director Michael Armstrong presents the bleak story in a grimly serious and straightforward manner , creating a glum , hopeless and despairing humorless tone which in turn makes the plentiful foul and disgusting violence displayed herein that much more horrific and disturbing . Moreover , Armstrong certainly doesn't flinch from pouring on the nauseating brutality with shocking ferocity : women are burned at the stake , tongues are torn out by the roots , people are repeatedly stabbed , a nude man gets placed on a chair made out of spikes , and one unfortunate guy is subjected to agonizingly prolonged water torture . Poor Michael Maien as Baron Daumer in particular gets severely mistreated by his cruel tormentors . Among the lovely young ladies who are grossly manhandled are Olivera Vuco as fiery peasant girl Vanessa Benedikt , Gaby Fuchs as beautiful blonde Deirdre , and Ingeborg Shoner as the luscious nobleman's wife . Worse yet , all this ghastly depravity has a depressing basis in historical fact . Both Michael Holm's lush , melodic score and Ernst W . Kalinke's pretty , polished cinematography serve as sharply ironic contrasts to the incessant parade of horrendous on-screen atrocities . For all the admitted vile sensationalism , this picture does offer a scathing indictment of the hypocrisy and debauchery committed by evil men doing God's work in a time when fear and superstition were the repressive norms . A harsh and unsparingly revolting ordeal of a film that definitely lives up to its notoriously sick reputation .
A nifty little low-budget serial killer thriller	A vicious serial killer terrorizes the city by brutally strangling attractive young women . Weary , cynical Detective Grant Sutherland ( a fine performance by Kent Rulon ) enlists the aid of blind , fragile psychic Maggie Russo ( a strong and touching portrayal by the lovely Diane Grotke ) in order to capture the psycho . Writer / director Richard Brody relates the compelling story at a steady pace , effectively builds plenty of gut-wrenching tension , maintains a properly grim'n'gritty tone throughout , and stages the startling outbursts of raw , ugly violence with considerable skill . Moreover , the excellent acting by the tip-top cast rates as another substantial asset : Rulon and Grotke display a very nice and moving chemistry in the leads ( the love story between their lonely characters is surprisingly poignant and their sole sex scene is genuinely erotic ) , with bang-up supporting turns by James Doohan ( Scotty on " Star Trek " ) as crusty retired cop Barney Fredericks , Isabel Parlett as Grant's spunky , ill-fated partner Detective Lucy Bernard , and Ann Parker as quirky costume store owner Miss Konkle . Jonathan Burkhart's polished cinematography offers several smooth tracking shots and a few impressive overhead camera shots . David Bruce Goldberg's shivery , ominous score hits the shuddery spot . The shockingly bleak surprise ending packs one hell of a wicked wallop . A real sleeper .
A splendidly hard-edged Italian crime thriller knockout	After his beloved mentor and superior gets killed , rough'n'tumble loose cannon police lieutenant Giorgio Caneparo ( well played by the handsome and charismatic Luc Merenda ) goes undercover as a vicious criminal in order to infiltrate the bank robbing gang responsible for the hit . Director Sergio Martino , working from a tough , complex script by Ernesto Gastaldi and taking a break from his usual giallo murder mystery thrillers , takes a welcome stab at the Italian crime thriller genre and comes up with an impressively tight , gripping and hard-hitting winner : the constant quick pace rarely flags , the tone is appropriately harsh and no-nonsense ( several innocent bystanders get killed which include a little girl and a pregnant woman ! ) , there are occasional startling outbursts of brutal'n'bloody violence , the intricate narrative offers plenty of neat twists and turns , and the action set pieces ate deftly staged with rip-roaring élan ( a couple of protracted car chases are especially exciting ) . This film further benefits from excellent acting by a tip-top cast : Merenda makes for a perfectly rugged and amoral anti-hero , Richard Conte lends able support as smooth capo Padulo , and the lovely Martine Brochard acquits herself nicely as brassy junkie prostitute Maria . Kudos are also in order for Giancarlo Ferrando's fluid , polished cinematography , the moody , groovy score by Guido and Maurizio De Angelis , and the bitterly cynical bummer ending which concludes everything on a satisfyingly downbeat note . Highly recommended viewing for Italian crime cinema fans .
A nifty supernatural horror mood piece	Troubled young schoolteacher Amy Roberts ( a sound and sympathetic performance by the lovely Christine Taylor ) and her nice fiancé Nick ( likable Shane Bolly ) get into a car accident . Nick gets whisked away to a nearby hospital . Amy tries to find Nick to no avail . Assisted by the friendly Lucas Dylan ( an appealing turn by Jerry O'Connell ) , Amy discovers that Nick was taken to a mysterious hospital called St . Rosemary's that burned down a long time ago . Can Amy and Lucas save Nick from this hellish place ? Director / co-writer Mike Hurst relates the compellingly vague and spooky premise at a deliberate pace and does an expert job of gradually building a genuinely eerie , unsettling and disorienting atmosphere which becomes more increasingly freaky and nightmarish as the narrative progresses towards its nerve-jangling conclusion . The fine acting from a capable cast helps a lot : Taylor and Bolly make for engaging leads , O'Connell does well in a change-of-pace straight role , plus there's excellent support from Chloe Moretz as helpful little girl Melissa Newman , Mary Pat Gleason as the stern , fearsome Nurse Holiday , Ellie Cornell as Melissa's scruffy white trash mother Sarah , Kane Hodder as a nasty , menacing homeless guy , Lisa Ann Walter as the mean , sarcastic Sergeant Burch , and Marshall Bell as Amy's sickly dad . Raymond Stella's slick , shadowy cinematography , Joe Kraemer's shivery score , and the clammy , claustrophobic hospital setting all further enhance the flesh-crawling weirded-out mood . Moreover , the resolution at the very end is surprisingly poignant . A pleasingly creepy fright feature .
A compellingly bizarre , yet tasteful tale of necrophilia	Frigid , remote and repressed young Lindsay Finch ( a fine performance by gorgeous blonde Mary Wilcox of " Beast of the Yellow Night " ) has a morbid fascination with the recently deceased : she frequently attends funerals of complete strangers and finds herself drawn to a depraved cult of corpse-loving freaks led by sinister undertaker Fred McSweeney ( a pleasingly creepy portrayal by Timothy Scott ) . Lindsay attempts a normal romantic relationship with nice guy Alex Martin ( a likable turn by " The Carol Burnett Show " regular Lyle Waggoner ) , but alas things don't work out . Writer / director Jacques Lacerte relates the gloomy story at a stately pace , does a sound job of creating a suitably eerie and downbeat tone , and treats the unsavory subject matter with commendable taste and restraint . Wilcox shines in the lead role ; she manages to make Lindsay a movingly troubled and sympathetic character despite her ghoulish sexual interest with the dead . Wilcox receives excellent support from Waggoner , Scott , Christopher Stone as amorously aggressive stud Wade Farrow , and William Quinn as ill-fated male hustler Billy Jo ( who in the film's single most gruesome and unnerving scene winds up being embalmed alive by Fred ! ) . David Aaron's bright , pretty cinematography gives the picture an attractive sunny look . Phil Moody's neatly varied score alternates between spooky'n'shuddery chillshow stuff and more bouncy and upbeat music . The hauntingly melancholy titular theme song sung by Kit Fuller is quite memorable . But what really makes this film so surprisingly poignant and effective is the fact that at its core is a very sad and tragic doomed love story . An interesting and refreshingly different kind of fright feature .
A deliciously campy variant on " Ten Little Indians "	A small group of hip and debauched rich swingers are invited to a remote island for some rest and relaxation by wealthy industrialist George Stark ( a perfectly smarmy Teodoro Corra ) . Honest Professor Fritz Farrell ( nicely played by William Berger ) has a formula that everyone wants exclusive dibs on . Pretty soon people start getting bumped off by a vicious killer . Director Mario Bava , working from a rather flimsy script by Mario de Nardo , injects a wickedly warped sense of black humor into the standard plot ( the corpses are all hung up on hooks in a meat freezer ! ) and further jazz things up with his trademark dazzling visual pizazz ( the wacky occasional use of zoom-in close-ups is especially hysterical ) . Moreover , we've got a bevy of beautiful ladies on abundant display throughout ; the insanely gorgeous Edwige Fenech in particular positively ignites the screen with her smoldering hot presence and spends the bulk of her screen time clad in revealing outfits that show off her fabulously full figure . Better still , the victims are an unlikable bunch of selfish and greedy upper-class jerks who wholly deserve their brutal fates , thereby making this picture work as a kind of dark and nasty satire on the blithely decadent vices of the privileged social elite . Piero Umiliani's bubbly , groovy lounge score , the sharp , sarcastic dialogue , Antonio Rinaldi's bright , glossy , wildly stylized cinematography , the outrageously tacky clothes , the sublimely ridiculous surprise twist conclusion , and the incredibly funky garage rock ending credits theme song all add immensely to the overall infectiously kitschy fun .
A potent , poignant and overall disturbing teen coming-of-age drama sleeper	A strikingly clear-eyed and nonjudgmental portrait of adolescent explorations into sex , friendship , loyalty and cruelty which deftly captures the essential amorality and irresponsibility of that uncertain period of one's life with considerable candor and an admirable dearth of sentiment . Three carefree , unsupervised teenagers - - conniving , domineering , flirtatious strumpet Sandy ( a deliciously wicked Barbara Hershey , wearing a skimpy bikini outfit that shows off a lot of her toothsome , voluptuous figure ) , aggressively libidinous Dan ( Bruce Davison in his solid film debut ) , and the slightly more thoughtful Peter ( a strong turn by Richard Thomas ) - - become involved in a playfully steamy menage a trois on Long Island's tranquil Fire Island resort . The two guys are both completely infatuated with Sandy and vie with each other to seduce her . The rowdy trio engage in a wild group grope in a movie theater , drink beer , smoke grass , nurse a wounded seagull back to health , bask in the sun's unwavering rays , and cut loose during an especially crazed impromptu heavy petting / hair washing session . Their delicate , uninhibited fantasy world gets upset when pallid , pudgy , deeply uptight and morally responsible plain jane Rhoda ( superbly played by the endearingly ungainly Cathy Burns , who deservedly got an Oscar nomination for her first-rate performance ) enters their precious circle and steals Peter's attention away from Sandy . Eleanor Perry's astute , keenly observed script offers many painfully truthful moments as the gawky , confused main characters grapple with mortality ( Rhoda's monologue about the untimely death of her mother is simply incredible ) , intense , unfulfilled sexual longings , sexual rivalry , and feelings of extreme callousness . Directed with great tact and restraint by Frank Perry , gorgeously shot in dewy , creamy , golden-hued soft focus by Gerald Hirshfeld ( the expansive beachside scenery is positively beautiful ) , and marvelously acted by a fine cast , " Last Summer " rates as a quietly potent , poignant and disturbing sleeper .
A hilariously raucous redneck comedy hoot	Johnny Paycheck's super fed-up with being exploited by the Man proletarian honky-tonk rant , written by ex-convict David Allan Coe , was turned into one of the true unsung classic films of the early 80s . It's a rowdy , boisterous , high-spirited seriocomic slice-of-blue-collar-life redneck romp about refusing to kowtow to any big company nonsense and taking charge of your own destiny . Eager beaver hotshot corporate executive Robert Hays returns to his podunk burg home town to get the sagging local brewery back on its feet again . He changes the operation with mixed results : the company suits are happy , but the workers are discontent . Will Hays do the right thing and tell the top brass to shove it ? Man , does baby cover all the necessary bases : a top-notch country-and-western soundtrack , a monster truck race , romance , cussin ' , authentically funky locations ( e . g . , smoky taverns and low-rent bowling alleys ) , a wild barroom football game , working class angst and frustration , and , best of all , a rousing stick it to the head honchos workers revolt conclusion . The uniformly excellent cast includes Barbara Hershey as Hays ' feisty ex-girlfriend , David Keith and Tim Thomerson as scruffy good ol ' boys , Art Carney as the plant manager , Martin Mull as an obsequious company man boot-licker , Eddie Albert as an ahole CEO , Len Lesser as a jerk foreman , country singer Charlie Rich as a rival corporate head , Royal Dano as an elderly factory worker , and James Karen as Carney's right-hand man . Directed with tremendous flair by Gus Trikonis ( his previous hick flicks include " Nashville Girl " and " Moonshine County Express " ) and affectionately written by Barry Schneider , this unjustly overlooked darling is just ripe for rediscovery .
Good , enjoyably cheesy slasher fun	Okay , please stop me if you've heard this one before . Seven totally obnoxious and unlikeable beer-chugging , snowboard-surfing , sex-obsessed party hearty college coed kids decide to spend a weekend of fun and frolics at a remote abandoned ski lodge . Naturally , they trespass , do drugs and make out . Of course , they ignore the local townspeople's warning that said lodge may be haunted by the spirit of a little girl who was accidentally killed in a tragic accident a while back . And , biggest surprise of all , some murderous mystery maniac proceeds to viciously bump off the wholly deserving chowderheads one at a time . This entertainingly tacky and silly by-the-numbers body count slice'n'dice fright flick starts out a little slow and clumsy , but steadily improves and gains momentum as it goes along . Director / co-writer Greg Huson fails to build any tension or create a creepy atmosphere , but he does keep the pace moving forward at a steady clip , stages the nicely gruesome murder set pieces with a reasonable amount of flair ( gory highlights include two beheadings by steel wire , a hanging by scarf from a ski lift , and an especially nifty impalement by icicle ) , and elicits acceptable performances from an attractive cast of young unknowns . Better yet , the female cast members are all smoking hot ( luscious brunette looker Holly Towne in particular is a major babe who even bares her tasty bod in a fairly steamy sex scene ) , the snow-covered wintry landscapes look gorgeous , and there's plenty of choice stupid dialogue ( " I don't ski - I shred " ) . Charles A . Schner's polished cinematography , Alan Derian's spooky score , and the occasionally snazzy MTV-style flashy jump editing are all likewise up to par . Granted , this sure ain't anything terribly special or remarkable , but this pleasingly modest little piece of low-budget horror junk does the trick all the same .
A good'n'goofy piece of total unapologetic late 80's low budget comic horror trash	As this film's gloriously bold title alone suggests this sure ain't no exceptionally smart , subtle and sophisticated work of remarkable cinematic art . Instead it's total unmitigated lowbrow crap , plain and simple ( with a definite emphasis on the simple , too ) . The so-called plot concerns two overaged , but very fetching sorority pledges and a trio of moronic , obnoxious frat boys who have to break into a bowling alley late at night and steal a bowling trophy as part of an initiation prank . The dim-witted quintet accidentally unleash a mischievous and diabolical imp who speaks with a pretty dreadful ersatz African American accent ; said troublesome little bugger gleefully wreaks plenty of enjoyably inane tongue-in-cheek supernatural havoc upon the idiotic collegians . Tireless celluloid dreckmeister supreme David ( " Creepazoids , " " Deadly Embrace " ) DeCoteau keeps the silly shenanigans bumping along at a reasonably quick clip , the nonstop sophomoric gags are quite amusing in an admittedly crude sort of way , and both the cinematography and production values are surprisingly slick given the paltry nickel'n'dime budget . Moreover , immortal 80's trash horror scream queen Linnea ( " Silent Night , Deadly Night , " " The Return of the Living Dead " ) Quigley contributes a spirited and engaging performance as a spunky punkette burglar while the always reliable George " Buck " Flower lends able support as a frisky , doddering , irascible old coot of a hopelessly senile janitor . Better still , the sexy , slinky , smoldering Brinke ( " The Slumber Party Massacre " ) Stevens takes an utterly gratuitous , but much-appreciated lengthy shower and buxom brunette honey Michelle ( " Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers " ) Bauer spends the bulk of her screen time in the buff . Of course this film overall is essentially an extremely cheesy , lamebrained and worthless hunk of absolute junk , but this baby nonetheless still constitutes as one of those true schlock movie rarities : it's a thoroughly shameless , pointless and witless rip-snorting snotwad of a flick that's every bit as blithely tacky and trashy as its glaringly obvious title would suggest . I plead guilty as charged on the grounds that I dug every last sublimely stupid minute of this braindead timewaster .
A nifty horror anthology winner	Resourceful paperboy Timmy ( the adorable Matthew Lawrence ) relates a trio of scary stories to cheery witch Betty ( a delightfully wicked Deborah Harry of Blondie fame ) , who plans on cooking and eating the lad . First and most creepy anecdote , " Lot 249 " - Bitter luckless college student Bellingham ( splendidly played to the venomous hilt by the always great Steve Buscemi ) brings a mummy back to life so it can bump off his tormentors . Buscemi excels in this segment ; he receives sturdy support from Christian Slater as his only friend Andy and the ravishing Julianne Moore as evil tart Susan . Second and most enjoyable yarn , " The Cat from Hell " - Eccentric crippled millionaire Drogan ( William Hickey deliciously hamming it up for all its worth ) hires smooth professional hit-man Halston ( a nicely assured turn by rock singer David Johansen ) to bump off a lethal black cat . This outing benefits from lots of funky feline POV shots and boasts a terrifically gory ending . Third and most moving episode , " Lover's Vow " - Struggling artist Preston ( a fine James Remar in a refreshing change-of-pace good guy role ) makes a promise to a deadly gargoyle that he will never tell anyone he saw it . Preston meets and falls in love with the enchanting Carola ( a sweet and charming portrayal by the lovely Rae Dawn Chong ) . Can Preston keep his promise ? Or will he eventually tell Carola about the gargoyle ? Stand-up comedian Robert Klein has an amusing secondary part as Preston's stuffy agent Wyatt while Remar and Chong are both excellent in the leads . Director John Harrison maintains a steady pace throughout , does a sound job of creating and maintaining a suitably macabre atmosphere , tosses in cool moments of grisly splatter in every story , further enhances things with neat touches of dark humor ( Halston's attempts at staying calm and collected while trying to kill the cat in the second segment are especially funny ) , and brings an appropriately baroque EC comic book style to the material . Robert Draper's polished cinematography makes inspired frequent use of pans and wipes . The shivery score by Harrison , Chaz Jankel , Jim Manzie and Pat Regan likewise does the shuddery trick . The wrap-around story ties everything together in a pleasingly twisted way . Overall , this omnibus affair is well worth a look for fright feature fans .
An excellent and underrated late 80's witchcraft horror sleeper	One of my all-time favorite late 80's horror mystery thriller sleepers , this nifty little flick plays like a modestly budgeted " Fatal Attraction " crossed with " Rosemary's Baby . " Handsome nice guy Los Angeles lawyer Jeff Mills ( appealingly essayed by Timothy Daly ) saves the beautiful and enigmatic Miranda ( a strikingly sexy and mesmerizing Kelly Preston ) from a knife-wielding creep ( the astonishingly ugly and unnerving Anthony Crivello ) in a gymnasium parking lot . Jeff and Miranda immediately fall in love , finding happiness with each other . Unfortunately for them , Miranda turns out to be an honest-to-goodness witch who defected from a sinister coven that's keen on getting her back so she can be used as a sacrifice for the spring solstice . Director Janet Greek wisely allows the story to initially unfold at a leisurely pace , firmly grounding said plot in a nicely delineated everyday world which makes the supernatural aspects of the story seem plausible and thus all the more effectively scary . The performances are uniformly excellent , with especially solid turns by Rick Rossovich ( who got tossed through a wall by future California governor Arnold Schwarzeneggar in " The Terminator " ) as Jeff's best friend , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa as a hard-nosed police detective , the always delightful Diana Bellamy as Jeff's motherly , concerned secretary , M . C . Gainey as a paranoid wacko survivalist loner , and veteran thespians Audra Lindley and Stefan Gierasch as elderly members of the creepy coven . Moreover , Basil Poledouris supplies a splendidly spooky'n'shuddery score , the suspense steadily mounts as the movie progresses towards its harrowing conclusion , the slick cinematography gives the picture a glitteringly smooth and polished visual sheen , and Tracy Torme's clever script comes complete with a genuinely jolting socko surprise climactic twist .
A fun swamp-set horror creature feature	Sweet young Melanie Blaine ( winningly played by foxy brunette Cindy Sampson ) returns to her small backwoods country hometown of Gibbington to check on her estranged ex-lawman father Howard ( splendidly essayed with edgy intensity by Bruce Dern ) , who's the prime suspect in a series of grisly murders . Nice guy local Jimmy Fuller ( an excellent and likable performance by Nicolas Wright ) helps Melanie out . Melanie eventually discovers that a vicious monster is behind the killings . Director David Winning relates the absorbing story at a steady pace , offers a vivid and flavorsome evocation of the remote rural setting , maintains an admirably serious tone throughout , stages the attack scenes with flair , and develops a good deal of tension which culminates in a rousing climax . Moreover , the main characters are exceptionally well-drawn and engaging , with Wright a stand-out as the affable Jimmy . Sampson and the always reliable Dern do sterling work with their roles ; they receive sound support from Robert Higden as the vengeful , hot-tempered Jones , Allison Graham as eager , scrappy Deputy Jolene Harris , James Kidnie as earnest , upright Sheriff Nelson Bois , and Bronwen Mantel as folksy diner owner Shelly . The gnarly bayou beast that's made up of twigs and mud qualifies as a very cool creature ; the CGI effects used to bring it to life are above average and overall acceptable . The smart and compact script by Gary L . Dauberman and Ethlie Ann Vare has an interesting central theme about the fine line between justice and revenge . Daniel Vincelette's crisp cinematography makes nifty occasional use of a gliding Steadicam . James Gelford's shuddery score hits the shivery spot . A really enjoyable fright flick .
A refreshingly offbeat and original tongue-in-cheek 80's post-nuke sci-fi oddity	Writer / director Albert Pyun's first foray into post-nuke sci-fi / action cinema remains to this very day his single most novel and idiosyncratic entry in that sub-genre . It's a wickedly wacked-out black comic tongue-in-cheek end-of-the-world oddity which fuses vintage 40's film noir conventions - - morally upright gumshoes with a strong personal code of honor that's constantly being challenged by every twisted turn of the convoluted jigsaw plot , fetching femme fatales , evil criminal underground figures , hard-boiled introspective narration , assorted just - looking - out - for - themselves opportunistic low-life dirtbags double and triple crossing our amiably guileless heroes , dense , smoky , shadowy lighting , a gritty urban setting teeming with violence , corruption , treachery , and unremitting moral blackness , a fiery big gun-blasting shoot-out ending - - with a raucous , spiky , nose-thumbing 80's funk-punk sensibility . John Stockwell and Michael Dudikoff are utterly engaging as Phillip and Marlowe , a pair of cloddish , wet-behind-the-ears , pork-pie hat and trenchcoat-wearing innocents who pattern themselves after laconically cool private eyes after spending most of their lives reading pulpy crime thriller books in a subterranean nuclear fall-out shelter . Coming above ground on April 1st , 2010 , the bumbling pair , unaware that they possess the two keys for the last functional MX missile in existence , are totally unprepared for the harrowing experiences they have when they finally venture into the brutish , bombed-out post-apocalyptic world . The endearingly dumb duo have perilous run-ins with rot-faced hippie cannibals , red-haired hog-riding biker chicks , belligerent greasers , foul-mouthed white-suited disco mutant kids ( ! ) , decadent punks , and gigantic carnivorous sewer rats when they arrive in Edge City , a grimy , amoral metropolis populated by all kinds of freakish subhuman filth . The key folks who mercilessly chase after our boys are lethally enticing , cold-blooded fugitive dame Miles Archer ( marvelously played to the nasty , " don't mess with me Buster ! " nines by imposing , statuesque tall drink of luscious blonde water Lisa Blount ) , feisty tart with a heart Rusty Mars ( tasty brunette dish Michele Little ) , and vicious mob kingpins Dash Hammer ( a superbly steely Don Murray ) and Spade Chandler ( the always invigorating George Kennedy ) , who are the two dastardly dudes who dumped the guys in the shelter back in 1996 . Loaded to the vibrant , head-bursting brim with grungy clothes fashions , equally grotty set designs , gnarly make-up f / x by Greg ( " Vamp " ) Cannom , stylishly dim cinematography by Charles Minsky , a first-rate wild'n'wailing New Wave soundtrack ( the groovy theme song especially smokes ) , a generous sprinkling of thrilling frantic action , a very dark sense of warped brash humor , dynamic direction , wittily right-on homages to classic 40's literary fiction and film noir movies , spirited performances , punchy pacing , colorfully quirky characters , and enough inspired oddball ideas for at least a dozen pictures , " Radioactive Dreams " cooks with a maniacally stoked , hopped-up vitality that's both funny and enjoyable in equal measure , therefor making this welcome change-of-pace lampoon a refreshingly offbeat delight .
A real creepfest	Troubled young Elizabeth ( well played by the lovely Louise Salter ) goes to a remote Crimean island to investigate the death of her father and the disappearance of a missing friend . The island is populated by a bizarre order of sinister nuns who reside in a convent . Assisted by the friendly Sarah ( an engaging performance by Venera Simmons ) , Elizabeth uncovers some dark secrets pertaining to her past and discovers an ancient evil force in the bowels of the convent . Director / co-writer Mariano Baino shows a remarkably sharp and stunning eye for unnerving visuals . Moreover , Baino does an expert job of creating and maintaining a compellingly spooky atmosphere and punctuates the picture with occasional outbursts of startlingly brutal violence . The grim , brooding tone gets more progressively gloomy and unsettling as the story unfolds and culminates in an especially chilling last third . The island setting projects a potent sense of dread and isolation . While the narrative is a bit vague , the suffocating brooding mood keeps the film on track and really gets under your skin . Another interesting aspect of the picture is that men are relegated to minor roles ; the main characters are all female . It's this willingness to break from standard horror conventions that in turn gives this movie an extra refreshing edge . Alex Howe's handsome , fluid cinematography , Igor Clark's shuddery score , and the uncompromisingly bleak ending all further enhance the overall nightmarish quality of this supremely eerie shocker .
An amusingly silly hoot	Sweet , but fat , shy and homely teenager Phyllis Loden ( an endearingly gawky performance by Rhona Brody ) gets entered into a high school beauty pageant by a quartet of nasty girls . Phyllis not only loses the pageant , but also gets ruthlessly picked on and publicly humiliated by the other more pretty and popular participants . Worse yet , her cruel competitors even kill Loden's beloved cat by sticking the cute little kitty in a microwave oven ! Phyllis exacts a harsh revenge by killing the evil and venomous bitches . Director / co-writer Jill Zurborg concocts an entertaining black farce that's greatly enlivened by an appealingly giddy sense of dark humor , a reasonable smidgen of gore , outrageously broad characters , and a catchy soundtrack . Moreover , the enthusiastic acting from a game no-name cast qualifies as a major plus , with especially stand-out turns by Kathryn A . Mensik as the vicious , stuck-up Muffy Fairlane , Steve Kollin as Loden's nerdy bespectacled sole friend Cameron , Tammy Pescatelli as the snarky Elizabeth McKay , Jim Boggess as snooty pageant chairwoman Betty Prunish , Kimberly Ann Kurtenbach as the vacuous Alison Murphy , Laura Schutter as the antsy Shelley Styles , Matthew Speak as jerky jock Paul Whitewater , and Peter Soderberg as dogged private detective Dick Richards . Jeff Carney's competent cinematography and Dana P . Rowe's bouncy score are both up to speed . Granted , at almost two hours this movie does drag quite a bit here and there , but overall it's a funny and enjoyable romp .
An enjoyably lowbrow redneck exploitation flick	Sweet , soft and sensitive young Buddy Owen Stover ( likable Channing Mitchell ) goes on a hunting trip with his hearty , macho , overbearing father Karl ( Cameron Mitchell at his most wild'n'woolly ) , jolly good ol ' boy Frank Whitman ( the always excellent Peter Jason ) , and tubby slob Leonard Simpson ( portly wonder J . L . Clark ) . The rough'n'tumble dudes want to make a man out of Buddy . Buddy meets and falls for perky cocktail waitress Fay ( a winningly sassy performance by the adorable Maureen McCormick ; Marcia on " The Brady Bunch " ) . Things get nasty when both Frank and Leonard rape poor Fay . Writer / director Gary Graver really goes heavy on the amusingly no-brainer hayseed tomfoolery : we've got plenty of booze swilling , a tasty wet t-shirt contest , a lively st-kickin ' country theme song , the inevitable barroom brawl , and one very ugly rape scene . Tommy Vig's jaunty score and the polished cinematography by Graver and Bruce M . Pasternack are both up to par . Nice supporting turns by Charles Dierkop as friendly gas station attendant Walt , Hope Holiday as Karl's naggy wife Ms . Stover , and Damone Camden as brassy tart Donna . This film starts out as a raucous comic romp , but halfway through takes a sudden and surprising turn and becomes a dark , probing and frankly disturbing depiction of the worst aspects of masculinity . It's the movie's very strangeness which makes it oddly effective and hence memorable .
A very likable movie spin-off from the TV show	Herman Munster ( the delightful Fred Gwynne ) inherits an estate in England . Herman along with his sweet wife Lily ( lovely Yvonne De Carlo ) , rascally Grandpa ( the always great Al Lewis ) , brash son Eddie ( the engaging Butch Patrick ) , and cute adopted daughter Marilyn ( the adorable Debbie Watson subbing for Pat Priest ) all go to Great Britian . The Munsters ' no-count British relatives try to scare them off to no avail , so they resort to more drastic measures in order to get rid of the merry oddball clan . Director Earl Bellamy keeps the film moving along at a sprightly tempo , stages the expected blithely inane slapstick gags with considerable aplomb , and maintains an infectiously bouncy tone throughout . This picture further benefits from a top-drawer cast of veteran British thespians : Terry-Thomas as the infantile , temperamental Freddie Munster , Hermoine Gingold as stern matriarch Lady Effigie Munster , Jeanne Arnold as the wicked Grace Munster , Robert Pine as the smoothly charming Roger , and Bernard Fox as the hearty Squire Moresby . Special kudos are in order for John Carradine , who gives a deliciously sour performance as gloomy and sinister butler Cruikshank . Benjamin H . Kline's sharp cinematography makes inspired use of vibrant color . Jack Marshall supplies an appropriately spirited silly-spooky score . A hugely enjoyable romp .
An unusual and interesting oddity	A then unknown pre-Prince Vanity stars in this outrageously campy , sexy and compelling " Beauty and the Beast " - type allegorical oddity as Tanya , a naive , but gorgeous and hence quite desirable aspiring young actress who has a nightmare that both she and her possessive , overbearing , sadistic older painter boyfriend Lobo ( excellently played to vile perfection by Richard Sargent ) are living together on a peaceful and tropical isolated island . Tanya befriends a gentle , turquoise-eyed huge gorilla whom she names Blue ( persuasively portrayed by Don McCloud in an amazingly credible costume ) . The ensuing platonic relationship raises the bitter and jealous ire of Lobo , who degenerates into complete base savagery as he competes with Blue to be the sole object of Tanya's affection . Well directed by Alfred Sole ( who also gave us the terrific , vehemently anti-Catholic horror knockout " Alice , Sweet Alice " ) , with exquisitely lush cinematography by Mark Irwin , a lovely , lulling and melodic score by Jean Musy , a provocative subtext which incisively explores the fine line distinguishing man from beast , a strikingly authentic ape suit that was designed by Rick Baker and Rob Bottin , and ample shots of the delectable Vanity prancing about in her birthday suit , this offbeat low-budget outing overall rates as an intriguing curio .
A delightfully dippy piece of vintage 50's sci-fi camp	A quintet of folks - - stalwart Steve Dayton ( stolid Richard Travis ) , his plucky gal pal June Saxton ( pretty Cathy Downs ) , kindly old scientist Dirk Green ( affable Michael Whalen ) , brash escaped convict Gary Fennell ( sparky Tommy Cook ) and his whiny buddy Lon ( jittery Gary Clarke ) - - fly off in a rocket ship to the moon . The discover a race of attractive lunar ladies led by the blind the Lido ( essayed with lip-smacking relish by K . T . Stevens ) who are running low on oxygen and want to leave their planet as soon as possible . Clumsily directed with total seriousness by Richard Cunha , with plain cinematography by Meredith Nicholson , flat acting , a trite , talky script , an overwrought full-bore orchestral score by Nicholas Carras , sluggish pacing , laughable dialogue , tacky ( far from ) special effects , and uproariously obvious cardboard sound stages , this infamous nifty 50's low-budget sci-fi camp classic provides plenty of goofy entertainment and a sizable number of unintentional chuckles . The rock monsters in particular are a total hoot ; they resemble pumped-up pernicious versions of Gumby . The giant fake rubbery puppet spider likewise makes for a positively gut-busting shoddy sight to behold . Moreover , the lunar ladies are all undeniably lovely , with Nina Bara clearly copping the top honors as the selfish and insolent Alpha . Good , silly kitsch fun .
Four is fine , but five's a crowd !	Composed , elegant Carol ( marvelously played by the beautiful Rebecca Brooke ) , her nice husband Eddie ( likable David Houseman ) , Carol's wacky , constantly eating best gal pal Anna ( delightfully essayed with infectious comic zeal by the adorable Chris Jordan ) , and Anna's hunky , amorous husband Pete ( a typically fine Eric Edwards ) are a quartet of liberated swingers who enjoy having frequent group sex with each other . Their usual routine gets disrupted when Carol's lonely , repressed , but still alluring widow mother Jennifer ( a superbly moving performance by the lovely Jennifer Welles ) drops by for a visit . Pretty soon Jennifer loosens up and becomes a willing participant in the swingers ' blithely pleasurable and uninhibited carnal lifestyle , with everyone except Carol eager to seduce her . Writer / director Joe Sarno concocts a sharp , engrossing and perceptive examination of suburban angst and the limitations of the whole wild'n'easy 70's sexual revolution ; Sarno turns traditional middle class mores on their heads and further spices things up with a bold and provocative mother / daughter incest subplot . Moreover , Sarno elicits uniformly first-rate acting from the bang-up cast : Welles and Brooke are both exceptional , with excellent support from Edwards , Jordan , Houseman , Arlana Blue as flaky New Age sex therapist Shandara , and Erica Eaton as saucy neighbor Mrs . Fields . Better still , all the women are extremely hot and enticing ; Welles in particular seriously steams up the screen with her exquisitely voluptuous figure and smoldering erotic presence . The sex scenes are really sizzling and fairly explicit , but never raunchy or tedious . Stephen Colwell's bright , polished cinematography and Jack Justis ' bouncy , melodic acoustic folk score are both on the money solid and effective . Recommended viewing for Sarno fans .
An enjoyably awful piece of chopsocky schlock	Allison Wong ( the lovely Cecilia Wong ) gets abducted by a nasty gang of drug smugglers who have a foul sideline business involving white slavery and prostitution . Honest worker Chen ( the likable Carter Wong ) , stalwart Interpol agent Bill Eaton ( a solid and engaging Ron Van Clief ) , and Allison's brother ( the brawny Hsaio Ho ) join forces to take on the nefarious crime syndicate . Clumsily directed by Billy Chan , with rough , unpolished cinematography by Lo Wan Shing , a mean , sleazy tone , an initially poky pace that doesn't pick up until halfway into the movie when Van Clief finally appears at the 42 minute mark , a sloppy , meandering story , cruddy dubbing ( most of the Asian characters sport totally inappropriate British accents ! ) , a funky groovy score by Eddie Wang , laughably lousy dialogue , plenty of thrilling fight scenes ( the action-loaded climax is especially stirring ) , and ridiculously broad and over-the-top women-beating cackling villains , this choice chunky of blithely low-rent martial arts trash overall rates as a real cheesy hoot .
The luscious Christina Lindberg heats up the screen in this enjoyable soft-core romp	Sweet , naive , yet lovely and enticing virginal 16-year-old innocent country girl Inga ( the delectable Christina Lindberg of " Thriller : A Cruel Picture " fame in her film debut ) goes to the city to spend the weekend with her older , more worldly and experienced sister Greta ( yummy blonde Monica Ekman ) and her cad boyfriend Casten ( the extremely jerky Krister Ekman ) . Inga gets in touch with her budding sexuality , loosens up , and learns the joys of booze , dancing , and intercourse . Casten's equally loutish friend Bjorn ( homely beanpole Leif Naeslund ) forces himself on Inga on their first date , but she falls for the creep anyway ! When Inga decides to take a bath one fateful day , Casten naturally can't help but join the luscious lass for some splashy carnal fun ( can anyone blame the guy ? ) . Director Dan Wolman relates the sordid coming-of-age story at a steady pace and delivers plenty of tasty nudity and steamy soft-core sex scenes . The central plot clearly imitates Joe Sarno's sexploitation classic " Inga . " ( Ironically , Lindberg went on to appear in the Sarno flicks " Swedish Wildcats " and " Young Playthings " ! ) . Not surprisingly , Wolman shows off Christina's awesomely abundant physical attributes as often as possible : Lindberg disrobes with pleasing regularity , masturbates in bed after catching Greta and Casten making love , cools off with a shower ( shot in sensuous slow motion for extra erotic effect ) , and performs her sex scenes with scorching lusty abandon . Moreover , she also manages to deliver a touching and natural performance in her first lead role . Hasse Welin's pretty cinematography leers over Christina's fabulously voluptuous figure with undisguised lascivious intent while the catchy soundtrack boasts plenty of tuneful folksy rock songs . Highly recommended viewing for Christina Lindberg fans .
An enjoyably campy hoot	Conniving little weasel Eddie " the Cat " Murkil ( expertly played to the sniveling obnoxious hilt by David Kyle , who later quit acting to become a youth minister ! ) is a cunning adolescent psychopath who ruthlessly bumps off Punch ( a nifty , albeit brief appearance by Derrel Maury of " Massacre at Central High " fame ) , the leader of the teenage hoodlum gang the Silks . Cat makes it look like the rival Latino gang the Ruedas did it . This leads to a violent gang war . Pretty soon the body count begins to pile up at an alarming rate ( the definite highlight occurs when two scrawny 14-year-old members of the Silks sneak into a high school locker room to shiv two members of the Ruedas in the shower ! ) . Clearly intended as some kind of grim cautionary tale about teen gangs and adolescent violence on the rise in major cities , this unjustly overlooked 70's drive-in juvenile delinquent exploitation item qualifies as a real campy hoot . Director John Bushelman takes the whole silly story very seriously , which in turn gives this goofy marvel a certain endearingly clunky charm . Bruce Logan's polished cinematography gives the film a sharp , glossy look . Better still , both the amusingly insipid soft-rock theme song " Slow Down Baby " and especially Bernie Kaai Lewis ' funky garage rock score are hilariously cheesy . Popping up in snazzy supporting roles are Rhodes Reason and Doug McGrath as two hard-nosed police detectives , Steve Bond as Murkil's incarcerated older brother who's struggling to go straight , Doodles Weaver as a gas station owner and " Beverly Hills Cop " film series regular John Ashton as a high school football coach . Good dumb fun .
A deliciously cheesy hoot	Evil madman Eamon O'Reilly ( veteran villain character actor Michael Ansara in peak suavely sinister form ) and his army of cutthroat mercenaries acquire possession of a deadly plague virus . Feisty government agent Sabrina Kincaid ( well played by ravishing redhead Francine York ) rounds up a bunch of lovely , yet lethal lady assassins who include exotic dancer Lavella Sumara ( voluptuous knockout Tura Satana ) , Olympic swimmer Sharon O'Connor ( slender blonde looker Leigh Christian ) , and psychiatrist Elizabeth White ( foxy brunette Judy McConnell ) to thwart O'Reilly before it's too late . Director / co-writer Ted V . Mikels loads this baby with more than enough spirited schlockiness to ensure that fans of cheapo 70's kitsch will be in hog heaven : we've got hot babes aplenty , ineptly staged action scenes ( the clumsy martial arts fights are especially sidesplitting ) , a groovy swingin ' funk soul score by Nicholas Carras , a tacky solarized opening credits sequence , surprisingly bloody violence , gloriously ghastly ( far from ) special effects , garish color cinematography by Anthony Salinas , a constant snappy pace , acceptable acting from a game cast , and a plot which serves as a basic blueprint for the suspiciously similar popular TV series " Charlie's Angels . " Popping up in nifty supporting roles are Anthony Eisley as smooth CIA head honcho Victor Connelly , John Carter as the worried Senator Carter , Lisa Todd as Eamon's enticing mistress Maria , Rafael Campos as twitchy junkie flunky Rafael , William Bagdad as brutish henchman Joseph , and Herb Robins as nasty hit-man Munson . A total campy riot .
An offbeat horror mood piece	Troubled young Grace MacDonald ( well played by ravishing redhead Brooke Mills ) works as an assistant for itinerant carnie faith healer preacher Reverend Jesse Bundy ( essayed with tremendous rip-snorting gusto by Michael Pataki ) and can't get over her obsession with finding her long lost father . Grace eventually runs across her pop Timothy MacDonald ( a fine , robust performance by Edmond O'Brien ) , but he turns out to be crazy , overprotective and dangerous . Or is Grace just imagining that her dad is still alive ? Writer / director John Hayes relates the compellingly quirky story at a leisurely pace and does an expert job of creating and maintaining a creepy , surreal , dreamlike atmosphere . Paul Hipp's bright , lush cinematography and Jaime Mendoza-Nava's spooky , melancholy score further enhance the pervasive mood of abstract eeriness . Moreover , there's nice supporting performances by Paul Prokop as Grace's kindly , concerned fiancé Dr . Patrick Bundy , Marc Lawrence as a sinister undertaker who works as a pimp on the side , and Arthur Franz as a helpful psychiatrist . Despite a heavy languid air and the often murky plot ( a grimly sober narrator occasionally chimes in to give the oblique story some much-needed coherence ) , this intriguingly ambiguous picture somehow manages to cast a strangely hypnotic spell on the viewer . An interesting oddity .
A solid and engrossing Italian cannibal gore romp	Sweet , lovely , innocent rich girl Catherine Miles ( nicely played by stunningly comely blonde knockout Elvire Audray ) celebrates her 18th birthday with her parents in the Amazon jungle . Catherine winds up being abducted by a savage and primitive tribe of head hunters after her parents are brutally murdered . Poor Catherine gets stripped naked , smeared with smelly oil , becomes the love slave of a vile lout who defiles her , tries to escape , and eventually adopts as best she can to her dismal situation to the point where she falls in love with noble warrior Umukai ( handsome Will Gonzales ) . However , Catherine still wants to escape and exact a harsh revenge on the killers of her parents . Director Mario Gariazzo relates the grimly arresting plot in a sturdy and compelling manner . Silvano Ippoliti's stark , no-frills cinematography gives the film an effectively gritty semi-documentary look . Franco Campanino's sweeping majestic score likewise hits the pleasing melodic spot . The acceptable acting , okay dubbing , suitably hideous graphic gore ( several ghastly decapitations rate as the definite gruesome highlights ) , steady pace , breathtaking verdant jungle scenery , surprisingly poignant love story , and the plentiful female nudity ( Audrey looks especially delectable sans clothes ) are all up to speed as well . One of the better and more satisfying of the many Italian cannibal splatter features made back in the late 70's up until the mid 80's .
Good , dumb car chase fun	Made in the early 80's when the 70's car chase genre was winding down , chockablock with copious footage lifted from such previous Roger Corman-backed drive-in flicks as " Grand Theft Auto , " " Moving Violation , " " Eat My Dust ! , " and " Thunder and Lightening , " coasting on the faintest sliver of a one-note story , and , just like the numerous car chases showcased herein , running around in endless circles with no particular purpose or destination in mind , this energetically stupid comedic romp was harshly panned by critics and generally dismissed as an absolute turkey . Granted , it's not exactly a good movie , but it's certainly an enjoyably brainless , pointless and senseless wallow in crash ' em and smash ' em up demolition derby cinema . Shrewd , impishly irreverent car nut misfit Roscoe ( " Night Warning " ' s Jimmy McNichol ) abducts stuck-up homecoming queen Peggy Sue Turner ( perky , fetching blonde Janet Julian ) and goes on the lam with Peggy's crusty , hot-tempered , very overbearing and overprotective sheriff dad ( broadly played by the chubby Walter Barnes ) and assorted oddball secondary characters in hot pursuit . That's it for the plot ; the rest of the picture is nothing more than spinning tires , out-of-control car stunts , an uptight girl loosening up on the road , young love blooming on the road , idiotic slapstick gags , a " what the hell is he doing here ? " guy in an apesuit cameo , peppy rock songs blaring away on the soundtrack , and plenty of pedal-glued-to-the-floor ultra-speedy car chase scenes . Longtime Corman screenwriter Charles B . ( " Bucket of Blood , " " The Little Shop of Horrors " ) Griffith displays an endearingly all-thumbs incompetence as a director , which in this case greatly adds to the infectiously dopey festivities . The ubiquitous Gary Graver comes through with his customary smooth and polished cinematography . Brent Myggen's frantically pumping'n'propulsive score rushes along to a quick snappy beat . The wildly mugging supporting cast is loaded with familiar faces : Dick Miller as a dippy dad , " Joyride to Nowhere " ' s Mel Welles as a goofy sheik who speaks in fractured fragmented sentences , Bill Forsythe as a brutish caveman football player , Rance Howard as a fanatically gung-ho high school football coach , and Angelo Rossitto as an excitable midget hotel desk clerk . Overall , this baby measures up as a pretty solid and satisfying so-dumb-it's-fun good time .
A delightfully scroungy 70's horror exploitation gem	Sweet young nurse Charlotte Beale ( a charming performance by ravishing redhead knockout Rosie Holotik ) goes to work at a remote rural asylum run by Dr . Geraldine S . Masters ( the excellent Annabelle Weenick ) . Among the motley assortment of colorfully crazed patients are insatiable , aggressive nymphomaniac Allyson King ( the luscious Betty Chandler ) , loopy Judge Oliver W . Cameron ( a gloriously hammy Gene Ross ) , paranoid Vietnam veteran Sergeant Jaffee ( nicely played by Hugh Feagin ) , gentle giant Sam ( the amiable William Bill McGhee ) , and nutty old hag Mrs . Callingham ( the supremely irritating Rhea MacAdams ) . Said patients are dangerously encouraged to act out their fantasies by Dr . Masters , which of course results in a rash of brutal killings . Director S . F . Brownrigg , working from a clever and suitably overwrought script by Tim Pope , does an expert job of creating and sustaining a suffocatingly dank and brooding atmosphere of seething madness and oppressive claustrophobia . Robert Farrar's spooky score , the grimy set design , a few wild grisly murders , Bruce B . Alcott's grungy no-frills cinematography , plenty of deliciously robust , scenery-scarfing histrionics from a game no-name cast ( Ross in particular is a total eye-rolling hoot ) , and the genuinely shocking surprise bloodbath conclusion further add to the overall infectiously seedy fun of this choice trashy chunk of 70's low-budget regional horror exploitation cinema .
A nicely spooky haunted house horror chiller	Grouchy Ben ( the always excellent Oliver Reed ) and his perky wife Marian ( superbly played by the divine Karen Black ) rent a large swanky country mansion for the summer for a mere $900 dollars . Staying with the married couple are their bratty son David ( solid Lee Montgomery ) and feisty Aunt Elizabeth ( a terrifically tart Bette Davis ) . Pretty soon they all find out that something is seriously amiss with the isolated estate . Director Dan Curtis relates the absorbingly spooky story at a slow and stately pace , effectively creates a suitably uncanny gloom-doom Gothic atmosphere , and delivers one corker of a surprise twist bummer ending . Eileen Heckart and Burgess Meredith are wonderfully quirky as the weird sister and brother owners of the expansive abode . Popping up in nifty supporting parts are Dub Taylor as a cranky , grubby handyman and Anthony James as a creepy chauffeur . Bob Cobert's brooding , chilling score , Jacques R . Marquette's hazy , yet sharp cinematography , and the startlingly downbeat conclusion substantially add to the overall eerie quality of this bang-up little fright film winner .
A solid and exciting 70's exploitation crime winner	A brazen band of no-count thieves rob roughly $400 , 000 in money and valuable merchandise from a political fund-raiser being held by ambitious black congressman Aubrey Clayton ( a perfectly smarmy Rudy Challenger ) . It's up to suave black Sargeant Jesse Williams ( the super smooth Hari Rhodes ) and slobby , cynical white Lieutenant Daniel Bassett ( a fine performance by the ever-funny and engaging Alex Rocco ; Moe Greene in " The Godfather " ) to get to the bottom of things before the whole city erupts into chaos and racial violence . Director Arthur ( " Bucktown " ) Marks keeps the pace speeding along at a steady breakneck clip and stages the thrilling action scenes with considerable rip-snorting brio , further enhancing this already fun and entertaining crime caper picture with amusing amounts of his trademark dark humor ( my two all-time favorite moments are when hooker Vonetta McGee complains to her pimp that a john treated her like a piece of meat and the positively gut-busting scene where a hoodlum exclaims " Motherbeeper ! " after taking a fatal bullet to the chest ) . The uneasy give-and-take relationship between Williams and Bassett adds greatly to the tension , leading to a wonderfully ambiguous and genuinely startling climax that packs a substantial punch because of its marvelously up-in-the-air moral ambivalence and uncertainty . This isn't your garden variety simplistic cops and robbers yarn where there's a fine line between the good guys and the bad guys . Instead almost everyone in this movie is either on the make or on the take , creating a stark and brutal world where morals are decidedly gray at best and such sterling virtues as honor , honesty and loyalty are hard to come by . It's the powerfully vivid way Marks depicts this sense of pervasive corruption which in turn makes " Detroit 9000 " a superior crime thriller . Luchi DeJesus supplies a fine , funky-throbbing score while Harry May's rough cinematography gives the film an appropriately raw and gritty look . Popping up in nifty bit parts are the ubiquitous Bob Minor as a cop-killing criminal , Marilyn Joi as a prostitute dancing in a bordello , and the great Scatman Crothers in an especially lively cameo as a fiery hell-and-brimstone bible-banging priest . A real solid and satisfying little winner .
An excellent and hugely enjoyable feminist variant on " Conan "	Fierce and fearless warrior woman Hundra ( a splendidly sassy and spirited portrayal by gorgeous Amazonian blonde goddess Laurene Landon ) declares open war on vile and oppressive misogynistic male swine after her whole village gets butchered by a foul horde of guy marauders . Moreover , Hundra must find a worthy man to impregnate her so she can keep the bloodline of her people alive . Ably directed by Matt Cimber , with a clever and witty script by Cimber and frequent collaborator John Goff ( the plot basically serves as a nifty metaphor for the many ways men tend to degrade and dominate over women ) , several stirring and well-staged swordfights , a handy helping of raw and bloody violence ( the opening massacre sequence is especially brutal ) , bright , crisp , glowing widescreen cinematography by John Cabrera , a constant brisk pace , breathtaking Spanish countryside scenery , a decent sprinkling of tasty nudity , a winning sense of tongue-in-cheek humor ( at one point Hundra encounters an aggressive face-painted midget on horseback who attacks her with a pitchfork ! ) , and a first-rate rousing'n'robust full-bore orchestral score by the great Ennio Morricone , " Hundra " makes for an immensely fun and satisfying little corker . Neat supporting performances by John Ghaffari as sleazy high priest pimp Nepakin , Ramiro Oliveros as nice , gentle healer Pateray , Maria Casal as obedient and subservient harem girl Tracima , and Tamara as wise elder Chrysula . Best of all , Landon attacks her plumb lead role with tremendously thrilling gusto and passion : Laurene looks simply smashing in her buckskin outfit , wields a truly mean sword , delivers her pro-woman speeches with fiery aplomb , and even performed almost all of her own stunts . A very cool and entertaining romp .
Another worthy entry in this delightful series	Blithely naughty virtual reality hooker Heidi Ho ( deliciously essayed to campy'n'vampy perfection by buxom blonde babe J . J . North ) gets unleashed from a computer by the commissioner's geeky son Irwin ( a nice'n'nerdy turn by Chad Gabbert ) and goes on a libidinous rampage . It's up to scatterbrained ditz Candy ( the adorably daffy Elizabeth Kaitan ) and her snarky new partner Traci ( sassy brunette spitfire Raelyn Saalman ) to stop Heidi Ho . Meanwhile , starchy repressed spinster supreme Miss Devonshire ( the terrific Jayne Hamil ) tries to salvage her floundering marriage with the cocky , yet clueless commissioner ( Jay Richardson in fine pompous form ) . Once again writer / director Rick Sloane hits the crudely amusing bull's eye with plenty of spot-on lowbrow japes about such certifiably gut-busting subjects as undercover lady cops being beaten up by prostitutes , sexual harassment , catfights , bad practical jokes , and nasty sexually transmitted computer virus diseases . This flick further benefits from spirited acting by a sturdy cast : Kaitan and Saalman make for a suitably sexy mismatched team , Tane McClure has a neat supporting role as bitchy , meddlesome councilwoman Jean Capri , Michael Kayem is a total hoot as stuck-up sexist pig stud muffin patrolman Petrolino , and Honey Lauren adds a little extra sauciness as brash sex therapist Dr . Tiffany Berkowitz . Stephen Crawford's cinematography is merely adequate while both the insanely crankin ' theme song " Pistol Whipped " and Alan DerMarderisian's funky score do the gnarly trick . Plus this picture doesn't skimp on the yummy distaff eye candy : North , Saalman and Kaitan all have much-appreciated topless scenes . Essential viewing for fans of this always enjoyable series .
A cool and informative retrospective documentary on the Aussie biker cult favorite " Stone "	This nifty 63 minute documentary offers an interesting and illuminating portrait of " Stone , " a funky little independent Australian biker picture that was a huge hit in its day back in 1974 and has since become an enduring cult classic . Among the things we learn is that " Stone " star / co-writer / director / producer Sandy Harbutt was a really down-to-earth and approachable guy on the set of the film ( alas , Harbutt never made another feature in the wake of " Stone " ' s monumental success ) , bikers who are Vietnam war veterans find the depiction of their lifestyle in the movie to be honest and accurate , a real-life biker gang played the rival club the Black Hawks ( these guys were paid with beer for their contribution to the flick ! ) , lead actor Ken Shorter was an ex-cop who designed his own clothes , 400 bikers showed up to participate as extras in the famous highway funeral procession sequence , actor Vincent Gil did double duty as a grip , the movie received largely poor reviews from critics , but still proved to be a massive box office smash , a biker club called the Stone Social Club was formed in tribute to the film , and Harbutt and several other " Stone " folks stormed the Cannes Film Festival in 1980 in order to secure international distribution for the picture . Of course , such " Stone " cast and crew members as Hugh Keays-Byrne , Rebecca Gilling , editor Ian Barry , Roger Ward , Helen Morse , cinematographer Graham Lind , and Bindi Williams are all interviewed as well . Essential viewing for all you hardcore " Stone " aficionados out there .
A tense , gritty and harrowing " Deliverance " variant	1973 : Nine excessively macho , arrogant and incompetent National Guardsmen doing basic weekend maneuvers in the Louisianna bayou get hopelessly lost . One of the Guardsmen ( an amusingly puckish Lewis Smith ) loses his cool and fires at some local Cajuns with a machine gun that's loaded with blanks . The understandably incensed Cajuns decide to pick off the rude and disruptive hot heads . This extremely intense and harrowing " Deliverance " variant greatly benefits from mean'n'lean action film specialist Walter Hill's tight , muscular direction , a fine flavorsome score by Ry Cooder , gorgeously crisp and evocative cinematography by Andrew Laszlo , and shocking outbursts of ferociously raw and savage violence ( the exceptionally well-staged and exciting climax in particular is positively nerve-wracking ) . Keith Carradine and Powers Boothe are both outstanding as the key token smart and level-headed protagonists , with equally sturdy supporting work by Peter Coyote , T . K . Carter , Fred Ward , Franklyn Seales , Les Lannom and Carlos Brown as the other members of the unit . A barely recognizable Brion James simply shines as a one-armed Cajun fur-trapper and Sonny Landham pops up as one of the angry Cajuns . Tough , gripping and frequently thrilling , with a steady pace and a potent'n'pungent brooding atmosphere , this baby rates as a real solid and satisfying winner .
A dark , disturbing and often wickedly funny portrait of a severely messed-up codependent relationship	Sad , lonely and rundown Agnes ( a marvelously fierce and heartbreaking performance by Ashley Judd ) isn't having a good time of it : she resides in a dingy , squalid motel room , works at a sleazy lesbian bar , and her no-count abusive ex-husband Jerry ( a surprisingly creepy and convincing portrayal by Harry Connick , Jr . ) has just been paroled from prison . Agnes meets and becomes involved with Peter ( superbly played with seething understated intensity by Michael Shannon ) , a strange , mysterious , yet charming loner who suffers from extreme delusions and paranoia . Pretty soon Agnes sinks deeper into a grim quagmire of severe madness and despair . Director William Friedkin , working from a bleak and tight script by Tracy Letts , keeps things very edgy and intimate , relating the grimly compelling plot in a taut and absorbing closed-in manner while expertly creating a gritty and unnerving claustrophobic atmosphere . Michael Grady's prowling , restless cinematography further enhances the overall skin-crawling mood of dread and unease . But what really makes this film so potent and effective is the hauntingly tragic and poignant codependent love story between two totally doomed and damaged people that states in no uncertain ( and truly unsettling ) terms the considerable danger of becoming attached to the wrong person . Moreover , there's an often wickedly funny sense of pitch-black humor evident throughout which substantially adds to the picture's profoundly uncomfortable tone . Judd , Shannon and Connick , Jr . all turn in excellent and praiseworthy work . Lynn Collins likewise impresses as Agnes ' sassy and concerned lesbian best friend R . C . The shockingly downbeat ending is positively devastating . Offbeat , original and well worth checking out .
Amusingly goofy Italian spy spoof	The immense success of the James Bond movies in the 60's not surprisingly beget a slew of entertainingly campy cheapo cash-in copies . This tongue-in-cheek Italian romp might very well be one of the silliest of the whole lot . Diabolical madman Rether ( a deliciously wicked Folco Lulli ) sabotages all the U . S . moon-bound rocket launches from his secret underwater lair near Cape Kennedy . It's up to suave , handsome Lt . Harry Sennet ( amiable Anthony Eisley ) and sassy'n'sexy Captain Patricia Flanagan ( lovely Diana Lorys ) to stop the nefarious Rether . Director Antonio Margheriti and screenwriters J . C . Balcazar and Jose Antonio de la Loma cram this baby with all the right wacky stuff to make this film qualify as an endearingly goofy hoot : we've got leering sexism ( Sennet's snide comments about women certainly wouldn't make him a hit with the feminists ) , a light , frothy tone , a groovy swinging lounge score by Riz Ortolani , lovably rinky-dink miniatures , dippy sound effects , a bevy of beautiful babes ( besides Lorys , there's also the luscious Luisa Rivelli and the delectable Wandisa Guida ) , polished widescreen cinematography by Riccardo Pallottini , tacky gimmicks galore ( one villainess sports a water pistol that shoots acid ! ) , laughably lousy dubbing , funky pop-art sets ( Rether's underwater lair is very cool ) , clumsily staged action scenes , and , of course , the inevitable explosive conclusion . Granted , this movie is complete asinine nonsense , but you can't be too hard on a flick in which the main bad guy sells beer on the side and puts his enemies in a frozen state of suspended animation . An infectiously inane riot .
A pleasingly nice'n'naughty piece of choice 70's soft-core smut	Saucy , husky-voiced , totally liberated and uninhibited free spirit Sally McGuire ( a winning performance by the lusciously bouncy'n'bountiful redhead soft-core starlet Sharon Kelly ) gleefully disrupts the drab tranquility of a sleepy armpit California burg by broadcasting from the back of her mobile van . Sally's shockingly ribald pirate radio program heats up the airwaves and turns on an avid libidinous swinger audience with a tantalizingly salacious mix of raunchy music , naughty sex talk , and ecstatic moans of pure pleasure Sally makes while caressing herself , masturbating and even making love live over the air . Naturally , a bunch of comically uptight no-fun guardians of the tediously repressive status quo want to nab Sally and put her out of business , but both Sally and her rascally hillbilly engineer partner-in-crime Toby ( the ever-wacky George " Buck " Flower in peak goofball form ) are far too quick and wily to be easily apprehended . Since this was written , directed and produced by Bethal Buckalew , the man responsible for such tasty low-grade trash as " Country Cuzzins " and " Sassy Sue , " we all know what to expect : broadly caricatured goonybird characters , ripely hammy acting , a groovy soundtrack loaded with fuzztone guitar-burning rock tunes , grainy cinematography , and more hilariously giddy tongue-in-cheek stupidity than you can shake a microphone at . Better still , the copious semi-pornographic sex scenes are every bit as sweaty , strenuous and steamy as they ought to be , with the definite highlight being when Sally and Toby dance the horizontal mambo in the back of Sally's souped-up shaggin ' wagon . A satisfyingly sloppy sliver of 70's sin cinema .
An immensely enjoyable Italian male buddy Mafia crime opus	Steely , powerful gangster supreme Frankie Diomede ( the always terrific Lee Van Cleef in fine rugged form ) has himself arrested and sent to prison so he can rub out a traitorous partner sans detection . Fawning goofball small-time hood and wiseguy wannabe Tony Breda ( an amiable portrayal by Tony Lo Bianco ) gets busted as well . Frank and Tony form an unlikely friendship behind bars . Tony helps Frank break out of the joint and assists him on his quest to exact revenge on a rival group of mobsters lead by the ruthless Louis Annunziata ( smoothly played by Jean Rochefort ) . Director Michele Lupo , working from an absorbing script by Sergio Donati and Luciano Vincenzoni , relates the neat story at a constant brisk pace , sustains a suitably gritty , but occasionally lighthearted tone throughout , and stages the rousing action set pieces with considerable rip-snorting brio ( a rough'n'tumble jailhouse shower brawl and a protracted mondo destructo car chase rate as the definite thrilling highlights ) . Van Cleef and Lo Bianco display a nice , loose and engaging on-screen chemistry ; the relationship between their characters is alternately funny and touching . The ravishing Edwige Fenech alas isn't given much to do as Tony's whiny girlfriend Orchidea , but at least gets to bare her insanely gorgeous and voluptuous body in a much-appreciated gratuitous nude shower scene . Riz Ortolani's groovy , pulsating , syncopated funk / jazz score certainly hits the soulfully swingin ' spot . The polished cinematography by Joe D'Amato and Aldo Tonti is likewise impressive . A really nifty and entertaining little winner .
A strikingly original and compelling experimental oddity	In the late 60's up until the late 70's Stacy Keach appeared with pleasing regularity in a sizable volume of seriously offbeat try-and-do-whatever defiantly unconventional and noncommercial oddball indie movies . These pictures include John Huston's beautifully downbeat " Fat City , " the gloomy dope addict feature " Watched , " the wonderfully outré " The Ninth Configuration , " Jack Starrett's delightfully giddy'n'quirky crime romp " The Dion Brothers , " and this truly idiosyncratic cinematic marvel of deeply depressed late 60's anarchy , disillusionment and spiritual malaise , which is arguably the strangest of the whole kooky bunch . Keach delivers a typically all-out loopy performance that's all fried nerves , eroding mental stability and spaced-out behavior as Jack Horner , a recent dejected college graduate who seeks psychological help from wacko unorthodox maverick shrink Doctor D ( an extraordinarily nutty turn by a bearded , slender James Earl Jones ) . Doctor D encourages Jack to " do his own thing , " a treatment which prompts Jack to get a job at a college as an English professor . Pretty soon Jack is having an adulteress fling with the neglected unhappy wife ( superbly played by Dorothy Tristan ) of a crazed , pompous colleague ( marvelously essayed to smug , callous perfection by Harris Yulin in his film debut ) , a precarious situation which begets tragic consequences for all concerned . Addressing such pertinent topics as loss of identity , commonplace violence in contemporary society , abortion , drug use , infidelity , insanity and the sheer lunacy and bleak emptiness of middle class American existence with a bracing and fiercely pointed sense of sardonic humor , this grim social satire that was co-written by Terry Southern and garishly shot by Gordon Willis never lets up on its nihilistic , everything's-going-to-hell acid-soaked tone , thus making for a properly harsh , often funny and frequently provocative ridicule of trippy uninhibited 60's excess and messed-upness .
A real kitschy 60's sci-fi Western hoot	A gang of nefarious criminals lead by arrogant evil rich jerk J . J . Hubbard ( nicely essayed with deliciously wicked relish by Warren Mitchell ) plan on hijacking a small asteroid made of valuable sapphire and landing it on the moon . It's up to stalwart space pilot for hire Captain William H . Kemp ( a likable performance by James Olson ) and plucky Clementine Taplin ( the fetching Catherine Schell ) to stop them . Competently directed by Roy Ward Baker , with an endearingly cornball script by Michael Carreras , a hilariously dated " groovy " psychedelic rock theme song , sexy go-go dancers at a funky nightclub , a funky-diggin ' score by Don Ellis , an astonishingly inept slow motion barroom brawl sans gravity , a nifty animated opening credits sequence , and several clumsily staged action set pieces , this hopelessly ridiculous sci-fi / Western handy dandy combo hybrid makes for a good deal of amusingly campy fun . The cast struggle gamely with their silly roles : Adrienne Corri as fiery sheriff Elixzabeth Murphy , Ori Levy as Kemp's jolly engineer Korminski , Bernard Bresslaw as Hubbard's hulking henchman Harry , Dudley Foster as smarmy brainiac Whitsun , Sam Kydd as the gregarious Len the Barman , and Michael Ripper as a testy card player . Paul Beeson's polished cinematography , the cool special effects , and the bleak lunar landscapes are all surprisingly up to par . A total laugh riot .
An entertaining sequel to the classic original	Late scientist Andre Delambre's ambitious son Philippe ( a solid and sympathetic performance by the handsome Brett Halsey ) decides to continue his father's experiments with teleportation . His worried uncle Francois ( the always superb Vincent Price ) disapproves . Philippe gets betrayed by his treacherous assistant Ronald Holmes ( a pleasingly slimy turn by David Frankham ) , who turns poor Philippe into a grotesque half-man , half-fly hybrid creature . Writer / director Edward Bernds eschews the heart-wrenching pathos of the first picture in favor of a less subtle , but still enjoyably lurid crime noir sensibility . The good acting from an able cast helps a lot : Halsey does impressive work in the lead , Price makes a welcome return , plus there are praiseworthy contributions by Dan Seymour as sleazy fat hoodlum Max Berthold , John Sutton as the helpful Inspector Beechum , the luscious Danielle De Metz as Philippe's charming and comely fiancé Cecile Bonnard , and Janine Grandel as loyal housekeeper Madame Bonnard . Brydon Baker's crisp black and white widescreen cinematography gives the movie an effectively gritty look . The moody , rousing score by Paul Sawtell and Bert Shefter likewise does the trick . The mutated fly-man is genuinely creepy . One definite skin-crawling highlight occurs when Holmes crosses a luckless police officer with a guinea pig ( Holmes actually crushes said squealing guinea pig with shockingly sadistic relish ! ) . Nice , pulpy fun .
Oh those naughty Nazis !	Loyal , fanatical and ambitious SS officer Hans Schellenberg ( a perfectly slimy and over-the-top crazed portrayal by Gabriele Carrara ) is assigned by General Berger ( a fine Ivano Stacioli ) to find traitors who exist amidst the top echelon of the Third Reich . Hans gathers together ten beautiful whores to accomplish this particular daunting task . The lovely ladies are taught all the tricks of the trade by the classy Madame Eva ( the luscious Macha Magall ) , the cruel Frau Inge ( a marvelously venomous Marina Daunia ) , and the equally vicious Professor Jurgen ( a pleasingly wicked performance by Luciano Pigozzi ) . The harlots learn everything from ballet to fencing to weight lifting to the proper way to brandish a machine gun . Then they are sent out to seduce various lecherous high-ranking Nazi officers and get them to confess about any plans they may be plotting against Hitler . Director / co-writer Bruno Mattei loads this gloriously raunchy and ridiculous Nazisploitation junk with lots of tasty distaff nudity , sizzling soft-core sex , a rousing bloodbath conclusion , more nudity , several stirring action scenes , a cheerfully sordid tone , and still more nudity . Better still , we've got all kinds of blithely kinky and depraved carnal activity on display : lesbianism , bondage , one lass does just what you think with a grotesquely malformed hunchbacked freak , voyeurism , sadomasochism , and even bestiality ( a prostitute engages in coitus with a German Shepherd ! ) . Emilio Giannini's glossy cinematography , Gianni Marchetti's bubbly , jaunty score , and a positively infectious sense of joyfully unbridled decadence further add to the overall sleazy fun of this deliciously trashy Italian grindhouse treat .
A neat Russian fantasy outing	Evil witch Louhi ( wizened old crone Anna Orochko ) kidnaps sweet fair maiden Annikki ( lovely blonde Eva Kivi ) from her peaceful village in order to get her rugged blacksmith and magician brother Ilmarinen ( solid Ivan Voronov ) to build her a magical device known as a sampo . After honest , decent woodmans Lemminkainen ( likable Andris Oshin ) and Ilmarinen rescue Annikki from Louhi's vile clutches , the wicked old hag retaliates by stealing the sun and putting the village in a permanent state of dark bitter cold . Director Aleksandr Ptushko relates the compelling and imaginative story at a steady pace and does a sound job of maintaining a pleasant , charming tone throughout . Moreover , there's a cool sense of quirky creativity evident in the narrative : Among the funky oddball touches are a field of deadly snakes that Lemminkainen has to plow , a killer flying cloak , a whiny talking tree and talking road , and the villagers making magic harps to combat the witch with . Best of all , the simple and straightforward plot about good versus evil proves to be quite engaging thanks to its refreshing lack of pretense . Igor Morozov's sweeping , dramatic score , Marvin Miller's melodious narration , the nifty special effects , and the crisp cinematography by Gennadi Tsekavy and Viktor Yakushev all further enhance the considerable appeal of this nice little movie .
A nifty giallo outing	Beautiful , but sexually repressed young housewife Minou ( a marvelously luminous performance by luscious redhead stunner Dagmar Lassander ) gets assaulted on the beach by a cunning blackmailer ( a compelling portrayal by Simon Andreu ) who tells Minou that her struggling businessman husband Peter ( smoothly played by the handsome Pier Paolo Copponi ) is a fraud and a killer . Minou's world becomes topsy-turvy as the blackmailer plots to seduce her and she gives in to her previously neglected carnal desires . Director Luciano Ercoli , working from a sharp script by Ernesto Gastaldi and May Velasco , relates the engrossing story at a snappy pace and does an expert job of creating and sustaining a captivating sensuous and mysterious atmosphere . Although the sexuality featured in this film is pretty hot and kinky , it's nonetheless handled with surprising taste and restraint ; the sex never becomes too graphic or sleazy , which in turn actually heightens rather than diminishes the overall deliriously erotic tone . Moreover , there's also an infectiously sly and bouncy sense of playful humor evident throughout which further enhances the movie's considerable entertainment value . The acting is uniformly sound , with a delightfully sassy turn by the lovely Nieves Navarro as Minou's racy and uninhibited best gal pal Dominique rating as a particular stand-out . Alejandro Ulloa's crisp , sparkling cinematography gives the picture an attractive glossy look . Ennio Morricone's lush , bubbly , harmonic score likewise hits the saucy spot , with Edda Dell'Orso's exquisite soaring soprano singing dreamy wordless vocals like some kind of naughty fallen angel . The nice surprise ending neatly wraps things up in a solid and satisfying way . Good , crafty and spicy fun .
A choice filthy chunk of vintage 70's drive-in sleaze	Sullen , reserved Frank ( excellently played with brooding intensity by Gary Kent , who also doubled as the movie's production manager ) and his retarded , infantile brother John ( a genuinely creepy portrayal by John Stoglin ) are a couple of severely misogynistic wackos who get their sick kicks abducting lovely young ladies and holding them hostage in the dingy basement of their remote countryside home . Of course , the decidedly unwholesome sibling pair treat said gals like complete animals and play all sorts of depraved games with them ( John in particular likes to play twisted adult versions of doctor and leapfrog with the girls ) . Writer / director Donald M . Jones does a bang-up job of creating and sustaining a dark , grim and seamy tone that never lets up for a minute and stays bitterly true to itself right until the perfectly depressing bummer ending . While not that graphic , this film still manages to cast a powerfully bleak and unsettling spell because of its unsparingly harsh and gloomy oppressive atmosphere : a pervasive sense of foul dread and unease hangs heavy throughout like some kind of wretched invisible fog . The uniformly sound acting from the capable cast helps out a whole lot : veteran B-movie thespian Kent delivers a bravura characterization as a soft-spoken psycho who's prone to frightening sudden mood swings , " Macon County Line " ' s Cheryl Waters ( Cheryl appears in this flick under the pseudonym Leah Tate ) , Merrie Lynn Ross ( Perry King's pregnant wife in " Class of 1984 " ) and Suzanne Lund are solid and credible as the brothers ' hapless and scared victims , Stafford Morgan does well as likable college professor hero Robert Matthews , and Stoglin makes your skin crawl with his full-bore lunacy as the single most unnervingly unbalanced man-child fruitcake this side of Sid Haig in " Spider Baby . " Jones ' script covers all the necessary slimy bases : we've got rape ( the scene with Frank forcing himself sexually on one of the ladies is pretty ugly and upsetting stuff ) , nudity , incest , perversion , voyeurism , soft-core sex , and cold-blooded murder . Ron Garcia's rough , yet lively cinematography gives the picture a properly grainy and unpolished look . Josef Powell's offbeat score neatly alternates between groovy jazz and droning atonal weirdness . Highly recommended viewing for 70's exploitation cinema buffs .
A hugely enjoyable Amicus horror anthology winner	Dismal fates befall various customers who buy items at a seedy antique shop run by a sinister proprietor ( a splendidly creepy Peter Cushing ) . 1st and most chilling tale , " The Gate Crasher " - Edward Charlton ( the always fine David Warner ) purchases a mirror which has a murderous ghost residing inside of it who forces Edward to kill pretty young girls so he can live again . 2nd and most ironic vignette , " An Act of Kindness " - Wimpy former army officer Christopher Lowe ( an excellent Ian Bannon ) befriends amiable beggar Jim Underwood ( a wonderfully quirky Donald Pleasence ) and falls for Underwood's fetching daughter Emily ( an extraordinary performance by the lovely Angela Pleasence , whose Donald's real life daughter ) . Diana Dors amuses as Lowe's blowzy spouse Mabel . Moreover , the punchline for this particular segment is fantastic . 3rd and funniest anecdote , " The Elemental " - A pesky demon terrorizes wealthy Reggie Warner ( nicely played by Ian Carmichael ) and his wife Susan ( the solid Nyree Dawn Porter ) . Reggie hires eccentric clairvoyant Madame Orloff ( a delightfully dotty Margaret Leighton ) to rid himself of this troublesome fiend . 4th and most eerie vignette , " The Door " - William Seaton ( the terrific Ian Olgilvy ) acquires a door which acts as a portal to another past time . A wicked devil-worshiping nobleman from that past time wants to use William's wife Rosemary ( the ravishing Lesley-Anne Down ) as a human sacrifice . Capably directed by Kevin Connor , with a clever script by Robin Clarke and Raymond Christodoulou , crisp cinematography by Alan Hume , a spooky score by David Gamley , and uniformly sound acting from a stellar cast , this omnibus outing makes the grade as a real fun and entertaining affair .
A pleasingly nice'n'nasty French horror outing	A motley coed quintet of attractive , but untalented young thespians are hired by a flaky , testy , crippled millionaire ( a wonderfully loud and flamboyant turn by Francois Berleand ) who resides in an opulent castle abode located deep in the remote woods to put on a play for his scarily quiet autistic grandson . A vicious rapist and serial killer with a foul penchant for butchering lovely young lasses has been conducting a brutal campaign of terror in the same sylvan area . Come nightfall many of the actors and actresses start getting bumped off in assorted ghastly ways . Could it be the serial killer or someone else who's behind the gruesome killings ? Director Lionel Delplanque carefully establishes a genuinely spooky and unnerving tone in the deliberately paced opening third before cutting loose with a breathtaking series of ferocious murder set pieces . Better yet , Delplanque adroitly blends the brooding midnight-in-the-graveyard gloom-doom atmosphere of 60's Gothic horror features with the more graphic gag-you-with-a-pitchfork gore that proliferated in gritty 70's fright films into a potently creepy and jarring synthesis . The strikingly savage kill scenes make inspired nasty use of a nail gun , a harpoon , scalding acid , and other deadly implements . And since this is a European movie , there's an explicitly pronounced kinky sexual angle to further spice things up : stunningly comely starlet Clotilde Courau doffs all her duds to show us what she's got ( plenty and it's all good , man ! ) some fifteen minutes into the picture , plus we have lesbianism , voyeurism and the fabulously full-figured Maud Buquet takes a welcome steamy shower . While the story quite frankly suffers from severe lapses in logic and admittedly lacks originality , this movie nonetheless still rates as a satisfyingly harsh , serious and properly twisted shockathon that does the trick with considerable style and aplomb to spare .
A total gut-busting riot	Affable aspiring cartoonist Hoops McCann ( a wonderfully engaging performance by John Cusack ) and his best buddy George ( the deliciously deadpan Joel Murray ) go to Nantucket for the summer following graduation from high school . Hoops , George , and several newfound pals come to the aid of Cassandra ( Demi Moore at her most charming ) , a singer who's family house is being threatened with demolition by the greedy Beckersted clan . Writer / director Savage Steve Holland offers an often hilariously wacky and zesty nonstop barrage of admittedly broad and dumb , but still very funny jokes . The constant madcap lunacy has a real giddy , good-natured and infectiously inane vitality to it that's impossible to either dislike or resist . Moreover , the lively and enthusiastic acting from a fine game cast adds immensely to the zany merriment : Bobcat Goldthwait as the spastic Egg Stork , Tom Villard as his goofy brother Clay , Curtis Armstrong as the sweet Ack Ack Raymond , Mark Metcalf as evil rich jerk Aquilla Beckersted , Matt Mulhern as the mean Teddy , Kimberly Foster as the fetching Cookie , Joe Flaherty as the gung-ho General Raymond , William Hickey as cranky Old Man Beckersted , Jeremy Piven as smug preppy bully Ty , and John Matuszak as hulking biker Stan . Isidore Mankofsky's slick cinematography , the hip thrashy soundtrack , Cory Lerios ' cool rockin ' score , and the funky animation are all uniformly excellent . Single funniest scene : Egg in a Godzilla suit terrorizing a posh dinner party . An absolute hoot .
The decay and decline of Western civilization	Tobe Hooper's worthy and shamefully underrated fright film follow-up to his phenomenal debut horror movie " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " rarely gets the attention and appraisal it truly deserves . Neville Brand delivers a gloriously crazed , intense and uninhibited performance as certifiably nuts backwoods motel proprietor Judd , a sexually repressed and rigidly self-righteous murderous muttering moralist on a self-appointed mission to rid the world of foul sinful folks who make the grievous error of renting a room at his dilapidated ramshackle establishment . The fiercely acrid and incisive script by Kim ( " The Last Night at the Alamo " ) Henkel , Alvin F . ( " Bummer " ) Fast and producer Mardi Rustam offers nothing less than a savagely caustic critique of the decay and decline of Western civilization . This pervasively seedy sense of moral erosion is best epitomized by sleazy and lascivious good ol ' boy Buck ( a marvelously mean portrayal by Robert Englund in his first-ever horror film role ) , a swaggering and antagonistic redneck lout with an unsavory penchant for sodomy which suggests that underneath his macho hick veneer Buck is really a latent homosexual who's in complete denial about his true gay nature . Additional examples of a sordid world that's coming apart at the seams and going to seed are the animal attractions at Judd's scuzzy motel who are all either sickly or dead , William Finley as a deranged unemployed dad who's been driven mad by the loss of his job , Stuart Whitman as an earnest , but ineffectual nice guy sheriff , and Mel Ferror as a man dying of cancer who's searching for his missing runaway daughter . Robert Caramico's luridly stylized cinematography , an odd , atonal score by Hooper and Wayne Bell , the first-rate soundtrack of melancholy country and western songs , the blatant artificiality of the ratty sets , and a terrific cast which includes Carolyn Jones ( Morticia on " The Adams Family " ) as a saucy whorehouse madam , " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " heroine Marilyn Burns as Finley's fed-up , long-suffering wife , Crystin ( " Ruby " ) Sinclaire as Ferror's loyal , loving other daughter , " Halloween " ' s Kyle Richards as a much-terrorized little girl , Janus ( " The Hills Have Eyes " ) Blythe as a small town tramp , and the ever-lovely Roberta ( " Caged Heat " ) Collins as a forlorn prostitute further enhance the ripely scroungy and brooding gloom-doom atmosphere of this shamefully under-appreciated psycho horror exploitation winner .
An amusing send-up of cruddy Bigfoot documentaries	This often amusing and always enjoyable parody of cheesy 70's Sasquatch documentaries pokes jolly fun at schlockmeister filmmakers in general by making the main character a Grade D blood'n'guts dreck horror flick hack director who decides to do a Bigfoot documentary . The doc is sponsored by a local beer company ; gratuitous ( and uproariously blatant ) product plugs for the brew appear throughout the entire feature . Furthermore , the time is constantly shown on screen throughout the picture for no real apparent reason . Better still , the whole thing is shot in shaky , wobbly , vertigo-inducing , you-are-there intimate hand-held camera veritate fashion ala MTV's " The Real World . " This spoof centers on three different fanatical Bigfoot true believer groups and their obsessive search for the legendary uptight walking shagrug . The first group , called simply the Bigfoot Society , are a motley assortment of hopeless pathetic dweebs which include a crippled , wheelchair-bound midget and a terminally braindead Heavy Metal dunce . The second group , the American Hominid Association , are a government-financed team of arrogant " professional " snobs lead by a Robert Morganesque ramrod jerk . The third and arguably freakiest group , the Michigan Cryptozoological Institute , are a truly nutso organization fronted by a flaky rich guy ; these paramilitary kooks reside in a remote woodland redoubt and teach a form of martial arts that's patterned after Bigfoot ! Then there's Dr . Prick , a stuffy , scholarly , studiously academic Grover Krantz-like scientist . Moreover , we also get the expected greedy opportunistic corporate businessmen eagerly capitalizing on Bigfoot fever , the scoop-hungry media eagerly covering the scene , interviews with batty local yokels who claim to have seen Sasquatch , a nice send-up of the infamous Patterson film , a tacky reenactment of a hunter's harrowing encounter with Mr . Hairy Behemoth , and even a bunch of protesters claiming that Uncle Sam's funding of Bigfoot research is a gross waste of tax payer's money ! The gigantic hirsute Goliath makes a dramatic last reel appearance being chased by the documentary filmmakers : he runs into a UFO and takes off into the skies ! This baby goes as far as to make Bigfoot out to be some portly schmo in an abjectly obvious , cruddy , not-convincing-for-a-second cut-rate gorilla suit and concludes with a neatly rollicking country-rock theme song . Totally silly stuff for sure , but still a quite funny and entertaining tongue-in-cheek romp just the same .
A nice'n'spooky little horror sleeper	A sassy lady college student ( sharply played by the lovely Emily Blunt ) hitches a ride with a sullen oddball classmate ( a marvelously brooding performance by Ashton Holmes ) for a cross country jaunt so she can get home for the Christmas holidays . The pair get caught in a snow storm and find themselves stuck on a remote backwoods road that turns out to be haunted . Director Gregory Jacobs , working from a clever and intriguing script by Joseph Gangemi and Steven Katz , relates the arresting story at a deliberately slow pace and does an expert job of creating a supremely eerie and ambiguous atmosphere . Cheap scares and fancy digital effects are in refreshing short supply here ; in there place you'll find a divinely creepy and unnerving mood that becomes more progressively chilling as the tricky narrative unfolds . Moreover , there's a commendable marked emphasis on the complex interaction between the two central characters . Blunt and Holmes do sterling work with their substantial demanding roles ; their edgy chemistry keeps the picture humming throughout . Popping up in nifty secondary roles are Martin Donovan as a menacing , mysterious highway patrolman and Ned Bellamy as a helpful snowplow driver . Dan Laustsen's polished cinematography , Clint Mansell's shivery score , and the strikingly desolate wintry landscape further enhance the overall spine-tingling spookiness of this subtle and satisfying little fright feature winner .
A touching domestic drama	Vain , neglectful former race car driver turned automobile dealership owner Ken Colby ( a fine portrayal by Tony Lo Bianco ) and his sweet , but fed-up wife Valentine ( a marvelously warm and appealing performance by Karen Black ) are having marital problems . Not only does Ken have his hands full with his faltering business , but he's also having an affair with fetching co-worker Sheila ( lovely Katherine Justice ) . When Valentine discovers Ken's infidelity , she has a fling of her own with nice , decent college student Jerry Lansing ( the always affable David Naughton ) . This tasteful and thoughtful feature represents a radical departure for director Howard Avedis , who usually made such enjoyably trashy exploitation fare as " The Teacher , " " Texas Detour , " and " They're Playing With Fire . " Avedis eschews his standard gleeful wallowing in the sleaze to offer instead an observant and compelling portrait of the difficulty found in sustaining a romantic relationship throughout the years and the severe toll a lack of open communication can have on said relationship . The uniformly excellent cast play their well-drawn and engaging true-to-life characters with commendable conviction : Lo Bianco and Black do stellar work in the lead roles ( Black in particular is a total delight and looks absolutely gorgeous ) , with sturdy support from Arlene Golonka as Valentine's loyal , supportive best gal pal Annie Donahue , Sharon Farrell as Valentine's perky friend Karen Haskell , William Windom as Ken's excitable business partner Huey Block , Noah Hathaway as the Colby's darling son Jason , and Jack Carter as jolly bar owner Barney Brodsky . Both Dean Cundey's slick cinematography and the jazzy , tuneful score by John Cacavas and Bonnie Becker are up to speed . A poignant little dramatic sleeper .
Don't go to the dismally dingy drive-in of death and doom	A choice cheesy chunk of wonderfully rancid and wretched two-cent 70's grind-house garbage about a putrid Califonia passion pit that's beset by a shocking series of gruesome murders perpetuated by some mystery maniac . It's up to a couple of bumbling and portly homicide detectives played by ubiquitous B-movie bit player / screenwriter John Goff and fellow perennial schlock film regular Jake Barnes to catch the crazy kook before he kills again . Boy , does this alarmingly abominable and mind-numbingly moronic bilge strike out something stinky in every conceivable department : We've got uniformly awful acting , dire dialogue , flimsy plotting , no tension or suspense to speak of , poky pacing , ragged editing , ugly , eye-straining cinematography , wafer-thin characters , a horrendously redundant and annoying score , tacky gore , and flat-footed ( non ) direction by Stuart Segall , who also helmed such hard-core porn classics as " Teeny Buns " and " Insatiable " under the unlikely pseudonym of Godfrey Daniels ( ! ) . Still , there's a certain blatantly crummy , filthy and scroungy deep-seated rattiness and all-out unapologetic ineptitude to this thoroughly foul'n'fetid feature which makes it both strangely endearing and hugely enjoyable . The late , great , sorely missed George " Buck " Flower ( who co-wrote the trashy script with Goff ) has a hilarious cameo as a deranged machete-wielding lunatic who chases his real-life daughter Verkina around a mangy warehouse while repeatedly exclaiming , " I'm gonna cut all that poison out ! " One of my all-time favorite so - horrible - it's - downright - happening sleazoid slasher flicks .
Klaus Kinski shines in this moody , melancholy and atmospheric vampire horror picture	Late , great wacko fruitbag iconoclastic actor Klaus Kinski gives a marvelously threatening , overwhelming , terrifyingly bestial and sometimes even strangely touching performance as Nosferatu , an evil , indestructible , all-powerful vampire who preys upon an affluent aristocratic family in Venice , Italy during the bleak , hopeless , fear-ridden time of the Black Death . Dedicated dying vampire hunter Christopher Plummer and pious , self-righteous priest Donald Pleasence make a futile and foolhardy stand against the foul , parasitic , yet anguished subhuman creature of darkness . Under Augusto Caminito's able , stately , subdued direction " Nosferatu in Venice " bravely explores mankind's stark fear of and inability to accept his own mortality as well as man's profound , but impractical desire to somehow transcend said mortality . But as the eternally tormented Nosferatu proves immortality can be more of a burden than a blessing , because he and all others like himself are perpetually cursed to endure the suffering of countless mortal others . Tonino Nardi's beauteous , misty , breathtaking cinematography and Luigi Ceccarelli's wondrous , elegant , potent orchestral score prodigiously contribute to the considerable substance of this frighteningly ( and , yes , even fascinatingly ) morbid , oddly affecting , soulful beauty of a film . The movie's unflinchingly desolate , flesh-crawling , funereal ambiance , relaxed , lulling pace , pervasively nonchalant air of insurmountable nihilism , and somewhat disjointed narrative isn't for every taste , but viewers who are willing to accept this disturbing , challenging , gripping and powerful feature on its own macabre and twisted terms should find it to be very rewarding . Kinski's forceful and singularly wicked presence alone distinguishes this picture as an extraordinary work ; few other actors can even begin to convey the same harrowingly tangible sense of extreme unbreakable demonic menace that Kinski effortlessly exuded . A gallant , tough-minded , thematically rich and grotesquely lovely addition to the vampire horror genre .
A very funny and entertaining 70's low-budget comedy treat	This enjoyably wacky and frantic film centers on a single wild'n'crazy night at a Texas drive-in theater called the Alamo . The interconnecting stories include nice , but shy guy Orville Hennigson ( the supremely affable Glenn Morshower ) taking sweet , yet sassy Glowie Hudson ( adorable brunette spitfire Lisa Lemole ) on a date , a couple of inept would-be big time thieves attempting to hold up the concession stand , two rival gangs confronting each other in the parking lot , and a henpecked dude sharing a joint with his unsuspecting nagging hag of a mother . Meanwhile , a hilarious mock disaster opus named - - what else ? - - " Disaster ' 76 " plays on the big screen ; this honey pokes blithely silly fun at everything from " Airport ' 75 " to " The Towering Inferno " to " Jaws . " Director Rod Amateau , working from a colorful and eventful script by Bob Peete , does an expert job of maintaining both a nonstop snappy pace and amiably breezy tone throughout . Moreover , Amateau injects a positively infectious sense of zany and inspired good-natured fun that's impossible to either resist or dislike . The lively and enthusiastic acting from an appealing no-name cast rates as another major asset : Gary Lee Cavagnaro as Orville's precious and mischievous younger brother Little Bit , Billy Milliken as cocky jerk Enoch , Regan Kee as the geeky Spoon , Trey Wilson as bumbling crook Gifford , Gordon Hurst as Will's equally blundering partner Will Henry , Kent Perkins as swaggering local stud Bill Hill , the luscious Ashley Cox as Hill's fed-up girlfriend Mary Louise , Louis Zito as the cranky , no-nonsense drive-in manager , and Bill McGhee as an extremely antsy Dr . Demars . Granted , the characters are a bunch of broad Texas caricatures ( the often witty dialogue in particular is peppered with a sidesplitting surplus of goofy good ol ' boy expressions and the thick Lone Star state accents are simply great ) , but they are still amusing and likable just the same . Extra props are in order for Robert C . Jessup's polished cinematography and the first-rate soundtrack of tuneful country songs . A real delight .
A solid and exciting revenge action thriller	1968 , Saigon : An elite group of army soldiers leave their Vietnamese political officer guide Nguyen ( well played by Park Jong Soo ) behind after they get ambushed by the Vietcong . Ten years later the embittered Nguyen tracks down and kills the various squad members . Among the targets of Nguyen's lethal wrath are tough take-charge former leader Kip Moore ( an excellent performance by Perry King ) and his rowdy , rugged best pal Buddy Grant ( a typically fine and robust Don Stroud ) . Capably directed in a mean'n'lean straightforward style by William Fruet , with polished cinematography by Rene Verzier , a steady , snappy pace , several rousing action scenes ( a protracted martial arts fight between Buddy and Nguyen rates as the definite stirring highlight ) , a driving , pounding , throbbing hard-rock score by FM , gorgeous Canadian locations ( the Niagara Falls looks absolutely breathtaking ) , engaging main characters , a harrowing climactic cat and mouse chase on the streets of a crowded city , and nice supporting turns by Tisa Farrow as Kip's concerned girlfriend Kate Barchel , George Kennedy as no-nonsense detective Anthony Fusqua , and Tony Sheer as Fusqua's jerky partner Frank Malone , this bang-up little sleeper overall makes the grade as a solid and satisfying revenge action winner .
Another solid horror winner from the ever-reliable Paul Naschy	Evil warlock Alaric De Marnac ( the one and only Paul Naschy ) gets beheaded for his crimes against humanity in 15th century France . His wicked mistress Mabille De Lancre ( ravishing redhead Helga Line ) is also tortured and executed . In the modern age Alaric's descendant Hugo ( Naschy again ) , painter Maurice Roland ( solid Victor Alcazar ) , Sylvia ( foxy Betsabe Ruiz ) , and Paula ( tasty blonde Cristina Suriani ) go to a remote rural town to dig up De Marnac's body . De Marnac and De Lancre return to life so they can wreak more havoc . Director Carlos Aured does an adept job of creating a gloomy tone , maintains an eerie atmosphere throughout , delivers a nice smattering of gratuitous female nudity , and piles on the nasty gore with suitably vicious aplomb . While the film drags quite a bit at the start , it does get progressively sleazier and thus picks up more steam in the third act : we've got creepy zombies , heart eating , hot naked women , and a perfectly grim conclusion . Better still , the fetching female cast is real easy on the eyes ; lovely brunette Emma Cohen in particular looks absolutely delectable in her birthday suit . Manuel Merino's sharp cinematography and Carmelo A . Bernaola's groovy , moody , spooky score are both up to par . Well worth watching for Paul Naschy fans .
A pleasingly spooky and unsettling supernatural horror chiller	Three old college friends - - mature Harris ( Dominic Purcell ) , happy-go-lucky Sid ( Marcus Thomas ) and sultry Kira ( the lovely Josie Maran ) - - are reunited at the funeral of a fellow college chum . After the funeral they all sneak into a cemetery at night , get drunk , read a sinister incantation poem , and dance on several graves . The trio unwittingly resurrect the deadly spirits of a lethal axe murderess , a deranged child pyromaniac and a vicious , depraved rapist who proceed to haunt them for an entire month . If the ghosts aren't laid back to rest right away , they will grow increasingly stronger and more dangerous as the month progresses . Director Mike Mendez gradually develops a truly creepy and unnerving atmosphere with great skill and conviction prior to pulling out all the stirring stops in the rousing and hair-raising final third . The three leads all give fine and appealing performances ; they receive bang-up support from Clare Kramer as Harris ' sweet wife Allison , Tcheky Karyo as eccentric paranormal investigator Vincent and Megahn Perry as Vincent's cute spunky assistant Culpepper . The cadaverous skull-faced ghouls are genuinely freaky and frightening . David A . Armstrong's smooth , gloomy cinematography , the admirably serious and sincere tone , Joseph Bishara's eerie score , the well-drawn and engaging main characters , and the excellent special effects further enhance the overall sound quality of this very solid and satisfying supernatural horror shocker .
A fun 80's slasher flick	Hot-tempered macho jerk Charlie ( the extremely annoying John Batis ) and his more amiable easygoing buddy Steve ( likable Dean Russsell ) go hiking in a remote forest . Their wives Sharon ( pretty brunette Tomi Barrett ) and Teddi ( lovely blonde Ann Wilkinson ) also go camping in the same exact woodland area . They not only run afoul of crazed cannibal hermit John ( well played by burly B-flick perennial Gary Kent ) , but also encounter the ghosts of his slain adulterous wife ( a memorably bitchy Jeanette Kelly ) and his children Jennifer ( cute Becki Burke ) and John , Jr . ( future " Silver Spoons " TV sitcom regular Corky Pigeon ) . Competently directed by Don Jones ( who has a small role as a friendly forest ranger ) , with solid acting from a capable cast , a deliciously cheesy flesh-crawling synthesizer score by Richard Hieronymus and Alan Oldfield , nice dollops of ghastly gore , rough , grainy , but pretty polished cinematography by Stuart Asbjorsen , a steady pace , a good deal of tension ( the opening murder set piece is especially strong and suspenseful ) , several corny soft-rock songs occasionally blaring away on the soundtrack , engaging well-drawn characters , an eerie tone ( the offbeat and inspired supernatural element greatly adds to the overall creepiness ) , and stark and unflinching outbursts of raw violence , this film does the trick as a really enjoyable backwoods horror item . Familiar character actor Stafford ( " Cleopatra Jones , " " The Alpha Incident " ) Morgan briefly appears as one of John's victims . Fans of slice'n'dice body count movies should probably dig this one a lot .
Another creepy and gory winner from Italian horror master Lucio Fulci	The Boyle family - - father Norman ( likable Paol Malco ) , mother Lucy ( lovely Katherine MacColl ) and their cute son Bob ( angelic blonde tyke Giovanni Frezza ) - - move into a large mansion in Masachussets . They discover much to their dismay that a past owner was a demented wacko named Dr . Freudstein ( Giovanni De Nava in incredibly hideous make-up ) , a lethal lunatic who still resides in the basement as a grotesque murderous ghoul . Pretty soon a handful of brutal killings occur and the Boyles find themselves in considerable jeopardy . Director Lucio Fulci relates the horrific story at a gradual , stately pace , staging the gore set pieces with his trademark ferociously protracted aplomb and deftly creating a grim , surreal , nightmarish atmosphere which culminates in a marvelously macabre , disgusting and nerve-wracking climax . Gino De Rossi's great grisly make-up f / x really deliver the revolting goods ; repulsive splatter highlights include a knife through the head , a vicious stabbing , a juicy throat slicing , and one poor guy having his throat torn wide open . A harrowing bat attack sequence rates as another especially startling moment . Dagmar Lassander pops up as a doomed real estate agent . The alluring Ania Pieroni has a nice part as a weird , but foxy live-in babysitter . Both Sergio Salvati's crisp , polished widescreen cinematography and Walter Rizzati's groovy-spooky score are excellent and impressive as well . Moreover , there's an effectively eerie subplot about a mysterious little girl ( adorable freckled redhead Silvia Collatina ) who tries to warn Bob about the house which has a wonderfully haunting and poetic pay-off at the film's nifty conclusion . Essential viewing for Fulci fans .
A hilariously horrible and hence enjoyable howler of a 70's killer animal horror flick	The 70's revolt-of-nature fright film craze reaches its uproariously abysmal apex with this gloriously ghastly , yet often funny and hence strangely enjoyable stinker . For reasons which are never completely clarified the numerous assorted canines in a sleepy armpit California college hamlet join into one huge vicious pack and start turning on wholly deserving personality-less homo sapien drips with heartwarming bloodthirsty panache . David McCallum of " The Man from U . N . C . L . E . " fame drably portrays the did - nothing - good - whatsoever - for - his - rapidly - fading - career role of Harlan , a glum , bearded , beer-swilling and bluejeans-wearing smarty-pants biology professor with a dreadful Beatles shag haircut and all the charisma of a can of dried-up spam . Harlan is such a grossly unlikable and unappealing jerk that the more cheerfully misanthropic viewers out there can easily root for the murderous mutts with a clear conscience . Boasting such tried'n'true endearingly awful bad movie ingredients as all-thumbs direction , zero suspense , ugly , poorly lit , barely watchable nighttime cinematography , gory , but way bogus make-up f / x , uniformly insipid'n'atrocious acting from the entire cast ( Mel Brooks feature regular George Wyner cops the thespic booby prize as a nerdy fellow biology professor ) , seriously uninvolving toothpick lean characters , and plenty of horrendously botched animal attack scenes ( a little old lady gets mangled by a Doberman after the dobie tears apart a biker , a pre - " Dallas " Linda Gray gets chomped in the shower in a gut-busting homage to " Psycho , " an obnoxious curly-haired fat slob crashes through a glass door in show-stopping slow motion , and so on ) , this stunningly shoddy schlocker overall sizes up as one hopelessly lame puppy . And that marvelously irresolute sequel set-up non-ending ought to be thrown a bone .
A fun'n'funky piece of early 80's Italian sci-fi / horror splatter cheese	A surprisingly groovy , frenetic and fairly suspenseful subterranean creature feature earthbound " ALIEN " swipe about these ravenous shape-changing extraterrestrial rock monsters which prey upon a vapid assortment of spelunking youths exploring a deep , dark , dank remote cave . The ham-fisted direction , tin-eared dialogue ( " Even he can't stop the monsters " ) , the cramped , creepy , claustrophobic cavern setting that's nicely redolent of both " The Boogens " and " The Descent , " a throbbing Goblinesque score by Oliver Onions ( who also supplied the rousing music for the snazzy , stirring post-nuke sci-fi / action zinger " 2019 : After the Fall of New York " ) , an incomprehensible , logic-defying narrative , the gorgeous , bewitching brunette Belinda Mayne's perky portrayal of the hypersensitive psychic heroine , the tacky special effects , the righteously gruesome gore , the generally flat acting from a non-star cast , an occasional sappy pop ballad blasting on the soundtrack , a hilariously idiotic climactic chase sequence which takes place in an abandoned bowling alley , future Italian horror film director Michele ( " Stagefright , " " The Church " ) Soavi as one of the dumbbell kids , a light sprinkling of charmingly unnecessary filler ( i . e . , faded , worn-out newsreel footage , a needless scene depicting a jeep pulling out of a garage and driving down the street , etc . ) and a side-splitting concluding on-screen title statement which ominously proclaims that " YOU MAY BE NEXT ! " all make this shamefully ignored hoot an extremely tasty and tantalizing slice of lovably shoddy and stupid spaghetti splatter schlock .
A hugely enjoyable piece of low-budget horror / action trash	Rough'n'tumble half-breed holy akicker demon hunter Jake Greyman ( a superbly rugged portrayal by Sean Patrick Flanery of " The Boondock Saints " ) fights various forms of evil for the Catholic Church . He's assigned by Cardinal White ( nicely played by William Bassett ) to stop nefarious lustful hell spawn Asmodeus ( a marvelously creepy and reptilian Billy Drago ) and his loyal servant Succubus ( gorgeous brunette knockout Tania Deighton , who sports cute little horns ) from procreating with fallen Los Angeles prostitutes . Compassionate unorthodox nun Sarah Ryan ( a likable performance by striking hottie Colleen Porch ) helps Jake out on his desperate mission . The fate of mankind hangs in the balance . Director Scott Ziehl , working from a blithely schlocky script by Mitch Gould , loads this enjoyably silly supernatural claptrap with several rousing bash ' em up fight scenes , a decent smattering of gratuitous nudity , a dab of grisly gore , and even a smidgen of steamy soft-core sex . Moreover , Ziehl keeps the pace rattling along at a satisfying steady clip throughout this movie's short'n'sweet 78 minute running time . Flanery's scruffy , apathetic and cynical character makes for an engagingly hard-around-the-edges anti-hero . Robert C . New's slick , agile cinematography , the wailin ' , head-bangin ' rock soundtrack , Jon Lee's roaring score , and some laughably lousy CGI effects further add to the overall entertainingly trashy fun .
Good silly 70's Southern-fried drive-in movie fun	After their moonshiner pappy ( Mark Millner ) gets bumped off by big , nasty bossman Dade ( a splendidly smarmy'n'slippery turn by unsung fat guy thesp Stanley Adams ) , Millner's two spitfire daughters Patsy and Dixie decide to get revenge by stealing Dade's tremendous amounts of money and redistributing the cash back to the poor country people Dade's been bilking bread from . Directed with customary zippy élan by former 60's soft-core sex picture filmmaker turned 70's drive-in feature auteur Lee Frost ( who also co-wrote the cheekily effective script with longtime collaborator Wes Bishop , who also pops up in a sizable co-starring role as the sleazy , trigger happy , dangerously blundering Deputy Frank ) , this Southern-fried ozoner revenge potboiler offers a pleasingly ramshackle and richly colorful evocation of the South , what with jubilant bluegrass music on the soundtrack , solid themes concerning family ties and loyalty , an odious Yankee villain trying to buy up everyone's land , cops and crooks mingling with each other just like buddies , poverty and unemployment keeping honest folks down , the occasional lively car chase , a token rowdy bar fight , and two sassy good old gal protagonists who use everything they got to get ahead in life . Jane Anne Johnstone and Kathy McHaley are wonderfully breezy and appealing as the sexy , pretty , very spunky and supremely self-sufficient distaff leads , with sturdy supporting performances by the always dependable Warren Oates as Mack , an amiably scraggly motorcross bike champ who the girls confide in ( an uncredited Steve McQueen doubles for Oates in the motorcross race sequences ) ; Christopher George as a nice guy sheriff on the take , and R . G . Armstrong as a venal bank president with feet of clay . Spirited and entertaining , " Dixie Dynamite " serves up a considerable heap of punchy'n'rollicking kick up the dirt animated fun .
One of Jess Franco's best and most disturbing horror movies	Seemingly compassionate and respectable Dr . Dennis Orloff ( a creepily credible and compelling Klaus Kinski ) is really the vicious and evasive serial killer Jack the Ripper , a savage sexual psychopath who preys on prostitutes in Victorian-era 19th century London , England . It's up to dedicated Scotland Yard Inspector Selby ( a solid Andreas Mannkopff ) to catch the foul fiend . Selby's ballet dancer girlfriend Cynthia ( the lovely Josephine Chaplin ; Charlie Chaplin's daughter ) uses herself as bait to lure Bloody Jack . Writer / director Jess Franco , whose films tend to be very hit-or-miss type of affairs , comes through here with one of his best , most shocking and disturbing forays into the horror genre : the brooding gloom-doom tone is potently rendered , the sets and costumes are surprisingly lavish , the rich , vivid and flavorsome period atmosphere rings true , the murder set pieces are suitably harsh , graphic and upsetting , and there are even a few amusing touches of raw earthy humor sprinkled throughout . William Baumgartner's spooky score and Peter Baumgartner's slick cinematography are likewise fine and impressive . Nice supporting performances by Herbert Fux as the affable Charlie the Fisherman , Hans Gaugler as a perceptive blind beggar , Olga Gebhard as concerned land lady Mrs . Baxter , Esther Studer as saucy hooker Jeanny , and the always alluring Lina Romay as bawdy ballroom tart Marika . But it's the inspired central casting of Kinski in the lead that really makes this picture work as well as it does : With his sharp facial features , pale , piercing blue eyes and extremely intense'n'edgy presence , Kinski qualifies as a frightfully convincing madman . Only the crummy dubbing distracts a bit from this otherwise strong and praiseworthy effort .
A typically solid and enjoyable Hammer horror entry in the Frankenstein series	Baron Victor Frankenstein ( splendidly played to icy perfection by the always terrific Peter Cushing ) has become completely driven , ruthless and obsessed with his research . Frankenstein forces nice young psychiatrist Dr . Karl Holst ( a fine Simon Ward ) and his equally sweet fiancé Anna Spengler ( an appealing turn by the gorgeous Veronica Carlson ) to assist him with abducting the mentally ill Dr . Frederick Brandt ( George Pravda ) so he can perform an operation on Brandt's brain . Directed with great style and assurance by Terence Fisher , with a sharp and compelling script by Bert Batt , a grimly serious tone , a rich and flavorsome evocation of the repressive Victorian era , crisp , bold color cinematography by Arthur Grant , a constant steady pace , a roaring dramatic score by James Bernard , a gloomy , misty atmosphere , a strong and provocative central message about the evil corrupting influence of fierce ambition run dangerously amok , and an exciting fiery conclusion , this movie certainly makes the grade as a superior and satisfying Hammer fright feature . The excellent acting from a sturdy cast rates as a substantial asset : Cushing is marvelously hateful as an arrogant and unlikable Frankenstein , Ward and Carlson make for sympathetic protagonists , Thorley Walters amuses as the huffy'n'haughty Inspector Frisch , and Freddie Jones delivers an exceptionally moving and captivating performance as the remarkably tragic and pitiable " monster " who has Brandt's brain transplanted into his body . Director Fisher impresses with several well mounted scary set pieces : Frankenstein frightening a prowler while wearing a grotesque mask , a ruptured water main causing a corpse to burst forth from the ground , and a brief , yet jolting sequence with Frankenstein brutally raping Anna . Highly recommended to both Hammer fans in particular and horror film buffs in general .
A really nasty , effective and above average early 80's slasher item	June 28th , 1945 : A jilted World War II soldier dressed in combat fatigues pitchforks his two-timing girlfriend and her lover during a graduation dance . June 28th , 1980 : When the graduation dance is held again after many years of inactivity , the grisly murders start anew . Director Joseph ( " Missing in Action , " Invasion U . S . A . " ) Zito manages to wring plenty of suspense from the formulaic script , nicely creating a bleakly haunting small town atmosphere ( the movie was shot on location in my home state of New Jersey in the hoppin ' resort community of Cape May ) and staging the shockingly ferocious kill scenes with considerable skill and style . Moreover , the solid supporting performances by Farley Granger as the folksy sheriff and the always great Lawrence ( " Midnight , " " Reservoir Dogs " ) Tierney as a mean , crippled old grouch lift this picture well out of the rut . Both Raoul Lumas ' polished photography and Richard ( " Shock Waves " ) Einhorn's spooky score are likewise up to par . Popping up in nifty minor roles are future " Riptide " TV series regular Thom Bray as a bespectacled nerd and Cindy ( " Humanoids from the Deep " ) Weintraub as a promiscuous harlot who winds up having her throat slit wide open while enjoying an evening dip in a pool . However , it's the incredibly ghastly and gruesome gore make-up f / x by Tom Savini which give this film an extra brutal and upsetting edge ; said hardcore graphic splatter moments include a bayonet in the neck , a particularly vicious impalement on a pitchfork ( this murder set piece happens to an attractive young lady who's taking a shower ) , a bayonet through the head , and the killer's head being blown up with a shotgun ( this latter bit is quite bloody and alarming ) . The excellent Blue Underground DVD offers a bang-up widescreen presentation along with the theatrical trailer , an extensive poster and still gallery , behind-the-scenes videotape footage of Savini at work , and a lively , enjoyable and informative commentary by Zito and Savini .
A totally funky late 80's zombie horror splatter blast	Mysterious amnesia victim Jane Doe ( a game portrayal by luscious brunette stuntwoman Cheryl Lawson ) gets sent to an asylum where twenty years ago the deranged Dr . Colin Ramzi ( a pleasingly creepy Danny Gochnauer ) was conducting sadistic brain experiments on the hapless inmates . A sudden earthquake resurrects Dr . Ramzi so he can embark on a new campaign of terror . Director / co-writer Brett Leonard and co-writer Gimel Everett do a bang-up job of creating and maintaining a grim , morbid and absolutely twisted brooding gloom-doom atmosphere : the dank and depressing tone rarely lets up for a minute , there's no goofy comic relief to speak of ( however , this film does have a wickedly macabre sense of pitch-black gallows humor ) , Ramzi's lobotomized zombie victims are genuinely hideous and unsettling ( the climactic lively zombie rampage seriously smokes , too ) , and we've got a handy helping of grisly gore ( brains are scooped out , the tops of heads are cut off to expose peoples ' glistening cerebrums , and long , sharp needles are thrust into several folks ' skulls ) . The slick cinematography by Marty Collins makes neat use of shadowy lighting and gives the picture an attractive glossy look . Dan Wyman's spirited shivery'n'spooky score likewise does the skin-crawling trick . Moreover , the solid cast all play their parts with tremendous enthusiasm : Steffen Gregory Foster delivers an utterly engaging performance as charming explosives expert Christian Meyers , Joan Bechtel is deliciously hateful as the cruel and domineering Nurse Kygar , plus there's sturdy supporting work from Jeremy Slate as friendly head psychiatrist Dr . Gerald Swan , Geha Getz as unhinged nun Sister Clair , Mara Everett as the sweet Nurse Robbins , and Jack A . Sunseri as affable orderly Jimmy . As a yummy extra bonus , the gorgeously voluptuous Lawson spends a fair share of her screen time clad only in a tight tank top and skimpy panties ( and she also even briefly bares her beautifully bountiful breasts as well ! ) . All in all , this fright feature sizes up as a great deal of good'n'ghastly ghoulish fun .
A very grim , graphic and downright nasty serving of Italian Nazi exploitation filth	The hapless Jewish female prisoners at an SS Special Section concentration camp are subjected to all kinds of torture , sadism and depravity by their brutal Nazi captors . Fed up with all the gross mistreatment they are forced to endure on a regular basis , the women join together to plot to escape and turn the tables on their cruel oppressors . Writer / director Rino ( " Werewolf Woman " ) Di Silvestri really delivers the lowdown sleazy goods in a fiercely explicit and unflinching manner : there's plentiful nudity , two group shower scenes , pubic hair shaving , rape , lesbianism , voyeurism , catfights , degradation , castration ( one of the women hides a razor blade in her vagina ! ) , and perversion galore . Moreover , the production values are surprisingly polished and up to par : Sergio D'Offizi's slick cinematography ( the smooth tracking shots and sturdy hand-held camera-work are both quite impressive ) , an unrelentingly bleak , stark and gritty tone , solid and credible acting from a good cast ( John Steiner in particular makes for a perfectly strict , haughty and merciless degenerate creep of a camp commandant while Solvi Stubing likewise does well as a mean guard ) , a thrilling last reel jailbreak and Stelvio Cipriani's melodic , gloomy , haunting score are all on the money fine and effective . Although it's way too grim , rough and depressing to be much fun , this potent little item nonetheless still qualifies as a very gripping and harrowing movie .
A nifty and informative making of documentary .	This very thorough and engrossing featurette covers the making of the spooky low-budget indie horror film " Room 6 . " The people who are interviewed are co-writer / co-producer Mark A . Altman , actress Ellie Cornell , producer Mark Gottwald , special effects make-up artist Robert Hall , director / co-writer Michael Hurst , co-producer Chuck Speed , cinematographer Raymond Stella , and co-producer / stunt coordinator Danny Wayne . Hurst reveals that the story for the movie was inspired by a real-life stay at a hospital for an injury ( the inherent creepiness of hospitals is talked about in some length as well ) . The opening car crash was actually staged two times . Hall notes that he tried to come up with an original look for the demons . Wayne dwells on the exacting nature of the stunt set pieces and the arduous work that wire gags entail . Everyone praises Christine Taylor for the vulnerability she brings to the role of the troubled Amy ( Taylor was actually five months pregnant when she did the picture ! ) and confesses they were all excited to work with actor / stuntman Kane Hodder . Cornell admits that she had fun playing the change-of-pace part of scrappy whitetrash mom Sarah Norman . Stella used fluorescent lights for the practical locations . The burn victim zombies were based on photos of the hideous genuine article . Overall , it's an interesting and illuminating documentary that's well worth seeing for fans of the film .
Gloriously ludicrous 70's martial arts exploitation trash	A multi-racial trio of lethal and indestructible ace martial artist assassins - white guy ( beefy Ron Marchini ) , black dude ( brawny Joshua Johnson ) , Asian man ( lithe Michael Chong ) - - go around the city and bump off various folks for their evil dragon lady boss Madame Lee ( a hysterically campy and vampy Mari Honjo , who can barely speak English and mumbles all her dialogue ) . Boy , does this deliciously dippy and dreadful dreck possess all the right wrong stuff to qualify as an enjoyably awful piece of gut-busting schlock : we've got fumbling ( mis ) direction by Paul Kyriazi ( who also co-wrote the nonsensical script ) , lousy acting from a lame no-name cast , a token hot naked babe , crude cinematography by Donald Rust , hilariously inept fight choreography ( sidesplitting highlights include the death machines wiping out an entire school of karate students , the white guy beating up dozens of cops while escaping from a police station , and our deadly threesome opening up a king-sized barrel of hurting on a biker gang in a diner ) , slipshod editing , excessively bloody tomato paste-style violence , and a stupid " it ain't over yet " sequel set-up ( non ) ending . Bonus booby points are in order for Chuck Katzakian's alarmingly overblown portrayal of hot-tempered crime boss Mr . Gioretti and the supremely wired'n'wonky zoned to the funky bone synthesizer score by Don Hulette . In fact , this uproariously messed-up movie often plays like an unintentional ( ? ) parody of a cheesy 70's drive-in action flick . An absolute cruddy hoot .
An enjoyably creaky Grade B mystery thriller potboiler	A motley group of people are forced to seek shelter at a remote inn run by the snooty , sarcastic , but suave Amos Bradford ( a perfectly unctuous George Zucco ) because of a raging thunderstorm that has flooded out the bridge and the roads alike . These eclectic individuals include a vengeful escaped convict whom Bradford put in jail , a meek geeky bank teller who's trying to embezzle $50 , 000 bucks , a mean , ruthless mobster who also wants to get his grubby paws on the hot loot , a young couple who are planning to get married , and the huffy , overbearing , disapproving father of the bride-to-be . Naturally , a vicious killer starts bumping folks off . Efficiently directed in a briskly straightforward and economical no-frills manner by Sam Newfield , with an endearingly hokey script by Fred Myton , plenty of sharply sardonic dialogue , stark , gritty black and white photography by Robert Cline , a booming , melodramatic score by Charles Dunworth , and game acting from a solid cast ( Glenn Strange in particular contributes an amiable performance as Bradford's clumsy , cowardly , oafish assistant Andy while Charlie Middleton registers strongly as a jerky ramrod sheriff ) , this wittily enjoyable Grade B mystery thriller potboiler delivers a reasonable amount of cheap thrills . A fun little quickie .
An enjoyably screwy mess	Screenwriter Joyce moves to a remote old house so she can work on a script . She winds up being terrorized by a rot-faced , razor-fingered , Freddy Kruegeresque freaky demon spirit dude . Meanwhile , spunky lady private investigator Jackie butts heads with a gang of nasty criminals . Director Edgar Jere sloppily blends together two separate stories into a disjointed and barely coherent , yet somehow oddly arresting and entertaining mess . Jere crams this flipped-out flick with a nice smattering of gore and several all-out wild martial arts fight scenes , plus delivers a rousing shoot-out on a yacht . James Langton's score alternates between shivery'n'shuddery ooga-booga scareshow stuff and cool-blastin ' rock . Adding to the lunacy are a Taoist monk with a pair of hopping vampire slaves , an obnoxious fat vampire kid , and a welcome last reel appearance by some third-rate RoboCop clone . Dumb and ridiculous nonsense for sure , but still a whole lot of infectiously mindless fun all the same .
A very funny and enjoyable Peanuts Noel holiday special	The Peanuts gang return for this breezy and entertaining romp . The ever-hapless Charlie Brown tries without any success to sell wreaths door to door in order to raise twenty-five dollars so he can buy a gift for the adorable Peggy Jean , Peppermint Patty struggles with a book report , Sally tries to memorize the one line she has to say in the upcoming Christmas play , and Snoopy gets into his usual mischief which includes posing as a sidewalk Santa . Director Bill Melendez and writer Charles M . Schulz string together an amusing series of random vignettes while maintaining a pleasingly wry tone and snappy pace throughout . The delightfully jaunty'n'jazzy score by Vince Guaraldi and David Benoit and beautifully fluid animation both help matters a lot . The voice actors all do fine work , with stand-out contributions from John Christian Graas as the precocious Linus , Lindsay Benesh as bespectacled brainiac Marcie , and Deanna Tollo as the sweet Peggy Jean . The Christmas play rates as a definite hilarious highlight , with Peppermint Patty forgetting her one line as a sheep ( " Baaa ! " ) . Granted , this program isn't as poignant or thoughtful as the terrific classic original , but it still makes for a perfectly amiable diversion just the same .
A really fun and enjoyable low-budget futuristic sci-fi hoot	In the bleak near future Los Angeles has become a dangerous war zone with cops pitted against assorted law-breaking lowlifes . Sergeant Arliss Ryder ( well played with customary wired intensity by the always great Wings Hauser ) has an electronic device put into his back that turns him into an out-of-control psychotic killer and put on the Strike S . Q . U . A . D . ( an acronym for Scum Quelling Assault Urban Devision ) , which is a unit of crazed cops assigned by Captain Bill Quinton ( a typically gruff Alex Cord ) to rid the City of Angels of criminals by using any means necessary . The only problem is that Arliss discovers what's going down and decides to put a stop to all this madness . Director Gregory Dark's second futuristic sci-fi / action outing is a considerable improvement over the flawed , but still pretty decent " Dead Man Walking " : the action is more plentiful and nicely staged , the plot's much tighter and more thrilling , the pace moves at a snappier rate , and the budget appears to be a little bigger . This picture further benefits from amusing supporting performances by notorious Watergate crook G . Gordon Liddy as mayor candidate Jim Miller , an absolute deranged lunatic who gets his sick kicks by having prostitutes whip him while wearing leather dominatrix outfits ( ! ) ; Sy Richardson as unhinged homosexual policeman Joker , and an especially hilarious Brion James as demented fire'n'brimstone street preacher J . J . Mony , who in the film's definite sidesplitting wacko highlight douses a slimy pimp with gasoline and sets the man ablaze . A cool and unjustly overlooked end-of-the-world science fiction sleeper .
A strong , gritty and disturbing portrait of the grim plight of destitute homeless kids	From the makers of the phenomenal , trend-setting " psycho murders peel artists " milestone " Stripped to Kill " and the outstanding offbeat existential vampire horror knockout " Dance of the Damned " comes this grim , tough , unflinchingly realistic down'n'dirty exploitation thriller about young , strung-out , totally on her own illiterate Venice Beach , Los Angeles prostitute Dawn ( a strong , unglamorous , very endearing and somewhat startling performance by Christina Applegate ; Kelly Bundy on " Married . . . With Children " ) , a fiercely self-reliant teenager who turns tricks in order to eke out a meager existence and support her heroin habit . Dawn has a near-fatal run-in with brutish , sadomasochistic sleazy teen hooker killing cop Lumley ( a cogent , creepy , live-wire portrayal of frighteningly deep-seated seething psychosis by Ed Lottimer ) , who relentlessly stalks Dawn and savagely picks off her scruffy homeless street people pals throughout the rest of the movie . David Mendenhall offers a solid and likable turn as the naive , slumming rich kid who develops a crush on Dawn and gets caught up in her tawdry and thankless day-to-day lifestyle . " Streets " is something of a surprise : it's a gritty , gutsy little B picture ( Roger Corman gets credited as the executive producer ) that successfully manages to relate a compact , seamy , highly credible slasher narrative while simultaneously delivering a rich and vivid exploration of how unemployed folks at the bottom rung of the socioeconomic ladder somehow manage to barely squeak by and how people with real power and authority in our society can get away with cruelly preying on those hapless and helpless individuals whose utter powerlessness and political vulnerability make them easy targets for constant victimization . Katt Shea Ruben's sturdy , no-nonsense , unsentimental direction ( Ruben also co-wrote the rough-edged , pungently insightful script ) , the garishly lit , evocative cinematography , a brooding melancholy score ( the sad , haunting ballad that's beautifully sung by Elizabeth Daily which plays on the soundtrack during the opening and end credits is especially poignant and effective ) , the top-notch acting ( besides the three excellent leads , both Kay Lenz and Starr Andreeff have nice cameos as lady police officers ) , an authentically grungy depiction of L . A . ' s desolate beach-side milieu , and the uncompromisingly downbeat ending all give this shamefully overlooked and underrated scrappy gem a potent scroungy verisimilitude that's extremely compelling and powerful . A real sleeper .
Corman's enjoyably screwball end-of-the-world hippie counterculture oddity	This gloriously gaga dippy hippie early 70's end-of-the-world counterculture cinematic artifact deals with a man-made airborne germ warfare virus which accelerates the aging process , thus killing off everybody who's twenty-five and older . Only young kids are left to inherit the world and maintain some semblance of civilization . Naturally , in the hands of these crazy , carefree , amoral , unsupervised , and totally uninhibited youths all-out anything-goes anarchy , hedonism , and pandemonium soon become widespread : California degenerates into a fascist Nixonian police state , football-inspired brutality reigns supreme in Texas , greasy bikers enforce conservative moral rectitude on the golf links ( ! ) , and horse-riding , pistol-packing psycho cowboy bandit car thieves terrorize the dusty back-roads of America . Directed with customary gusto by legendary exploitation movie maestro Roger Corman , adopted from a bold , biting script written by the great , ever-underrated George Armitage ( who later wrote and directed the terrific " Miami Blues " ) , further enhanced by Ron Dexter's garishly excessive , heavy on the bright lurid colors and flashy psychedelic visuals cinematography and a groovy , fuzz-tone and saxophone blastin ' lowdown blue-eyed soul rock'n'roll score by Country Joe and the Fish , this breezy , irreverent , playfully mordant black comedy riot satirizes both the establishment and the counterculture alike , biker pictures , brooding Gothic horror films ( Edgar Allen Poe appears as a grimly philosophical Greek chorus astride a black chopper with Eleanor as his motorcycle mama ! ) , and apocalyptic sci-fi cinema in general . Robert Corff and Elaine Giftos are quite affable as the increasingly confused leads , while Ben Vereen as an angry black militant , Cindy Williams as a chirpy , pregnant ditz , Talia Shire as a daffy , rock music-loving flower child , Bud Cort as a smarmy longhair , and Armitage as the deranged Billy the Kid contribute deliciously grotesque supporting performances . A wonderfully kooky and cockeyed one-of-a-kind delight .
A solid and engrossing early Dario Argento giallo mystery thriller	Determined newspaper reporter Carlo Giordani ( an excellent and engaging performance by James Franciscus ) and shrewd , feisty blind puzzle maker Franco Arno ( superbly played by Karl Malden ) join forces to investigate a brutal bunch of shocking murders . The duo uncover a sinister medical conspiracy which places them both in great danger . Writer / director Dario Argento relates the tricky and compelling plot at a gradual , but steady pace and stages the bloody murder set pieces with bravura rip-snorting panache . Moreover , Argento wisely downplays his usual overwrought visual flourishes in favor of a more low-key and restrained style which adds substantially to the film's overall plausibility . This in turn gives the picture a firm grounding in a certain everyday reality that's both credible and commendable in equal measure . Erico Menczer's graceful , sumptuous cinematography and especially Ennio Morricone's supremely spooky'n'shuddery funky-groovy avant garde prog-rock score are likewise fine and effective . The scenes between Arno and his sweet niece Lori ( the adorable Cinzia De Carolis ) are genuinely touching . The strikingly beautiful Catherine Spaak makes a strong impression as smart and spunky rich love interest Anna Terzi . The affably natural chemistry between Franciscus and Malden is a true joy to watch . The climactic confrontation between Giordani and the killer is extremely tense , gripping and exciting . A real solid and satisfying giallo .
A very likable nifty 50's sci-fi delight	Kindly Professor Arnold Nordstrom ( the excellent Taylor Holmes ) and humane , no-nonsense Dr . Ralph Harrison ( a lively and engaging performance by Charles Drake ) create a robot called Tobor ( Lew Smith in a cool metallic suit ) who can feel human emotions and has superhuman strength . Tobor develops a telepathic link with Professor Nordstrom's smart , mischievous grandson Gadge ( an endearingly spunky portrayal by Billy Chapin ) . When Nordstrom and Gadge are kidnapped by a no-count gang of covert agents , Tobor comes to their rescue . Director Lee Sholem relates the neat story at a steady pace and does a solid job of maintaining an amiably lightweight tone throughout . This film further benefits from winningly sincere acting by a sturdy cast : Karin Booth as Nordstrom's fetching daughter Janice , Steven Geray as the nefarious foreign spy chief , William Shallert as folksy reporter Johnson , Franz Roehn as Nordstrom's grouchy assistant Karl , Henry Kulky as mean brute Paul , and Peter Brocco as the antsy Dr . Gustav . John L . Russell's stark black and white cinematography and Howard Jackson's robust , stirring score are both up to snuff . The warm relationship between Tobor and Gadge is genuinely charming and touching while the scenes of Tobor in action are very cool and exciting . But what really makes this film so special and appealing is its marvelous surplus of pure heart . A disarmingly sweet little treat .
An amusingly lowbrow horror comedy romp	Goody-goody two shoes Katherine Verdoux ( blonde cutie Erica Eleniak ) hires sleazy private investigator Rafe Gutman ( a deliciously smarmy and sarcastic Dennis Miller ) to finding her obnoxious missing punk brother Caleb ( a perfectly grating Corey Feldman ) . Rafe traces Caleb to a remote whorehouse on the edge of town that's disguised as a mortuary and populated by luscious lady vampires led by the evil and alluring Madam Lilith ( ravishing redhead Angie Everhart having a whale of a wicked time ) . Director / co-writer Gilbert Adler really pours on the tasty gratuitous female nudity , gleefully over-the-top graphic violence , and often crudely amusing dopey puns . Miller has a ball playing the slimy anti-hero ; he keeps things bouncy and funny throughout . Moreover , the solid supporting cast likewise does the trick : Chris Sarandon as slick , sanctimonious televangelist Jimmy Current , Aubrey Morris as Lilith's eccentric henchman McCutcheon , Phil Fondacaro as obsessive explorer Vincent Prather , William Sadler as a pompous mummy , and Kiara Hunter as enticing dominatrix bloodsucker Tamara . WARNING : Possible SPOILER ahead . The definite sidesplitting sick highlight occurs when Lilith's vampire harem gets slaughtered while " Ballroom Blitz " blares away on the soundtrack . Good , trashy tongue-in-cheek fun .
A very amusing & enjoyable 70's cross country road race romp	This immensely lively and entertaining 70's tongue-in-cheek cross country road race romp stars Michael Sarrazin as the rich businessman who sponsors an illegal event from New York to Long Beach , California which attracts a colorfully flaky assortment of hardcore nutty car race enthusiasts . Among the race's kooky participants are the always great Tim McIntire as Sarrazin's bitter , yet amiable rival , an especially hilarious Raul Julia as a hysterically lecherous womanizing Italian driver ( the lovely Colleen Camp pops up as a sweet young honey Julia happily jumps in the sack with ) , Nicholas Pryer as Sarrazin's anxious college professor co-pilot , Susan Fannery and Joanne Nail as a pair of sassy'n'sexy good-time gals , Gary Busey in his usual wild redneck yahoo role , Harvey Jason as a maniacal motorcyclist , and Vaughn Taylor and J . Pat O'Malloy as a couple of lovably laid-back doddering old guys . Norman Burton gives an uproariously broad performance as the ramrod killjoy police detective determined to stop the race . Director Chuck Bail keeps the pace zipping along at a speedy rate , staging the copious vehicular carnage with a genuinely rousing rip-snorting panache , stoking the sidesplitting silly humor to a cartoonishly high-pitched degree and eliciting engagingly spirited performances from a uniformly solid cast . The opening third is a tad drawn-out , but once the race itself gets underway the film kicks into third gear , pops the clutch , and puts the pedal to the metal by really delivering the expected tire-screeching , rubber-burning , automobile-wrecking goods with infectiously carefree and giddy go-for-it abandon . Both Richard Glouner's vibrant cinematography and Dominic Frontiere's delightfully sprightly score greatly enhance the overall irresistibly goofy and good-natured merriment . To sum up , " The Gumball Rally " makes for a sound source of exuberantly wacky and light-hearted fun .
A very cute , funny and charming French comedy version of " Frankenstein "	Brilliant cybernetics expert Victor Frankenstein ( an extremely able and affable performance by Jean Rochefort ) fulfills his infamous family heritage by creating Frank ( an endearingly oafish portrayal by 60's French pop singer Eddy Mitchell ) , a cultured , but clumsy and super strong humanoid being . Victor teaches Frank proper table manners and how to drive a car . But poor Frank feels lonely and unloved . So Victor and his patient , supportive and understanding fiancé Elisabeth ( marvelously played by the strikingly lovely and appealing brunette beauty Fiona Gelin ) decide to make Frank a perfect female companion named Adelaide ( delectably embodied by stunningly gorgeous knockout Herma Voss ) . Director Alain Jessua , who also co-wrote the delightfully witty and lighthearted script , concocts an extremely cute , funny and engaging modern-day comic version of " Frankenstein " that blends a certain tasty sweetness and plenty of often uproarious quirky humor together in a highly disarming way that's a true joy to watch . Armando Trovajoli's classy , graceful score , William Lubtchansky's crisp , handsome cinematography , and the infectiously frothy'n'frivolous tone further enhance the considerable idiosyncratic charm of this utterly irresistible little treat .
A pleasingly creepy Mexican supernatural shocker	An evil witch gets burned at the stake , but vows to return and get her revenge prior to being torched . A hundred years later a family - - architect father Fernando ( Julio Aleman ) , naggy pregnant wife Lorena ( attractive Nuria Bages ) , daughter Gaby ( Gianella Hassle Kus ) , twin sons Pedrito ( Ernesto East ) and Jaimito ( Carlos East , Jr . ) , sweet niece Paulina ( the fetching Gabriela Hassle ) , and Paulina's affable occult enthusiast boyfriend Julio ( an engaging performance by Pedro Fernandez ) - - decide to vacation at a summer home located in the same immediate countryside area where the witch was killed . Trouble ensues when Gaby finds a doll possessed by the lethal spirit of the malevolent witch . Director Rene Cardona III eschews graphic gore in favor of creating and sustaining a creepy ooga-booga atmosphere that becomes more progressively eerie and frightening as the story unfolds . Said uncanny mood culminates in an especially intense and harrowing last third . Moreover , the capable acting from a uniformly solid cast , Luis Medina's polished cinematography , the likable characters , the exciting fiery conclusion , Eugenio Castillo's shivery , ominous score , plenty of unsettling visuals ( the bleeding tree and walls are truly scary and unnerving while the shots of vile rotting food covered with bugs , rats and snakes are just plain gross ) , the constant pace , and the crude , yet effective special effects further enhance the overall sound quality of this nifty little horror picture .
A hilariously horrendous late 80's satanic horror schlockfest	A nasty sect of evil monks led by the sinister Father Thomas Seaton ( dreadfully overplayed with shameless eye-rolling hammy brio by William Beckwith ) sacrifice virgins every thirteen years in order to appease Lucifer and remain immortal for perpetuity . The sect plans on carving up sweet , but repressed goody-goody two shoes social worker Alexandra Parkman ( the singularly woeful Christine Moore ) on the altar . Brave nun Sister Angela ( a hopelessly dire performance by Mavis Harris ) infiltrates the cult so she can put a stop to these foul heathens once and for all . Misdirected with alarming ineptitude by Roberta Findley ( who also did the surprisingly passable cinematography ) , with a hackneyed script by Ed Kelleher and Hariette Vidal ( for example , the devil worshipers are your standard bunch of creepy folks in black hoods and robes chanting wicked incantations ) , a poky pace , a generic ooga-booga shivery and ominous score by Walter E . Sear , clunky dialogue ( " He's not breathing ; he wouldn't talk to me . My guess is he's dead " ) , a few clumsily staged fight scenes , a generous sprinkling of tasty gratuitous female nudity , and a last reel appearance by a laughably hokey rubbery puppet Satan , this admittedly lousy , yet still oddly entertaining tripe certainly possesses the right wrong stuff to rate as an amusingly awful clunker . The lame no-name cast all fail to impress with their uniformly atrocious acting , with top thespic dishonors going to Max Jacobs as Alexandra's scheming , diabolical grandfather George Parkman , the ever-foxy Ruth Collins as reformed junkie Cathy , Tim Gail as Alexandra's stolid assistant college professor fiancé Bill King , George Krause as hulking psycho lackey Ben , Amy Brentano as Alexandra's ditsy gal pal Brett , Jeanne Marie as bitter foul-mouthed teenage hooker Judy , and Gary Warner as drippy Detective Dann Carr . Ed French provides some nifty gore and gnarly make-up f / x . A deliciously cruddy Grade Z hoot .
A very cool and inspired Western sleeper	Armand Assante gives a marvelously assured and charismatic performance as Canaan , a blind and embittered Civil War veteran turned roving gunslinger who travels across the country with a baby in tow . Canaan stops off in a lawless small town and runs afoul of a foul gang of desperadoes led by the ruthless Alacran ( Robert Davi in fine nasty form ) . Alacran and his men want to gain possession of a stash of silver coins that's being guarded by an ever-diminishing handful of U . S . Cavalrymen . Canaan agrees to help the desperate soldiers , but only if he gets paid 200 pounds worth of silver for his troubles . Ably directed by Richard Spence , with a neat and engrossing script by Daniel Knauf , the gritty-funky look and feel of a vintage 60's Italian spaghetti Western , a steady pace , polished cinematography by Jack Conroy , several rousing and well-staged action set pieces ( Canaan's pre-credits introduction is absolutely priceless ! ) , and a nice line in dark humor , this nifty little number makes for a fun and engrossing viewing experience . While Assante clearly owns the show with his spot-on portrayal of the wry , likable and dangerous Canaan , kudos are nonetheless still in order for the excellent supporting cast : Elisabeth Shue as feisty nurse Caroline , Adam Baldwin as the ramrod Sergeant Hastings , M . C . Gainey as vicious lackey Bull , Clayton Landey as folksy bartender Ernie Fowler , Jimmy Herman as a crazed demolitions-obsessed Native American shaman , Ian McElhinney as the shady Father Malone , and a then unknown Jack Black in a funny small part as a jerky private . This offbeat and entertaining film is well worth a watch .
A fun 60's horror quickie	Architect Scott Campbell ( a solid Ronald Foster ) and his wife Nancy ( a spunky performance by the fetching Merry Anders ) check out an old castle located on a remote hillside in California . They are joined by lawyer Joseph Schiller ( nicely played by Richard Crane ) and his snippy spouse Loy ( a charming turn by the lovely Erika Peters ) . Moreover , there's something else in the castle that wants them out of there pronto . Competently directed by veteran journeyman Maury Dexter , with a steady pace , stark , yet polished black and white cinematography by John M . Nickolaus ( the use of fades and dissolves is quite nifty ) , a fair amount of creepy atmosphere , a tight 62 minute running time , a pleasingly shivery'n'spooky score by Henry Vars , acceptable acting , a cool array of grotesque circus freaks ( Ayllene Gibbons as a friendly fat lady and Richard Kiel as a mute , menacing giant are both especially memorable ) , and an unexpected , but satisfying ending , this pleasant little low-budget quickie makes for a perfectly painless diversion .
A nifty & absorbing Monte Hellman Filipino action thriller	Monte Hellman's unique , obscure , deliberately paced and highly cerebral cinematic meditations on all-consuming and often self-destructive obsession may not be everyone's cup of tea , but for those discriminating viewers who are seeking a bold change of pace from more mundane mainstream multiplex fare such sterling Hellman efforts as " Two-Lane Blacktop " and " Cockfighter " will always do the trick , mainly because they offer a substantial amount of food for thought that alas you really can't find anymore in most mindless big budget blockbusters churned out on a regular basis by Hollywood . This typically grim and moody Hellman outing , which can be best described as a thinking man's low-budget B-movie action / adventure opus , was shot in the Phillippines on a shoestring budget concurrently with the war picture " Back Door to Fury . " Both films star a then unknown , pre-stardom , up-and-coming Jack Nicholson , who later rejoined forces with Hellman for the outstanding existential Westerns " Ride in the Whirlwind " and " The Shooting . " The plot for " Flight to Fury " centers on six ruthless , desperate survivors of a doomed plane flight that crashes in the humid , dangerous Filipino jungle who spar with each other over a cache of expensive diamonds . Cardboard cut-out hunk Dewy Martin's blah , underwhelming performance as the ineffectual decent dude would-be hero leaves a great deal to be desired , but luckily Fay Spain , Jack Nicholson and especially longtime favorite Filipino exploitation feature character actor supreme Vic Diaz are also on board to compensate for Martin's off-putting blandness . Platinum blonde firecracker Spain portrays a bewitching , aggressively flirtatious femme fatale with wickedly alluring come-hither aplomb . Nicholson , intense and restrained , excels as a caustic , mustached , cheerfully murderous killer with a smooth smartaleck attitude and a sick infatuation with death . And Diaz , sporting a full head of shiny slicked-back hair , a neatly tailored suit , and a haughty , unctuous disposition , does a splendidly sleazy'n'smarmy Peter Lorre-like turn as a sickeningly suave'n'slimy calculating worm of a diamond smuggler who refuses to let a broken leg impede his chances of getting his fat grubby paws on the loot . A bleak , cynical , fatalistic , extremely amoral and relentlessly downbeat rumination on the severe repercussions of blind , unthinking greed and brutal , unyielding self-preservation at any cost , " Flight to Fury " benefits significantly from Hellman's taut , no-frills direction , Nicholson's terse , tight , profound , sharply penetrating , but never pretentious script , several shockingly bloody outbursts of sudden , savage , yet quite stirring violence , Mike Accion's stark , polished black and white cinematography , a sweaty , paranoid , claustrophobic atmosphere which never lets up for a second , Nester Roble's nicely brooding gloom-doom score , and a compact , briskly paced 73 minute running time that gets right down to business with a pleasingly straightforward sense of no-nonsense narrative economy . Highly recommended .
A winningly cheap'n'cheerful piece of 50's giant monster creature feature fun	More divinely dumb no-budget shot-in-Texas over-sized thingofabobbit on the murderous rampage creature feature tomfoolery from the same fine folks who gave us the equally inane , but still immensely entertaining " The Killer Shrews . " This time it's a laughably lethargic giant mutant reptile terrorizing libidinous teenage hot-rodders in a dusty desert armpit burg . The ludicrously melodramatic opening narration deftly sets the enjoyably goofy tone for the ample unintentional high camp hilarity to come ; this honey's other winningly wretched bad film vices ( or is that virtues ? ) include clunkily sincere acting , sluggish pacing , grainy black and white cinematography , a spacey theremin-ripping score , a dreary excess of dull talk , and an ahead-of-its-time heavy-handed " have sex and die " moral which later became a fundamental component of 80's slasher flicks ( the beast's first two victims are a pair of young lovers doing just what you think in a car on lover's lane ) . The gila monster itself is a big , fat , hissing , sleepy , pitifully unimpressive and unconvincing not - remotely - scary - for - a - second lizard that's made to appear enormous and intimidating by having it lumber around on riotously obvious chintzy miniature sets and by shooting it with crummy macro lens photography , neither of which even come close to making the drowsy behemoth seem slightly fearsome or threatening . Drippy goody-goody two shoes would-be teen scream idol lead Don Sullivan belts out a sensationally sappy'n'stinky wimpoid Christian pop song at a swinging barnyard sock hop which our titular monster rudely crashes by sticking its head through a wall . Producer Ken Curtis eventually found greater fame playing Festus on the popular , long-running Western TV series " Gunsmoke . " Director Ray Kellong , who also did second unit work on both John Ford and Howard Hawks pictures , went on to give John Wayne his thesping orders for the notoriously abysmal rightwing Vietnam war movie atrocity " The Green Berets . " Sure , " The Giant Gila Monster " is extremely dopey and silly , but overall it's way too good-natured and strangely pure in its very clumsiness to dislike . Okay , I'll admit it - - I really dug this baby and think it's a good deal of amiably asinine two-cent fright film fun .
A delightfully raucous blast of inspired teen comedy stupidity	Rowdy high school student Jessie Davis ( Corey Feldman in peak mischievous form ) and his gnarly band the Eradicators take a stand against evil and oppressive authoritarian new vice principal Doctor Vadar ( the sublime Mary Woronov at her most divinely wicked and over the top ) , who refuses to let the Eradicators play at the prom and turns Ronald Reagan High School ( school motto : " Just Say No " ) into a prison complete with electric fences and surveillance cameras . Writer / director Deborah Block brings a lively and engaging sense of playful anarchy to the blithely inane and absurd material ; the humor is amusingly dumb and ridiculous , but never too gross or mean-spirited . Sidesplitting comic highlights include Jessie and his bandmates wreaking havoc at a school dance , a hilariously horrible band auditioning for the prom , the infamous pee drinking scene , and Doctor Vadar getting naughty with a hot brawny boy toy . The enthusiastic acting from the appealing cast qualifies as another substantial plus : Feldman easily carries the film with his breezy charisma , Woronov makes for a perfect uptight killjoy foil , plus there are fine contributions by Larry Linville as the meek Prinicpal McGree , Evan Richards as the zany Mag , Liane Alexandra Curtis as brash punkette Stella , Sarah Buxton as sweet and sexy substitute teacher Rita Mea , Jason Lively as snobby preppie Donovan , Brynn Horrocks as weird , yet alluring Goth witch chick Tabatha , and Michael Cerveris as connected hipster Eaglebauer . Mojo Nixon has a cool cameo as the Spirit of Rock'n'Roll . The funky rock soundtrack is simply awesome ; the Eradicators in particular are a supremely smoking band . A total hoot .
A terrifically tasteless and trashy hoot	This sublimely sleazy and wonderfully warped jaw-dropper rates highly as the greatest cheeseball low-budget indie fright flick ever made about a grotesquely misshapen murderous mutant fetus . In fact , I'm pretty sure this deliciously dreadful and disgusting doozy might very well be the only horror movie thus far ever made about a grotesquely misshapen murderous mutant fetus . The extremely tasteless plot centers on a young couple who go to a scuzzy bordello on the outskirts of town so they can get an illegal abortion ( the film takes place in the early 70's prior to the famous Roe Vs . Wade verdict ) . The aborted fetus gets rudely disposed of by being flushed down the toilet ( yes , you read that correctly ) . The poor little bugger winds up in the filthy sewer and mutates into a huge , lethal , clawed , fanged , goofy-looking humanoid beast after being exposed to toxic waste . The foul ferocious subhuman fiend proceeds to go back to the squalid brothel and terrorize the occupants inside , which include the fat Southern madame , various skeevy prostitutes and their scummy customers , and even its own scared parents . Man , does this gloriously ghastly marvel possess all the so - thoroughly - wrong - they're - paradoxically - right schlocky stuff to qualify as a real four-star stinkeroonie . For starters , there's the hilariously horrendous acting from a rank amateur no-name cast . The ratty'n'ragged cinematography and annoyingly redundant droning synthesizer score are likewise suitably sub-par . The wonderfully wretched dialogue is absolutely priceless . The fact that the uproariously inane story is treated with utmost seriousness by the filmmakers only makes matters that much more enjoyably absurd and abominable ( the filmmakers have the gall to claim said story is based on an actual real-life event ! ) . The murderous mutant monster itself rates as one of the single most laughably ludicrous man-in-a-rubber-suit creatures to ever scamper its way across the screen ( the creature strangles and decapitates its victims with its lethal prehensile umbilical cord ! ) . Moreover , this fabulously fetid flick delivers a handy helping of grotty gore and a nice smattering of gratuitous nudity . The Elite Entertainment DVD for this terrifically tacky , trashy and twisted cinematic treasure offers a grainy , but acceptable widescreen ( ! ) presentation with the trailer as the sole extra .
A nifty 50's low-budget sci-fi alien invasion flick	A major American city gets evacuated because of an impending alien invasion . A motley assortment of six desperate people - - shrewd , dashing Richard Denning , feisty , but lonely and depressed Kathleen Crowley , raucous drunk Richard Reeves , Reeves ' brassy dame main flame Virginia Grey , antsy , panicky paranoid Mort Marshall and dangerous , volatile wanted fugitive criminal Robert Rourk - - are accidentally left behind and have to fend off the aliens by themselves . Sherman A . Rose's tight , sturdy , no-frills direction , working from a clever and arresting script by Bill Raynor , James Nicholson and Wyott Ordung , starts the movie out on a strong note , with a beautifully eerie and enigmatic atmosphere and exquisitely desolate shots of unnervingly empty and abandoned city streets . Alas , the feature falls a bit flat when the aliens materialize , mainly because said aliens are clunky-looking box-like waddling robots which prove to be more laughable than menacing . However , the uniformly solid acting ( longtime favorite 50's sci-fi picture perennial Whit Bissell in particular acquits himself well in a sizable supporting role as a helpful scientist ) , Guy Roe's gorgeously crisp black and white cinematography , the compelling characters , the commendably serious , no-kidding tone , Paul Dunlap's booming , robust , spooky score , the intriguing premise and the pleasingly trim 75 minute running time all keep this film on a steady and satisfying course throughout . A really fun and neat little B item .
Nifty little late 80's sci-fi / horror sleeper	Young boy David ( a winning performance by Joey Lawrence of the TV show " Blossom " ) is spending the week with his estranged , hard-working father Bill ( the always solid Cliff De Young ) and new stepmother Ellen ( a fine Roxanne Hart ) . David notices that the electricity in the house has taken on a lethal and malevolent life of its own , but can't convince either his dad or stepmom that something's amiss . Writer / director Paul Golding makes this fantastic premise seem fairly credible and extremely chilling by carefully evoking a thoroughly plausible everyday mundane world that's ripped violently asunder by a bizarre and inexplicable phenomenon ( Golding's stubborn refusal to provide some kind of valid explanation for why the electricity is acting up adds a truly eerie and unnerving ambiguity to the picture ) . Moreover , Golding successfully creates believable and sympathetic characters and offers a gradual build-up of skin-crawling tension which culminates in a positively harrowing and nerve-wracking climax with all the electricity going dangerously haywire . Peter Lyons Collister's exceptional macro photography , Jay Ferguson's shuddery score , and the first-rate special effects further contribute to the film's sterling quality . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly ace acting ; veteran character actor Charles Tyner has a colorfully quirky supporting part as a nutty old paranoid electrician and Robert Romanus ( Mike Damone in " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " ) pops up in a cool cameo as a smooth-talking TV repairman . Spooky and intense , " Pulse " rates as a real nifty little sci-fi / horror sleeper .
Pretty strong stuff	Eager former cop turned aspiring crime writer Ann Rule ( an excellent performance by Barbara Hershey ) documents a brutal series of murders stretching from Utah to Seattle . Unbeknonst to Ann , the killer is the extremely smart , charming and affable Ted Bundy ( a chilling and convincing portrayal by Billy Campbell ) , a close personal friend who works with her at a local suicide hotline . Ably directed by Paul Shapiro , with a tight script by Matthew McDuffie and Matthew Tabak , a rattling , shivery score by Joseph Conlan , a reasonably gritty tone , slick cinematography by Ron Orieux , a steady pace , and several fairly nasty murder set pieces , this made-for-TV movie makes for very gripping and harrowing viewing . Hershey and Campbell both contribute superb work in the lead roles . The supporting cast are likewise fine and impressive : Kevin Dunn as a hard-nosed detective , Suki Kaiser as Bundy's adoring prison pen pal and eventual wife Kelly Parker , Brenda James as Bundy's chipper , unsuspecting girlfriend Margo , and Meghan Black as Ann's feisty teenage daughter Leslie . This movie commendably refuses to explain Bundy's severe seething psychosis ; instead it just merely states that evil folks like him simply exist and leaves it at that . A grimly fascinating true crime flick .
A hugely enjoyable monster-on-the-loose horror romp	One part end-of-the-world thriller , two parts werewolf-like nocturnal beast on the rampage horror picture , and all parts quick-moving , animated , get right down to business butt-stomping fun , this hugely enjoyable romp makes for a most pleasant surprise . An ancient rhunestone that's the prison for a centuries old clawed , fanged , highly lethal lupine humanoid monster gets unearthed in a Pennsylvannia coal mine . When the gigantic rock is sent to New York City so it can be displayed in an art gallery , naturally our hairy , hulking , none too friendly or sociable whatchamathingie wakes up from its lengthy slumber and boy is he one grumpy SOB ! Pretty soon it's racking up a hefty corpse tally as a gruesome preliminary to a possible apocalypse said beast is a harbinger of . Of course , your usual colorfully mixed bag of courageous protagonists - - skeptical artist Joan Severance , her hunky boyfriend Tim Ryan , plucky teen Chris Young , and eccentric clockmaker Alexander Godunov - - have to stop this vicious critter or it's curtains for us all , baby ! Besides the inspired and imaginative handy dandy multi-genre combo narrative which scores bonus novelty points for making Armageddon part of a Nordic prophecy rather than the standard hackneyed Christian religious hooey , this surprisingly well-produced and energetically executed little number further benefits from William Carroll's brisk , capable direction , a steady , unflagging forward-ho pace , David Newman's rousing score , some nice witty touches , a cool monster , handsome photography , several lively kill scenes , and a properly spooky atmosphere that positively reeks with ominous portent . The performances are uniformly stellar as well , with Peter Riegert giving a wonderfully rough-edged portrayal of a coarse , irascible , candy-noshing homicide detective and delightfully crusty cameos by Lawrence Tierney as a gruff police chief , William Hickey as a flaky elderly mythology expert , and Arthur Malet as an amiably yappy fuddy dud museum curator . Dynamic , thrilling and refreshingly bereft of any needless pretense or condescending campy humor , this vastly entertaining and charmingly old-fashioned fright film overall rates as one completely worthwhile and satisfying bloodthirsty behemoth on the loose in the Big Apple horror blast .
Not your standard Frankenstein flick	This offbeat and inspired spoofy early 70's Hammer horror entry sure ain't your average Frankenstein flick . For starters , Baron Victor Frankenstein ( deliciously played with blithely amoral aplomb by Ralph Bates ) is anything but a Victorian gentleman ; instead he's a thoroughly depraved and decadent womanizing heel who will ruthlessly do whatever it takes to make his unholy creation . Moreover , director / co-writer Jimmy Sangster milks the wonderfully warped plot for often dryly amusing black-as-pitch gallows humor . Not surprisingly , the monster ( the hulking David Prowse ; Darth Vader in the " Star Wars " pictures ) turns out to be an uncivil and murderous brute , but he's still nowhere near as scary or disturbing as his cruel and wicked creator . This movie chillingly blurs the fine line between man and monster , showing that Frankenstein and his creation are essentially one and the same . The robust and enthusiastic acting from a game cast helps matters a whole lot . Dennis Price is a sleazy riot as a cheerfully vile graverobber Frankenstein hires to procure body parts for him . Jon Finch ( Jerry Cornelius in " The Final Programme " ) has a nice supporting part as a dashing policeman . Graham Jones does well as Frankenstein's wide-eyed reluctant assistant Wilhelm . Better still , the women are breathtakingly beautiful : buxom blonde Veronica Carlson looks ravishing as the hapless Elizabeth and foxy brunette Kate O'Mara supplies a tasty eyeful as sexy , but clumsy housekeeper Alys . Moray Grant's bright , pretty cinematography and Malcolm Williamson's classy , moody score are likewise solid and impressive . The hilariously ironic ending really hits the sidesplitting spot , too . A misunderstood and unjustly vilified change-of-pace tongue-in-cheek parody hoot .
A hilariously horrible hoot from our reliably schlocky pal Al Adamson	This uproariously atrocious Al Adamson $1 . 50 sci-fi / horror patch-up job rates highly as one of Al's single most sublimely stinky pictures to ever disgrace celluloid . This beautifully bad and berserk baby boasts John Carradine at his all-time crankiest , Brother Theodore's gut-busting wheezing histrionic opening narration , poorly tinted black and white giant creature footage from the moldy oldie items " One Million Years B . C . " and " Unknown Island , " cheap cardboard spaceship sets , a quick cameo by Adamson as a vampire with wicked sideburns , a particularly ridiculous heavy-breathing sex scene , a pretty sorry trash cinema ensemble cast that includes Vicki Volante , Jennifer Bishop and Robert Dix , chintzy cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond , such hysterically goofy monsters as hairy cave-dwelling bat demons , swamp-residing lobster men , snake men , and two warring cavemen tribes , and a stupendously silly plot concerning a fearless team of astronauts traveling to a hostile alien planet so they can thwart a severe extraterrestrial vampire plague that's ravaging Earth ! This isn't by any stretch of the imagination a good movie , but it is nonetheless an often unintentionally amusing and hence hugely enjoyable Grace Z low-budget crap camp classic .
A worthy and hugely entertaining British horror anthology winner	No-nonsense Inspector Hollaway ( a solid turn by John Bennett ) investigates the disappearance of a famous thespian and uncovers the wicked past history of a creepy old house . First and most mundane tale , " Method for Murder " - Successful author Charles Hillyer ( nicely played by Denholm Elliott ) is haunted by images of the murderous fiend he's writing about in his latest book . Although this particular outing is too obvious and predictable to be anything special , it does nonetheless build to a real dilly of a genuine surprise ending . Second and most poignant anecdote , " Waxworks " - Lonely Philip Grayson ( the always outstanding Peter Cushing ) and his equally lonesome friend Neville Rogers ( the splendid Joss Ackland ) both become infatuated with the beguiling wax statue of a beautiful , but lethal murderess . Third and most chilling vignette , " Sweets to the Sweet " - Quiet , reserved and secretive widower John Reid ( a typically terrific Christopher Lee in a rare semi-sympathetic role ) hires nanny Ann Norton ( the fine Nyree Dawn Porter ) to take care of his seemingly cute and harmless daughter Jane ( a remarkably spooky and unnerving performance by the adorable Chloe Franks ) . This stand-out scary episode is given a substantial disturbing boost by the exceptional acting from gifted child actress Franks , who projects a truly unsettling sense of serene evil lurking just underneath a deceptively sweet and innocent angelic veneer . Fourth and most amusing yarn , " The Cloak " - Pompous horror movie star Paul Henderson ( delightfully essayed to the haughty hilt by Jon Pertwee ) purchases a mysterious cloak that causes him to transform into a vampire whenever he wears it . This item makes for good silly fun and further benefits from the awesomely pulchritudinous presence of the luscious Ingrid Pitt as enticing vampiress Carla . Director Peter Duffell , working from a deliciously macabre and witty script by noted horror scribe Robert Bloch , maintains a snappy pace throughout and does an ace job of creating a suitably eerie atmosphere . Kudos are also in order for Ray Parslow's crisp cinematography and the shuddery score by Michael Dress . Highly recommended to fans of omnibus fright fare .
A delightfully dreadful 70's killer mutant animals running amok horror howler	Notorious Grade D fright flick schlockmeister extraordinaire Bert I . Gordon really outdoes himself with this deliciously cheesy cinematic bastardization of a classic H . G . Wells short story . Some mysterious gloop which bubbles forth from out of the ground causes all the animals such as rats , wasps and even chickens ( ! ) on an isolated island to mutate into deadly , grotesque and gigantic rampaging monsters which attack and chow down on a handful of hapless humans who include former child evangelist turned hack 70's drive-in picture perennial Marjoe Gortner ( sporting a very mod Mr . Brady-style white guy Afro ) , an extremely obnoxious Ralph Meeker , the ever-adorable Pamela ( " And Soon the Darkness " ) Franklin , future " Hill Street Blues " TV show regular Jon Cypher , and Ida Lupino ( the latter gives a hilariously over-the-top histrionic performance complete with an uproariously ripe Quaker Oats-type accent ) . Man , does this baby boast all the right so - totally - tacky - its - downright - tremendous crummy junk film stuff : embarrassingly hysterical acting from a choice exploitation feature cast ( Marjoe in particular is his usual reliably wretched self while Franklin let's it all hang out as a coarse lady scientist who curses worse than a truck driver ) , seriously stinky ( not remotely ) special effects , a few genuinely gross and creepy moments ( the sequence where Lupino is assaulted in her kitchen by these disgusting big worms is truly unsettling ) , and plenty of unintentionally funny scenes ( the giant crazed rooster which Gortner fights in a barn and kills with a pitchfork is absolutely sidesplitting ) . Among the other highlights to be witnessed in this splendidly shoddy swill are Lupino exclaiming " Oh Laa-wd , please don't let me be eaten by the raaa-hhts , " a pregnant Belinda Balaski going into labor as the rats besiege a farmhouse she's trapped in , and a meat cleaver-brandishing Lupino's incredible confrontation with one of the ferocious over-sized rodents . A topflight trashy treat .
An amusingly lowbrow redneck soft-core comedic romp	Treacherous Cora ( robustly played with mucho lip-smacking gusto by the incomparable Shelley Winters ) marries men and then murders them for their money . Cora more than meets her match in Ellie ( a spunky performance by juicy blonde beauty Sheila Kennedy ) , who's the smart and sexy daughter of Cora's latest victim . Ellie gets revenge on Cora by using her gorgeous body and feminine wiles to bump off Cora's three no-count sons - - slick , hunky Tom ( Edward Albert ) , fat , infantile Billy ( James Gaspard ) , and mean , ornery Frank ( Robert Keith ) - - in various unfortunate " accidents . " Competently directed by Peter Wittman , with a blithely dopey script by Glenn Allen Smith , pretty , polished cinematography by George Tirl , and a folksy , harmonic country score by Bob Pickering ( the funky Southern rock theme song in particular seriously smokes ) , this cheerfully lowbrow hayseed black comedy makes for a perfectly enjoyable diversion . Popping up in amusing supporting roles are Pat Paulsen as a lusty sheriff with the hots for Cora , George Gobel as an addled , doddering old priest , Ouida White as a daffy home buyer , and Patrick Tovatt as Cora's lazy , disgusting sleazeball brother . Best of all , the delectable Kennedy isn't the least bit bashful about baring her fine physique in a couple of yummy nude scenes . Troma offers a nice fullscreen presentation of this pleasingly silly hoot on a nifty DVD triple bill with the endearingly inane redneck romps " Preacherman " and " Hot Summer in Barefoot County . "
A laughably lousy slasher variant starring a lethal berserk baboon	Slice'n'dice fright flicks featuring glassy-eyed psycho fruitcake killers hacking up jerky teenagers with all the charisma and personality of used , parched Play Dough were all the rage in the 80's , so it was only a matter of time before some desperately reaching hack screenwriter decided to cook up a would-be " high concept " entry in the slasher horror sub-genre which substitutes a crazed , screeching bloodthirsty baboon for your usual insane , heavy-breathing sanguinary subhuman lunatic . " Shakma " is that film ; it's an often unintentionally uproarious riot that isn't scary for a minute , but does manage to be hugely amusing and entertaining straight-to-video trash just the same . A bunch of bonehead college students playing a Dungeon and Dragons-type game in a high rise medical research center are stalked and killed by the titular deranged simian . Directors Tom Logan and Hugh Parks wearily go through the shopworn body count paces without ever injecting any vitality or originality into the threadbare proceedings . Roger Engle's trite script likewise skimps on the novelty , with all the creativity beginning and ending with the central gimmick of replacing a madman with a mad monkey . The baboon itself , played by the loud , irritating , uglier-than-a-horse's-a Typhoon , proves to be more funny than fearsome ( the scenes with this shrieking beast running down the halls after its victims are absolutely sidesplitting ! ) . Most of the killings take place off screen and the gore is pretty mild . The irony of casting former " Planet of the Apes " series mainstay Roddy McDowell as your stereotypically well-meaning , but misguided scientist who's responsible for the whole bloody mess is a nice touch . The rest of the cast alas ain't so hot : onetime teen idol Christopher Atkins , the adorable Ari Meyers and Amanda Wyss ( Freddy Krueger's first victim in the original " A Nightmare on Elm Street " ) all fail to believably bring their roles to life . All that criticism aside , this honey still qualifies as a total gut-busting campy hoot .
A solid , satisfying and underrated sci-fi / horror sleeper	Stalwart Captain Hickock ( a solid and engaging performance by David Beecroft ) is sent to investigate the mysterious death of a member of a dream research project that's conducting experiments in a vast and isolated subterranean lab . Head scientist Dr . Van Fleet ( a brief , but cool appearance by the always terrific James Hong ) accidentally brings into our world a powerful deadly being with the scary ability to fatally use our worst fears against us . Writer / director J . S . Cardone , who also gave us the terrifically trashy " The Forsaken " and the pleasingly eerie " Wicked Little Things , " maintains a snappy pace throughout , stages the genuinely startling shock scenes with considerable harrowing aplomb , and does a deft job of effectively creating a clammy , creepy and downright unsettling nightmarish claustrophobic atmosphere . The strong cast qualifies as another major asset : Louise Fletcher as the mad Dr . Erhardt , Shawn Weatherly as the fetching Dr . Kidwell , Frederick Flynn as hearty computer technician Tommy Shivers , Lu Leonard as gruff cook Ms . Cutter , and Miguel A . Nunez Jr . as abjectly craven , spineless , sniveling janitor Wiley . Karen Grossman's dark , fluid , moody cinematography , Richard Band's supremely shuddery'n'spooky score , and Mark Shostrom's good'n'gruesome make-up f / x are all likewise on the money excellent and impressive . The gory murder set pieces hit the splattery spot with a perfectly grisly bull's eye . As a nice extra bonus , the lovely Maureen Flaherty as a sleeping psychic spends all of her screen time completely in the buff . A really nifty and unjustly neglected little low-budget sci-fi / horror winner .
A pleasant diversion	I own a G-rated alternate cut of this film entitled " The Treasure of Jamaica Reef ; " I watched it and found it to be a very pleasant and enjoyable diversion . A motley assortment of intrepid and adventurous divers who include Stephen Boyd as the laid-back leader , a pre - " Charlie's Angels " Cheryl Ladd as the token feisty hottie chick , the hulking Rosey Grier as a gregarious steamboat captain and Darby Hinton as a brash young kid go searching in the Caribbean sea for a sunken Spanish galleon which contains a fortune in gold coins . Naturally , finding said galleon and retrieving the coins proves to be an extremely difficult and challenging task . Virginia Stone's snappy direction , working from J . A . S . McCombie's lively , colorful script , keeps the nonstop pace hurtling along throughout , maintains a charmingly breezy'n'easy goofy tone , elicits spirited performances from an amiable cast , and stages several stirring action set pieces with considerable panache ( a rousing car chase , some rough'n'tumble fisticuffs and a thrilling beat-the-clock rescue operation are the definite highlights ) . The lovely , picturesque widescreen cinematography ( the underwater photography is especially breathtaking and impressive ) , the gorgeous Jamiacan locations , Christopher Stone's bouncy score , and the spectacular sight of the tiny , delectable Ms . Ladd in a skimpy bikini further add to the infectiously frothy merriment . An engagingly silly and good-natured piece of lightweight fluff .
An incredibly awful ( and hilarious ) 70's blaxploitation hoot	Successful and respected black doctor Kenneth Kincade ( the hopelessly wooden J . Walter Smith , who comes across like a poor man's William Marshall ) and his family move into an affluent California suburb populated by grotesquely hateful and intolerant evil snobby white jerks . Said jerks not only protest in front of the Kincade's house and leave a coffin on the front lawn , but also string up the family's pet cat after they brutally butcher the poor kitty . Dr . Kincade enlists the aid of bold and fearsome black militant Abar ( bald , charismatic Tobar Mayo ) and his followers to protect his family . After his son gets killed by the vile racists , Dr . Kincade injects Abar with an experimental serum that makes him indestructible and gives him special psychic powers . Sporting an immaculate blue suit and red shirt , Abar decides to clean up the streets : Among the good deeds he performs are turning wine into milk , making a purse snatcher return his stolen item to its rightful owner , forcing a bunch of graffiti artists to repaint a wall they just defaced , and , best of all , unleashing a hurricane and plague of rats on the wholly deserving Caucasian villains . Boy , is this one fabulously freaky and stunningly clunky micro-budget blaxploitation oddity : Frank Packard's plodding ( mis ) direction , James Smalley's talky , yet genuinely offbeat and unpredictable script , the authentically grimy inner city Los Angeles locations , the endearingly amateurish acting by a no-name cast ( Roxie Young as Ms . Kincade cops the grand booby prize ; check out her big crack-up scene after discovering the mangled body of her murdered son ) , Ron Garcia's rough , static cinematography , the infrequent ineptly staged action scenes , the funky 70's TV cop show-style score , and the totally unexpected from out in left field uplifting conclusion all make this deliciously loopy doozy one of the single most gloriously weird and original jaw-droppers produced during the 70's blaxploitation craze . Must be seen to be ( dis ) believed .
A fun 70's redneck drive-in exploitation flick	Rugged ace stunt driver Clay McCarthy ( a not half bad performance by the Duke's son Patrick Wayne ) , his shy , amiable aspiring country singer brother Dale ( affable Mitch Vogel ) , and their hot babe sister Sugar ( super cutie Lindsay Bloom ) are held up and have their van stolen by a trio of escaped convicts while driving through the Lone Star State en route to Nashville . While waiting for ornery , ineffectual sheriff R . G . Armstrong to find their van , the unlucky threesome decide to work as farm hands for arrogant , overbearing , ill-tempered rich jerk John Hunter ( huffy ham Cameron Mitchell at his most cranky and disagreeable ) . Clay develops a hankering for Hunter's sweet , lovely daughter Claudia ( appealingly essayed by fetching " Three's Company " TV series regular Priscilla Barnes ) , Dale falls for the sheriff's forward , lascivious daughter Karen ( mouth-wateringly sumptuous eyeful Kathy O'Dare ) , and Sugar romances nice guy gas station attendant Billy ( likable lunk Michael Mullins ) . Unfortunately , Hunter's vile degenerate son Beau ( a truly creepy portrayal by veteran B-movie baddie Anthony James ) also wants to get in Sugar's pants , which leads to Beau savagely raping the hapless lass . After Beau gets fatally knifed in a bar fight , the blame naturally falls on Clay , who with Dale , Suger and Claudia in tow goes on the lam as a wanted fugitive . Compactly written and capably directed by the always dependably sleazy seasoned exploitation filmmaker Hikmet Avedis , " Texas Detour " covers all the necessary bases to quality as a sound and satisfying Southern-fried drive-in trash romp : a reasonably swift pace , randy rolls in the hay with luscious good ol ' gals and boys , tasty honeys parading about in severely cut denim hot pants and tightly tied blouses with no bras underneath , dippy dialogue ( " I'm so hungry I could eat one of these horses " ) , a ridiculously convoluted and meandering narrative , a typically heavy-handed young folks gotta do their own free-spirited thing central message , solid , sparkling ultra-bright cinematography by Massoud Joseph , a clutch of lively , crackling rock tunes by ex-Turtles and former Frank Zappa back-up singers Flo and Eddie , a gratuitous musical interlude at a seedy tavern that's immediately followed by a rowdy barroom brawl , beautiful bucolic scenery , a few rousing motorcycle chases , an amusingly dopey climactic car chase which comes complete with a nifty van jumping over a bridge gag , and , of course , the senseless destruction of several police cars , and , best of all , the delectable Priscilla Barnes baring her gorgeous body in a much appreciated protracted topless scene . What's not to like ?
A creepy , bizarre and highly effective Japanese horror oddity	A yacht containing seven people gets damaged in a severe storm and winds up on a deserted island . The shipwreck survivors run afoul of both poisonous mushrooms that cause them to mutate and grotesque humanoid fungi monsters that inhabit the place . While the premise sounds laughable and ridiculous , this film works remarkably well thanks to Ishiro Honda's capable direction , an initially light and breezy tone which becomes more progressively dark , despairing and nightmarish as the absorbingly strange story unfolds , Hajime Koizuma's bright , fluid , polished cinematography , the stunningly hideous make-up effects , the believably drawn characters , Sadao Bekku's brooding gloom-doom score , the deliciously spooky and mysterious atmosphere , convincing performances by the sturdy cast , Takeshi Kimura's intriguing and wildly imaginative script , and a potent and provocative central theme on how such basic human weaknesses as lust , greed and selfishness sow the seeds of man's ruination . Offbeat , original and well worth checking out .
A nice'n'slimy serving of nasty Italian Nazisploitation sleaze	Compassionate Maria Black ( well played by the lovely Lorraine De Salle ) is forced to work as a medical assistant at a Nazi concentration camp and witnesses firsthand the various brutal and inhumane scientific experiments being conducted by the Third Reich at the place . Director / co-writer Bruno Mattei delivers the lowdown harsh , grimy and appalling goods in an unflinchingly graphic and upsetting manner : Among the foul stuff to relish herein are naked women being severely whipped , a lady have her uterus surgically removed so it can be transplanted in a sterile woman , ladies being put to death in a gas chamber , a frozen guy getting revived by the sexual body heat of a hot nude prostitute ( he of course then makes love to said hooker ! ) , an unsuccessful attempt at curing gay men of their homosexuality , one poor gal slowly dying after being shot with a poisoned bullet , and several vile rapes . Moreover , we also get some lesbianism , a catfight , and plenty of full frontal female nudity . The despicable Nazi swine villains make for a memorably hateful rogues ' gallery : Ivano Staccioli as the cruel , unhinged Commander Wieker , Ria De Simone as the predatory chief capo Marta , Giovanni Attanasio as the bald , cackling , depraved cretin Kurt , and Gabriele Carrara as the sadistic Oberleutnant Otto Ohlendorff . Sonia Viviani contributes a solid supporting performance as fetching and fragile female prisoner Cristina . Alessandro Alessandroni's moody , shivery score , the grim , humorless tone , Luigi Ciccarese's slick , yet grotty and washed-out cinematography , and the uncompromisingly downbeat bummer ending all further enhance the unsparingly bleak and depressing atmosphere of this perfectly ugly and offensive piece of deplorable trash .
A surprisingly solid and enjoyable belated sequel	Still severely traumatized by his near fatal run-in with deranged roving serial killer John Ryder , Jim Halsey ( ably reprised by C . Thomas Howell ) decides to surmount his demons by returning back to the lonely stretch of West Texas backroads where the initial agonizing ordeal occurred . Jim's gutsy and loving girlfriend Maggie ( an engagingly feisty Kari Wuhrer ) tags along for moral support . The pair encounter another shrewd psychotic hitchhiker named Jack ( essayed with marvelously maniacal relish by Jake Busey ) , who naturally proceeds to put Jim and Maggie through absolute nerve-shredding bloody hell . This belated straight-to-video follow-up turns out to be a surprisingly solid , suspenseful and satisfying sequel : It's directed with style and gusto to burn by Louis Morneau ( who previously scored with the superlative " Retroactive " ) , acted with comparable aplomb by the entire cast , with sumptuously adept , gliding , sinuous cinematography by George Mooradian , a bracingly swift rat-a-tat-tat pace that never drags for a second , a shivery , pile-driving score by Joe Kraemer , a considerable amount of gut-ripping tension , a sharply sardonic sense of humor , and a hair-raising lump-in-your-throat shoot-the-fireworks bravura action finale . A surefire winner that almost matches the sterling quality of the simply astonishing original , this honey's a whole lot better than expected and definitely worth checking out .
A nifty little Italian monster horror picture	Best-selling horror novelist Cheryl ( a solid and sympathetic performance by the lovely Virginia Bryant ) , her husband Tom ( the likable Paolo Serra ) , and their son Bobby ( nicely played by Patrizio Vinci ) go to a remote castle located in the countryside for summer vacation . Local legend claims that the area is cursed . Cheryl discovers a creepy , hairy , nasty ogre ( hulking David Flosi in a strikingly hideous costume ) living in the basement . Cheryl has to surmount her deep-seated childhood fear of the beast so she can defeat the foul find . Director / co-writer Lamberto Bava does an expert job of creating and sustaining an eerie and unnerving nightmarish mood . Moreover , Bava eschews the standard blood'n'guts fright flick routine in favor of crafting a compelling and provocative dark adult fairytale-like fable on how the best way to overcome that which frightens us is to face said source head on . Sturdy supporting turns by Sabrina Ferilli as friendly school teacher Anna , Stefania Montorsi as hottie babysitter Maria , and Alex Serra as batty painter Dario . Gianfranco Transunto's glossy cinematography boasts a few fluid tracking shots and plenty of great atmospheric lighting . Fabrizio Sforza's gnarly make-up f / x , Simon Boswell's splendidly spirited spooky'n'shuddery score , and the dank , dark , cobweb-covered cellar set all hit the skin-crawling spot . Well worth watching .
A pleasingly nasty'n'scuzzy piece of low-grade biker trash from the always reliable Al Adamson	This fabulously fetid flick may very well be the foulest , most offensive and utterly insalubrious hunk of disgusting biker exploitation junk to ever ooze its vile way onto celluloid . In fact , if this wonderfully rancid cheeseball was any more slimy and abhorrent , the negative would probably have fungus growing all over it . A thoroughly despicable gang of cheerfully repugnant Harley hounds led by a deliciously hammy Russ Tamblyn kill old geezers Kent Taylor and Scott Brady . They incur the wrath of take-charge , no-nonsense Vietnam veteran Gary Kent , spike a group of young girls ' coffee with LSD and rape ' em while they're tripping , and generally conduct themselves in a rather distasteful , anti-social and unruly manner which could be most politely described as somewhat lacking in proper decorum . The remarkable Regina Carrol really ignites the screen with her searing portrayal of Tamblyn's delectable motorcycle mama Gina , " the freak-out girl " ( Carrol's slutty tabletop dance at a grungy diner rates as a definite highlight ) . Future schlock movie director Greydon ( " Without Warning " ) Clark also scores with his offbeat turn as Acid , a doped out of his skull biker whose brain has become irrevocably addled due to the ingestion of far too many sunshine tablets . Fellow future schlock movie director John " Bud " Cardos likewise impresses as Mohawk-sporting Native American biker Firewater . Gary Graver's chintzy cinematography captures the assorted sordid antics in all their ghastly glory . The opening credits theme song " Satan " smokes in no uncertain terms : " I was born mean / By the time I was twelve I was killin ' / Killin ' for Satan " . This inarguable sludgewad masterpiece was made by the late , great Al Adamson , who also blessed us with such choice nickel'n'dime drive-in dross as " Dracula vs . Frankenstein , " " The Female Bunch , " and " Death Dimension . "
A solid and satisfying 60's soft-core sexploitation melodrama from the ever-reliable Joe Sarno	Shrewd , unhappy and pragmatic housewife and part-time stenographer Joan Rand ( excellently played by sultry brunette Tammy Latour ) starts her own suburban prostitution ring that caters to a rich clientèle . Pretty soon Joan has a booming business on her hands . Meanwhile her drunken neglected husband has an affair with his enticing 18-year-old babysitter . Writer / director Joe Sarno crafts a wickedly smart and insightful portrait of the naughty things that go on underneath the respectable veneer of staid upper-class small town America ; he also maintains a steady snappy pace throughout and coaxes solid acting from a sturdy cast . Fine supporting performances by John Aristedes as smug , arrogant golf pro Al Jordan , Joe Santos ( Lt . Dennis Becker on " The Rockford Files " ) as a weary vice detective , and the adorably slinky Jan Nash as the luscious Nancy Preston , who becomes the most prized and desired girl in Joan's stable . The ravishing Fatima does a smoking hot belly dance at a wild poolside stag party . The crisp color cinematography by Jerry Kalogeratos and Anthony Lover gives the picture an attractive polished look . Stan Free's great boppin ' jazzy lounge score and the cool swingin ' theme song both really hit the groovy spot . While the film's content is decidedly mild , there's still a nice racy vibe which permeates the engrossingly sordid story and thus makes this movie a good deal of entertainingly tawdry fun .
A total trashy hoot	Celebrity impressionist Carl C . Clooney ( a marvelously manic Michael Pataki ) , hulking aggressive rapist Dick Peters ( Bob Minor in peak lecherous form ) , and gay Bruce Wilson ( the supremely wacky Stephen Stucker of " Airplane ! " fame ) are a trio of dangerous sexual deviates who escape from an asylum for the criminally insane . The demented threesome head towards an all-girls school for some depraved carnal fun . Director / co-writer Gregory Corarito loads this enjoyably nutty comedic romp with plenty of blithely lowbrow raunchy humor , doesn't skimp on the tasty female nudity , and elicits zesty performances from a game cast of familiar 70's exploitation cinema regulars . The ladies in particular are incredibly hot and appealing : radiant Irish redhead Sharon Kelly has a ball as feisty martial artist Greta , Jane Steele is absolutely adorable as the cute Betsy , Zoe Grant likewise impresses as foxy gym instructor Ms . Crowley , and legendary busty pin-up model Roberta Pedon almost steals the whole show as the luscious Carla . Popping up in cool supporting parts are the ubiquitous George " Buck " Flower as grubby , henpecked farmer Earl , John Alderman as uptight principal Dr . Baxter , and 70's trailer voice guy Ron Gans as a television newscaster . The tasteless jokes about rape are admittedly crude , but still quite hysterically funny all the same . Other sleazy highlights include a regrettably brief lesbian scene and a strenuous knock-down drag-out no-holds-barred catfight . The funky score by Randy Johnson and Fred Selden hits the groovy spot . Louis Horvath's rough , gritty , but fairly polished cinematography does the trick as well . A real gut-busting riot .
A fun'n'funky 70's blaxploitation horror flick	New Orleans , 1942 : Vicious , abusive hoodlum J . D . Walker ( a sneering , splendidly nasty turn by David McNight ) slices a woman's throat with a switchblade , then gets promptly shot dead for committing the brutal , heinous misdeed . Cut to New Orleans in 1976 : Sweet , likable , struggling law student Ike ( frequent second banana co-star actor Glynn Turman , giving a fine , engaging performance in a rare substantial lead part ) is possessed by J . D . ' s malevolent , vindictive spirit , which transforms Ike from a harmless , mild-mannered college kid into a vile , lethal , womanizing , straight razor-toting cad who exacts a terrible revenge upon all those individuals responsible for J . D . ' s untimely demise . One of the best , most frightening and effective entries in the short-lived 70's blaxploitation horror craze ( prime examples of this nifty sub-genre include both " Blacula " movies , " Abby , " and " Sugar Hill " ) , " J . D . ' s Revenge " emphasizes mood over violence , with seasoned B-picture veteran Arthur ( " Bonnie's Kids , " " Bucktown " ) Marks ' typically sturdy , stylish , self-assured direction and Jaison Starkes ' craftily plotted script deftly milking the creepy , mysterious , unsettling Southern Gothic-style ambiance for all its worth . Said scary gloom-doom tone , further reinforced by a vivid evocation of that uniquely lazy , luscious and exotic Big Easy atmosphere and Marks ' ever dark sense of humor , insinuates itself upon the viewer in a low-key , yet forceful manner . The always great Louis Gossett , Jr . offers a dazzling , dynamic portrayal of Elijah Bliss , a flashy , grand-standing , two-faced preacherman with something to hide . The lovely Joan Pringle is strong and sympathetic as Ike's concerned girlfriend Christella . Harry May's gorgeous , polished cinematography gives the film a sumptuous professional sheen which totally bellies the low budget . The eerie , groovy , understated score by Robert Prince ( who also co-wrote the forgettable ending credits theme song " I'll Never Let You Go " ) is likewise on the money fine . Reportedly one of Samuel Jackson's longtime favorite movies , this baby rates as a real nice one all around . And Turman does wonders in a touch , demanding part ; ironically , Turman was ultimately dissatisfied with how the film turned out .
A deliciously cheesy chunk of early 80's low-budget sword and sorcery sleaze	Muscular blond-maned wannabe heroic scruffy barbarian Deathstalker ( the hunky Rick Hill ) gets assigned by the all powerful King Tulak to rescue his lovely fair maiden daughter Princess Codille ( stunningly beautiful'n'bountiful Playboy Playmate Barbi Benton ) from the vile clutches of evil sorcerer Oghris ( a delectably hammy performance by Richard Brooker ; Jason in " Friday the 13th Part III " ) . Aiding Deathstalker on his dangerous mission are lecherous wizard Munkar ( the funny Bernard Erhard ) , brawny mercenary Kang ( dorky Victor Bo ) , and feisty warrior babe Kaira ( the luscious Lana Clarkson ) . Director James Sbardellatti , working from a blithely low-brow script by Howard R . Cohen ( who also wrote " Unholy Rollers " and " Space Raiders " ) , loads this delightfully cheap'n'cheesy sleaze exploitation sword and sorcery fantasy romp with a tasty plenitude of gratuitous nudity ( both Barbi and Lana bare their hot bods ) , ineptly staged swordfights , mudwrestling half-naked slave girls , a reasonable amount of bloody violence , a kung-fu fight , and even a huge hulking humanoid pigman freak . Sure , this hilariously dopey dreck definitely ain't no work of sophisticated cinematic art , but it still does the trick just the same as a pleasingly trashy little hoot .
An enjoyably over-the-top sequel to the excellent original	This jaunty , ultra-violent sequel to the top-drawer original has the titular nasty extraterrestrial ( the massive Kevin Peter Hall ; the murderous mutant bear in " Prophecy " ) hunting for hapless'n'helpless human prey in bleakly futuristic Los Angeles , which by 1997 has been turned into a brutal and chaotic urban war zone hell that's practically run by two opposing drug cartels . Out to bag the pernicious intergalactic fiend are loose cannon maverick cop Mike Harrison ( a game portrayal by Danny Glover ) and arrogant military scientist Keyes ( a typically lively performance by the ever-crazed Gary Busey ) . Although completely predictable and pretty mindless , " Predator 2 " nonetheless still sizes up as an enjoyably over-the-top sci-fi / action item thanks to Stephen Hopkins ' brisk , stylish direction , first-rate make-up f / x by Stan Winston , a stirring score by Alan Silvestri , wall-to-wall in-your-face explosive action set pieces , a breathless frenetic pace , and plenty of excessive graphic splatter . The capable and interesting supporting cast qualifies as another substantial asset : Ruben Blades as Harrison's amiable partner Danny , Maria Conchita Alonso as foulmouthed female flatfoot Leona , the always delightfully dynamic Bill Paxton as cocksure badge bandit Jerry Lambert , Robert Davi as jerk fed Heineman , Calvin Lockhart as flamboyant Jamaican drug lord King Willie ( his back alley confrontation with the Predator is one of the picture's definite highlights ) , veteran character actress Lilyan Chauvan ( Mother Superior in the splendidly sleazy sicko Santa slasher classic " Silent Night , Deadly Night " ) as a stern coroner ( Lilyan easily cops the film's best line when she explains that one victim was " boned like a fish " ) , and , in an especially adroit piece of casting , infamously odious tabloid TV talk show host Morton Downey , Jr . as obnoxious loudmouth reporter Tony Pope . Foxy popular porn star Teri Weigel briefly appears clad solely in her birthday suit . Good , trashy fun .
An enjoyable 50's sci-fi / horror outing	Evil invisible aliens resurrect the dead in order to take over the Earth . It's up to an intrepid handful of folks to figure out a way to stop them before it's too late . Competently directed by Edward L . Cahn , with a steady pace , a roaring melodramatic score by Paul Dunlap , a reasonable amount of spooky atmosphere , a pleasingly tight 67 minute running time , nifty and acceptable low-fi special effects , crisp black and white cinematography by Maury Gertsman , a nice sense of mounting dread , and cool moments of mass destruction , this modest , yet effective affair makes for an entertaining quickie romp . The sound acting from an able cast helps a lot , with especially praiseworthy work by John Agar as the rugged , no-nonsense Major Bruce Jay , Philip Tonge as the weary , disillusioned Dr . Adam Penner , Jim Hutton as the stalwart Dr . John Lamont , and Jean Byron as Penner's fetching daughter Phyllis . The ubiquitous John Carradine only appears briefly as the ill-fated Dr . Karol Noymann , but both his gaunt , cadaverous face and deep , gloomy voice are put to satisfyingly creepy use . Moreover , the central plot serves as a neat precursor to " Night of the Living Dead ; " the shots of pasty-faced zombies trudging across the landscape are pretty eerie and impressive . A fun fright flick .
A solid and enjoyable Hammer vampire outing	Gerald Harcourt ( affable Steven de Souza ) and his wife Marianne ( fetching Jennifer Daniel ) are two newlyweds who experience car trouble in a remote rural area . They seek refuge in a nearby small village . While staying in the village the Harcourts meet one Dr . Ravna ( the extremely suave Noel Willman ) . Unbeknownst to the Harcourts , Dr . Ravna is really the leader of a deadly vampire cult that includes his son Carl ( dashing Barry Warren ) and daughter Sabena ( the ravishing Jacquie Wallis ) . Director Don Sharp keeps the stately pace steady throughout and ably creates a pleasingly misty'n'spooky atmosphere . de Souza and Daniel make for very charming leads ; they receive excellent support from Clifford Evans as boozy , yet austere vampire killer Professor Zimmer , Peter Madden as friendly innkeeper Bruno , and Isobel Black as Bruno's vampire daughter Tania . The scene were Zimmer has to cauterize his bitten hand over a roaring flame is especially memorable . A lavish costume party rates as another definite highlight . Alan Hume's crisp color cinematography ( the artful use of fades and dissolves is highly impressive ) , James Bernard's lush orchestral score , and the stirring conclusion round off the goodies to be relished in this immensely entertaining romp .
Samuel Jackson and Christina Ricci are both outstanding in this strong and poignant tale of sin and redemption	Reclusive and angry former blues singer turned farmer Lazarus ( superbly played by the always excellent Samuel L . Jackson ) is in a hurting way after his wife Rose leaves him after twelve years of unhappy marriage . Brassy and tormented trampy white trash nymphomaniac Rae ( a remarkably raw and startling performance by Christina Ricci ) sure ain't feeling too good , either . Lazrus finds Rae's battered body on the side of the road . After nursing her back to health , Lazarus chains Rae to his radiator in order to help the troubled lass overcome her demons . Writer / director Craig Brewer uses the potentially lurid and tasteless premise to spin a surprisingly potent and poignant tale of sin , redemption and the intrinsic fallibility of human nature . Rae and Lazarus are two lost and broken souls who help each other heal and become whole again . Jackson and Ricci are terrific in the leads , with equally strong support from Justin Timberlake as Rae's loyal , long-suffering boyfriend Ronnie , S . Epatha Merkerson as Lazarus ' helpful lady friend Angela , John Cothran Jr . as the compassionate Reverend R . L . , and onetime 70's child actress Kim Richards as Rae's bitter estranged mother Sandy . The vividly brooding and flavorsome Southern Gothic atmosphere , Amy Vincent's polished cinematography , Scott Bomar's moody score and the first-rate soulful blues soundtrack are all likewise on the money as well . As an added treat , Jackson growls out a few fantastic get-down gritty blues numbers and Ricci even sings a touchingly sweet rendition of the gospel tune " This Little Light of Mine . " Offbeat , inspired and original , " Black Snake Moan " overall qualifies as an extremely moving , compelling and provocative winner .
An excellent and unjustly overlooked early 60's Cold War era drama sleeper	This extremely chilling and quietly powerful early 60's doomsday drama benefits substantially from Frank Perry's intelligent , understated direction , Eleanor Perry's equally smart and perceptive script , and the uniformly outstanding acting from an exceptional mostly kid cast . An alarm signifying an imminent nuclear bombing sounds off at a remote rural school . The school's principal ( future " St . Elsewhere " TV series regular William Daniels in his fine film debut ) has the teachers walk all the students home so they can seek shelter from the fall-out in the cellars of their parents ' homes . One obnoxiously bratty and overbearing girl allows five other kids to reside in her parents ' shelter , but refuses to let another girl she doesn't like in . This selfish action begets tragic consequences . The serious and starkly realistic tone vividly evokes the pervasive unease and paranoia of early 60's Cold War era America , the gradually mounting tension thankfully eschews hysterics in favor of a more organic and restrained feeling of encroaching dread , the assorted kids ' reactions are totally plausible and astutely observed ( the older ones instantly become aware of how awful the impending blast is while the younger tykes are blissfully ignorant of the whole crushing ordeal ) , and the ingenious ploy of having children face up to a situation of overwhelming gravity on their own gives the overall movie an intimate and very gut-wrenching emotional immediacy that's believable , engrossing , and ultimately quite devastating ( the downbeat ending in particular packs a strong and lingering punch ) . Inspired by actual events , this unjustly neglected sleeper deserves to be a lot better known .
A nifty Mexican sci-fi / horror outing	In a bleak near future the world has really gone to seed due to severe pollution . Toxic smog , acid rain , and grotesquely mutated animals are all direct results of this environmental decay . Ruthless industrialist Roberto Cervantes ( a nicely reprehensible portrayal by Gerardo Albarran ) makes matters worse by illegally dumping plutonium . Sweet , but feisty school teacher Irina ( a fine performance by the fetching Rosanna San Juan ) and kindly professor Axel ( winningly played by Miguel Angel Rodriguez ) try to stop Cervantes . Moreover , a giant lethal humanoid rat runs amok in Irina's house . Director Ruben Galindo , Jr . relates the interesting story at a steady pace , creates a substantial amount of tension ( the last third is especially stirring and suspenseful ) , and stages the rat attack scenes with considerable flair to spare . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly sound acting from a capable cast , Javier Cruz , Jr . ' s polished cinematography ( the Dutch camera angles and use of hand-held camera are both very neat and impressive ) , the funky guy-in-a-hairy-suit creature , Federico Chavez's rattling , shuddery score , an excellent and exciting protracted knock-down , drag-out , no-holds-barred rough'n'tumble fight between Axel and Cervantes , and the strong anti-pollution message . A fun flick .
A wonderfully wacky 70's car chase comedy	A wacky , sprightly and thoroughly enjoyable pre - " Repo Man " car repossession nab ' em , chase ' em and crash ' em comic caper yarn that's set in ritzy Beverly Hills and infused with a distinctly easy'n'breezy sense of extremely 70's nutty irreverent humor . Darren McGavin , as chronically crusty , frazzled , excitable , irascible and delightful as ever , stars as Michael Nolan , a square , sadsack , perpetually luckless straight-arrow middle-aged loser who's jobless , penniless and down on his luck . Nolan stumbles his way into employment working as a repo man for a loopy carjacker outfit run by the bawdy , lusty , sharp-tongued Flo ( Sylvia Miles in top-rate raunchy form ) . Nolan befriends and learns the ropes from sassy , spunky , smart-mouthed , fiercely self-reliant 16-year-old tomboy " Larry " ( saucily played by the Joe Fosterish Denise Nickerson ; the gum-chewing Violet in " Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory " ) . Complications ensue when Nolan falls for kooky , vampy , vivacious brunette spitfire Gloria ( a nicely flaky turn by the stunningly elegant and voluptuous Joan Collins ) , a hot mama in a smoking silver Trans Am that Larry is itching to boost . Directed with invigorating panache by Don Weis , further galvanized by John Beal's funky , syncopated , lowdown groovy disco score , a pleasingly zany tone , several rousing and capably executed car stunts , W . Lyle Richardson's tart script , a zippy pace , zingy slang-loaded dialogue ( " Let's pop that hop " ) , Don Birnkrant's whiplash-inducing cinematography , a seriously cool theme song , and the expected metal-mangling vehicular carnage , " Zero to Sixty " bristles with lots of souped-up brio and vitality , making a swift 96 minutes rip along at a dizzyingly breakneck clip . It's a testament to McGavin's remarkable talent that he effortlessly manages to create a winningly hapless and harried character amid all the frantic nonstop tomfoolery . Moreover , McGavin's terrific star performance receives able support from Miles , Collins , Nickerson , the Hudson Brothers as a trio of super-slick wiseguy hipsters , Lorraine Gary ( Roy Scheider's wife in the " Jaws " movies ) as a perky late-night diner waitress , and David Huddleston as a cantankerous millionaire . Ebullient , cheeky and buoyed by an infectiously carefree playfulness , this immensely lively little number roars across the screen in a most entertainingly goofy and dynamic manner .
An enjoyable slice of giallo Eurotrash fun	A vicious killer brutally bumps off prostitutes at a swanky Paris bordello run by the stern Madame Colette ( the lovely Anita Ekberg ) . The hard-boiled Inspector Pontaine ( an amusing performance by Humphrey Bogart impersonator Robert Sacchi ) investigates the murders . Propable suspects include the hot-headed Antoine Gottvalles ( moody Peter Martell ) , smarmy nightclub owner Pepi ( slimy Rolf Eden ) , and sinister Professor Waldemar ( Jess Franco film regular Howard Vernon ) . Director Ferdinando Merighi maintains a snappy pace throughout as well as delivers a smattering of sleazy soft-core sex , a sprinkling of tasty gratuitous female nudity , and a few dollops of tacky gore ( a couple of cheesy decapitations rate as the definite splatter highlights ) . Moreover , Merighi stages the grisly murder set pieces with deliciously garish psychedelic stylistic aplomb . The always welcome and enticing presences of beautiful cult Eurobabe starlets Barbara ( " Don't Torture A Duckling " ) Bouchet , Rosalba ( " The Arena " ) Neri , and Evelyn ( " The Mighty Peking Man " ) Kraft qualifies as another substantial asset . The polished cinematography by Mario Mancini and Gunter Otto makes nifty occasional use of a hand-held camera . Bruno Nicolai's pretty and melodic , yet groovy and jazzy score really hits the funky spot . Italian peblum muscleman star Gordon Mitchell pops up in a bit part as a nightclub patron . Good , trashy fun .
An amusingly bad and absurd piece of horror exploitation schlock	Suave and charming Count Frankenstein ( Rossano Brazzi , who surprisingly keeps his dignity and a straight face throughout ) kicks depraved , perverted , sniveling dwarf Genz ( the great Michael Dunn in his ignominious final film role ) out of his castle for being a disgusting little degenerate creep . Genz befriends Ook the Neanderthal man ( brilliantly played with grunting'n'growling primitive aplomb by Boris Lugosi ) and plots his revenge . Director Robert H . Oliver , working from an outrageously lurid and ridiculous script , puts an entertainingly crude and leering emphasis on sleazy sensationalism : there's a substantial smattering of gratuitous nudity ( the stunningly comely Christiane Royce warrants special kudos in this particular department ) , voyeurism , rape , necrophilia , softcore sex , and even a hunchback who enjoys rough sex ( thankfully this latter one occurs off-screen ) . Marcello Gigante's laughably inappropriate swingin ' lounge score is pretty funny . A big knock-down , drag-out , no-holds-barred climactic fight between Ook and Frankenstein's enormous hulk of a monster Goliath ( brawny behemoth Loren Bwing ) is likewise totally hilarious . Poor Edmond Purdom merely takes up place in an insignificant supporting part as an ineffectual constable . Heavy-handed morale : " There's a bit of a monster in all of us . Especially when there's fear . " A campy hoot .
A nifty indie horror winner	19-year-old teenager Claire Parker ( a strong and engaging performance by the pretty Lauren Currie Lewis ) has nightmarish premonitions of her forthcoming savage death at the evil hands of vicious killer Duke Desmond ( a superbly creepy portrayal by Chris Ferry ) . Can Claire avoid this grisly fate or is she destined to be horribly murdered ? Writers and director Joshua and Jeffrey Crook do an expert job of creating and sustaining a powerfully eerie and unsettling mood , relate the absorbing story at a steady pace , skillfully develop a good deal of suspense , and pull off a total whammy of a startling surprise twist ending . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly sound acting from a capable cast : Lewis makes for a highly sympathetic heroine , Ferry likewise impresses as one genuinely scary crazed psycho , plus there are nice supporting turns by Cody Darbe as Claire's jerky , amorous boyfriend Jimmy , John P . Miller as the skeptical Sheriff Miller , Maureen Olander as Claire's weary mother , and Jessica DeLong as Claire's spunky best gal pal Jen . Evan Wilson's spirited shivery'n'spooky score does the skin-crawling trick . John Barrett Ashmore's polished cinematography , the flavorsome evocation of the rural region , the tight 80 minute running time , a cool alternative rock soundtrack , and several shocking outbursts of brutal violence ( the face peeling scene is especially nasty ) all further enhance the overall fine quality of this pleasingly trim , tense and truly terrifying low-budget fright feature sleeper .
A creepy , perverse and underrated early 80's horror sleeper	Los Angeles TV news reporter Jennifer ( the beautiful Barbara Bach of " The Spy Who Loved Me " fame ) and her two assistants Karen ( the appealingly spunky Karen Lamm ) and Vicki ( the pretty Lois Young , who not only gets killed first , but also bares her yummy bod in a tasty gratuitous nude bath scene ) go to Solvang , California to cover an annual Danish festival . Since all the local hotels are booked solid , the three lovely ladies are forced to seek room and board at a swanky , but foreboding remote mansion owned by freaky Ernest Keller ( deliciously played to geeky perfection by the late , great Sydney Lassick ) and his meek sister Virginia ( a solid Lelia Goldoni ) . Unfortunately , Keller has one very nasty and lethal dark family secret residing in his dank basement : a portly , pathetic , diapered , incest-spawned man-child Mongoloid named Junior ( an alternately touching and terrifying portrayal by Stephen Furst ; Flounder in " Animal House " ) , who naturally gets loose and wreaks some murderous havoc . Capably directed by Danny Steinmann , with uniformly fine acting from a sturdy cast , a compellingly perverse plot , excellent make-up by Craig Reardon , a nicely creepy atmosphere , a wonderfully wild climax , a slow , but steady pace , likable well-drawn characters , and a surprisingly heart-breaking final freeze frame ( the incest subplot packs an unexpectedly strong and poignant punch ) , this unjustly overlooked early 80's psycho sleeper is well worth checking out .
A deliciously cheesy serving of low-budget horror trash	Man , I can't believe the largely harsh and negative comments for this movie . Okay , it sure ain't no sophisticated work of cinematic art . But it is a good deal of entertainingly tacky fun . For starters , the titular pumpkin-headed supernatural killer dude has to be one of the single most laughably silly and unscary things to ever stumble in front of a camera ; he looks like something you would see in a fourth-rate carnival spookhouse . Secondly , the moderate gore is ridiculously fake and unconvincing , with the definite highlight occurring when this annoying uptight ultra-conservative woman gets electrocuted by a toaster . Then there's the always welcome presence of the ever-lovely Linnea Quigley , who's memorably introduced taking a nice , long , utterly gratuitous shower that goes on for two minutes . Amazingly , we also have appearances by deceased schlock picture legends John Carradine as an evil warlock and Cameron Mitchell as a horror TV show host . Moreover , scream queens Brinke Stevens and Dawn Wildsmith have fleeting cameos . Lead child actor Ryan Latshaw projects all the charm and acting ability of a moldy old tree stump . Pretty brunette Rachel Carter pops her top and bares her cute little breasts . The cruddy special effects are decidedly less than special . The score is suitably overwrought . Yet this film overall has a certain endearingly hokey appeal to it which in turn makes this honey a real delectably cheesy hoot to watch .
Not your run of the mill vampire horror picture . A fresh , interesting and genuinely inspired take on the bloodsucker premise	Brilliant , but eccentric scientist Dr . John Alcore ( the always marvelous Christopher Plummer ) hires nice guy virus expert and pharmaceutical genius Owen Urban ( an engaging portrayal by Andrew Stevens ) to help him with his groundbreaking experiments on genetic engineering and life extension at his clinic the Life Research Foundation . Owen discovers to his shock and dismay that Alcore and his associates have inadvertently become infected with a lethal new virus that has extremely dangerous side effects : folks with the bizarre blood disease have increased strength , an aversion to sunlight , and an insatiable appetite for human blood . In other words , they are basically vampires . Matters are further complicated when perky volunteer subject Paula ( a fearlessly wild and crazed turn by the lovely Heather Thomas ) becomes infected and goes murderously around the bend . Ably directed with tremendous style and verve by David Blyth , with a fresh , witty and intelligent script by Alan Moyle which offers a clever , original and even pretty plausible " Coma " - style medical thriller take on the concept of vampirism , slick cinematography by Ludek Bogner , a snappy pace , a spooky , stirring synthesizer score by Jim Manzie , plenty of wickedly funny dialogue ( " Yes , I'm a blood user , but I adore garlic and hate sleeping in coffins " ) , and an appropriately creepy and sinister tone , " Red Blooded American Girl " deserves praise for doing something refreshingly different and unconventional with your standard vampire premise . The cast in particular warrant kudos for their uniformly excellent acting ; Kim Coates makes an especially strong impression as Alcore's pathetic , predatory jerk of an obnoxious assistant and ravishing French redhead hottie supreme Lydie Denier has a memorably sexy'n'sultry cameo as a young woman Dennis has his wicked way with after making love to her first . There are some cool kinky touches featured throughout as well , such as Dennis masturbating in a hot tub with a bag of blood and Paula gleefully caressing herself with a steak knife . Offbeat , intriguing and well worth a look .
A strong , tense and gripping thriller	Sleazy , smarmy and arrogant New York City publicist Stu Shepard ( a bracing and bravura performance by Colin Farrell ) finds himself trapped in a phone booth by a cunning sniper ( splendidly voiced to skin-crawling sinister perfection by Kiefer Sutherland ) who wants Stu to come clean and confess to his indiscretions . Joel Schumacher's sharp , stylish , agile direction maintains a snappy pace throughout and wrings a lot of sweat-inducing suspense from Larry Cohen's clever , concise and witty script . Farrell effortlessly carries the picture with his remarkably brave and dynamic portrayal of a shady and amoral hustler par excellence ; he does an especially impressive job of making the initially unappealing Stu more likable as the story unfolds . The uniformly bang-up acting from a fine cast qualifies as a major asset : Forest Whitacker as rational , sympathetic Captain Ed Ramey , Radha Mitchell as Stu's loyal , loving wife Kelly , Katie Holmes as sweet aspiring actress Pamela , Keith Nobbs as naive eager beaver protégé Adam , John Enos III as hostile pimp Leon , and Pamela Jai Parker , Arian Waring Ash and Tia Texada as a trio of sassy hookers . Matthew Libatique's slick cinematography works wonders with a single confined setting , astutely capturing a palpable sense of claustrophobic tension and using split screen with genuinely dazzling results . Harry Gregson-Williams ' shivery , rousing score , the often wickedly funny dialogue ( " TV brings out the worst in people ; you will be fine " ) , the pleasingly tight'n'trim 81 minute running time , and the gritty , flavorful Big Apple atmosphere are all sound and on the money as well . A very solid and satisfying thriller winner .
A hysterically campy psychedelic 60's kitsch hoot	Sweet , innocent , but petulant young rich girl Lisa ( the cute Karin Mossberg , who sports a great funny accent ) doesn't get along with her new former stage actress stepmother Adriana ( a game performance by faded 40's leading lady Lana Turner ) . After her wealthy father Charles ( a solid Dan O'Herlithy ) dies in a boating accident , Lisa and her smarmy , gold-digging , conniving dope-head boyfriend Johnny ( a nicely slimy George Chakiris ; Bernardo in " West Side Story " ) decide to drive Adriana crazy by spiking her medication with LSD so they can get their greedy hands on her substantial inheritance . Tito Davison's heavy-handed direction , working from William Douglas Lansford's deliciously lurid script , milks the outrageously melodramatic plot for all its worth : we've got several wild anything-goes freak-out parties , lots of crazy far-out trip scenes , hilariously gaudy loud'n'tacky visuals , rapid-fire editing , and even a smattering of surprising gratuitous nudity . The admirably sincere acting from a sturdy cast adds immensely to the infectiously campy fun : Richard Egan as Adriana's concerned best friend Frederick Lonsdale , yummy redhead Pamela Rogers as Lisa's vampy , zany free-spirited gal pal Bibi , Carlos East as funky painter Lalo , and Regina Torne as the evil Queen Bee . Val Johns ' swingin ' groovy score , Gabriel Figueroa's bright , garish , splashy color cinematography , and the cool soundtrack ( the theme song " Lean on Me " is quite catchy ) are all suitably histrionic . A real wacky riot .
A totally disgusting and hence quite pleasingly scuzzy piece of Italian Nazisploitation trash	Ghastly medical experiments are conducted on the lovely young lady inmates in a secret SS love camp in order to create a superior race . The wicked , but impotent commandant Colonel Von Kleiben ( excellently essayed with suavely sadistic aplomb by Giorgio Cerioni ) has the testicles of handsome and virile stud soldier Helmut ( hunky Mircha Carven ) transplanted into his body . When Helmut discovers that he's been severely mutilated , he assists the female prisoners in revolting against their vile and vicious Nazi captors . Director / co-writer Sergio Garrone really wallows in the unflinchingly raw and graphic sleaze : there's a ripe abundance of gratuitous distaff nudity , a group shower scene , a debauched orgy , seamy soft-core sex , and even lesbianism . Moreover , Garrone delivers the in-your-face harsh and disturbing brutality with unsparing explicitness : women are electrocuted , bloodied and mangled bodies are incinerated in a large oven , a couple of gals have their uterusses surgically removed , and the testicle transplant is every bit as gross and sickening as it ought to be . One especially nauseating sequence occurs when a hapless lass gets boiled alive in a vat of scalding hot water and subsequently gets frozen when the water temperature is turned down to a freezing cold level . Another equally appalling set piece features a frail , naked and seriously wounded virginal waif being hung upside down on a pole and slowly bleeding to death . Nice supporting performances by Paola Corazzi as gorgeous blonde political prisoner Mirelle , Attilio Dottesio as noted master surgeon Dr . Steiner , Serafino Profumo as a gruff , savage sergeant , and Patrizia Melega as the dedicated , but lascivious Dr . Renke . Maurizio Centini's rough , unpolished cinematography , the laughably crude dubbed dialogue , the spare , shuddery score by Vasili Kojucharov and Roberto Pregadio , and the downbeat ending all further enhance the awesomely ugly fun of this perfectly foul , putrid and offensive lump of choice crass Nazisploitation junk .
A really enjoyable Crown International Pictures crime caper romp	This on the money solid and enjoyable Crown International Pictures crime caper affair comes across like a cheerfully low-rent drive-in discount version of " Ocean's 11 . " Adding immensely to this film's already considerable entertainment value is the always charming and delightful presence of the divine Stella Stevens , who portrays the titular shady lady casino hostess with her customary winning blend of brassy firebrand panache and sassy sophisticated sexiness . Tired of her lackluster lot in life , Stevens plans on stealing a hefty multi-million dollar sum of cash from Circus Circus in order to make things better for herself . Helping Stella out with her daring heist are friendly security guard Stuart Whitman , rascally old high stakes gambler Jessie White , and the foxy salt'n'pepper distaff duo of Linda Scruggs and Lynne Moody . Standing in Stella's way is ruthless jerk casino manager George DiCenzo . Director Noel ( " Youngblood " ) Nosseck keeps the pace quick and the suspense well-maintained throughout . Moreover , the thrilling robbery itself is staged and edited with breakneck aplomb , there's a nicely funky theme song called " Gambling Blues , " Stephen Katz's sharp cinematography accurately nails the gaudiness of the Glitter Gulch in all its tacky day-glo splendor , and future big deal mainstream Hollywood feature composer Alan ( " Back to the Future , " " Predator " ) Silvestri supplies a splendidly snazzy'n'jazzy ersatz Lalo Schifrin score . Taut , involving and a definite must-see for Stella Stevens aficionados .
Good , silly and thoroughly enjoyable Japanese giant monster-on-the-loose fun	An atomic blast in the freezing Artic caused by a downed fighter plane awakens a gigantic upright walking , flying , fire-breathing ( and eating ! ) prehistoric turtle from its centuries of slumber . Naturally , said titanic turtle is in a very grouchy mood ; he proceeds to lay waste to everything in his lethal path and eventually does the almighty mondo destructo city stomp on Tokyo . When conventional methods for stopping the turtle prove ineffectual , scientists all over the world join forces to concoct a special plan for thwarting the behemoth beast . Boy , is this delightfully inane creature feature flick an absolute hoot and a half : Among the silly stuff to enjoy herein are the expected lousy dubbing , a derivative plot which blatantly imitates both " Godzilla " and " The Beast from 20 , 00 Fathoms , " choice dopey dialog ( " This Gammera is obviously an object of terror " ) , wonderfully hokey ( far from ) special effects , amusingly hammy or endearingly wooden acting ( Brian Donlevy as a gruff general , Albert Dekker as the pragmatic Secretary of Defense and Dick O'Neill as a grumpy ramrod general all sink their teeth into their roles with delectably juicy scenery-gnashing aplomb ) , a sickeningly sappy subplot concerning an obnoxious little boy who befriends Gammera , funny characters ( one whiny US senator looks like a dead ringer for Henry Kissenger ! ) , and , best of all , a supremely groovy surf-rock theme song complete with a rippin ' reverb guitar riff . Sure , this movie is admittedly quite absurd , asinine and juvenile , but that's exactly why I dug it so much .
A likable made-for-TV drama	Legendary late , great country singer Johnny Cash gives a typically fine and credible performance as legendary shrewd and redoubtable professional pool player William " The Baron " Addington , who calls it quits and only plays pool for charity because of problems with alcoholism . Addington gets back in the game to serve as a mentor to cocky , but promising newcomer Billy Joe " The Cajun Kid " Stanley ( amiable Greg Webb ) , who's really Addington's son . The pair play in several major league tournaments together . But Billy's cagey , shifty manager Jack Streamer ( a terrific Darren McGavin ) intervenes . Director Gary Nelson relates the engrossing plot at a steady pace and elicits sturdy acting from a bang-up cast . Cash and Webb have an engaging on-screen chemistry ; they receive sound support from Tracy Pollan as the brash , plucky Mary Beth Phillips , June Carter Cash as Addington's sassy ex-wife Dee Dee Stanley , Claude Akins as Addington's loyal pal Harley Medford , and Richard Roundtree as smooth , formidable champion pool player Frosty . Both John Lindley's slick cinematography and Brad Fiedel's melodic , alternately folksy and jazzy score are up to speed . As an added bonus , Cash even sings the cool country theme song . A nice little movie .
An extremely brutal , potent and unnerving 70's seriocomic crime sleeper winner	The 1930's . Spoiled and snotty wealthy heiress Barbara Blandish ( superbly played to prissy perfection by Kim Darby ) gets abducted by a vicious family of depraved and dangerous outlaws . Complications ensue when the infantile , yet lethal and volatile Slim Grissom ( a remarkable performance by Scott Wilson ) falls for Barbara . Barbara soon realizes that she will have to do whatever it takes to stay alive . Director Robert Aldrich , working from a tough and biting script by Leon Griffiths , expertly maintains a tense and sordid atmosphere throughout , offers a vivid , grimy and credible evocation of the bleak and desperate Depression era , stages the sporadic shoot-outs and startling outbursts of raw , bloody violence with his customary flair , and further spices things up with a wickedly funny sense of pitch-black humor . Moreover , Aldrich and Griffiths score bonus points for their admirable refusal to either sanitize or romanticize the clan of ferocious and frightening criminals in any way ; these folks are truly mean , scary and even downright grotesque . The thespians who portray this ghastly bunch all do sterling work : Tony Musante as smooth heel Eddie Hagan , Irene Dailey as fearsome , venomous matriarch Gladys " Ma " Grissom , Joey Faye as the jolly Woppy , Ralph Waite as the excitable Mace , and Don Keefer as the timid , laid-back Doc . Contributing equally fine supporting turns are Robert Lansing as shrewd , weary private eye Dave Fenner , Connie Stevens as brassy , cynical , dim-witted tramp singer Anna Borg , and Wesley Addy as Barbara's cold , disapproving millionaire father John P . Blandish . Better still , we've also got a strangely touching , albeit off-kilter central love story amid all the stark cruelty and unsparing unpleasantness . Gerald Fried's sprightly , rousing score , a jaunty soundtrack of vintage catchy 30's swing tunes , Joseph F . Biroc's sharp , polished cinematography , and the devastating downbeat ending all further enhance the overall sound quality of this supremely harsh , but still gripping and satisfying crime saga .
An excellent Spanish monster horror winner	In a small town by the Rhine river young women are being savagely butchered by having their hearts ripped out . Macho hunter Sirgurd ( nicely played by the hunky Tony Kendall ) is hired by the faculty of an all girls school to find and dispose of the killer , which turns out to be a lethal , but alluring sea siren of local legend called the Lorelei ( exquisitely embodied by the stunningly gorgeous redhead knockout Helga Line ) . Director Amando De Ossorio relates the compellingly offbeat story at a steady pace , does an expert job of creating and maintaining a spooky atmosphere , and stages the brutal murder set pieces with ferocious panache . Moreover , the grimly serious tone , Miguel Fernandez Mila's striking , picturesque cinematography , the nasty'n'ugly monster , a bevy of beautiful babes ( Betsabe Ruiz is especially delectable as an ill-fated bride ) , the breathtaking coastal scenery , Anton Garcia Abril's eerie , yet lush and melodic score , the solid acting from a capable cast ( the lovely Silvia Tortosa gives a fine performance as uptight Professor Elke Ackerman while Luis Barboo essays the role of the Lorelei's sadistic guardian Alberic with fiendish relish ) , and plenty of grisly gore further enhance the overall sound quality of this fun and worthwhile fright feature .
A hugely entertaining 60's fright feature treat	Cunning , deranged and sophisticated wealthy aristocrat Jason Cravatte ( superbly played with lip-smacking wicked aplomb by Patrick O'Neal ) gets apprehended by the authorities for murder . Jason escapes by cutting off his own hand and replacing it with a hook . He then goes on a grisly killing spree , specifically bumping off those folks responsible for his arrest . Suave wax museum curator Anthony Draco ( a fine and charming performance by Cesare Donova ) and his jolly partner Harold Blount ( delightfully played by Wilfrid Hyde-White ) investigate the case . Director Hy Averback , working from a sharp and clever script by Stephen Kandel , relates the engrossing story at a steady pace , ably creates a flavorsome misty and spooky 19th century period atmosphere , stages the shock set pieces with considerable flair , and further spices things up with a few amusing moments of witty humor . The sound acting from a tip-top cast qualifies as a significant plus : O'Neal positively shines as the delectably sick and sadistic villain , Donova and Hyde-White make for a very engaging amateur sleuthing duo , plus are are praiseworthy contributions by Laura Devon as Cravatte's unwitting fair damsel accomplice Marie Champlain , Patrice Wymore as alluring restaurant hostess Vivian , Suzy Parker as ravishing rich lass Barbara Dixon , Tun Tun as Blount and Draco's loyal midget assistant Senor Pepe De Reyes , a pre - " M . A . S . H . " Wayne Rogers as the amiable Sergeant Jim Albertson , Philip Bourneuf as the bumbling Inspector Matthew Strudwick , Jeanette Nolan as brash , gossipy old shrew Ms . Ewing Perryman , and Marie Windsor as classy brothel Madame Corona . Robert H . Kline's vibrant color cinematography gives the picture an attractive polished look while William Lava's graceful and melodic orchestral score hits the shivery spot . Better still , this film offers a few nicely perverse touches : Cravatte marries the corpse of his freshly strangled fiancé at the movie's beginning and plans on making a composite person out of the severed body parts of his victims . Why , we even get a lovably hokey William Castle-style " horror horn " and " fear flasher " gimmick kicking in every time something particularly horrific is about to happen . Good , ghoulish fun .
An effectively creepy and perverse low-budget 80's horror vampire sleeper	Sleazy and bored hubby Larry ( well played by Jimmy Stathis ) ain't too happy with his marriage to his neglected wife Robin ( a fine and touching performance by Clara Perryman ) . Larry decides to rent a creepy black room in a swanky Hollywood Hills mansion from the strange Jason ( muscular Stephen Knight ) and his equally odd , but alluring sister Bridget ( the strikingly lovely and exotic Cassandra Gaviola ) in order to put some much-needed pizazz back into his dreary love life . Larry uses the room to have sex with young ladies . Unbeknownst to Larry , Jason in turn drains the young women of their blood and shoots up their precious life fluid with a needle . Ably directed by Elly Kenner and Norman Thaddeus Vane ( the latter also wrote and directed the strictly so-so " Frightmare " ) , with solid acting from the entire cast ( Linnea Quigley has a nifty small role as a near victim babysitter towards the end of the movie ) , a compellingly bizarre and twisted story , a genuinely spooky atmosphere , several aberrant touches ( Jason and Bridget like to spy on Larry as he's doing just what you think with the girls he picks up ) , and a harrowing conclusion , this pleasingly offbeat , inspired and unjustly overlooked low-budget horror sleeper deserves to be both better known and more widely seen by fans of enjoyably deviant outré cinema .
A fun giant killer snake horror creature feature romp	The considerable box office success of the deliciously cheesy " Anaconda " not surprisingly inspired a rash of derivative , yet still enjoyable low-budget direct-to-video cash-in copies . These rip-offs include the none too shabby " King Cobra , " the exceptionally fine and intelligent " Komodo , " and this snazzy little over-sized mutant killer snake outing . Once again your standard unscrupulously ambitious scientist ( a neatly quirky and understated portrayal by the always excellent Robert Englund ) has created one hell of a fast , deadly , impossible to destroy genetically enhanced people-gobbling monstrosity , a vicious python which escapes from its cage and goes on the expected mankind-noshing spree in a tiny podunk hamlet . It's up to cocky ramrod government agent Parker ( sternly played by tight-lipped latenight cable fare topliner Casper Van Dien ) to eradicate the bloodthirsty beast before things get to out of hand . Proficiently directed by Richard Clabaugh , with slick cinematography by Patrick Rousseau , an effectively spare and moody hum'n'shiver score by Daniel J . Nielsen , and across-the-board sturdy acting from a uniformly solid cast , " Python " transcends the hackneyed plot by virtue of its uncommonly sound execution alone . The bright script by Chris Neal , Paul J . M . Bogh , and Gary Hershberger has fun playing around with the standard fright film conventions , with the saucy lesbian variant on the inevitable have-sex-and-die libidinous couple cliché rating as an especially nifty touch . Better still , the unusually well-drawn and plausible characters are firmly grounded in a certain gritty everyday blue collar reality , the crummy CGI effects are amusingly tacky , and the picture commendably takes its time carefully setting up a spooky tone in the opening first act before cutting loose with an increasingly jolting series of lethal lizard attack scenes . Sexy Jenny McCarthy vamps it up delightfully as the shameless town tramp . A barely recognizable Will Wheaton contributes a likable turn as a scruffy slacker dude . Veteran character actor Ed Lauter has a nice unbilled bit part as an ill-fated army airplane pilot . Compact and smartly realized , " Python " sizes up as a pleasing and up-to-par creature feature .
Give a hoot . Don't pollute !	Mankind's constant thoughtless pollution begets severely dire consequences in the form of one Hedorah . Man , does Hedorah rate as one fabulously foul'n'freaky beast : this grotesque and unsightly gigantic mutant humanoid tadpole has glowing red eyes , inhales noxious fumes from smokestacks , drips disgusting acidic goop all over the place , and probably stinks worse than dirty old socks to boot . Luckily , the almighty Godzilla comes to the rescue . The expected monster fights scenes are shockingly brutal and drawn out : Hedorah drenches Gozilla in vile sludge while Godzilla tears out Hedorah's eyes and blithely destroys them ! The whole shebang concludes with Godzilla literally beating the crap out of Hedorah ! Wonderfully weird touches abound : a cute little kitten gets covered with ghastly gunk , wild'n'crazy hedonistic teenagers party hearty at a swingin ' night club to groovy psychedelic rock music ( said kids later decide to hold an ill-advised anything-goes bash at Mount Fugi ! ) , Hedorah leaves slimy skeletons of victims in its lethal wake , and there's these strange cartoon segments featured throughout . Better still , the heavy-handed anti-pollution message is articulated in the most clumsy and unsubtle way imaginable . The insanely catchy " Save the Earth " theme song in particular is a total riot ( choice lyrics : " Stop all pollution / That's the solution " ) . Director Yoshimitsu Banno treats the laughably ludicrous premise with utmost seriousness , thus ensuring that this film remains an absolute campy hoot from start to finish .
An enjoyably clunky low-budget Crown International Pictures rip-off of " The Dirty Dozen "	How's this for a fresh , novel and interesting premise for a World War II action potboiler : Mighty macho foul-mouthed , cigar-chomping Major Stony Stonewall ( gruffly essayed by John Ericson ) , assisted by compassionate Lt . Jennifer West ( the appealing Karen Ericson ) and tough guerrilla fighter Paco Rodrigeuz ( likable Ramon Revilla ) , has to train four lovely young ladies - - terminally ill nurse Anna Oleson ( yummy Johanna Raunio ) , vengeful rape victim Sonya ( solid Lisa Lorena ) , libidinous convicted murderess Rose Carson ( fiery Nory Wright ) and brassy hooker Cindy Lee Dawson ( a nicely sassy'n'sexy Lynda Sinclaire ) - - for a desperate suicide mission which entails the women seducing and assassinating several top Japanese army officials who frequent a Filipino brothel . Sound pretty silly and ridiculous ? Well , it sure is just as laughably dumb and absurd as the plot suggests . However , there's a certain engagingly clunky charm to this admittedly cheesy'n'chintzy piece of ultra-cheap vintage 70's drive-in exploitation junk that's impossible to either dislike or resist . Cesar Gallardo's plodding ( mis ) direction , the ineptly staged action scenes , the generic film library score , the by-the-numbers hackneyed and predictable plot which blatantly copies " The Dirty Dozen , " a knock-down , drag-out barfight , a really funny training montage sequence , a decent smattering of nudity , a welcome appearance by the great Vic Diaz as a smarmy Japanese soldier , the crude , ratty , unpolished cinematography , a rousing last reel raid on the bordello , and the neatly ironic ending all ensure that this honey is an absolute cruddy hoot from stinky start to paltry finish . Good , tacky fun .
A surprisingly bleak and brutal made-for-TV early 80's " ALIEN " clone	I must admit that I really like this jarringly harsh and downbeat made-for-TV " ALIEN " copy . This time the rugged roughneck crew of a remote off-shore oil rig are terrorized by a large , scaly , fanged , lumbering centuries old humanoid beast dredged up from the ocean floor . Sure , the plot ain't much , but Peter Carter's crisply proficient direction ( Carter previously gave us the superior and underrated Canadian " Deliverance " variant " Rituals " ) , the strikingly gloomy , fatalistic tone ( the first victim is a panicky guy who had a nightmarish premonition of the impending disaster ) , a terrific , rousing score by the chronically unsung Gil ( " A Cold Night's Death , " " The Ultimate Warrior " ) Melle , several shockingly brutal violent episodes which really test the limits of what you can get away with in a TV movie ( one luckless woman gets raped and dies giving birth to a brawny , fully grown man-sized monster ! ) , the unusually well-drawn and engaging characters , and the cool creature design by James Cummins and H . R . Giger turn this unassuming little number into a modest , but surefire winner . Chad Everett as the hard-nosed crew chief has the right tough stuff to cut it as a fine hero , while Joseph Bottoms , Jennifer Warren , Matt Craven , Lynda Mason Green and especially the ever-personable Rockne ( " Black Sampson " ) Tarkington are solid in sturdy supporting parts .
An enjoyably crummy earthbound " Alien " rip-off by the ever-reliable Fred Olen Ray	An entertaining , incredibly idiotic , and basically all-thumbs mid-80's earthbound " Alien " clone from the forever fumble-fingered Grade D dreckmonger Fred Olen Ray , who once again shows off his characteristic consummate ineptitude and flagrant disregard for anything remotely resembling professional film-making . Besides an obviously inebriated Aldo Ray delivering one of his single most horrendous performances as an irascible , constantly tongue-tied army general , Fred's then five-year-old son Christopher shambling about in a pitifully unconvincing rubber monster suit , a hilarious rockabilly ending credits theme song called " Rockabilly Rumble " performed by Johnny Legend and the Skullcaps , and plenty of Fred's patented crappy touches ( dreadful acting , some bloody , but phony gore , excruciatingly labored attempts at no-brainer lowbrow humor , a little gratuitous bare female skin , a smug smartaleck attitude which suggests that Ray might be churning out these cheapie clunkers strictly for the money , and dimly lit nighttime cinematography that's guaranteed to make you blurry-eyed ) , the key reason to give this supremely shoddy stinker a look-see is to watch remarkably buxom erstwhile porn actress Angelique Pettyjohn show off her amazingly ample breasts in a couple of almost literally eye-popping scenes . Now , what more could you possibly ask for in an admittedly el zilcho two-cent " Alien " rip-off ? Well , how about Fred in a quick cameo along with fellow partner - in - schlocky - celluloid - crime Donald G . Jackson ( he who blessed us with " Hell Comes to Frogtown " ) as a medic . Best and funniest moment : When the irate dwarf creature shreds an " E . T . " poster and stomps all over it in an angry jealous rage ! A deliciously cheesy hoot and a half .
The best of the " Camp Blood " slasher flicks	Ambitious Jessica ( foxy brunette Stephanie Mathis ) , rugged Russ ( hunky Phil Lander ) , sweet , kooky aspiring singer Kat ( adorable blonde sprite Erin Holt ) , scrappy tomboy Mel ( solid Denise Lorraine ) , and laid-back thrill-seeking rich guy Nolan ( amiable Adam Van Conant ) all volunteer for a reality TV show in which they have to spend a day at the notorious Camp Blood in order to win the $1 million dollar prize money . Sleazeball producer Tony ( a perfectly smarmy David Sobel ) hires slobby stuntman Griff ( an amusingly coarse Jeff Swarthout ) to scare the contestants . But the murderous the Clown ( creepy Alex Gordon ) shows up to do his nasty lethal thing once again . Writer / director Brad Sykes comes up with a surprisingly good and worthwhile third entry in the " Camp Blood " trilogy which proves to be a marked improvement on the previous enjoyably cruddy films : Andrew Gianetta's sharp , polished cinematography , the convincing make-up f / x , the steady pace , Terry M . Huud's eerie'n'funky syncopated score , the bleakly ironic surprise twist ending , a decent smattering of gratuitous female nudity ( Athena Demos as a hot brunette model bares her lovely breasts ) , the genuinely likable main characters ( Kat in particular is an absolute doll ! ) , a reasonable amount of grisly bloodshed , and the acceptable acting from an attractive bunch of unknowns are all uniformly up to speed . Sykes alas fails to generate any real tension , but that minor criticism aside this movie overall sizes up as a fun and satisfying slice'n'dice body count horror romp .
A hugely enjoyable Grade B sci-fi / horror comedy hoot	A mysterious alien virus which manifests itself as a deadly gust of wind transforms the local yokels in a sleepy small Texas town into pasty-faced bloodthirsty zombies . Laid-back photographer Jeff Rhodes ( a solid and engaging performance by Thom Meyers ) and his sweet newfound girlfriend Julie ( the adorable Laura Ellis ) do their best to stay alive and survive this harrowing ordeal . Writer / director Glen Coburn delivers a delightfully dry'n'deadpan tongue-in-cheek send-up of schlocky low-budget fright flicks that comes through with plenty of priceless gut-busting dialogue ( all-time favorite line : " You cut my beeping arm off ! " ) , broadly drawn redneck caricatures , and spot-on sidesplitting jokes about such worthy subjects as huffing nitrous oxide , kinky sex , racism , and gung-ho military fanaticism . Moreover , the make-up for the zombies is hilariously horrible and there's a few cool moments of gory over-the-top splatter which include a juicy decapitation , dismemberment , and several lovely shots of folks vomiting up uproariously unconvincing watery blood . The enthusiastic acting from a likable cast of mostly no-name amateurs further enhances the picture's considerable screwball appeal : Meyers and Ellis make for charming leads , Dennis Letts has a field day as brash ramrod General Sanders , token name Pat Paulsen contributes an amusing cameo as a preoccupied lecher President of the United States , plus there are neat turns by Robert Bradeen as the mean Uncle Joe , Kris Nicolau as nerdy Brit-accented doctor Jeri Jett , Chris Heldman as the amiable Deputy Sam , Big John Brigham as paranoid janitor Norman , Jim Stafford as the oafish Buford , and Billie Keller as the dotty Aunt Kate . The bleak and desolate Lone Star State locations add some tasty regional flavor to the infectiously wacky proceedings . The incredibly catchy'n'groovy 80's New Wave rock theme song seriously smokes . Chad D . Smith's purposefully static cinematography might be rough around the edges , but it does the trick all the same . A total riot .
A satisfyingly sordid & scuzzy slice of 70's Italian horror sleaze	Rino Di Silvesto's outrageously trashy and nonsensical nudity-ridden soft-core horror sleaze sensation stars gorgeous , voluptuous , stupendously buxom blonde hottie supreme Annik Borel as Daniella , a severely troubled young lass whose intense sexual repression causes her to believe that she's the reincarnation of a century-old lady lycanthrope who was burned at the stake . Daniella masturbates , dances naked at midnight under the moonlight , spies on her sister ( the equally luscious Dagmar Lassander ) while she's making love to her husband , tears out hubby's throat with her teeth , and winds up in a mental institution . While in the nuthouse Daniella befriends the resident lesbian nymphomaniac , kills the crazy slut , and escapes . Things perk up when Daniella meets and falls in love with a nice guy stuntman , only to have the decent dude brutally offed by a bunch of vicious thugs . Daniella tracks down the foul creeps and slaughters the whole scummy lot of ' em before being arrested by the police . Meanwhile a horribly redundant synthesizer score whines away on the soundtrack , the cinematographer indulges in queasy zoom-ins and Jess Francoesque super close-ups of people's eyes , and Borel disrobes with such alarming ( and greatly appreciated ) frequency that you wonder why the producers of this supremely scroungy schlock even bothered to provide her with a wardrobe . Di Silvesto fails completely to relate a coherent story with even a modicum of finesse or competence , but delivers such a teeming surplus of grotty gore and seamy sex that the virtually nonexistent plot really doesn't matter . Better still , the makers of this succulently scuzzy swill claim that it's based on a true story ! All in all , it's pretty sleazy and laughably preposterous , thus meaning that it's loads of stand-out up-front and unapologetically low-grade Euroslime exploitation fun as well .
A tad uneven , but still quite good	Arlo Guthrie's hilariously mordant 20 minute story song gets adopted into an affably whimsical , episodic , occasionally funny and ultimately quite downbeat and sobering free-form feature by director Arthur Penn that astutely captures the key issues and concerns of the 60's hippie counterculture : dodging the draft , smoking grass , getting hassled by the pigs , being persecuted by grossly intolerant , narrow-minded , repressive straight conformist squares , trekking all over the country to find your true self , and defying everyday social conventions so you can do your own thing , man . The rambling , just barely there plot centers on the winningly droll , breezy and irreverent Guthrie's pilgrimage through the counterculture , a bizarre , eventful , eye-opening journey of self-discovery that reaches its peak when Arlo gets arrested for illegally dumping trash , thus making Arlo ineligible for wartime service in the army due to his disreputable status as an unrehabilitated criminal ( the scenes at the army center are riotous , with M . Emmet Walsh in a gut-busting early role as the gruff Group W sergeant whose staccato motormouth way of talking renders everything he says incomprehensible ) . Police chief William Obanheim appears as himself and proves to be a hugely likable good sport by allowing himself to be the endearingly humbled recipient of a few right-on japes made about uptight authority figures . " Glen and Randa " ' s Shelley Plimpton has a nice cameo as a cute groupie who hits on Arlo at a party . The film's precise , clear-eyed portrait of the painfully gradual disintegration of flower power idealism and the cynicism and disillusionment that followed in its wake nowadays seems all too grimly true and prescient , with the volatile relationship between vulgar , boorish , obnoxious swinger James Broderick and his frustrated , irritated wife Pat Quinn ( they play Ray and Alice Brock , the owners of the titular restaurant ) brilliantly reflecting the turbulence and capriciousness of the period . Somewhat erratic and uneven , with a shaky tone that uneasily shifts between comedy and drama , this quirky , laid-back , naturalistic historical curiosity piece provides a lyrical and poignant time capsule of the 60's that for all its admitted imperfections nonetheless remains haunting and effective .
A wickedly enjoyable horror black comedy hoot	Six vacationing young adults who include the troubled Cynthia ( well played by Sarah Torgov ) are forced to land their plane on a remote sylvan island . They not only encounter the strict Pa ( a gloriously hammy performance by Rod Steiger ) and the equally stern Ma ( a delightfully batty , yet understated portrayal by Yvonne De Carlo ) , but also the oddball religious fanatics ' deranged and murderous " adult " children : infantile Fanny ( the extremely unnerving Janet Wright ) , brutish Teddy ( an excellent William Hootkins ) , and whiny Woody ( the ever-weird Michael J . Pollard ) . Capably directed by John Hough , with crisp cinematography by Harvey Harrison , a creepy tone , an eerie , harmonic down-home score by Alan Parker , a chilling conclusion , and such dark themes as incest , infanticide and necrophilia , this genuinely twisted little number really hits the pleasingly warped spot . Better still , the sharp script by Burt Wetanson and Michael Vines offers a wickedly nasty satire on traditional conservative old-fashioned family values . Steiger and De Carlo have a field day with their colorfully kooky roles ; Wright , Hootkins and Pollard are all likewise marvelously grotesque as their crazed offspring . Quirky and often quite funny in an admittedly off-center sort of way , this nifty little rural psycho romp is well worth checking out .
A chillingly plausible and absorbing thriller	Robin Williams gives a remarkably bold , subtle and stunning performance as sad and socially maladjusted convenience store worker Sy " The Photo Guy " Parrish . Sy has an unhealthy fixation on the seemingly perfect Yorkin family : loving mother Nina ( a fine Connie Nielson ) , faithless , neglectful husband Will ( the solid Michael Vartan ) , and sweet son Jacob ( adorable Dylan Smith ) . When Sy gets fired from his job and discovers that Will has been cheating on Nina , his idealized perception of the Yorkins gets destroyed and he goes off the deep end into total despair and madness . Writer / director Mark Romanek relates the chilling and arresting story with exceptional precision and assurance ; he does an especially expert job of vividly evoking a totally mundane and believable everyday working class reality which in turn makes the considerable suspense that much more powerful and gut-wrenching . Moreover , the central theme about violation of privacy and how loneliness can cause someone to go crazy adds additional resonance and even poignancy to the plot . Williams ' astonishingly complex portrayal of the creepy , anal and obsessive , yet tragic and pitiable Sy holds the picture together and keeps things engrossing throughout . Kudos are also in order for the sterling supporting cast : Gary Cole as mean and overbearing store manager Bill Owens , Eriq La Salle as diligent detective James Van Der Zee , and Erin Daniel as Will's fetching mistress Maya Burson . Jeff Cronenworth's sharp , sparkling cinematography and the shuddery , pulsating score by Reinhold Heil and Johnny Kilmek are likewise up to par . A superior thriller .
A compellingly offbeat and unsettling European horror thriller oddity	Hunky , blithely decadent wealthy swinging playboy Peter Crane ( an engaging performance by handsome and brawny Mexican super star and sex symbol Jorge Rivero ) has horrific visions of killing folks and freaky naked shrieking people . Kindly psychiatrist Dr . Stone ( veteran character actor Richard Conte ; mob capo Emilio Barzini in " The Godfather " ) places Paul in a hospital for observation . But the ghastly murders and disturbing visions continue . Is Paul responsible for the brutal mayhem ? Or is something more sinister going on ? Director Mario Siciliano , who also helmed a bunch of spaghetti Westerns and hardcore porno pictures , starts this intriguingly bizarre Spanish / Italian / Mexican horror thriller opus on a slow and spooky note , gradually developing an eerie and mysterious nightmarish oddball atmosphere that reaches a really intense and harrowing fever pitch in the gloriously off the wall final third . Stelvio Capriani's groovy score neatly alternates between smooth funky lounge music and wonky flesh-crawling creepiness . Vicente Minaya's crude , unpolished cinematography likewise adds considerably to the overall outré tone . Nice supporting performances by the lovely Pilar Velasquez as sweet , charming , fetching shrink Dr . Sarah Turner , Anthony Steffen as a hard-nosed police detective , Luis Latorre as Paul's fellow party hearty rich pal Robert , and Daniela Giordano as beautiful blonde babe Tanya . An engrossing and often unsettling fright flick oddity .
An excellent , exciting and underrated 80's medical science sci-fi / horror sleeper	In remote rural Utah a crisis situation transpires when a lethal experimental germ warfare virus gets loose in government Lab P-4 and causes the folks who become infected to degenerate into dangerous murderous raving lunatics led by Dr . Nielsen ( robustly essayed by Richard Dysart ) . Gutsy , but frightened security chief Joanie ( a fine and engaging performance by Kathleen Quinlan ) is trapped inside with the deadly deranged crazies . It's up to Joanie's take-charge sheriff husband Cal Morse ( superbly played by Sam Waterson ) and bitter , boozy discredited doctor Dan Fairchild ( the always great Jeffrey DeMunn ) to rescue Joanie before it's too late . Director Hal Barwood expertly crafts and maintains an intense , nerve-jangling tone throughout , keeps the pace hurtling along at a steady , speedy clip , and delivers an ample amount of shocks while relating the chillingly plausible story . Furthermore , the barbed , incisive and provocative script by Barwood and Matthew Robbins offers a pointed and trenchant critique of government arrogance and incompetence alike ( the government creates the problem and proves to be totally all-thumbs when it comes to properly rectifying it ) . Both Craig Safan's pulse-pounding score and Dean Cundey's polished cinematography are likewise up to par . The uniformly terrific acting from a bang-up cast warrants kudos as well , with especially praiseworthy work from Yaphet Kotto as ineffectual fed Major Connolly and G . W . Bailey as the bumbling nice guy lab employee who serves as the inadvertent catalyst for all the trouble . The fact that the main protagonists are a bunch of smart and capable adults rather than your usual array of dumb immature kids qualifies as another substantial plus ; it's a nice and refreshing departure from the standard teen-oriented horror fare prevalent in the 80's . An intelligent , absorbing and above all quite suspenseful little sleeper that's well worth checking out .
An enjoyably silly , gory and trashy retro 50's giant killer bug horror creature feature hoot	An enjoyably pulpy , trashy , competently mounted and energetically executed 50's style over-sized killer insect creature feature done with wonderfully sleazoid 90's type gore , nudity , profanity and general self-aware film buff fanaticism . An alien spaceship crashlands in a lake located nearby by a forest summercamp community . Bacteria from the spaceship infects the local mosquitoes and causes them to grow into hideous , butt-ugly , way lethal and voracious gigantic mutants who promptly develop an insatiable appetite for human blood . In short time lots of folks have been sucked dry , leaving the standard collection of mixed bag everyday schmo reluctant protagonists - - a hunky dude and his feisty girlfriend , a rugged , quick-thinking take-charge scientist , a constantly sniveling spineless clod , and a gang of bumbling criminals led by a portly , pony-tailed Gunnar Hansen ( Leatherface in the original " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " ) - - to destroy the bugs before they multiply and feast on the entire human race . Made on a modest , but well-used spare change budget in Detriot , Michigan , directed with tremendous go-for-it gusto by Gary Jones , acted with comparably infectious aplomb by an enthusiastic cast , with several slam-bang stirring insect attack set pieces ( the sequence where an unrelenting swarm of flying mosquitoes attack a speeding camper especially smokes ) , a tasty plenitude of moist , squishy , blood-spilling and slime-slinging splatter , somewhat variable , but still funky special effects ( the giant rubbery insects are really cool ) , a nice smattering of winningly witty B-movie in-jokes ( a TV reporter named Allen Smithee , Gunnar wields a mean chainsaw in one scene , and there's a right-on raunchy send-up of the inevitable " have sex and die " backwoods fright flick cliché ) , a crackling forward-ho pace and a whole-hearted affection for gleefully junky $1 . 50 cheeseball horror cinema , " Mosquito " eagerly delivers a handy helping of good , gruesome , delightfully blunt and unpretentious straightahead dimestore monster fun .
A solid and provocative futuristic sci-fi / action car chase thriller	Following a lethal plague which has wiped out millions of people and a severe oil crisis that has caused driving to be outlawed , an authoritarian government has come into power and set up restrictive , rigidly enforced codes of proper conduct that have made individual freedom a thing of the past . Stubbornly rebellious former race car driver Frank Hart ( an appropriately stalwart and rock-like Lee Majors ) , frustrated with the fascist society he can't comfortably acquit himself to the stifling dictates of , decides to drive his red Porsche to the still liberated California , taking equally recalcitrant electronics whiz kid Ring McCarthy ( winningly played by Chris Makepeace ) along with him on a perilous trek across America's desolate abandoned highways . Shrewd regime toady Hawkins ( finely essayed to smug'n'smarmy perfection by George Touliatos ) assigns batty old ace Air Force pilot J . G . Williams ( a delightfully spunky Burgess Meredith , howling like a crazed bloodhound and clearly having a grand old time mugging it up ) to track Hart down and kill him . An on-target celebration of rugged individualism and a frightfully prescient pre-90's prediction of mass bureaucratic conformity taken to a hideously repressive extreme , " The Last Chase " really cuts it as a rip-roaringly exciting and effective futuristic sci-fi / car chase action thriller movie ode to " stand up to the Man and to hell with the System " status quo defying rebellion and independence . Director Martyn Burke ( who co-wrote the nicely thoughtful script with Roy Moore and C . R . O'Christopher ) , aided by Gil ( " Blood Beach , " " The Manipulater " ) Melle's jaunty , swelling score , keeps the pace rattling along at a crisp , steady tempo , occasionally pausing for moments of quiet introspection and character development which ensure that the film has plenty of heart to spare ( the rapport between Hart and McCarthy is especially breezy and appealing ) . Moreover , this feature's portrait of a seriously uptight , anal retentive , overly rule conscientious no-fun near future society has uncanny parallels to nauseatingly stuffy 90's political correctness , thus giving the picture a topicality and resonance that's sadly still quite timely even today . An extremely good , pleasingly provocative and rather scarily prophetic science fiction film .
A very cool early 80's rock'n'roll cult favorite	Fiery and insolent rebellious teenager Corinne " Third Degree " Burns ( a wonderfully raw and dynamic portrayal by Diane Lane ) is angry about the untimely death of her mother . So she convinces her reluctant sister Tracy ( the cute Marin Kanter ) and her equally surly cousin Jessica ( Laura Dern at her most adorable ) to form a rowdy all-female punk group called the Stains ( who look and sound like an unholy cross between the Shaggs and the Runaways ) . Despite having no real musical talent , the Stains still manage to get a gig as part of a tour along with the past their prime metal band the Metal Corpses ( they stink ) and the snarly punk outfit the Looters ( who seriously smoke ! ) . The Stains become huge stars because of their skimpy stage outfits , outrageous two-tone skunk hairstyles , defiant attitude ( their motto is " We don't put out " ) , and , most of all , extensive media coverage by opportunistic TV news anchorwoman Alicia Meeker ( delightfully played with lip-smacking relish by Cynthia Sikes ) . However , their moment in the spotlight proves to be fleeting when their loyal audience of adolescent girl admirers known as Skunks realize they've been had and turn on the band at a disastrous concert . Director and noted music producer Lou Adler , working from a sharp and abrasive script by Nancy Dowd ( who also wrote " Slap Shot " ) , offers a fiercely cynical and illuminating depiction of the more sordid aspects of the rock music business which include drug use ( one member of the Metal Corpses dies of an overdose ) , performing in seedy dives , mindless consumerism , and especially how the media can either make or break a band . This film further benefits from excellent acting from a fine cast . Lane delivers a positively electrifying performance full of rage and passion that holds the whole picture together . Ray Winstone likewise shines as bitter and cranky , yet wise and knowing punk singer Billy , who tries to be a mentor for Corinne without much success . Christine Lahti only pops up in two scenes as Corinne's neurotic and regretful Aunt Linda , but makes a strong and lasting impression just the same . Special kudos are also in order for Barry Ford , who gives a marvelously engaging turn as laid-back and philosophical Jamaican bus driver Lawnboy . Plus there's nice support from David Clennon as sleazy agent Dave Robell , Fee Waybill as washed-up rocker Lou Corpse , John Lehne as smarmy newscaster Stu McGrath , and E . G . Daily as a perky hotel maid . Appearing as members of the Looters are erstwhile Sex Pistols Paul Cook and Steve Jones and Paul Simonon of the Clash . Horror scream queen Debbie Rochon makes her feature film debut an uncredited bit part as a Skunk . The gritty , yet polished cinematography by Bruce Surtees comes through with plenty of striking visuals and spot-on evocative shots of often dreary and grungy locations . A tad rough around the edges , but overall a really fun and rollicking blast of a movie .
An immensely enjoyable entry in the " Fu Manchu " series	Shrewd , ruthless and fearsome Chinese criminal mastermind Fu Manchu ( the impeccable Christopher Lee in peak villainous form ) kidnaps the beautiful daughters of the world's leading scientists and demands that they help build him a lethal death ray or else he will kill all of the lovely ladies . It's up to Fu Manchu's cagey and stalwart longtime nemesis Scotland Yard Inspector Nayland Smith ( nicely played by Douglas Wilmer ) to stop him before it's too late . Ably directed by Don Sharp , with an absorbing and eventful script by Peter Welbeck , a constant brisk pace , crisp , lively color cinematography by Ernest Steward , several exciting and well-staged action scenes , a rousing , spirited score by Johnny Douglas , a reasonable amount of tension , an admirably serious tone ( there are no cheesy one-lines or needless campy humor to get in the way of the story ) , and a stirring fiery conclusion , this picture overall really delivers the entertaining goods . Moreover , the solid acting from a sturdy cast helps matters a whole lot : Lee naturally excels as the deliciously wily and wicked Fu Manchu , Wilmer makes for a properly resolute Smith , plus there are sound supporting performances by Tsai Chin as Fu Mancho equally evil daughter Lin Tang , Marie Versini as feisty , fetching nurse Marie Lenz , Heinz Drache as hot-headed chemist Franz Baumer , Howard Marion-Crawford as Smith's competent partner Dr . Petrie , Rupert Davies as beleaguered scientist Jules Merlin , Kenneth Fortescue as the eager Sergeant Spicer , and Burt Kwouk ( Cato in the " Pink Panther " movies ) as Fu Mancho's loyal henchman Feno . A neat little flick .
A perfectly putrid piece of pure trash	Obviously made on the cheap to capitalize on the notorious " Mandingo , " this crassly pandering hunk of blithely rancid Italian sexploitation junk really pours on the sordid stuff with a commendable lack of taste and restraint : The evil arrogant white family who own and operate a lavish slave plantation spend a majority of the screen time engaging in hanky panky both each other and their various slaves . Director Mario Penzauti and screenwriter Tecla Romanelli cram this fetid filth with a teeming surplus of sizzling sleaze : we've got nasty rape , interracial copulation ( one white lady makes wild love to a muscular black stud while he's tied to a cross ) , copious female nudity , brutal whippings , vile degradation , lots of lurid soft-core sex , and a severely twisted tragic surprise ending that mixes elements of incest , murder and miscegenation in a questionable attempt at making a statement about the horrid inhumanity of slavery . Special kudos are in order for foxy brunette actress Paola D'Egidio , whose lusty and uninhibited portrayal of depraved and lascivious wicked bitch Rhonda positively burns up the screen . Moreover , Marcello Giombini's funky , throbbing tribal score hits the groovy spot . Maurizo Centini's fairly polished cinematography likewise does the trick . A satisfyingly seamy chunk of slimy swill .
A nifty supernatural shocker	The Gibson family are rich , decadent and dysfunctional . Youngest daughter Leila ( a convincing performance by foxy brunette Grace Mills ) is especially wild : her fiancé Richard practices the black arts and takes Leila to a debauched satanic ceremony . Pretty soon Leila starts acting strange : she says mean and spiteful things in a vulgar tongue , throws temper tantrums , and has severe seizures . Her mother Patricia ( ravishing Maria Perschy ) and sister Deborah ( hot blonde Maria Kosti ) are understandably worried . They call upon longtime friend Father Adrian Dunning ( excellently played by Spanish horror icon Paul Naschy in a rare good guy role ) to save Leila's soul before it's too late . Director Juan Bosch grounds the fantastic premise in a believable everyday world setting , which in turn gives the story a substantial additional credibility . Bosch earns bonus credit for handling the potentially lurid subject matter with admirable taste and restraint . Moreover , this film makes a strong and provocative point that mankind's flawed nature and immorality perpetuate the existence of evil ( Leila becomes possessed by the spirit of her deceased father who hand incestuous longings for her ) . The gradual build-up leads to an especially chilling and unnerving third act ; the climactic exorcism is quite tense and rousing . Francisco Sanchez's slick cinematography and Alberto Arguda's spooky funky-ripping score are both up to par . Nice ambiguous ending , too .
A very bleak and disturbing little shocker	A strange and lethal virus causes men to go insane and savagely murder women in a psychotic fit of religious fervor whenever they are sexually aroused . Scientists Alan ( an engaging performance by Jason Priestley ) and Barney ( the always excellent Elliott Gould ) try to find a cure while Alan's feisty wife Anne ( well played by the lovely Kerry Norton ) and spunky daughter Amy ( the solid Brenna O'Brien ) flee to the woods of Canada where it's still safe . Director Joe Dante , working from a bold and biting by Sam Hamm , delivers a chilling mix of stinging social commentary and unsettling doomsday end-of-the-world thriller that offers plenty of spot-on incisive stuff about religious fanaticism run dangerously amok , misogynistic male violence against women , and how mankind's own self-destructive nature will eventually turn on him . Moreover , Dante relates the gripping story at a snappy pace , maintains a grimly serious tone throughout , stages the jolting moments of brutal violence with unflinching explicitness ( an alarming psychotic outburst in a strip club is especially potent and upsetting ) , and adds a wickedly amusing line in pitch-black humor to further spice up the already tasty brew . Hummie Mann's spooky'n'shivery score and Attila Szalay's glossy , intimate cinematography are both top-notch . The acting is uniformly sound as well , with Linda Darlow a stand-out as sarcastic epidemiologist Bella . The surprise twist ending packs quite a punch . A praiseworthy sci-fi / horror winner .
An excellent and extremely effective British variant on your standard women-in-prison film	Adorable French model Anne Marie ( sweetly played by the charming and ravishing Penny Irving ) gets only a minor fine for exposing herself in public . Anne Marie meets mysterious , yet charismatic Mark E . Desade ( brooding Robert Tayman ) at a party . Mark takes Anne Marie to a hellish remote countryside correctional facility for wayward young ladies that's run by his strict mother Ms . Wakehurst ( a splendidly stern'n'steely Barbara Markham ) and blind , senile Justice Bailey ( a marvelously doddery Patrick Barr ) . Meanwhile , Ann's loyal gal pal Julia ( lovely Ann Michelle ) and her nice boyfriend Tony ( likable Ray Brooks ) try to find Anne Marie before it's too late . Director Pete Walker , working from an acrid and bitterly intelligent script by David McGillivray , takes a deceptively trashy run-of-the-mill chicks-in-chains exploitation plot and completely turns said premise on its ear by offering a wickedly barbed and incisive critique of the hypocritical religious ultra-conservative fundamentalist right who use vicious means to enforce the law while serving as self-appointed upholders of the moral majority . Moreover , Walker ably creates a potently grim and unsparingly harsh tone , depicts the brutal violence with admirable tact and restraint , and coaxes uniformly fine acting from a strong cast ( Sheila Keith in particular gives a genuinely chilling and outstanding performance as coldly sadistic prison guard Walker ) . Stanley Myers ' spare , spooky score , Peter Jessup's gritty , yet accomplished cinematography and the uncompromisingly bleak ending further enhance the overall sound quality of this supremely unsettling and superior shocker .
An enjoyably lightweight screwball goof of a seriocomic road movie delight	Kelly Johnson and Tony Barry are affably boorish and unaffected as a couple of aimless , disaffected , alienated everyday nobody ne'er-do-well blokes - - Johnson's a nutty , reckless juvenile delinquent hell-raiser while Barry's a dejected middle-aged loser who's just broken up with his wife - - who decide to make a cross country jaunt across New Zealand in a tiny stolen yellow rental car in this disarmingly modest and unpretentious seriocomic road movie delight . The misfit duo inadvertently become wanted fugitives and subsequent overnight criminal celebrities when they stiff a gas station attendant out of several bucks worth of fuel . During their wacky misadventures our scruffy anti-heroes pick up a daffy lady hitch-hiker ( the adorably vacuous Claire Oberman ) , cunningly elude the bumbling cops at every turn , and run into a fair share of eccentrics who want to eagerly capitalize on their newfound fame and notoriety . Director Geoff Murphy compensates for the hackneyed chase premise by coaxing funny , endearingly loose and zany performances from his uniformly excellent cast ( " The Quiet Earth " ' s Bruno Lawrence has a nice bit as a laid-back , pot-smoking chopshop owner ) , dynamically staging a few thrilling automobile stunts , keeping the pace swift and unflagging throughout , and neatly mining a winningly droll line in crudely amusing off-color humor . A marvelously mellow jazz score , beauteous backwoods locations , slick cinematography , and a plausibly downbeat , yet still satisfying ending round off this likably lightweight screwball goof of a movie .
Enjoyable fluff	Assured ace race car driver Dave Owens ( a likable performance by Frankie Avalon ) goes down south to compete in the local stock car races . Dave winds up at loggerheads with cocky reigning champion Sony Leander Fox ( a deliciously smarmy portrayal by Fabian ) . Moreover , Dave also starts running moonshine for sleazeball auto garage owner Charlie Bigg ( a nicely slimy turn by Harvey Lembeck ) . Director / co-writer William Asher relates the entertaining story at a snappy pace , maintains a breezy tone throughout , delivers a flavorsome evocation of the downhome setting , and stages the rousing vehicular carnage with considerable panache . Yummy blonde looker Julie Parrish vamps it up well as good-hearted young widow Martha . Nifty supporting contributions by the ever-adorable Annette Funicello as the sweet Jane , Chill Wills as jolly racetrack owner Big Jaw , Douglas Henderson as shifty federal agent Hastings , and Len Lesser as a genial hillbilly . The gritty and exciting racetrack footage is the authentic gnarly article . A couple of rough'n'ready fistfights are also pretty stirring . The cute claymation animation featured at the very start and end is a real hoot . Both Les Baxter's groovy swinging score and Floyd Crosby's sharp , bright widescreen cinematography are up to speed . As an added bonus , Frankie and Annette belt out a few catchy and charming songs . Better still , the characters even have a little depth to them . A fun flick .
An enjoyably dopey piece of 80's Crown International teen comedy trash	Lovely , perky , curly-haired and highly appealing brunette 80's flash-in-the-pan B-movie starlet Betsy ( " Out of Control , " " Cheerleader Camp " ) Russell gives a winningly spunky performance as Tomasina " Tommy " Boyd , a scrappy , willful , fiercely self-reliant spitfire hoyden automobile mechanic with a humongous crush on cocky race car driving dreamboat hunk Randy Star ( handsome , dashing Gerald Christopher ) . Egged on by her flighty , opportunistic aspiring actress gal pal Seville Ritz ( leggy , luscious blonde looker Kristi Somers ) , Tommy meets Randy at a jerky rich kid's ( Kirk Douglas ' obnoxious youngest son Eric in an unbearably grating thespic turn ) posh night party and , of course , the two fall a over teakettle for each other . The only problem is that male chauvinist Randy won't take Tommy seriously because she's a chick , so naturally the take no guff Tommy dares Randy to a high stakes souped-up auto race to win over his respect . Passably directed by seasoned trash exploitation feature hack Herb Freed ( who also graced us with the grim , unsettling , arrestingly off-kilter psychological horror sleeper " Haunts " and the atrocious teen body count slasher tripe " Graduation Day " ) and scripted in strictly off-the-peg adolescent comedy-drama formula fashion by Ben Zelig , this typically tacky and immaterial Crown International Pictures drive-in fluff covers all the necessary junky bases to qualify as a pleasingly silly serving of pure nonsense : a sizable number of nice-looking busty babes take their shirts off at regular 15 minute intervals ( besides Russell and Somers , we also have " Cavegirl " ' s eminently adorable Cynthia Ann Thompson as a frequently bare-breasted bimbo and cheesy horror scream queen Michelle Bauer in a ridiculous uncredited bit part as a topless tootsie in a flashy white Corvette ) , a heavy-handed " you go girl ! " stand-up-for-yourself feminist subtext , a generous smattering of witless lowbrow humor ( Ritz's audition for a TV commercial is a racy hoot ! ) , the best cornball motorcycle courtship scene since " Viva Kneivel ! , " cheap gay jokes , stupidly vulgar dialogue ( " Good night , little beep ! " ) , a horrible soundtrack full of generic , mechanically bouncy Top 40 hit tune soundalike songs ( the incredibly awful theme number boasts the following immortal couplet : " She's a road runner / She's a tail gunner ! " ) , an unforgettably hideous folks in tight , clingy leotards thrusting their pelvises to and fro to crappy disco music get down and boogie aerobic workout sequence ala " Flashdance , " and an utterly predictable grand finale all-or-nothing climactic car race . What's not to like about this charmingly shoddy 80's schlock artifact ?
Peter Fonda's interesting and ambitious , if pretty flawed low-budget sci-fi end-of-the-world effort	Peter Fonda's second directorial effort following the excellent feminist Western " The Hired Hand " makes for an extremely atypical and hence compelling post-holocaust sci-fi survivalist message movie related in the form of a subtle , very serious and pertinent ecological parable concerning mankind's selfish , self-destructive nature and careless depletion of natural resources at the expense of our planet's well being . Twelve young scientists ( a gawky , scrawny , long stringy-haired then unknown Keith Carradine among ' em ) travel to the future to the year 2044 in order to avoid an impending apocalypse and start civilization afresh . The group hike across the dry , arid , desolate rocky terrain , bicker amongst themselves , discover a tribe of retarded third generation post-nuke survivors , and gradually go crazy , eventually degenerating into total murderous barbarism . Although marred by an awkward opening third , wildly erratic acting from a largely amateur no-name cast , occasionally tiresome and over-deliberate draggy pacing , and a few pretentious moments , this still oddly haunting , engrossing and quietly unsettling low-budget curio intelligently makes an important statement about the possible grim destiny of our increasingly callous and environmentally wasteful society . Peter Fonda's spare , low-key , suitably grave and understated direction ably creates a chilling mood of stark despair and horror , while Bruce Logan's pretty , picturesque cinematography offers a dazzling array of lovely , sun-blasted visuals , Thomas Matthiesen's terse , thoughtful , quite novel and idiosyncratic script presents a cogent dire warning future shock scenario with stunning clarity and concision , and Bruce Langhorne's eerie score mines a fine line in spooky'n'shuddery atonal rhythms . Not a complete success , but a nice , admirable , appealingly sincere and well-meaning addition to post-holocaust science fiction cinema just the same .
An immensely enjoyable and effective Spanish horror winner	Six teenagers go to an old remote abandoned school where 27 years ago a horrible massacre took place for a night of fun and pranks . Instead the kids run afoul of the vicious crazed security guard ( excellently played with supremely creepy menace by Spanish horror icon Paul Naschy ) who committed the nasty killings . Director Carlos Gil relates the intriguing story at a brisk pace and does an adept job of creating a compellingly spooky and mysterious atmosphere . The witty script by Tino Blanco and Mercedes Holgueras offers a clever and inspired blend of slasher and supernatural elements that keep the viewer guessing to the very end . The slick cinematography by Fernando Arribas makes expert use of light and shadow . David San Jose's moody score likewise does the trick . The attractive and appealing young cast all contribute lively and engaging performances , with especially praiseworthy turns by Carlos Fuentes as ringleader Ramon , Olivia Molina as the panicky Maria , Zoe Berriatua as obnoxious joker Jordi , and Carmen Morales as spunky goth chick Sandra . The murder set pieces are every bit as bloody and brutal as they ought to be . Terrific whammy of a surprise dark ending , too . A solid and satisfying shocker .
A nifty 50's sci-fi / horror classic	Brilliant , hearty , but obsessive scientist Andre Delambre ( an excellent performance by David Hedison ) creates a teleportation device . Things go awry when his genes are crossed with those of a common fly , thereby resulting in a grotesque humanoid insect monster . Andre's loyal and loving wife Helene ( superbly played by the lovely Patricia Owens ) desperately tries to help him out , but his humanity starts to fade as the days wear on . Director Kurt Neumann , working from an absorbing and intelligent script by James Clavell , relates the arresting , if wildly implausible story at a steady pace , maintains an admirably serious and sincere tone throughout , and elicits uniformly fine acting from a first-rate cast . Hedison and Owens are outstanding in the leads ; they receive sound support from the ever-suave Vincent Price as Andre's concerned brother Francois , Herbert Marshall as the smooth Inspector Charas , comic actress Kathleen Freeman in a nifty change-of-pace straight part as housekeeper Emma , and Charles Herbert as Andre's sweet son Philippe . The vibrant color cinematography by Karl Struss makes exquisite use of the widescreen format . Paul Sawtell's lush , rousing orchestral score really hits the shuddery spot . The special effects are quite good and convincing . The revelation of the fly head atop Andre's body still packs a punch today ; ditto the now legendary ending scene with Andre's head on a fly's body pathetically screaming " Help me ! " while trapped in a spider's web . Moreover , this film gains considerable dramatic power from the fact that at the plot's core is a genuinely tragic and poignant love story . Although a bit slow and talky by modern standards , this picture overall is still worthy of its classic status .
A nifty killer animal horror flick	A flock of ravens contract mad cow's disease and turn into vicious carnivorous beasts who attack the populace of a sleepy small town . A handful of folks who include the stalwart Police Chief Wayne Merkle ( a solid Sean Patrick Flanery ) , amiable physician Doc ( winningly played by Rod Taylor ) , and recovering alcoholic school bus driver Clyde ( the excellent Stephen McHattie ) do their best to survive this harrowing ordeal . Director Sheldon Wilson , working from a smart , tight script by Benjamin Sztajnkrycer , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace , maintains a serious tone throughout ( there's a refreshing absence of any silly humor ) , and effectively builds a considerable amount of suspense . The tense gradual build-up of the opening act eventually culminates in an especially harrowing and exciting last third . Moreover , the ravens are genuinely creepy , the explanation for the birds ' violent behavior is both plausible and topical , the CGI effects are surprisingly decent and acceptable , and there's a handy helping of grisly gore ( the mangled victims of the bird attacks look pretty nasty ) . Nice supporting performances by Kristin Booth as Wayne's caring wife Cynthia , John Ralston as superstitious Mennonite farmer Oskar , Michelle Duquet as friendly diner owner Betty , Ashley Newbrough as mean teen Doris , Gray Powell as eager deputy Stan , Vladimir Bondarenko as strict farmer Jacob , Megan Park as Oskar's sweet daughter Gretchen , and Wendy Lyon as perky police dispatcher Luanne . Both John Tarver's polished cinematography and Steven London's shuddery score are up to speed . An enjoyable fright feature .
A hugely enjoyable 50's giant monster on the loose sci-fi / horror romp	Kindly scientist Leo G . Carroll creates a remarkable special nutrient which makes animals grow to alarmingly large sizes at an accelerated rate . A giant spider escapes from Carroll's lab and goes on the rampage . It's up to Carroll , affable country doctor John Agar and spunky , fetching lab assistant Mara Corday to figure out a way to stop the over-sized killer arachnid before things get too out of hand . Capably directed by 50's sci-fi / horror master Jack Arnold , with a bright , witty script by Robert M . Fresco and Martin Berkley , a steady pace , a booming , ominous score by Henry Mancini , lively and engaging performances from a solid and charming cast ( Nestor Paiva is especially strong as the cranky no-nonsense sheriff while a then unknown Clint Eastwood has a nice cameo towards the end as a jet fighter pilot ) , nifty special effects , sharp , moody photography by George Robinson , a splendidly spooky atmosphere ( the strikingly stark panoramic shots of the bleak , arid , desolate desert landscape have a wonderfully eerie feel to them ) , fine make-up by Bud Westmore , and several rousing sequences with the titanic tarantula wreaking havoc , this vintage 50's creature feature kick overall rates as a great deal of straightforward and unpretentious monster movie fun .
Not your standard lowbrow sexploitation fare	Handsome and dashing British airline pilot George Taylor ( a solid portrayal by Guiseppe Pambieri ) gets beat up by thugs after a wild night in Hong Kong . George meets and falls in love with the sweet and virginal Dr . Emy Wong ( a fine and charming performance by the lovely Chai Lee ) . George regains his health and goes back to work . When Emy fails to hear from George for a lengthy amount of time , she succumbs to despair and becomes a prostitute . While director / co-writer Bitto Albertini does indeed deliver a satisfying amount of the expected tasty nudity and steamy soft-core sex , this film is anything but your routine wallow in leering sleaze . Instead it's a surprisingly thoughtful , touching and tragic love story between two well drawn and highly appealing characters ( Chai as Emy Wong is especially radiant and endearing ) . The picture starts out bubbly and cheerful , but the tone radically shifts into a more grim and harsh mood about two thirds of the way through . Emy's descent into vice after she falsely assumes that George has abandoned her is bleak and upsetting ; ditto the remarkably sad and heartbreaking surprise bummer ending . Granted , the narrative is certainly melodramatic , but never too silly or trashy . Moreover , the sex scenes are quite tasteful and even genuinely erotic . Notorious Italian porn star Ilona Staller has a nice sizable supporting part as George's jealous and uninhibited secretary Helen Miller . Guido Mancori's polished cinematography offers many strikingly gorgeous shots of the exotic locations . Nico Fidenco's funky , throbbing score hits the groovy spot . Worth a look for those seeking something different .
A very solid and satisfying 70's " don't go down to Dixie " redneck exploitation flick	Scruffy , mischievous smartaleck Detroit drifter Eddie ( rangily personable beanpole Stephen McHattie ) and his sweet , plucky gal pal Cam ( a winning performance by the ever pert and appealing Kay Lenz ) witness a murder committed by a growly , profane , corrupt , vicious , irritable , just flat-out no-count and reprehensible cracker sheriff ( a stand-out scurvy portrayal by Lonny Chapman ) . The couple go on the lam ; Chapman and his hilariously inept deputies give hot pursuit . While the compact script by David R . Osterhout and William Norton offers nothing new and the story never springs any fresh surprises or novel twists , this film nonetheless still sizes up as a really solid and satisfying affair . In other words , the trite narrative gets redeemed by the briskness and vibrancy of the commendably spirited and unpretentious execution . Directed with galvanizing aplomb by Charles S . Dubin , further energized by Donald Peake's exuberant banjo-plucking , pile-driving country swing score and Charles Correll's splendidly agile , mobile , crisply handsome and polished cinematography , jam-packed with more auto-wrecking , metal-smashing , cars smacking into each other and flipping over in glorious slow motion vehicular carnage than you can shake a rusty tire iron at , and topped off with nice acting from the immensely likable leads , plus nifty cameos by Eddie Albert as a friendly , sympathetic lawyer , Will Geer as a crusty , snappish , nasty old oil baron , and the ubiquitous Dick Miller as one of Chapman's pernicious flunkies , " Moving Violation " tears ahead with such speedy breakneck velocity that it ultimately comes through as a giddy slice of dynamically enthusiastic Southern-fried demolition derby cinema .
An entertainingly inane jungle adventure camp hoot	A group of college student anthropologists and a rival team of no-count treasure hunters run afoul of a lethal tribe of primitive cannibals led by an evil witch doctor while checking out a dangerous jungle on a remote island . It's up to feisty'n'fetching Tarzanesque jungle babe Jelita ( ravishing brunette fox Lydia Kandou ) to keep everyone alive . Man , does this delightfully batty and berserk jaw-dropper possess all the right wonderfully ridiculous stuff to qualify as a real four star serving of deliciously cheesy schlock : we've got energetic direction by Danu Umbara , a constant brisk pace , hokey mild gore , a funky , thumping , syncopated score by Gatot Sudarto , plenty of outrageously wild and violent over-the-top fight scenes , laughably lousy dubbing , broadly drawn characters , vibrant , colorful cinematography by Bambang Trimakno , a protracted car chase , inept overuse of strenuous slow motion , a hilarious tribe of grunting ape-like untamed savages , and tacky ( far from ) special effects . Alas , the obligatory smidgen of gratuitous female nudity is optically fogged , but thankfully we still have a gaggle of good-looking gals running amok in skimpy fur two piece bikini outfits . Overall , this film possesses an infectiously kitschy charm that's impossible to either resist or dislike . A total gut-busting riot .
A satisfyingly sleazy 70's hicksploitation outing	Sweet Cathy Phillips ( well played by the lovely Deborah Raffin ) and her sassy best gal pal Diane Emery ( a winningly brash and spirited performance by the fetching Lynne Moody ) are a couple of California college students who experience car trouble while driving cross country in the deep rural south . The pair run afoul of evil small town Sheriff Danen ( a deliciously nasty portrayal by Chuck Connors ) , who gets the ladies sentenced to thirty days time on a harsh prison work farm where the conditions are positively hellish and inhumane . Director John Llewellyn Moxey does an expert job of relating the grim , yet gripping story at a constant brisk pace , effectively creates a dark , bleak , gritty downbeat atmosphere , and stays true to the uncompromisingly sordid and depressing tone to the literal bitter end . The trashy script by Jo Heims offers a neat and engrossing blend of elements from both the women-in-prison and " don't go down to Dixie " redneck exploitation sub-genres . Better still , the seamy plot covers all the essential scuzzy grindhouse bases : we've got rape , lesbianism , a handy helping of tasty female nudity , savage whippings , pedophilia , and racism . The sound acting from a top-drawer cast constitutes as another significant asset : Raffin and Moody make for excellent and engaging leads , Connors has an absolute ball as a supremely slimy and hateful no-count crooked lawman , plus there's fine supporting turns by Ralph Bellamy as a kindly , but corrupt judge , Tina Louise as mean prison guard captain Greer , Robert Reed as smarmy pervert Superintendent Dancer , Della Reese as wise , hard-bitten veteran con Sarah , Lana Wood as wicked guard Smitty , Fionnula Flanagan as the equally vicious guard Dulcie , and Kim Wilson as scared , vulnerable teenage inmate Emiline . Charles Bernstein's twangy , flavorsome countryish score hits the harmonic spot . Frank Stanley's slick cinematography likewise does the trick . A nice'n'grimy slice of Southern-fried sleaze .
A fun 50's horror flick	Huge murderous behemoth Vargas ( hulking Buddy Baer , the brother of Max Baer of " The Beverly Hillbillies " fame ) terrorizes a small California country hamlet . The frightened townspeople believe Vargas is the reincarnation of an infamous Spanish Conquistador who was killed in the mountains many years ago . Folksy anthropologist Dr . Frederick Cleveland ( excellently played by Morris Ankrum ) , his fetching daughter Janet ( the really charming and attractive Sally Fraser ) , and affable local Wayne Brooks ( an engaging portrayal by Edward Kemmer ) run into Vargas during an expedition into the woods . Director Richard Cunha maintains a steady pace throughout , does a good job of creating a pretty eerie atmosphere , and stages the shock scenes with a reasonable amount of aplomb . Cunha's sharp black and white cinematography , the pleasingly trim 77 minute running time and Albert Glasser's roaring full-tilt orchestral score are all on the money solid . Nice supporting performances by Bob Steele as stern , no-nonsense Sheriff Parker , Gary Crutcher as nice guy Charlie Brown , Jolene Brand as Charlie's sweet gal pal Ann , and Billy Dix as crazy doomsayer Indian Joe . The legendary Jack ( " Frankenstein " ) Pierce did the crusty make-up for Vargas . An enjoyable romp .
An excellent 70's drive-in biker flick	A rowdy and scruffy , but basically decent and likable biker gang stop off in a small Southern town . They are immediately antagonized and put in jail by the browbeating local yokel cops . A brutish deputy rapes a teenage girl and blames it on the bikers . This in turn begets a chain of harsh and vicious violence with grievous consequences for the cops and bikers alike . Directed , written , edited and photographed in an effectively blunt'n'basic no-frills scrappy fashion by William Dear and Thomas Dyke , this extremely raw and compelling low-budget vintage 70's exploitation nugget packs a very strong and lingering wallop . Michael Nesmith's groovy-rockin ' score , the rough , grainy , unpolished cinematography , the appealingly naturalistic acting from a game no-name cast ( the real life motorcycle club the Scorpions from Detroit portray the biker gang ) , several nifty folkie songs on the soundtrack , the fabulously profane dialogue , a few nice 70's period touches ( for example , there's a dart board with Richard Nixon's face on it on a wall in a bar ) , and a potent and provocative subtext about uptight middle America's gross inability to tolerate anyone who boldly defies the repressive toe-the-line straight-arrow conventional conformist norm all combine to give this picture a wonderfully ragged and cynical edge . The outbursts of violence are properly ugly and shocking , with high quality splashy squib work and strikingly stylized use of strenuous slow motion ala Sam Peckinpah . The climactic graveyard shoot-out rates as a definite exciting highlight . The astonishingly bleak and downbeat ending concludes the whole affair on a truly haunting and resonant note .
A wonderfully wild'n'wacky beastbash	Evil apelike alien invaders unleash a titanic lethal robot Godzilla so they can destroy Japan . It's up to the Big G and fellow behemoth beast King Caesar to stop the towering automaton . Director / co-writer Jun Fukuda offers a ridiculously convoluted plot that speeds along at a nonstop snappy pace . The jumbled script serves as a cheerfully sloppy and nonsensical potpourri of bits and pieces from a diverse array of sources : the pernicious extraterrestrial primates are directly cribbed from " Planet of the Apes , " with a dab of " The Mysterians " - style megalomania and " Kung Fu " - inspired chopsocky tossed in for good measure ; one of the human heroes is an ultra smooth James Bondesque Interpol agent , and the climactic confrontation between MechaGodzilla and Godzilla uproariously parodies Sergio Leone's marvelously drawn-out gunfighter duels in his spaghetti Westerns . The fabulous mondo destructo city stomp sequences and vigorously rough'n'tumble monster fight scenes are both the authentic gnarly article . Moreover , we even get a fair amount of grisly gore ( the enormous creatures bleed what looks like detergent whenever they're cut ) . Plus , you just gotta love the laughably dog-like King Caesar ; his huge floppy ears alone are simply adorable . Masaru Sato's swingin ' funky'n'jazzy score , the cruddy ( less than ) special effects , and Yuzura Aizawa's slick , agile cinematography add immensely to the infectiously delirious fun . An absolute hoot .
A shamefully unsung camp crap classic	The lovely , yet lethal Alexandra ( stunning statuesque blonde beauty Stacie Randall , who looks absolutely smashing in a tight black leather outfit ) must find a magic amulet so her evil demonic master Faust can cross over into our dimension . It's up to fearless , rugged cop Jonathan Graves ( likable Peter Liapis ) to stop her . Meanwhile , two pitifully unfunny " comic relief " dwarf gnome creatures run amok in Los Angeles . Seasoned veteran schlock exploitation expert Jim Wynorski relates the supremely inane story at a brisk pace and takes none of this foolishness remotely seriously . The cast struggle gamely with the silly material : the adorable Barbara Alyn Woods as sassy , fetching police captain Kate , Raquel Krelle as tart , sexy hooker Jeanine , Bobby Di Cicco as Graves ' bumbling , excitable partner Scotty , Peggy Trentini as alluring museum curator Monica , and Ace Mask as the jolly Dr . Rochelle . Mark Stevi's puerile cookie cutter script , an amusingly lowbrow sense of no-brainer humor , Chuck Cirino's bouncy cornball score , the two dwarf guys sporting obvious cheap rubber Halloween masks , J . E . Bash's plain cinematography , no tension or gratuitous female nudity to speak of , and the tacky ( less than ) special effects all further enhance the overall delicious cheesiness of this prime slice of celluloid Velveeta . An entertainingly brainless piece of lovably lousy dreck .
A fun 50's rock'n'roll romp	Legendary 50's rock disc jockey Alan Freed's last and best movie with Freed not only starring ( he gives perhaps his most comfortable and engaging performance here ) , but also producing as well . Freed plays wise , kindly , worldly mentor to an eager beaver orphan ( and failed choirboy ! ) who needs Freed's endorsement to make it as a big-time rock star . Granted , the trite rags-to-riches central story ain't much ; ditto the nondescript direction , drab , static cinematography , flat TV movieish production values , and very basic editing . However , one doesn't evaluate this type of golden age of rock feature on either its technical finesse or narrative expertise ; it's simply how smokin ' the music is that's the chief concern . Fortunately , said music really cooks . Chuck Berry exudes his customary suave confidence belting out the stone cold aces classics " Johnny Be Goode " and " Memphis , Tennesse . " Adorable Jo-Ann Campbell happily chirps the saucy " Mama Can I Go Out . " The Flamingoes bring down the house with the raucous party platter " Jump , Children . " Harvey pleasantly croons the catchy , charming " Don't Be Afraid of Love . " The Cadillacs goof it up something silly on the funny Coasters-style novelty numbers " Jay Walker " and " Please Mr . Johnson . " Rockabilly giant Eddie Cochran does a killer rendition of the stupendously boss " You Better Know It . " Richie Valens moans outrageously through the socking " Ooh My Head . " Lead actor / singer Jimmy Clanton , an affably boyish Louisiana-born lad with a strong bluesy rasp of a voice , commendably holds his own amid this fantastic wealth of remarkable musical talent : the snazzy " Ship On a Stormy Sea , " the dreamy " Don't You Know , " the lovely " Angel Face , " and the pretty , swoony ballad " Once Again " are all first-rate tunes . And the flick's disarmingly effervescent evocation of the nifty 50's rock milieu definitely hits the sweetly nostalgic spot : the kids are decent and clean-cut , the adults tolerant and understanding , the songs all possess cheery , upbeat messages , there's nary a trace of irony or cynicism to be found throughout , and even notoriously jerky skinflint Chuck Berry almost succeeds in coming across like a nice guy ( ! ) .
A very charming and enjoyable fantasy adventure romp	Brave sailor Sinbad ( an engaging performance by John Phillip Law ) goes to the island of Lemuria in search of the mystical Fountain of Destiny . Assisting Sinbad on his perilous journey are the badly scarred Grand Vizier ( solid Douglas Wilmer ) of Marabia , ravishing slave girl Margiana ( a positively enchanting turn by the gorgeous Caroline Munro , who looks smoking hot in skimpy outfits ) , loyal crew member Omar ( the always excellent Aldo Sambrell ) , and a helpful oracle ( an unrecognizable Robert Shaw under extensive make-up ) . Out to thwart Sinbad is wicked and powerful black wizard Prince Koura ( superbly played by Tom Baker of " Dr . Who " fame ) , a surprisingly complex and strangely sympathetic villain who needs to find the Fountain of Destiny to regain his youth . Director Gordon Hessler , working from a witty script by Brian Clemens ( who also gave us the terrific " Captain Kronos - Vampire Hunter " ) , ably creates a charming magical atmosphere and maintains a steady , if occasionally rather sluggish pace throughout . Ray Harryhausen's wonderfully lifelike and expressive stop-motion animation creatures include a tiny winged flying homunculus who spies for Koura , a ship's wooden siren masthead which comes dangerously alive , a sword-wielding six-armed Kali statue , a ferocious gigantic cyclopean centaur , and a golden griffin who fights the centaur in an especially exciting set piece . Ted Moore's rich , vibrant cinematography , Miklos Rozsa's lush , rousing , spirited score and a perfectly pitched sincere tone of awestruck wonder further enhance the overall superior quality of this immensely enjoyable fantasy adventure delight .
A solid and enjoyable horror monster flick	An ancient lethal and powerful humanoid creature ( Matt Jordan in a gnarly monster suit ) of local Native American legend gets freed from its mountainside cave prison and goes on a bloody rampage in the woods . It stalks and torments troubled forest ranger Danielle St . Claire ( a strong and sympathetic performance by the lovely Cerina Vincent of " Cabin Fever " ) , whose grief and guilt over the recent untimely death of her best gal pal Julie Cassidy ( a winningly perky turn by Miranda Frigon ) attracts the evil beast's sadistic attention . Director Steven R . Monroe maintains a steady pace throughout , effectively creates a spooky and gloomy atmosphere , and piles on the nasty gore during the brutal kill scenes . Better still , there's a thoughtful aspect to the script by Richard Christian Matheson , Thomas E . Szoilosa and Stephen J . Cannell which adds a welcome and refreshing element of poignancy to the story . Vincent effortlessly carries the picture with her excellent and affecting portrayal of the touchingly tragic heroine ; she receives fine support from Dominic Zamprogna as her concerned , likable boyfriend Justin Rawley , Greg Kean as friendly fellow ranger Rick Bailey , and Eric Schweig as wise college professor Joseph Riverwind . The engaging main characters , Jon Joffin's polished cinematography , a nice soundtrack of pleasant pop-rock songs , the breathtaking sylvan scenery , and Corey A . Jackson's eerie , rousing , flavorsome score all further enhance the overall sound quality of this nifty little shocker .
An excellent and enjoyable comic vehicle for both Steve Martin and Lily Tomlin	The spirit of uptight dying rich spinster Edwina Cutwaters ( superbly played by Lily Tomlin ) gets accidentally transferred into the body of swinging bachelor lawyer Roger Cobb ( Steve Martin in fine and inspired form ) . The two radically opposite personalities are forced to share the same body until they can get wacky swami Prahka Lasa ( a delightfully kooky Richard Libertini ) to put Edwina's soul into the body of shameless and conniving slut Terry Hoskins ( a deliciously naughty portrayal by the lovely Victoria Tennant ) . Director Rob Reiner and screenwriter Phil Alden Robinson devise an ideal showcase for the major comic talents of both Martin and Tomlin : The original wild and crazy Steve performs plenty of frantic physical humor with amazing skill and agility while Tomlin brings a genuinely moving pathos to the initially unappealing character of the sad and repressed Edwina . Better still , there's a good deal of genuine heart and warmth amid all the zany slapstick , with the two main characters becoming more endearing and sympathetic as the story unfolds . Roger Cobb in particular is a likable eccentric who talks to his beloved dog and aspires to be a jazz musician . Martin and Tomlin do sterling work in the lead roles ; they receive sound support from Tennant , Libertini , Jason Bernard as Roger's loyal , laid-back blind saxophone player pal Tyrone Wattell , Dana Elcar as amorous law firm head Burton Schuyler , Michael Ensign as prissy lawyer Mr . Mifflin , Madolyn Smith as Roger's fiery fiancé Peggy , Eric Christmas as Terry's cranky stableman dad Fred , and Selma Diamond as Roger's sunny secretary Margo . It's a real treat watching Martin and Tomlin bounce off each other ; sidesplitting highlights include Roger getting Edwina to help him go to the bathroom ( priceless line : " How dare you say penis to a dead person " ) , Edwina spoiling Roger's attempt at making love to Terry , and the wonderfully exuberant final scene . A total hoot .
A hugely enjoyable heist action film	The best , most successful and entertaining heist movies are the ones that roll up their sleeves , spit on their hands , and promptly get down to thrilling brass tacks with topmost immediate urgency and a refreshing lack of momentum-killing pretense . This crackerjack number sure does the above cited correct thing in a neatly taut , streamlined and economical manner thanks to Stuart Rafill's proficient direction and a laudably terse , padding-free script . Four desperate , engagingly scruffy and nervous unemployed blue collar schmoes - - rugged macho man James Brolin , agreeable go-along-to-get-along nice guy Bruce Davison , funky black smartaleck Cleavon Little and excitable worrywart Chick Vennera - - go to South America to rob a sexy $5 million from casually ruthless drug lord James Coburn ( who's fine in a juicy villain role which allows him to radiate calmly malevolent menace from every laid-back evil pore ) . Of course , the caper doesn't go off without any foul-ups occurring : Little and Vennera are nabbed by Coburn's flunkies while Brolin and Davison run afoul of a comically inept bandito gang led by the ever-hammy Anthony Quinn . Okay , so the basic premise isn't terribly original . Fortunately , the swiftly efficient execution , lots of spot-on sassy humor , perils aplenty , and the uniformly sound acting fully compensate for the admittedly trite story . The vastly underrated Brolin once again proves he's got the essential rough'n'tumble stuff to cut it as a sturdy action lead , Davison , Little and Vennera lend expert support as Brolin's plausibly reluctant and out-of-their-element pals , erstwhile Bionic Woman Lindsay Wagner further compliments the already pretty jungle scenery as the token feisty extraneous babe , and Ernest Borgnine contributes a funny cameo as a bluff illegal arms dealer . Trim , rousing and well worth checking out .
An excellent and intelligent thinking man's science fiction thriller	Brilliant electronics genius Dr . Charles Forbin ( a strong and charismatic performance by Eric Braeden ) creates Colossus , a powerful and super-intelligent computer that's devised to regulate America's defense systems . Colossus instead gets in touch with its equally potent Russian counterpart Guardian . The two computers plot to take over the world . It's up to Forbin and his crack team of scientists to concoct a way of stopping Colossus before it's too late . Joseph Sargent's able direction , working from a smart and provocative script by James Bridges , not only wrings plenty of tension from the arresting premise , but also relates said story in a taut , involving and above all convincing manner . The superb acting from a top-drawer cast constitutes as another substantial plus : Susan Clark as Forbin's loyal assistant , Gordon Pinsent as the amiable president of the United States , William Schallert as a CIA director , Dolph Sweet as an army colonel , and George Stanford Brown , Robert Cornthwaite and James Hong as computer experts . The late , great Paul Frees supplies the creepy , droning , tinny voice of Colossus . Gene Polito's sharp , agile cinematography , Michel Colombier's rousing , rattling score , Albert Whitlock's terrific special effects , and a chillingly downbeat ending are all up to speed as well . Back in the early 70's this film was quite ahead of its time . Today it remains a still timely , pertinent and even frightfully plausible cautionary tale about the perils of artificial intelligence run amok .
Marjoe Gortner excels in this hugely enjoyable made-for-TV Western	Former real life child evangelist Marjoe Gortner gives a solid and engaging performance as Ernie Parsons , a shrewd gunslinger who's forced to assume the identity of a dead minister in order to elude being captured by an angry posse . Parsons winds up in a dusty little hamlet where the cowed townspeople are under the cruel reign of evil powerful despot Mr . Ross ( a wonderfully wicked David Huddleston ) . Director Daniel Petrie , working from a clever and witty script by William Bowers , keeps the offbeat narrative lively and engrossing throughout . Richard C . Glouner's handsome , agile photography , George Aliceson Tipton's rousing , flavorsome score and several exciting gunfights are all likewise up to par . The bang-up cast constitutes as another major plus : Estelle Parsons as a feisty widow , Pamela Sue Martin as Parson's sweet pretty young thing daughter , Slim Pickens as a rascally old coot , Geoffrey Lewis as a formidable rival gunfighter , Jon Lormer as the local undertaker , and Jeff Corey as the ornery posse leader are all uniformly excellent . A really fun and satisfying little made-for-TV sagebrush flick .
An excellent Hammer thriller	Sweet , fragile , but resilient wheelchair-bound cripple Penny Appleby ( a beautifully warm and touching performance by the lovely Susan Strasberg ) goes to France to see her father at a remote seaside villa . Alas , her dad turns out to be away on an errand . Penny starts to see the corpse of her father all over the place . However , her kindly stepmother Jane ( well played by Ann Todd ) insists that he's still alive . Has Penny lost her mind ? Or is someone trying to drive the poor girl mad ? Ably directed by Seth Holt , with a clever and compelling script by Jimmy Sangster , a genuinely spooky atmosphere ( the scenes with the father's dead body are pretty creepy ) , handsome black and white cinematography by Douglas Slocombe , sturdy acting from a super cast , a properly shivery score by Clifton Parker , a gradual , yet steady pace , and one doozy of an unexpected surprise plot twist towards the very end , this tidy and absorbing thriller keeps the viewer guessing right to the stirring and startling conclusion . Strasberg simply shines in a rare substantial starring role ; she makes for a charming and sympathetic heroine , cuts loose with a few great full-throated screams , and , of course , looks absolutely gorgeous throughout . Moreover , there are fine supporting contributions by Ronald Lewis as affable chauffeur Bob and Christopher Lee as mysterious , concerned physician Dr . Pierre Gerrard . A solid and satisfying winner that's well worth seeing .
An unusual and engrossing made-for-TV Western	Rugged Steve Forrest gives a properly steely and stalwart performance as James Devlin , a tough , cynical gunfighter who after miraculously surviving a hanging decides to dedicate his life to doing good instead of bad . Devlin comes to the aid of Carrie Gault ( the engagingly spunky Sharon Acker ) , a feisty widow who's being pushed around by evil land baron Lew Halleck ( a smoothly hateful Cameron Mitchell ) . Director Michael Caffey makes the most out of Ken Trevey's interesting script ; he coaxes fine acting from a solid cast , maintains a snappy pace and compellingly mysterious mood throughout , and stages the thrilling shoot outs with a reasonable amount of flair and skill ( the final confrontation between Devlin and Halleck is especially tense and exciting ) . Keith C . Smith's polished cinematography gives the movie a plausibly dusty , gritty look while Richard Markowitz's spare , spooky , stirring score likewise hits the spot . Popping up in nice supporting roles are Dean Jagger as a kindly lawyer , Will Geer as a nutty , rascally old ranch hand , Rafael Campos as a naive young priest , and Hank Worden as a chatty , friendly old geezer . An offbeat and intriguing allegory on fate and redemption , " The Hanged Man " is well worth checking out .
An enjoyably silly car chase action romp	Few studios could rival Cannon back in the 80's when it came to cranking out slickly mounted give the audience what they've paid to see action / adventure potboilers . Sure , their films were usually pretty empty-headed and utterly lacking in originality , but they delivered the goods just the same in an admirably precise and economical manner . " Thunder Run " is a solid example of Cannon's winning formula : it's simple , basic and to the point . Forrest Tucker in his final film role affably portrays Charlie Morrison , a crusty crackerjack gear-gammer and Korean war veteran who's hired by crafty government agent John Ireland to haul a load of plutonium freight across a long , lonely stretch of Nevada desert backroads . Naturally , there's one immense hitch : a lethal band of nuclear terrorists led by a sensationally slimy Alan Rachins want to steal the plutonium , so Morrison , assisted by his loving grandson Chris ( likable John Shepherd ) , stacks the odds more in his favor by building himself an almighty , heavily armored , tank-like 65-foot 18-wheeler supertruck called " Big Thunder . " Gary Hudson's vigorous direction ensures that this tightly efficient B-picture chase thriller storms along in a pleasingly straightforward and single-minded manner akin to Morrison's truck : we've got a ceaseless rapid-fire pace , gritty , here's-dirt-in-your-eye ground level camera-work by Harvey Genkins , amusingly dopey adolescent sex hi-jinks ( a klutzy stringbean electronics whiz kid dweeb does just what you think with a gorgeously slinky blonde babe ) , an incessantly pounding score by Jay Levy , frequent bright yellow explosions , a terrifically trashy hard rock soundtrack , engaging characters ( Jill Whitlow of " Night of the Creeps " fame is especially endearing as Chris ' sweet girlfriend ) , a few lovably cheesy gimmicks ( would you believe outrageously garish , camouflage-painted Volkswagons equipped with rocker launchers ? ) , and , most importantly , more wild , careening , knock-you-out-of-your-seat frantic and exciting piston-pumping car chase action than you can shake a tire iron at . Okay , as far as creativity is concerned this puppy's admittedly low on gas , but it still rattles along with a certain rousing streamlined momentum nonetheless .
Beware of the killer mutant Nutriaman !	One of the all-time worst and thus most oddly enjoyable " cheap rubber suit monster on the loose " nickel'n'dime low-budget fright flicks to crawl out of the bayou and slither its moronic way onto celluloid . The trite , more prosaic than a Sunday picnic story deals with your standard bunch of enthusiastic , but unethical scientists who inject a nutria - - a too cute to easily stomach kind of swamp vermin that's basically a cuddly rat - - with human hormones , which naturally results in a murderous mutant man-rat beastie ( actually , it's just some luckless chowderhead chump in a very obvious and shabby fur-covered creature costume ) with a decided lack of hospitality towards homo sapiens . The hideous bloodthirsty thingofabobbit goes on a nasty killing spree , bloodlessly butchering assorted no-account moonshiners , beer-swilling hillbilly hunters , and meddlesome government folk around Poacher's Cove in Houma , Louisiana like it was open season on stupid people . Pretty soon a bunch of perpetually plastered redneck sportsmen and a crack team of three Vietnam vets who always wear black sunglasses and sullen scowls on their camouflage painted faces go venturing into the murky , pungent backwoods with guns cocked and tempers flaring , eager to bag themselves a misshapen humanoid fiend . Sound good , pardner ? Well , good it sure ain't , although Joe Catalanatto's all-thumbs direction , the wooden acting by a no-name cast ( Who the heck is Billy Holliday ? ) , the connect-the-dots dead simple plot , a uniformly annoying array of one-note cardboard characters ( Claudia Woods is especially irritating as nutty ol ' swamp hag Sally ) , several choice idiotic moments ( e . g . , two trigger-happy hicks accidentally blast the living tar out of a hapless hunter they mistake for the monster ! ) , and the general air of all-out inanity and ineptitude make this unmitigated stinker of a picture modestly appealing and entertaining no-brainer good ol ' boy creature feature fun just the same .
An enjoyably inane piece of 70's drive-in fluff	This enjoyably goofy'n'duffy piece of 70's drive-in fluff centers on a six woman outlaw gang who prey on hapless backwoods motorists . The gals are owned and trained by the amiable , scruffy , pleasantly mellow Manson-like Benson ( shaggy hairball Norman Klar ) , a charismatically breezy anti-establishment type who wants to raise enough money to purchase a bus so he and his female family can go to California . Naive , pregnant teen runaway Maggie ( the lovely , busty , lusty blonde fox Misty Rowe , who was a regular on " Hee Haw " and played Marilyn Monroe in Larry Buchanan's tawdry biopic " Goodbye Norma Jean " ) joins the loose , fun-loving , law-breaking bunch and winds up fighting with possessive , rabidly envious and clinging iceberg bitch Diana ( statuesque brunette Linda Avery ) over who's got exclusive dibs on Benson . That's about it for the admittedly flimsy story and frankly who cares about some fancy-schmancy plot ? In its place there's sunny cinematography , lots of roadside robberies , a generous sprinkling of gratuitous nudity , sexy chicks in skimpy apparel ( Rowe in particular looks mighty enticing in a skimpy mini-dress ) , the inevitable skinny-dipping scene , a rowdy pot party , catchy folk-country songs grooving away on the soundtrack , some trashy melodrama ( Maggie gets raped by a sleazy jerk and has a miscarriage ) , charmingly dated hippie slang ( " Far out ! " ) , a couple of catfights , a playfully amoral tone , and absolutely no pretense to get in the way of the giddy tongue-in-cheek silliness . Sure , it's dumb , pointless and meandering , which basically means that it's a sweetly stupid grindhouse relic from the halcyon heyday of exploitation cinema and hence a most entertaining source of undemanding no-brainer fun .
Absorbingly sordid trash	1978 , Los Angeles . Lovely and charming psychiatrist Dr . Samantha Stone ( well played by the gorgeous Brittany Daniel ) interviews nervous and scared suspected serial killer Kenneth Bianchi ( a strong and compelling performance by Clifton Collins , Jr . ) in order to determine if he's sane or crazy . Director / co-writer Chris Farber relates this engrossing story in a deliciously flashy'n'trashy style which creates a considerable amount of raw energy and crackling intensity . Farber's unapologetically seamy and nasty rub-your-nose-in-the-gutter sensibility may not be subtle , but it does give the picture a lurid vitality that's both exciting and arresting in equal measure . Moreover , there's a vivid and credible evocation of the wild anything-goes hedonism and amorality of the 70's . For example , Samantha is the total opposite of a squeaky clean goody-goody two shoes heroine ; instead she's a completely uninhibited swinger who smokes pot and participates in crazy drug'n'sex orgies . Daniel and Collins , Jr . are both excellent in the leads , with Collins , Jr . in particular a stand-out with his frightening portrayal of raging psychosis and seething misogyny . The supporting cast is likewise solid and praiseworthy : Lake Bell as Samantha's brassy District Attorney best friend Jillian Dunne , Bret Roberts as Samantha's scuzzy dope dealer boyfriend Jack , Tom Wright as the hard-nosed Detective Bryant , and Mike Haggerty as Bryant's equally gruff partner Detective Smith . Tomas Arana makes a brief , but still memorably chilling appearance as the coarse and slimy Angelo Buono . Eliot Rockett's gaudy , dynamic cinematography keeps the camera constantly moving throughout while Ryan Beveridge's moody score further enhances the overall edgy tone . As a nice added bonus , the luscious Daniel bares her beautiful body a few times . A pleasingly tawdry wallow in the celluloid sewer .
A real funky blast from the 80's past	Made right before the buzz-crushing ultra-conservative religious right backlash against the gloriously loose'n'libertine permissiveness of the 70's took hold , this wonderfully wild'n'raucous animated sci-fi / horror / fantasy anthology film gleefully wallows in excessive graphic violence , crass leering objectification of the amply proportioned female form ( buxom ladies only , please ) , and a wickedly funny line in cheery low-brow humor . This movie sure ain't politically correct - - and that's exactly why it's such a hugely enjoyable blast from the funky early 80's past . An evil glowing orb called the Loknar ( the supremely sinister and velvet smooth voice of Percy Rodriguez ) spreads its malign influence throughout the decades and galaxies . First tale , " Harry Canyon " - Cynical cabbie Harry ( marvelously voiced to weary perfection by veteran character actor Richard Romanus of " Mean Streets " ) gets involved with a sexy young lass in a bleak and rundown futuristic New York . Second yarn , " Den " - A nerdy teenager ( affably voiced by the late , great John Candy ) winds up on another planet where he's transformed into a bald and brawny behemoth . Third romp , " Captain Sternn " - Sleazy scoundrel Captain Sternn stands on trail for his many heinous indiscretions . John Vernon scores strongly as the angry voice of the prosecuting attorney . Fourth opus , " B-17 " - A very creepy and gruesome World War II zombie outing . Fifth vignette , " So Beautiful and So Dangerous " - A couple of wacky aliens and their goofy robot buddy abduct a sassy hot Jewish chick . Harold Ramis and Eugene Levy are hilarious as the Cheech and Chong-style stoner pilots of a giant smiley face spaceship . Candy once again is a delight as the voice of the charming and amorous robot . Sixth outing , " Taarna " - A lethal and lovely mute warrior woman mixes it up with a vicious horde of nasty marauders . Boy , does this picture rate highly as the ideal guy flick : we've got a fantastic roaring rock soundtrack ( Cheap Trick , Black Sabbath , Devo , Grand Funk Railroad , Nazareth , Blue Oyster Cult , Journey , Stevie Nicks and much more ) , plenty of sidesplitting sophomoric humor , stunningly voluptuous and often naked women , a handy helping of gore , a nice smattering of soft-core sex , a blithely breezy'n'carefree tone , and no pretense whatsoever to get in the way of the infectiously trashy fun . The strikingly stylized and varied animation is suitably vivid and garish throughout . Elmer Bernstein's lush majestic orchestral score likewise hits the spot . A real cool treat that's wholly deserving of its cult status .
A nifty little 70's made-for-TV " danger on the road " suspense thriller	While driving across lonely , misty , rain-streaked California backroads en route to Santa Barbara to visit her sister , nice middle-aged lady Clair ( Cloris Leachman ) decides to give handsome young hitchhiker Miles ( Michael Brandon ) a lift to San Francisco . Unbeknownst to Clair , Miles is really a volatile and dangerously unpredictable psychopath who's eager to get out of town as fast as possible because he just murdered his shamelessly flirtatious harlot stepmother ( a memorably smoldering cameo by enticing brunette hottie Sherry Jackson of " Bare Knuckles " and " The Mini-Skirt Mob " ) . Meanwhile , gruff homicide detective Henry Darrow gives dogged chase . Tautly directed by Gordon ( " Scream and Scream Again " ) Hessler , with a jittery score by Gil ( " A Cold Night's Death " ) Melle , a pleasingly terse and to the point sense of streamlined narrative economy , and an especially harrowing conclusion , this gripping and suspenseful made-for-TV " danger on the road " thriller does the trick with spot-on satisfying brevity and effectiveness . Moreover , the performances are uniformly sound : Brandon delivers a genuinely chilling and convincing portrayal of the frighteningly unstable Miles , Leachman is excellent as usual ( and at the time was acting in a slew of TV movies in both lead and secondary roles ) , and the ubiquitous Cameron Mitchell pops up as a helpful police captain . Tight , tense and absorbing , " Hitchhike ! " is well worth picking up .
An enjoyably tacky lump of Italian sci-fi / horror cheese	Your standard " Frankenstein " esque mad scientist messing around with ill-advised covert bacteriological war experiments premise gets clumsily crossed with a similarly hackneyed crazed killer on the loose story with a dash of that old reliable standby of the deadly plague which could wipe out thousands of folks if it isn't nipped in the bud right away in this energetically cheesy and entertainingly slapdash grab-bag Italian sci-fi / horror thriller . An accident at a top secret government lab turns a professor into a hideously malformed , murderously deranged and seemingly indestructible humanoid beast with scraggly hair , an ugly , bloated , pus-oozing , skin-peeling boil-like face , superhuman strength , a horrid wheezy moan of a voice , and a decidedly antisocial sanguinary disposition . Worse yet , Mr . Unsightly Dementoid Freakshow has a highly lethal and contagious degenerative disease which forces anyone infected with said ailment to bag other people for their precious blood . Naturally , the ghastly mutant goes on a grisly killing spree in Great Britain , attacking a libidinous teenage couple doing just what you think in the back of a car , a lovely young blonde lady in the middle of taking a shower , the audience in a movie theater watching an asinine comedy , a plastered out of his skull drunk , and , best of all , even a priest ( yes ! ) . It's up to two-fisted man of action David Warbeck ( who carries himself here with the same stolid austerity he brought to such Lucio Fulci flicks as " The Beyond " and " The Black Cat " ) and fetching femme doctor Janet ( " Eaten Alive , " " The Gates of Hell " ) Agren to stop the pitiably grotesque monster before things get disastrously out of hand . Sure , the basic plot is anything but original or inspired , but handy helpings of frequent violence , a grimly serious tone , Gionanni Bergamini's spirited direction , an unerringly fast and steady pace , and the wildly eventful narrative ensure that this baby remains a satisfyingly schlocky affair from start to finish just the same .
An enjoyable 70's redneck drive-in comedy / drama winner	Arkansas , 1933 . The Prohibition era . Serious Othar Pruitt ( a fine performance by Paul Koslo ) and his more easygoing buddy Dewey Crenshaw ( a wonderfully engaging portrayal by Dennis Fimple ) are a couple of moonshine runners who find themselves involved in a bitter and deadly territorial feud with the no-count rival Woodall clan who are lead by ruthless and vicious patriarch Rufus ( a neat'n'nasty turn by Seaman Glass ) . Director Charles B . Pierce and screenwriter Earl E . Smith ( who also has a sizable role as the gruff sheriff ) not only offer a vivid and flavorsome evocation of the desolate , yet still beautiful rural region , but also show a genuinely moving warmth and affection for both the place and the people that populate it . For example , the Pruitt family are depicted as basically decent and honest folks who are forced to make and sell bootleg whiskey out of complete financial necessity . Moreover , Pierce relates the engrossing plot at a leisurely , but still steady pace , tosses in a few amusing moments of good-natured humor , and stages the sporadic action scenes with reasonable aplomb ( the climactic showdown between the Pruitts and the Woodalls is especially tense and exciting ) . This film further benefits from bang-up acting by a uniformly tip-top cast : Koslo and Fimple make for likable leads , the always great Slim Pickens almost steals the whole show as folksy Grandpa Pruitt , and a pre - " Charlie's Angels " Jaclyn Smith is delightfully spunky as tough , feisty hick chick Sally Frannie Tatum . Tak Fujimoto's sumptuous cinematography uses slow motion to occasional striking effect and fills the screen with often breathtaking panoramic shots of the gorgeous sylvan area . Jaime Mendoza-Nava's spirited , harmonic score and the tuneful soundtrack of catchy hillbilly songs both score a bull's eye as well . A nice little movie .
A solid & satisfying Al Adamson blaxploitation crime / action outing	Late , great grind-house trash movie-maker Al Adamson takes a stab at the blaxploitation genre - - and , surprisingly , the net result rates a cut or so above the norm , meaning that what we got here is a genuinely solid 70's drive-in black action opus . Former gridiron great Timothy Brown ( whose other B-picture credits include " Bonnie's Kids , " " The Dynamite Brothers , " the Filipino women-in-prison potboiler " Sweet Sugar , " and the third Cheri Caffaro " Ginger " feature " Girls Are for Loving " ) ain't half bad as rough'n'tough streetwise Las Vegas cop Kicks Carter , who's determined to get the goods on a fancy hotel operation which serves as a front for all kinds of illicit and illegal activities ( gambling , bribery , gun-running , prostitution , y'know , the usual spit - in - the - face - of - both - the - law - and - morality kind of nasty stuff ) . The villains of this particular piece are an enjoyably vile pack of vicious down'n'dirty subhuman vermin : the ever-dependable Russ Tamblyn slimes it up delightfully as Ziggy , a brutish , loutish , obnoxious loan shark and nightclub manager ( check out the scene where Ziggy gleefully beats a guy up with a sledgehammer and then crushes the dude's legs by running them over with a car ! ) ; Darlene Anders oozes coolly understated menace as the motel's evil , predatory lesbian owner , and J . C . Wells shows substantial smooth , slimy , sinister style as Guido , a bald , flinty , very business-like gangster who specializes in selling ill-gotten firearms . On the fetching femme side we've got the supremely sexy'n'slinky Tanya Boyd of " Black Shampoo " and " Ilsa : Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks " fame as a feisty , snoopy TV reporter and love interest for Kicks . And then there's Al's always welcome space cadet wife Regina Carrol , looking unusually haggard and worn-out , but still acquitting herself passably as a melancholy lounge singer ( Carrol even belts out the unexpectedly lovely and heart-rending downbeat ballad " No More Mail Until Tomorrow " ) . Under Al's uncharacteristically proficient direction ( Adamson , by the way , can also be briefly glimpsed playing blackjack in a casino during a nifty montage sequence ) , " Black Heat " measures up as a perfectly agreeable and diverting little low-budget number : we've got typically sharp and crisp cinematography by the tireless Gary Graver , Paul Lewison cuts loose with a righteously grooving , get-down happening jazzy soul score , the gratuitous sex , profanity and violence level is suitably ample and explicit ( the movie hits its scuzzy highlight when a disgusting bunch of greasy , grinning slobs cheerfully gang rape luckless compulsive gambler Jana Bellan after she loses a poker game to them and doesn't have any money to cover her loss ) , the action set pieces are pretty smoking ( Carter and Ziggy's final no-holds-barred fisticuffs confrontation in a junkyard definitely hits the stirring spot ) , and both the hip , slang-ridden dialogue ( the word " dig " is said a lot ) and especially the gaudy , tacky , eye-wateringly ugly 70's clothes are every bit as laughably dated and ghastly as they ought to be . Granted , " Black Heat " sure ain't another " Shaft , " but overall it still qualifies as an above average cops-and-criminals crime / action programmer from our ever-reliable Grade Z schlock flick pal Al . Rest in peace , Mr . Adamson .
A very strong and disturbing 70's porno roughie gem	Short , blandly handsome Jason Carns , a seemingly ordinary and unassuming nice guy next door type gone horribly bug crazy wrong , gives a frightfully plausible performance as lowly security guard Eddie , who gets his twisted deviant carnal kicks by pretending to be a Los Angeles police officer who joyfully browbeats , manhandles and elicits unpaid sexual favors from street hookers while wearing a fuzzball uniform and driving around in a phony cop car . One day Carns witnesses a housewife ( bewitching brunette Linda Harris ) in the act of killing her no-account husband ; this in turn causes the already seriously nuts Carns to go further around the bend and succumb to depraved delusional fantasies in which he has his sadistic way with Harris . From its shocking opening sequence depicting Carns cruelly taking advantage of a frightened prostitute to the electrifying final face-off between Carns and Harris ( complete with jolting rape and an exciting last reel automobile chase ) , this harsh , aggressive , fiercely confrontational psycho sickie roughie porno from the late , great Lee Frost profoundly scares and unsettles , spewing forth 84 harrowing , brutality-ridden minutes that are jam-packed with plenty of nerve-jangling full-throttle dementia and perversity . Frost's blunt , no-nonsense direction , the eerie , ethereal score set to a pounding pseudo-disco beat ( said score also boasts a haunting recurrent whistled theme ) , the flat , unpolished cinematography which adroitly captures the plain , plodding rhythms of mundane everyday life , the authentically lurid L . A . locations , several jarring visualizations of Carns ' savage power trip fantasies , the mean , hard-hitting dialogue , the frequently quite startling all-out nasty rough sex tableaux , and the unusually strong and credible acting from a mostly no-name cast ( the sole familiar faces are skinflick starlets Rene Bond and Uschi Digard as massage parlor girls , plus longtime Frost collaborator Wes Bishop as a detective and legendary exploitation producer Bob Cresse as the massage parlor owner ) are all uniformly tops . Moreover , the film's hard , gritty , almost unbearably razor-sharp edge digs deep into the darkest , most base and disturbing wacko recesses of the human psyche . Hell , this unbeatable outing even possesses a commendably daring and provocative subtext : The flagrant abuse and mistreatment of power and authority , with especially revealing insights on role playing and how men use sex as a means to an end for totally controlling and dominating over women .
A genuine oddity	Peter Weir made his directorial debut with this truly bizarre and unique blackly humorous multi-genre pastiche that's a compellingly novel and singular blend of horror , Western and sci-fi conventions mixed together into a jarringly offbeat whole . A pleasant , mild-mannered American tourist ( a sweetly amiable performance by Terry Camilleri ) finds himself trapped in a remote backwoods Australian hamlet after he narrowly survives a car crash . The naive , gullible yank soon discovers that things are not exactly quite right and okay in the deceptively sleepy burg . For starters , that car crash wasn't an accident ; it was deliberately staged by the resourceful and enterprising townspeople who eke out a living by salvaging car parts from wrecked vehicles . Then there's a resident mad scientist who's fond of experimenting on car crash survivors , turning the hapless folks into mute lobotomized imbeciles called " veggies . " And the local drag-racing teenage hooligans are getting increasingly out of control , carousing about in their lethal , garishly made-up cars ( one sports spikes all along its body like a porcupine ! ) until the wee hours of the morning and making a real nuisance of themselves . The town's friendly , but ineffectual mayor ( winningly played by John Mellion ) offers Camilleri the plum job of parking superintendent in a desperate attempt to restore law and order . The quirky , imaginative script by Weir , Keith Gow and Piers David ingeniously uses the oddball premise as an ideal springboard for barbed social commentary on the perils of cross country traveling , the very modern dangers the automobile poses to quiet everyday life , how isolated communities cut off from the rest of civilization can easily degenerate into barbarism and lawlessness , the extreme measures impoverished people will resort to in order to get by in life , and even a wacky generation gap conflict pitting uptight , disciplined , morally rigid adults against rowdy , uninhibited nihilist youth . Weirs ' direction is precariously pitched between the grimly horrific and the darkly facetious , boldly maintaining an uneasy tone which keeps the viewer constantly off guard and gives the irregular proceedings a potently unsettling weirded-out edge . John McLean's grainy , luridly grungy cinematography allows the Australian outback to take on a scary , nightmarishly surreal aura while Bruce Smeaton's sometimes dissonant , more often strangely jaunty rock-tinged score adds substantially to the pervasively unnerving nuttiness . An authentically grotesque and intriguing one-of-a-kind curio .
A good deal of enjoyably cheesy low-budget direct-to-vid horror fun	Okay , stop me if you've heard this one before . Your usual bunch of scientists doing morally dubious and ill-advised experiments in a secret subterranean laboratory create a super-strong brain-eating mutant named Thor ( handsome , muscular Dan Blom , who's actually quite good ) who gets loose and goes on a destructive rampage . Fortunately , the always reliable Lance Henrikson as a bitter , cynical doctor who quit the project a few months ago arrives back on the scene to help save the day . Strangely enough , Henrikson brings along his estranged , rebellious smartaleck metalhead son ( a then unknown , pre-stardom Giovanni Ribisi , who's every bit as obnoxious as you think ) , lusty hottie daughter ( the luscious Natasha Wagner , looking mighty fine in skimpy shorts ) , and the daughter's libidinous tool of a boyfriend ( the supremely irritating Adam Solomon ) . Swell dad , eh ? I think you can basically fill in the blanks as to what happens next . All kidding aside , this nifty little low-budget direct-to-vid horror item manages to be a great deal of enjoyably cheesy fun . It's directed with considerable rip-snorting verve by Joe Gayton , with a spooky , rousing , rattling score by J . Peter Robinson , dark , claustrophobic cinematography by Fernando Arguelles , funky make-up f / x by Image Animation , a cool lethal humanoid creature that's both scary and pitiable , and a nonstop breakneck pace . The solid cast do their best with their stock roles : tall , leggy , statuesque brunette beauty Claire Standsfield tackles her Ripley-like two-fisted tough chick heroine part with tremendous lip-smacking gusto while ubiquitous character actor John Diehl jerks it up nicely as the overbearing team leader . Bonus points are in order for the freaky and startling unexpected monster nightmare sequence . Granted , we're not talking work of art here , but this snazzy B-horror flick does the trick just the same in a pleasingly brisk and efficient enough manner .
A nifty 70's made-for-TV flick	1958 . The sleepy small Southern town of Clarksburg . Evil Sheriff Roy Childress ( the almighty Vic Morrow in peak nasty form ) cracks down super hard on speeders by forcing said offenders off a cliff to their untimely deaths on an especially dangerous stretch of road . Childress meets his match when cool young hot rod driver Michael McCord ( a splendidly smooth and brooding portrayal by Martin Sheen ) shows up in town in his souped-up automobile with the specific intention of avenging the death of his brother ( Sheen's real-life sibling Joe Estevez in a brief cameo ) . Director Richard T . Heffron , working from a taut and intriguing script by Richard Compton ( the same guy who directed the 70's drive-in movie gems " Welcome Home , Soldier Boys " and " Macon County Line " ) , relates the gripping story at a brisk pace , neatly creates a flavorsome 50's period setting , and ably milks plenty of suspense out the tense game of wit and wills between Childress and McCord . The uniformly fine cast helps a lot : Sheen radiates a brash James Deanesque rebellious vibe in the lead , Morrow makes the most out of his meaty bad guy part , plus there are excellent supporting performances by Michelle Phillips as sweet diner waitress Maggie , Stuart Margolin as a folksy deputy , Nick Nolte as amiable gas station attendant Buzz Stafford , Gary Morgan as Buzz's endearingly gawky younger brother Lyle , Janit Baldwin as sassy local tart Sissy , Britt Leach as stingy cab driver Johnny , and Frederic Downs as the stern Judge J . A . Hooker . The climactic vehicular confrontation between Childress and McCord is a real pulse-pounding white-knuckle thrilling doozy . Terry K . Meade's sharp cinematography , the well-drawn characters ( for example , Childress became obsessed with busting speeders after his wife and kid were killed in a fatal hit and run incident ) , the groovy , syncopated score by Luchi De Jesus , and the beautiful mountainside scenery all further enhance the overall sound quality of this superior made-for-TV winner .
A genuinely spooky and unnerving Japanese horror shocker	Aspiring young actress Nagisa Sugiura ( winningly played by the lovely Yuki ) gets a role in a movie about a terrible mass murder which happened at a remote hotel thirty-five years ago . Intense director Ikuo Matsumura ( an excellent performance by Kippei Shiina ) takes the cast and crew to the hotel to shoot the picture . Nagisa starts to see ghostly visions of the people who where killed in the massacre ( the little girl with the doll is particularly frightening and memorable ) . Director / co-writer Takashi Shimizu relates the absorbing story at a gradual , yet steady pace , offers a compelling behind-the-scenes glimpse at the making of a picture , and does a masterful job of creating a spooky and unsettling atmosphere . Moreover , the grimly serious tone becomes increasingly dark and nightmarish as the plot unfolds , with an especially harrowing last third which culminates in a stunningly downbeat surprise ending . In addition , Shimizu deserves kudos for downplaying graphic gore and cheap jump scares in favor of mood and story ; this is one of those slow-burning horror movies that requires quite a bit of patience on the viewer's part , but comes through with a positively gripping and terrifying pull-out-all-the-stops white knuckle conclusion . Kenji Kawai's eerie , shivery score and Takahide Shibanushi's fluid , graceful cinematography further enhance the flesh-crawling creepiness of this supremely scary and effective Japanese horror winner .
A nicely eerie and effective 70's teen revenge drive-in horror outing	Poor Susan ( excellently played by the lovely and beguiling blonde beauty Suzanna Ling ) . The comely , but weird misunderstood misfit teenage girl lives with her undertaker father in a mortuary . She has an unnatural affinity for spiders . Susan catches her shrewish mother cheating on her father with her dad's own brother . Susan kills her mom by putting a tarantula in her bed . She also sics her lethal arachnid friends on other folks who rub her the wrong way ; said victims of her dangerous wrath include a bunch of local hooligans who break into the mortuary to steal a coffin and Susan's disgustingly incestuous and lecherous uncle ( a superbly sleazy Eric Mason ) . Directed in an effectively blunt and basic manner by Chris Munger , " Kiss of the Tarantula " makes the grade as a creepy and effective low-budget 70's grindhouse scarefest thanks to Phillan Bishop's eerie synthesizer score , credible acting from a solid no-name cast , an arrestingly brooding rustic atmosphere , a grimly serious tone , Henning Schellerup's gritty photography , a wickedly startling surprise twist ending , and several genuinely unsettling spider attack murder set pieces ( the sequence where a handful of libidinous kids doing just what you think in a parked car at a drive-in get assaulted by the spiders is the definite flesh-crawling icky highlight ) . A shamefully neglected and hence underrated teen terror tale that's well worth seeing .
An effectively creepy 70's made-for-TV killer kid horror flick	Gawky misfit teen Ronald ( a truly spooky and unnerving performance by Scott Jacoby ; the gimpy magician in " The Little Girl Who Lives Down the Lane " ) accidentally kills a bratty little girl . He's subsequently hidden in a secret room of an old Victorian house by his sickly , smothering mother ( a wonderful portrayal by " Planet of the Apes " film series regular Kim Hunter ) in order to avoid being arrested by the authorities . Mom dies and a new family - - father Dabney Coleman , mother Pippa Scott , and their three hottie daughters Cindy Fisher , Cindy Eibacher and Lisa Eibacher - - move into the swanky and enormous abode . Ronald loses his grip on reality and disappears into an elaborate fantasy world created by his own warped overactive imagination . One fateful day he comes out of his clandestine hideaway hole to terrorize the hapless adolescent lasses when the parents leave for the weekend . One of the all-time classic 70's made-for-TV horror psycho thrillers , " Bad Ronald " ' s extremely fantastic and far-fetched premise is made reasonably credible and totally compelling by journeyman TV show veteran Buzz Kulik's capable direction ( along with his episodic TV show credits , Kulik also helmed the enjoyable Burt Reynolds private eye picture " Shamus " and the underrated Steve McQueen action vehicle " The Hunter " ) . Fred Karlin's effectively eerie score and a top-rate cast make this feature a cut above average TV movie fare . Popping up in especially nice bits are John Larch as a shrewd homicide detective and John Fiedler as a friendly real estate agent . Yeah , this film is fairly preposterous , but thankfully Jacoby's unforgettably creepy and disturbing character keeps the show gripping and harrowing right down to its thrilling climax . Jacoby's role as a murderously messed-up teenage nerd deserves a place right alongside " The Bad Seed " ' s Patty McCormack and the Udvarnovsky brothers from " The Other " in the All-Time Scary Killer Kids Hall of Infamy .
A hilariously ridiculous cheesy hoot	A bunch of sadistic college frat jerks tie fragile diabetic Sam ( scrawny Caleb Roehrig ) to a cross in a corn field . Sam nearly dies and subsequently resurrects a lethal evil scarecrow ( hulking Steve Worley ) who proceeds to brutally butcher a handful of party hearty kids frolicking on the beach during spring break . It's up to token nice guy Jack ( affable Matthew Linhart ) and his sweet girlfriend Beth ( luscious Samantha Aisling ) to stop the scarecrow before it's too late . Writer / director Brian Katlin concocts one uproariously ludicrous excuse for a horror flick : we've got crummy acting from a lame no-name cast ( Ken Shamrock is especially terrible as ramrod Coach Ramsey ) , a roaring soundtrack of silly rock songs , a few dumb false scares , largely obnoxious and unlikable characters , glaring day-for-night continuity errors aplenty , one dude belts out a horrendous acoustic ballad around a campfire , a protracted volleyball game , a handy helping of tasty gore ( an impalement on a bamboo pole rates as the definite gruesome highlight ) , and a ham-fisted ending that tries for tragic pathos ( ! ) . The scarecrow makes for a truly laughable monster : he lumbers about in broad daylight , whistles off-key , and even runs over a hapless lass with a pick-up truck . Zoran Popovic's bright , sunny , shaky cinematography , Collin Simon's generic ooga-booga spooky score , and several hot chicks in skimpy bikinis further enhance the campy fun . As an added bonus , both busty blonde Lisa Robert and cute brunette Tara Platt bare their breasts . An enjoyably tacky kitsch hoot .
Roger Corman's extremely solid & engrossing 50's sci-fi end-of-the-world debut feature	Legendary B-movie pioneer Roger Corman made his sturdy directorial debut with this particularly prescient low-budget post-nuke end-of-the-world sci-fi survivalist item , a nifty little programmer which serves as an extremely basic , but still efficient exploitation cinema prototype for many similar features which followed in its influential wake . A motley group of people - - a rugged , self-reliant scientist father ( burly Paul Birch ; the pernicious extraterrestrial in Corman's fantastic ' 57 knock-out " Not of This Earth " ) and his comely teenage daughter ( the lovely Lori Nelson ) , a stalwart true blue heroic geologist ( dashing Richard Denning ) , a vicious strictly looking out for himself mob hoodlum ( a perfectly hateful turn by Michael " Touch " Connors ) and his brazen dime-store floozy ex-stripper moll ( superbly played to the bold'n'brassy hilt by bosomy blonde broad Adele Jergens ) , a sweet , boozy elderly gold prospector ( amiably doddering Raymond Hatton ) and his faithful burro companion , and a gradually going crazy scar-faced half-man , half-mutant fellow ( a twitchy Jonathan Haze ; the hilariously meek milquetoast protagonist in Corman's cheapskate black comedy horror gem " The Little Shop of Horrors " ) - - hole up in a remote mountainside bunker immediately after a nuclear war occurs . The eclectic bunch bicker and quarrel with one another over the ever-diminishing supply of limited resources while a huge , ugly , crusty-skinned mutant with telepathic powers , a carnivorous appetite for human flesh , three googly eyes , a gnarled head with horns on top , three-clawed fingers and toes , and a most unpleasant demeanor ( 50's monster movie make-up expert Paul Blaisdell in an outrageously funky and messed-up suit ) stalks the surrounding woodland area with the intent of abducting the luscious , eminently nubile and thus desirable Lori . Although by today's standards it comes across as really slow and talky , with very little action and a noted emphasis on the increasingly tense interplay between the desperate characters , " The Day the World Ended " all the same still makes for an engrossingly seedy and rough-edged nickel'n'dime doomsday romp . Corman's lean , no-frills straightforward direction treats Lou Rusoff's unusually thoughtful , literate and intelligent script like a tightly constructed acting ensemble piece , with the uniformly sound performances by the tiny , able cast creating a good deal of the film's grungy , cut-to-the-bone effective suspense and relentlessly bleak tone . Jock Feindel's grainy , unadorned black and white cinematography gives the flick a spare , cramped , uncomfortably claustrophobic look while Ronald Stein's eerie , understated , unobtrusive score makes especially unnerving use of the always spacey sounding theremin . The admittedly absurd-looking mutant beast detracts somewhat from the otherwise nicely maintained scruffy verisimilitude , but nonetheless makes for a very cool and suitably menacing monster . The film also deserves praise for its frank , level-headed depiction of how people would act in the event of such a cataclysmic disaster ( some would rise nobly to the challenge while others would devolve into savage , greedy animals ) , the colorfully drawn characters , Corman's sharply observant , non-judgmental point of view , its atmospheric handling of the desolate , mist-shrouded forest location , and an ambiguously " happy " ending . Overall , this modest trend-setting outing rates as pretty solid , if scrappy two-cent fun .
A solid vintage 70's blaxploitation romp	Wise old numbers king Nate Williams ( affably portrayed by legendary blues singer Jimmy Witherspoon ) reigns supreme over a gritty ghetto urban jungle . Nate makes shrewd pimp J . J . ( well played with fiery aplomb by Rod Perry ) his righthand man . J . J . in turn declares war on evil white heroin drug lord Tony Burton ( a smoothly hateful Don Chastain ) . J . J . enlists the aid of passionate black militant leader Diablo ( essayed with fierce gusto by Damu King ) to rid the neighborhood of smack . Writer / director John Evans delivers plenty of snappy , profane dialogue , a decent smidgen of gratuitous nudity , and occasional outbursts of exciting action ( a wild karate fight between two women rates as the definite stirring highlight ) . Nice supporting performances by Diane Sommerfield as J . J . ' s sweet girlfriend Yvonne , Duncan McLeod as corrupt , on the take cop Lt . Joe Sterling , Tony Burton as Nate's loyal , volatile body guard Sonny Spyder Brown , John Alderman as wormy , stuttering dope pusher Cockroach , and Anny Green as Tony's sassy blonde moll Honey . Jack Steely's rough , grainy cinematography , the well-drawn main characters , and the soulful groovin ' score by Phil Moore and Martin Yarbrough further enhance the funky fun of this enjoyable blaxploitation item .
A pretty nifty 70's blaxploitation private eye flick	Towards the end of his career Jack Arnold , a very efficient director who gave us such classic 50's creature features as " It Came from Outer Space , " " The Creature from the Black Lagoon , " and " Tarantula , " teamed up with former football star turned top 70's blaxploitation film headliner Fred " the Hammer " Williamson for a pair of movies , producing the amiable , if unremarkable Western " The Black Bounty Hunter " and this refreshingly breezy , clever and highly entertaining 70's black action variant on your standard 40's film noir down-at-the-heels private detective yarn . Williamson displays a charming combination of dry , self-deprecating humor and relaxed , easygoing self-confidence as Shep Stone , a cheap , affable , and forever in debt erstwhile Los Angeles cop turned private investigator . Stone's so hard-up for cash that he uses a bar as his business office and just barely makes ends meet doing penny-ante low-paying minor cases that the police don't want to bother with . While pounding the pavement for one of these deceptively simple gigs ( Stone's trying to find some guy's runaway teenage daughter who's hiding somewhere in Hollywood ) , Stone finds himself elbow deep in a complex , dangerous , seemingly bottomless criminal plot which includes a flipped-out Jesus freak religious cult , assorted deadhead hippie dopers , a sordid porno ring , a priceless missing gold-tipped cane that belonged to a legendary silent movie star , a nefarious underground drug smuggling operation , and an ever-growing number of fresh corpses . While lacking the wickedly playful , mischievous ingenuity of Robert Altman's masterful " The Long Goodbye " or the haunting , unremitting pessimism of Arthur Penn's beautifully bleak " Night Moves , " " Black Eye " nonetheless still makes the grade as a highly successful hip'n'flip 70's spin on 40's mystery suspense thrillers . Arnold's capable direction keeps the pace moving at a nice , steady clip , punctuated with sporadic exciting mano-a-mano bare knuckle fight scenes and excellent use of various colorfully seedy L . A . locations ( the rundown abandoned amusement park at the film's conclusion is especially effective ) . The script by Mark Haggard and Jim Martin supplies a goodly amount of fairly complicated and often genuinely surprising plot twists . And the expected array of quirky , rough-around-the-edges secondary characters are an interesting oddball bunch , with particularly notable turns by Rosemary Forsyth as an alluring , powerful lesbian model agency owner ( Forsyth has the picture's best line , boasting to Stone when she first meets him , " I'm a whole lot of woman " ) , Teresa Graves of " Get Christie Love " TV show fame as Stone's loyal bisexual girlfriend ( the film's casual , nonjudgmental depiction of both Foryth's unconventional femme fatale and Graves ' equally atypical gal Friday is one of its strongest assets ) , and Bret Morrison , who did the voice of radio's " The Shadow " in the 40's , as a smugly sleazy porno filmmaker . All in all , it's a modest , yet surefire winner .
Good , sexy , trashy 30's Depression-era set 70's drive-in exploitation fun	Tough and gutsy Texas widow Wilma McClatchie ( a splendidly brassy'n'sassy Angie Dickinson , looking mighty fine in her early 40's and frequently out of her wardrobe ) and her two equally feisty hottie daughters - - the sexually precocious Billie Jean ( adorable blonde sprite Susan Sennett of " The Candy Snatchers " ) and dim-witted Polly ( pretty brunette cutie Robbie Lee of " Switchblade Sisters " ) - - embark on a wild'n'rowdy crime spree in 30's Depression-era America in order to escape hard times . Accompanying the lovely ladies are charming , but cowardly con man William J . Baxter ( the ever-hammy William Shatner sporting a hilariously hokey Southern accent ) and ill-tempered bank robber Fred Diller ( the hunky Tom Skerrit ) , who happily jump in the sack with the willing wanton women in between breaking many laws . Directed with tremendously rambunctious gusto by Steve ( " An Eye for An Eye " ) Carver , jam-packed with a pleasing plenitude of car chases , shoot outs , cuss words and tasty gratuitous nudity ( even Sally Kirkland as a local harlot and Joan Prather as a snotty heiress the gang abducts doff their duds and bare their beautiful bodies ) , further enlivened by a ceaseless forward-ho quick pace , a rousing hillbilly bluegrass score by David Grisman , a cheerfully irreverent tone , and nifty supporting turns by Royal Dano as a profanity-spewing preacher and the always terrific Dick Miller as huffy fed Bonney ( a sly homage to " Bonnie and Clyde , " methinks ) , " Big Bad Mama " supplies a handy helping of joyous down-home trashy entertainment that's a true treat to watch .
The Bionic Benji , or , the Six Million Dollar Mutt	Eager electronics whiz Brian Foster ( a likable performance by Wesley Eure of TV's " Land of the Lost " ) creates a computerized watchdog called C . H . O . M . P . S . ( an acronym for Canine Home Protection System ) for his boss Mr . Ralph Norton ( nicely played by Conrad Baain ) , whose home security business is floundering . A rival company hires a pair of inept criminals to get their grubby hands on C . H . O . M . P . S . ; said task proves to be easier said than done . Director Don Chaffey relates the endearingly dopey story at a constant brisk pace , maintains an amiably silly and lighthearted tone throughout , and stages the goofy slapstick gags with considerable flair . Moreover , the game cast mug it up with infectious aplomb : the adorable Valerie Bertinelli as Brian's sweet fiancé Casey Norton , Chuck McCann as klutzy crook Brooks , Red Buttons as McCann's equally bumbling partner Bracken , Jim Backus as evil CEO Mr . Gibbs , Hermoine Baddeley as nice old biddy Ms . Foster , and 60's AIP exploitation feature regular Larry Bishop as smarmy , duplicitous suit Ken Sharp . Best of all , the titular pooch is a cuddly delight : C . H . O . M . P . S . jumps through fences , walls and windows with amazing agility , performs acts of exceptional strength , runs faster than a deer , and even does a few nifty martial arts moves . A subplot about a hulking neighborhood hound named Monster supplies a few extra belly laughs ( Monster is voiced by some uncredited guy with an appropriately deep , growly voice ) . The groovy animated opening credits sequence , Charles F . Wheeler's glossy cinematography , and Hoyt Curtin's funky , pulsating disco score are all solid as well . A cute little kiddie flick .
A hugely enjoyable horror werewolf murder mystery thriller treat	Cocky wealthy big game hunter Tom Newcliffe ( a deliciously ripe slice of fat'n'juicy ham by Calvin Lockhart ) invites five folks to his posh island retreat : urbane werewolf expert Dr . Christopher Lundgren ( the always terrific Peter Cushing ) , jolly rake Paul Foote ( robust Tom Chadbon ) , pompous Bennington ( smooth Charles Gray ; Blofield in " Diamonds Are Forever " ) , classy pianist Jan Jarmokowski ( solid Michael Gambon ) and Jan's luscious girlfriend Davina ( lovely Ciaron Madden ) . Also on the island are Tom's foxy wife Caroline ( sultry Marlene Clark of " Night of the Cobra Woman " ) and staunch surveillance expert Paval ( the ever-suave Anton Diffring ) . Tom suspects one of his guests is a werewolf . But which one is the deadly and bloodthirsty beast ? Briskly directed with considerable flair and style by Paul Annett , with a clever script by Michael Winder , a divinely soulful 70's funk score complete with groovy wah-wah guitars and hip'n'heavenly horns by Douglas Gamley , sharp , slick cinematography by Jack Hildyard , an incredibly hysterical " werewolf break " that's narrated by some plummy-voiced guy , and lively acting from a game ensemble cast , this baby rates as a crafty , offbeat and exciting fright feature lycanthrope variant on Agatha Christie's " Ten Little Indians . " My sole complaint is that the werewolf alas is pretty unconvincing and disappointing ; it's obviously just a large furry made-up dog . That quibble aside , this picture still provides a great deal of immensely entertaining fun .
A gloriously ghastly gut-buster	Cunning and deadly foreign beauty Linda Allen ( a hilariously atrocious performance by Rene Harmon , who sports an adorable heavy German accent ) arrives in Los Angeles to track down the evil mobsters who tortured and murdered her sister . Meanwhile , the mobsters try to find a tape with incriminating information on it . Plus Linda has to deal with both a nasty pimp and a crooked FBI agent who intends on killing her . Boy , does this deliciously dreadful doozy possess all the right wrong stuff to qualify as a real four star stinkeroonie : exceptionally inept ( mis ) direction by James Bryan ( the same cinematic genius who blessed us with the similarly shoddy " Don't Go in the Woods " and " The Executioner , Part II " ) , uniformly terrible acting from a lame no-name cast , clumsily staged action scenes ( the car chases , shoot outs , and especially the rough'n'tumble martial arts fights are all uproariously awful ) , a hopelessly muddled and meandering narrative , a simply astounding kinky swinging sex party ( Rene suggestively sucks on celery stalks with a certain remarkably sensuous aplomb ) , poorly recorded post-sync dialogue , and a handy helping of gratuitous female nudity that's largely provided by dumpy and unattractive ladies with a few too many miles ( and pounds ) on them . The legendary Liz Renay , looking aged , pasty and chubby , pops up in all her sexy and uninhibited fortysomethingish splendor as a stripper who bumps and grinds for all its worth in a seedy nightclub . Max Reed's shaky'n'scratchy cinematography gives this tacky flick an appropriately ratty look . An absolute cruddy hoot .
I can't get enough of these blithely stupid flicks !	Okay , I'll admit it . I'm a definite fan of the " Vice Academy " series . Granted , these films are cheap , cheesy and unapologetically low-brow trash that are utterly bereft of any artistic merit . And that's precisely why I dig ' em so much . One doesn't watch a " Vice Academy " feature looking for profound insights concerning the human condition . Instead you watch these flicks strictly for fun . And that's okay by me , man . Wicked insatiable green-haired nymphomaniac Malathian ( broadly essayed with unrestrained hammy panache by Julia Parton ) escapes from jail and goes on the rampage . Meanwhile the dippy Candy ( the ever-adorable Elizabeth Kaitan ) and eager Samantha ( likable Rebecca Rocheford ) help the persnickety Miss Thelma Louise Devonshire ( delightfully played to uptight perfect by Jayne Hamil ) with her upcoming marriage to the pompous police commissioner ( the hilarious Jay Richardson ) . Writer / director Rick Sloane pours on the cheerful idiocy with his usual shameless abandon ; this time we get suitably asinine jokes about such always uproarious subjects as electrocution , elderly strippers , and women beating up men . Steve Bigharat's bright cinematography makes this picture look more polished than previous entries . That awesomely cool-wailing theme song " Pistol Whipped " and Alan DerMardesian's hard-groovin ' score hit the funky bull's eye . The cast portray their parts with tremendous go-for-it enthusiasm : Kaitan and Rocheford display a pleasant chemistry , Steve Mateo is engaging as studly lunkhead mechanic Anvil , and Chad Gabbert nerds it up something dweeby as the commissioner's geeky sci-fi fan son Irwin . The disastrous climactic wedding ceremony rates as a genuine tour-de-force of classical farce at its most brilliant and sophisticated . Better yet , both Parton and Kaitan expose their exquisitely enormous breasts . All in all , it's another radiant comedic gem .
An eerie and interesting Indonesian supernatural horror shocker	Poor teenager Tommy isn't having a good time of it . His mother just passed away at a tragically young age . Tommy starts seeing a ghostly white apparition of her unrestful spirit . He also experiences scary nightmares of an evil devil cult . Plus a couple of close friends of the family meet brutal untimely ends . Could it be mysterious new housekeeper Darminah who's behind the freaky and troubling events that have befallen Tommy and his family ? Director Sisworo Gautama Putra does an expert job of ably creating and sustaining a powerfully eerie and unnerving otherworldly atmosphere . Moreover , Putra does a totally convincing job of evoking a thoroughly believable mundane everyday reality that's ripped asunder by bizarre and inexplicable supernatural phenomenon . Better still , Putra keeps the pace slow , yet steady throughout , uses violence in a shocking , but restrained manner and gradually builds up a tremendous amount of harrowing tension before pulling out all the stops with a genuinely terrifying conclusion in which all hell quite literally breaks lose . This film even offers a rich , colorful and illuminating depiction of a fascinatingly different culture and its strongly held religious beliefs . An extremely solid and satisfying foreign fright feature .
A very fine and exciting change-of-pace action winner	Josh ( an outstanding performance by Troy Sostillio ) and Paul ( affable Henry White ) are a loving , affluent , five years going strong homosexual couple who are on the verge of adopting a child . On the day of the big event Josh stops off at a grocery store and witnesses a mob hit ( Edmond Sorel as the brutal , taciturn hit-man Victor brings a ferocious , blistering intensity to the role that's pretty hard to shake ) . Afraid to tell Paul about what he saw ( he doesn't want to ruin their chances of gaining custody of a kid a meddlesome third party wants to take away from them ) , Josh , who's been running away from confrontation his entire life , does his best to forget about the whole incident . Naturally , things don't go as planned . The mobsters go after Josh ; they kidnap Paul so they can get to him . So Josh , aided by closeted gay undercover cop Steve ( a superbly anguished Stewart Groves ) , finally takes a stand for the first time in his life , facing up to the fearsome gangsters in a harrowing do-or-die final . More than just some dreaded cheesy gimmick affair ( y'know , the first real gay independent action picture ) , " Raising Heroes " gains considerable strength from the fact that the protagonists ' homosexuality is treated in a refreshingly candid , nonjudgmental , matter-of-fact manner . Still , the film doesn't take place in a sugarcoated fantasy world . Society's bigotry towards and inability to accept homosexual couples as feasible parents is confronted head on , although the movie thankfully never becomes bogged down in this pertinent social issue to the point where it degenerates into some preachy heavy-handed pro-gay tract . The gay angle is instead organically woven into the story and remains a small , yet relevant part of the narrative . What really gives the film its distinctive edge is the remarkable warmth and affection displayed by the leads : Sostillio's playful , rather indecisive Josh and White's solemn , more adamant Paul come across as a touchingly credible and appealing couple , thereby adding a sweet , delicate poignancy to the movie that's all too lacking in most mainstream action efforts . Douglas Langway directs with crisp , breakneck style and elicits fine , convincing performances from his able cast . Stephen Schlueter's lively hand-held cinematography is likewise impressive ( the scene where the camera goes flying out a window and nearly hits a trash can is especially striking ) . Langway's tight , snappy editing and Fractured Cylinder's driving industrial score also hit the bull's eye . The sharp , intricately written script ensures that the story stays believable and engrossing throughout , smartly adhering to the foolproof concept of placing ordinary characters in an extraordinary situation where the only choice they have is to fight back or die . Only the somewhat erratic pacing leaves something to be desired : The movie starts out strongly , sags a bit in the middle , then kicks back into powerhouse high gear for an explosively violent and exhilarating climactic 20-minute shoot-out that's sure to knock the wind out of your sails . All in all , this very solid and satisfying debut feature is well worth checking out .
A very enjoyable superhero vigilante flick	Ex Special Ops government agent Derek Leigh ( an excellent performance by Maxwell Caulfield ) vows revenge on evil drug lord Damian Bandera ( a splendidly nasty Trevor Goddard ) after Bandera murders his wife and son . Leigh assumes the identity of the Jaguar , a just and heroic crime fighting superhero who's patterned after drawings by his son . Directed with surprising style and panache by veteran straight-to-video exploitation picture expert David DeCoteau , with slick , kinetic cinematography by Howard Wexler , a constant steady pace , a funky , rousing , syncopated score by Jeff Walton , a cool animated opening credits sequence , and plenty of rousing rough'n'tumble action set pieces , this flick certainly delivers the immensely entertaining B-movie goods in a pleasingly snappy and straightforward manner . Caulfield makes for a strong and likable protagonist ; he receives fine support from Linda Blair as perky , sympathetic detective Cody Johnson , Tom Badal as Cody's ramrod partner Roger Reed , Paul Bartel as helpful weapons master Toymaker , John Fujioka as tough martial arts instructor Tanaka , Stacy Keach as Derek's gruff former superior the Commander , Paul Regina as uncooperative government agent Randall Bentley , Vincent Klyn as scumbag dope pusher Sonny De Pazos , and Fiona Hutchison as Derek's loving wife Karen . A fun little romp .
A nicely twisted 70's killer kid horror gem	A bus bound for a mental institution containing a quintet of psychologically unbalanced and murderous children runs off the road and goes tumbling down a cliff , killing the driver in the process ( this opening scene is quite jarring and splendidly staged ) . The deadly brats survive the accident and take refuge at a swanky winter resort run by the mean , irascible , browbeating Papa Doc ( a deliciously dour Gene Evans , a longtime favorite of Samuel Fuller who was in Sam Peckinpah's last two Westerns " The Ballad of Cable Hogue " and " Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid " ) . Pretty soon the killer kids go on a rampage : they junk the guests ' cars , cut the power lines , and begin to violently off Papa Doc's arrogant , decadent , back-stabbing clientèle ( a lady gets set ablaze after being drenched with gasoline , another hapless lass has piranha dumped in her bathtub , that sort of ghastly stuff ) . This thoroughly sick and therefor most compelling psycho thriller marked the impressive debut of promising horror movie one shot wonder Sean MacGregor , who proved with this creepy , unique and wickedly warped humdinger that he could make one hell of a fright flick ( MacGregor's sole other horror picture credit was writing the story for the eerily offbeat rural Devil worship chiller " The Brotherhood of Satan " ) . The astonishingly brutal scene where the terrible tykes beat their psychiatrist to death with chains , hammers , knives and even a pitchfork attests to this claim ; this excruciatingly elongated sequence makes artful and unforgettably potent use of both grainy black and white still photographs and painfully amplified sound effects . The other murder set pieces aren't nearly as ferocious , but since they're perpetuated by smiling , seemingly harmless and innocent kids they still pack a serious wallop just the same - - and all are punctuated with strangely startling freeze frames . John Durren's barbed , deeply judgmental script possesses a conspicuously angry and borderline hostile sense of moral outrage . There's a deep-seated disgust for the pervasive amorality , hedonism and narcissism that was a true hallmark of the 70's which in turn gives this feature an additional biting resonance . ( Durren also acts in the movie as Ralph , a sweet , guileless , retarded handyman who the other adults mercilessly mock and push around . ) The cast deserve appraisal as well , with especially solid work from Sorrell Booke ( Boss Hog on " The Dukes of Hazzard " ) as a meek , peevish physician and Joan ( " Act of Veangeance , " " Grizzly " ) McCall as the only decent grown-up . 70's teen idol Leif Garrett is surprisingly good as one of the nefarious little rugrats . Odd , often jolting and extremely twisted , this funky little sleeper stands out as one of the best entries in the always worthwhile and enjoyable killer kid horror sub-genre .
An enjoyably atrocious horror splatter short	Todd Sheets rates highly as one of my favorite directors of extremely awful and amateurish , yet enthusiastic and hence oddly entertaining micro-budget Do-It-Yourself out-of-the-mainstream indie horror schlock . Well , this is one of Todd's early shorts and , of course , it's quite terrible , but still really funny and enjoyable just the same . A deranged hillbilly father and his equally demented hick son brutally butcher any folks who are unfortunate enough to venture into their remote neck of the woods . This baby possesses all the right wrong stuff to qualify as an endearingly abysmal piece of nickel'n'dime horror splatter junk : we've got pathetic acting from a lame no-name cast , fumbling ( mis ) direction , laughably lousy gore ( grisly highlights include an axe dismemberment , a throat being ripped out with a claw hammer , and a baseball bat bludgeoning ) , tinny sound , cruddy eye-straining shot-on-video photography , cardboard characters ( the wacko rednecks in particular are incredibly broad caricatures ) , a wafer thin story , a paltry clichéd script , and no suspense to speak of . Only the inspired use of catchy and spirited bluegrass music manages to impress , with bonus points added for including the catchy ditty " Rollin ' in My Sweet Baby's Arms " on the soundtrack . A hilariously horrendous hoot and a half .
A worthy recent entry in the long-running series	Two tiny twin fairies advise wise old scientist Dr . Sinichi Chujo ( nicely played by Hiroshi Koizuma ) to stop the repairs on the severely damaged MechaGodzilla . Their warning goes unheeded . Godzilla wakes up in one of his usual grouchy moods and heads towards Japan with the specific intent of trashing Tokyo . Mothra comes to mankind's rescue , but proves to be no match for the Big G . It's ultimately up to MechaGodzilla to defeat the brutish behemoth . Director Masaaki Tezuka relates the story at a constant brisk pace , maintains a refreshingly serious tone throughout , and stages the plentiful exciting action sequences with rip-roaring flair ( the long and protracted mondo destructo monster fight scenes totally smoke ) . Better still , there's a mean'n'lean straightforward quality to the narrative , with very few lulls and a huge amount of wild'n'rousing action ( Mothra's newly born larvae even join in on the battle against Godzilla ! ) . The human characters are genuinely engaging and well acted , with especially winning performances by Noboru Kaneko as eager beaver young mechanic Yoshito Chujo , Miho Yoshioka as feisty pilot Azusa Kisaragi , Mitsuki Koga as the cocky Kyosuke Akiba , and Masami Nagasawa and Chihiro Otsuka as the adorable psychic singing twin fairies . Kudos are also in order for Michiru Oshima's stirring , majestic score , Yoshinori Sekiguchi's glossy widescreen cinematography , and Eiichi Asada's often stunning special effects ( Mothra in particular is a strikingly graceful and beautiful giant creature ) . An excellent movie .
A sweet , lovely and underrated early 80's low-budget science fiction gem	Burnt-out , reclusive folk singer Bobby Sinclair ( an excellent performance by the always fine Robert Carradine ) and kindly psychic Iris Longacre ( nicely played by the fetching Cherie Currie of the Runaways ) free a trio of bald , mute , diminutive extraterrestrials - - Gamma ( Dov Young ) , Beta ( Joshua Oreck ) and Delta ( Christian Morris ) - - from a top secret army base run by cold-hearted military jerks and help the little guys get back to their home planet . Deftly directed by Mike Gray ( who also wrote the intelligent script and previously penned the outstanding screenplay for " The China Syndrome " ) , with terrifically vivid and engaging performances from the two exceptional leads , unusually well-drawn characters , plenty of touching heart and warmth , and a neat synthesizer score by Tangerine Dream , " Wavelength " makes the grade as a shamefully underrated and overlooked low-budget sci-fi gem . Keenan Wynn contributes a marvelously cantankerous turn as crusty old prospector Dan , plus there are nifty bits by Robert ( " Parasite " ) Glaudini as coolly pragmatic scientist Dr . Wolf and Bobby ( " The Supernaturals " ) Di Cicco as Bobby's good friend Marvin Horn . Pleasant , quirky and simply lovely ( the scenes with Bobby and Iris helping out the aliens are very moving and endearing , with the sequence where everyone chills out around a campfire qualifying as the definite delightful highlight ) , this unsung sleeper deserves to be better known and more widely seen .
A nifty martial arts comedy romp	Wily ace thief Trinity ( nicely played to the cocky hilt by Steve Tartalia ) steals the sacred dragon ball from Shaolin Temple . The dragon ball gets misplaced . Trinity joins forces with gruff , determined Interpol agent Bambino ( an engagingly bearish turn by Roberto Lopez ) , formidable karate master Meng Ray ( the excellent Sky Dragon ) , and feisty tour guide Wen Ling ( fetching Helena Li Hung ) to retrieve the dragon ball before it falls into the hands of the wicked Paschy ( deliciously essayed with lip-smacking evil aplomb by John Liu ) . Director Robert Tai and screenwriter George Tan concoct an enjoyably inane and lightweight comedic martial arts outing that moves along at a snappy pace , delivers plenty of amusingly broad and inoffensive humor , and , of course , certainly doesn't skimp on the well-staged wild , lively and exciting chopsocky action ( the climactic confrontation between Meng Ray and Paschy is especially tasty and thrilling ) . This film further benefits from several charming and inspired offbeat touches : Bambino has a cute little pet pig named Colonel and the main villains hire a bunch of ninjas for rent to bump off our intrepid protagonists . Better still , a welcome and refreshing human element can be found and relished amid all the infectious tomfoolery ; Bambino's love for Colonel is genuinely sweet and touching . John McEnerney's sparkling cinematography gives the picture an attractive glossy look . Alessandro Alessandroni's tribal , robust , flavorsome score likewise hits the stirring spot . Good , goofy fun .
An amiably silly redneck comedy romp	Tom Selleck and Jerry Reed are utterly engaging as rascally , penniless , down-on-their-luck cowboy drifters Will and J . D . , who find themselves stuck in Nashville , Tennesse . A lovely young woman ( the gorgeous Morgan Fairchild ) mistakes the pair for private detectives and hires the affable duo to find her missing sister . Pretty soon both Will and J . D . are neck deep in all kinds of trouble . Briskly directed by Burt Kennedy , with a slight , inane cookie cutter script by Jimmy Sangster , crude cinematography by Victor Salzis and Alan Stensvold , a jaunty hillbilly bluegrass country score by Reed ( who also sings the rousing theme song " Breakin ' Loose " ) and the expected copious slapstick fist fights and wacky car chases , this totally inconsequential piece of made-for-TV piffle makes for a perfectly enjoyable diversion . The loose'n'wiggy chemistry between Selleck and Reed is a treat to watch . Solid supporting turns by Claude Akins as a famous country singer / songwriter , Gene Evans as a gruff police lieutenant , Lucille Benson as a stern , but friendly whorehouse madam , and Grace Zabriskie as a wax museum worker are likewise delightful . Special guest appearances by country stars Roy Acuff , Ray Stevens and Barbara Mandrell as themselves further add to the goofy fun . A likably silly timewaster .
A very creepy and effective little 70's B sci-fi / horror flick	How's this for a really inspired and effective handy-dandy sci-fi / horror combo premise : Let's take your basic randomly selected motley assortment of everyday folks gathered together in a deep , isolated , self-contained underground nuclear fall-out shelter so they can survive an impending end-of-the-world holocaust tale and embellish on this standard situation with a borrowing from the then hip killer-animals-run-amuck trend by having a horde of vicious , relentless , chattering vampire bats with a taste for human blood attack the understandably terrified bunch at regular bloodcurdling intervals . Sounds like a pretty desperately reaching " high concept " effort , right ? Well , that brusque blow-off assumption is wrong . Dead wrong . Under episodic TV show vet Sutton Roley's taut , capable direction the admittedly threadbare story works surprisingly well , resulting in a genuinely scary , creepy and suspenseful nail-biter . The neatly varied cast helps a lot ; they fill out their stock roles with commendable conviction . Former child actor Jackie Cooper portrays a cross , feet-of-clay rich jerk grumbler with stand-out sliminess . Constantly reliable B-pic perennials Richard Jaeckel ( who later had a fatal run-in with a killer bear in " Grizzly " and got offed by a pack of wild dogs in " Day of the Animals " ) and Alex Cord ( the latter bears a passing resemblance to tough guy thesp extraordinaire William Smith here ) make for properly stalwart heroes . The always composed and elegant Diana Muldaur brings a welcome touch of class to the tense , grisly proceedings . Future " Hill Street Blues " regular Barbara Babcock is a lovely damsel in distress . A bespectacled Bradford Dillman ( who went on to get stung to death by killer bees in " The Swarm " and had his face nibbled on by carnivorous fish in " Piranha " ) nerds it up nicely as a duplicitous dweeby scientist . Chronically unsung character actors Pedro Armendariz , Jr . and Lincoln Kilpatrick contribute solid performances as an eminently expendable decent dude and a gallant , rugged Olympic athlete , respectively . The sequence where Kilpatrick tries to climb out of the subterranean shelter on a rope is both gripping and nerve-wracking . The bat attacks are almost unbearably frightening and ferocious . The claustrophobic set design , Gabriel Torres ' cramped , closed-in cinematography , Fred Karlin's jazzy , spooky score , the unremittingly eerie tone , and the bleakly ironic ending all add considerably to the gut-wrenching tension . And those nasty screeching bats are truly horrifying little suckers !
A very cool documentary on the 70's daredevil scene	An excellent , very observant and illuminating Crown International Pictures documentary which offers an intimate and minutely detailed portrait of a traveling roadshow of fearless , courageous , even downright foolhardy nomadic carnival daredevils known collectively as the Death Riders . The Death Riders , a truly special breed of fanatical , dedicated , four-sheets-to-the-wind wacko lunatics , are shown demolishing cars , driving through intensely hot tongues of flame , blowing themselves up with dynamite , jumping motorcycles over people who actually volunteer for this honor , performing at a nudist colony ( one Death Rider thoughtfully does a car wrecking stunt in the buff ! ) , goofing around , riding wild bulls , engaging in a motor-cross race , and trekking across the country to put on their show for hundreds of awestruck spectators . Director Jim Wilson gives a sharp-eyed , insightful and wholly fascinating you-are-there look at a once prevalent , but now sadly vanished subculture and celebrates a uniquely 70's free-spirited desire to live life to its fullest extent , specifically focusing on a rare , now largely extinct type of all-American red-blooded male whose insatiable craving for wealth , fame , women , attention , excitement and adoration compels him to live life to a gloriously crazy , dangerous , fly-by-the-seat-of-your-pants uninhibited extreme . Vilmos Zsigmond's characteristically proficient cinematography adeptly uses such nifty flourishes as slow motion , freeze frames and split screen to precisely capture the Death Riders ' mortality-testing antics in all their gut-twisting , heart-pounding , nerve-frying , marrow-freezing gonzo splendor . Further complimented by a top-rate country and western soundtrack , this fine and unjustly forgotten slice of vintage 70's Americana makes for genuinely absorbing , informative and often quite harrowing viewing .
A pleasant surprise	The drab tranquility of the sleepy little town of Rockville gets harshly thrown out of wack after four teens are viciously murdered . It's up to stalwart Sheriff Duncan ( a strikingly good portrayal by the usually lacking Joe Estevez ) and sincere , but rather inept Deputy Charlie Fisher ( the engagingly geeky Circus Szalewski ) , assisted by obsessively thorough Detective Amy Rogers ( well played by ravishing brunette Nicole Buehrer ) , to catch the culprit . The most probable suspect is a young lady who just escaped from a nearby asylum . The young lady is arrested , attempts to get away and is subsequently killed while making her attempt . But the seemingly simple cut and dried case is far from over or solved . In fact , it's just the opening of a whole can of worms which will change several people's lives forever . " The Rockville Slayer " rates as a most pleasant and unexpected surprise . For starters , it's a complex and involving mystery thriller instead of the mindless slasher horror flick its misleading title suggests . Moreover , the well-drawn characters are refreshingly real , flawed and recognizably human . Director Marc Selz , working from his own intricate and intriguing script , delivers a nice smattering of nudity and grisly violence , effectively creates a creepy and unnerving atmosphere , offers plenty of truly startling plot twists , and keeps the pace moving forward at a pleasingly speedy clip . The fine cast all contribute excellent performances , with especially nifty appearances by Linnea Quigley as a local harlot who went crazy and the ever-intimidating Robert Z'Dar as her brutish husband . Kudos are also in order for Joe Harris ' crisp , handsome cinematography and Karl Sundstrom's neatly spare'n'shivery synthesizer score . Overall , this baby qualifies as a real strong and satisfying unsung little sleeper .
A nifty little early 80's haunted house horror chiller	The late 70's and early 80's saw a surprising rash of entertainingly trashy low-budget haunted house chiller dillers , resulting in the vigorously pulpy " The Evil , " the not half bad " The Hearse , " the dreary " Death Ship , " the enjoyably sleazy " The House Where Evil Dwells , " and this pleasingly lurid outing , which starts out pretty low-key and unsettling before delightfully degenerating into a wildly frantic and gruesome over-the-top shockfest . Lauren Cochran ( a deeply sympathetic performance by the wispily attractive Robin Groves ) is a hugely successful , but extremely repressed and neurotic author of Gothic novels who suffers from severe agoraphobia . So Lauren decides to take a load off and subsequently acquire a firmer hold on her shaky sanity by taking a much-needed vacation in the country . Lauren holes up in a musty , dingy , dilapidated old Victorian mansion that turns out to be a onetime bordello haunted by the vengeful , insanely laughing specter of the red-haired madame ( the ever-sultry Gloria Grahame in her last film role ) . When Lauren tries to find out about the squalid abode's grimy past history , several seedy secondary male characters meet ghastly untimely ends and Lauren herself gets manipulated by the unrestful spirits of prostitutes murdered in the house decades ago to exact a brutal revenge on the people responsible for the massacre . Former porno filmmaker Armand Weston , who did both the capable direction and co-wrote the solid , twisty , engrossingly sordid script , initially opts for a quietly nerve-rattling and unexpectedly delicate things are slightly out of whack eerie and mysterious mood , what with windows strangely breaking , a Victrola suddenly playing in the dead of night , Lauren experiencing horrific nightmares , cryptic messages left on Lauren's typewriter , and the ghost of the madame making sporadic jarring manifestations . Then the killings begin about halfway through and the film starts laying on the crudely visceral shocks something thick , thus making this one of those rare fright flicks that manages the tricky feat of blending an ambiguously creepy-crawly atmosphere with more bluntly presented jump-out-at-you scare tactics with praiseworthy effectiveness . The noodling synthesizer score by Jack Malkin and Kim Scholes and Joao Fernandes ' gloomy cinematography contribute greatly to the overall gooesepimply spookiness while old reliable John Carradine turns in his customary robust cameo as a cranky , wheelchair-bound town elder with a few dirty skeletons in his fiercely guarded closet . Moreover , the sex , nudity and violence quotient is reasonably high , therefor making this picture satisfyingly scuzzy exploitation fare as well . Plus there's a thoughtful and provocative underlying subtext concerning closure and catharsis that's neatly integrated into the story . With all these things working in its favor , this feature overall sizes up as an unjustly neglected sleeper that's well worth checking out .
Beware the deadly dweeb in the delivery van !	I absolutely love this delectably cheap'n'cheesy late 60's exploitation trash psycho howler . Hopelessly geeky bespectacled dweeb Howard ( a hilariously histrionic performance by Robert Gribbin , who overemotes to the point where you swear he's going to give himself a nosebleed ) drives a delivery van for the local laundromat service . Howard has gone murderously around the bend ever since his beloved sister ran away from home six years ago . While making his daily rounds Howard picks up stray runaway teenage lady hitch-hikers and brutally butchers them . Among Howard's victims are a token gay guy , a little girl whose bloodied corpse Howard leaves in a dumpster , and one luckless lass Howard strangles in the back of his van with a wire coat hanger ( I'm sure Joan Crawford would have approved of this last one ) . Earnest , but ineffectual police captain Shaw ( well essayed by Russell Johnson ; the Professor on " Gilligan's Island " ! ) tries to catch Howard , but thanks to indifferent and negligent parents finds this to be a most difficult task to accomplish ( nice pointed social commentary here ) . Not released for ten years until it was picked up by legendary soft-core flick king Harry Novak's Box Office International Pictures for theatrical distribution in the 70's , sporting suitably shoddy production values , largely atrocious acting ( the scenes where Howard either experiences painful seizures or erupts into a wildly raving psychotic frenzy while killing folks are especially sidesplitting ) , and a gloriously ghastly country-and-western theme song ( " Danger on the road / Danger on the road / There's no way you can tell / When you hitch-hike to hell / Danger on the road tonight " ) , this grubby grindhouse gem is well worth picking up if you're a fan of deliciously down'n'dirty drive-in dreck .
Amusing DVD extra	This neat ten minute short is featured as an extra on the DVD for the enjoyably nasty redneck horror zombie splatter hoot " Trailer Park of Terror . " It's a cool and funny series of mock interviews with the cast members who portray the colorfully vile , hateful and repulsive hillbilly stereotype zombie characters . Nichole Hiltz as the saucy and devilishly seductive Norma boasts that she's the queen of the trailer park while Michelle Lee's lusty Asian masseuse Miss China claims otherwise . Ed Corbin's mean , ill-tempered Vietnam veteran Sergeant Stank brags about his special beef jerky recipe . Myk Watford's rowdy wannabe Southern rocker Roach nurses delusions of scoring a record deal with a major music label . Lew Temple's whiny Marv complains about Norma not wanting him anymore . Best of all , Trisha Rae Stahl's gluttonous morbidly obese Larlene happily discusses her ravenous love for meat . This short has the same infectiously twisted sense of rude'n'rude hick black humor as the movie . Fans of the flick should get a kick out of this baby .
A solid and exciting action thriller	A group of vicious , nefarious terrorist scum kidnap the stalwart , protective wife ( a plucky , spirited Susannah York ) and kids of wealthy industrialist Jonas Bracken ( finely played by Robert Culp ) . So Jonas , assisted by York's macho , take-charge mercenary ex-husband Jim McCabe ( an excellently wry and laconic performance by the always cool and unflappable James Coburn ) , diligent police chief Charles Aznavour , and a bunch of hang-gliding enthusiasts led by the handsome , dashing John Beck , decide to raid the terrorist's remote mountainside fortress in Greece in order to get ' em back . Directed with tight , brisk , straight-down-the-line concise and unpretentious razor efficiency by Douglas Hickox , from a similarly taut , smart and sharply honed script by Jack DeWitt , Stanley Mann and Garry Michael White , further enhanced by one of Lalo Schifrin's customary lush , stirring and majestic full orchestra scores , a pleasingly prompt , unflagging pace , top-rate aerial photography , frequent outbursts of excitingly fast'n'furious violence , solid acting , glossy production values , a properly no-nonsense let's get down to brass tacks attitude , and a wild bullets and bodies a flyin ' everywhere mondo destructo shoot ' em up finale , this nifty little number overall sizes up as a satisfyingly terse and to the point action / suspense thriller .
A nicely spooky sci-fi / horror flick	The Kelley Family find themselves in considerable jeopardy when an evil alien force with the power to control minds lands nearby their ranch and causes all the animals to go into a lethal rage . Director David Kramarsky relates the absorbing story at a steady pace and does a sound job of creating an eerie atmosphere . The solid acting from a sturdy cast rates as another definite plus : Paul Birch as rugged rancher Allan Kelley , Lorna Thayer as his snippy wife Carol , Dona Cole as their cute , spunky daughter Sandra , Dick Sargent as amiable Deputy Larry Brewster , Leonard Tarver as hulking , pathetic mute handyman Carl , and Chester Conklin as cranky old-timer Ben Webber . The shivery orchestral score and the stark black and white cinematography by Everett Baker and Floyd Crosby further enhance the creepy tone . Moreover , the desolate desert location projects an unnervingly palpable sense of isolation and vulnerability . Granted , the hilariously horrendous ( much less than ) special effects leave a lot to be desired , but overall this film sizes up as a pretty nifty and enjoyable low-budget shocker .
A terrifically gritty , exciting and tough-minded Italian crime vigilante thriller knockout	Cagey , hard-working , obstinate no-nonsense scientist Franco Nero gets kidnapped during a brutal bank heist by a trio of vicious , nasty crooks . The hoods severely pummel Nero , take him along for a wild , harrowing car chase , and leave Nero forever scarred psychologically by the distressful experience . When the police prove to be ineffectual , Nero decides to go the Charles Bronson " Death Wish " - like enforce the law on your own self-proclaimed keeper of the peace vigilante route , teaming up with genial , helpful illegal arms dealer Giancarlo Prete in order to exact harsh revenge on the vile , untouchable low-life criminals who regularly get away with preying on decent , law-abiding folks . An unexpectedly potent little crime / action potboiler , " Street Law " manages to be both utterly arresting and extremely hard-hitting thanks to its bang-up execution and accomplished technical polish . Under Italian B-film ace Enzo G . Castellari's typically strong , punchy , expert direction the compelling , convoluted and twist-ridden narrative unfolds in a most suspenseful , exhilarating and wickedly dead-on manner . Moreover , the gritty , smoky , squalid and threatening big city urban cesspool environment seems authentically grim and grimy , the cool , driving , harmonica-tinged rock score really hits the socko sonic spot , the brisk , starkly lit , sinuous cinematography gives the movie an excellent slick look , and the ferocious , rousing , often quite jolting action sequences - - Castellari's use of strenuous , gut-wrenching slow motion is incredibly effective - - deliver one hell of a strong and lingering punch . Better still , Nero contributes his usual top-notch performance , Prete is surprisingly likable as a conscience-plagued miscreant who yearns to go straight , and beauteous brunette Barbara Bach registers well as Nero's concerned , caring girlfriend . Why , " Street Law " even comes complete with a provocative , gruffly unsentimental , yet profound moral : Revenge is anything but sweet - - and it almost always comes with a highly serious and painful price to pay . Resolutely tough-minded and unusually complicated , with a suitably bleak tone and a pungently brooding atmosphere , this coarse , crackling , thoroughly gripping and exciting hard-edged vengeance crime thriller sizes up overall as an absolute powerhouse .
An enjoyably tawdry serving of 60's soft-core smut	New York suburbanite housewife Lynn Merrick ( dishy brunette Terri Steele ) likes expensive things . Lynn drives into the city and works for a special " agency " so she can earn some extra money . Said agency caters to various clients with all kinds of kinky sexual tastes . Director Al Ruban , who went on to produce several respectable art-house films for acclaimed director John Cassavettes , certainly doesn't skimp on the tasty female nudity . Foxy Jackie Miller takes a long bath . 60's soft-core picture regulars Gigi Darlene , June Roberts , and Marlene Starr all pose topless for pervy shutterbug guys . A voluptuous belly dancer shakes her sexy stuff at a wild stag party . Moreover , we also got sadomasochism ( Lynn's first customer is a pathetic whimpering dude who enjoys being whipped ) , voyeurism , lesbianism , and even ( sort of ) necrophilia . Meanwhile , a grim-voiced narrator solemnly intones about the sordid escapades throughout the movie . Steve Karmen's swingin ' jazz score really hits the groovy spot . The stark , grainy black and white cinematography by Jerry Denby and C . " Chuck " Davis Smith further enhances the overall racy fun . Smith also pops up as a leering cameraman and Ruban appears as Lynn's unsuspecting husband Bob . A nice slice of amusingly mild , yet still titillating 60's soft-core sleaze .
A very warm & engaging , but clichéd rags-to-riches showbiz film	A remarkable example of cinematic alchemy at work , with a trite'n'turgid lump of lead script ( penned by numbingly mediocre Hollywood hack nonpareil Jole Schumacher , no less ) being magically converted into a choice chunk of exquisitely gleaming 24-carat musical drama gold thanks to brisk direction , fresh , engaging performances , spot-on production values , a flavorsome recreation of 50's era New York , an infectiously effervescent roll-with-the-punches tone , and a truly wondrous rhythm and blues score by the great Curtis Mayfield . The story , loosely based on the real life exploits of the Supremes , prosaically documents the arduous rags-to-riches climb of three bright-eyed , impoverished black teenage girl singers who desperately yearn to escape their ratty , unrewarding ghetto plight and make it big in the razzle-dazzle world of commercial R & B music . All the obvious pratfalls of instant wealth and success - - egos run destructively amok , drugs , corruption , fighting to retain your integrity , and so on - - are predictably paraded forth , but luckily the uniformly excellent work evident in the film's other departments almost completely cancels out Schumacher's flat , uninspired plotting . The first-rate acting helps out a lot . Irene Cara , Lonette McKee , and Dwan Smith are sensationally sexy , vibrant and appealing leads - - and great singers to boot . Comparably fine performances are also turned in by a charmingly boyish pre - " Miami Vice " Philip Michael Thomas as the group's patient , gentlemanly manager , Dorian Harewood as McKee's venal , aggressively amorous hound dog boyfriend , and perennial blaxploitation baddie Tony ( " Hell Up in Harlem , " " Bucktown " ) King as a dangerously seductive , smooth operating , stone cold nasty gangster . The tone dips and dovetails from funny and poignant to melancholy and blithesome without ever skipping a beat , deftly evolving into a glowing , uplifting ode to the human spirit's extraordinary ability to effectively surmount extremely difficult and intimidating odds . Veteran editor Sam O'Stern acquits himself superbly in his directorial debut . Bruce Surtees ' luminescent cinematography and Gordon Scott's expert editing are both flawless . O'Stern's firm grasp of period atmosphere , keen eye for tiny , but telling little details , and unerring sense of busy , unbroken pace are just as impressive . No fooling about Curtis Mayfield's impeccable soundtrack contributions , either . " Jump , " " What Can I Do With This Feeling , " " Givin ' Up , " " Take My Hand Precious Lord , " " Lovin ' You Baby , " and " Look Into Your Heart " are all terrifically tuneful , soulful , almost unbelievably fantastic songs , with the sweetly sultry love jones number " Something He Can Feel , " which was later covered by both Aretha Franklin and En Vogue , clearly copping top musical honors as the best-ever song in the entire movie . The net result of all these above cited outstanding attributes persuasively illustrates that sometimes it's not the screenplay so much as what's done with said script which in turn determines a film's overall sterling quality .
A very good and effectively creepy early 80's seasonal slasher flick	The stupendous success of John Carpenter's holiday horror slasher classic " Halloween " not surprisingly beget a rash of similar seasonal slice'n'dice fright flicks . " My Bloody Valentine " is one of the better low-budget copies made at the height of the early 80's teen body count craze . The story is nothing special , but it does the trick just the same : A homicidal killer ( juicily played to the deranged hilt by Neil Affleck ) goes on a grisly murder spree in the bleak little mining town of Valentine Bluffs on February 14th . Although routinely plotted and pretty predictable , this baby nonetheless still rates as an above average entry thanks to George ( " Pick-up Summer " ) Mihalka's strong direction , solid acting from the entire cast ( said cast deserve extra kudos for looking , speaking and behaving like credibly rough-around-the-edges working class young adults ; I especially liked the goofy curly-haired fat guy who resembled a young Avery Schrieber ) , genuinely personable characters , gory make-up f / x by Tom ( " The Beast Within " ) Burman , a truly creepy and hauntingly downbeat atmosphere ( the sequences in the underground mine in particular have a potently clammy and claustrophobic spookiness to them ) , Paul ( " Prom Night " ) Zaza's eerie score , Rodney Gibbons ' impressively slick cinematography , and a respectable corpse tally of 10 . And that groovy folkie ending credits theme song is an absolute hoot !
An enjoyably odd picture	Rugged big game hunter Dan Fuller ( a solid and likable performance by Lance Fuller ) discovers much to his dismay that his lovely new bride Laura ( a nicely sexy portrayal by fetching brunette Charlotte Austin ) has a most troubling and peculiar affinity for gorillas . Dan is forced to shoot his pet ape Spanky ( Steve Calvert in a funky suit ) dead after the big brute breaks free from his basement cage and goes after Laura . Dan takes Laura with him on a safari to Africa . The expedition not only runs afoul of two lethal tigers , but also a couple of hulking gorillas who abduct Laura . Director Adrian Weiss milks plenty of compellingly aberrant thrills from the typically outlandish script by the notorious Ed Wood , Jr . : Weiss treats the weird and perverse premise with admirable seriousness , relates the gloriously wacky story at a steady pace , and concludes things on a bravely downbeat note . Naturally , Wood's script features the inevitable reference to angora sweaters and incorporates a pretty far-fetched reincarnation theme into the already heady mix ( Laura was a gorilla in a previous life ! ) . Kudos are in order for the surprisingly sound and sincere acting by sterling leads Fuller and Austin ; they receive sturdy support from Johnny Roth as loyal native houseboy Taro and William Justine as helpful psychiatrist Dr . Carl Reiner . The scenes with the savage tigers attacking people are staged with rousing aplomb . Roland Price's sharp black and white cinematography and Les Baxter's sweeping orchestral score are both up to par . A pleasingly offbeat and unusual little oddity .
An enjoyable killer animal horror flick	Gutsy reporter Jennifer ( a winningly spunky performance by fetching blonde Sarah Downing ) poses as the troubled Samantha so she can be admitted into the mysterious sanitarium Brookdale Institute in order to research a possible expose on the place . Jennifer uncovers more than she bargained for when she discovers that the joint is infested by lethal carnivorous mutant rats . Director Tibor Takacs , working from an engrossing script by Adam Gierasch and Jace Anderson , does a sound job of creating a suitably creepy'n'claustrophobic atmosphere , stages the rat attack sequences with a reasonable amount of flair , maintains a steady pace throughout , and further spices things up with a nice smattering of grisly splatter . The mental patients are a colorfully freaky bunch : Bailey Chase as the amiable Johnny Falls , Eileen Grubba as the scrappy , belligerent Rose , Patrick Dreikauss as the twitchy Morgan , Desislava Tenekedjieva as the fragile , suicidal Cypress , and Tarri Markell as spiky junkie Naomi . The rest of the cast are likewise fine in their roles , with especially praiseworthy work from Ron Perlman as humane psychiatrist Dr . William Winslow , Michael Zeliniker as oddball custodian Ernst , Denise Dowse as no-nonsense head nurse Matilda , Sean Cullen as Jennifer's concerned fellow reporter boyfriend Michael , and Michael Hagerty as likable orderly Lenny . Barry Gravelle's polished , shadowy cinematography does the trick . Guy Zerafa's shivery score hits the shuddery spot . While the rats with their glowing red eyes and insatiable flesh-eating appetites are pretty unnerving , the main giant rodent alas proves to be a total washout due to extremely poor and unconvincing CGI effects . That criticism aside , this movie overall sizes up as a nifty little fright feature .
A very cool and enjoyable low-budget 80's sci-fi / Western time travel favorite	Fred Ward gives a typically credible and engaging performance as Lyle Swann , a hotshot off-road motorcycle champion who becomes lost in the Mexico desert while in the middle of a motorcross race . Swann accidentally stumbles across a top secret government base that's conducting a time travel experiment and gets transported back to 1877 . Grimy , vicious desperado Peter Coyote and his two dumb , craven , greasy , unwashed scuzzbag partners ( marvelously played by the ever-grubby Tracey Walter and an uncharacteristically nasty Richard Masur ) want to steal Swann's wheels . Swann seeks refuge in a small , remote Mexican village . The God-fearing peasant vocals think Swann is the devil incarnate . Only priest Ed Lauter and fiery , fetching femme Clair ( the highly alluring and enticing Belinda Bauer ) treat Swann with any hospitality and become his sole allies , protecting him from both Coyote's gang and a couple of bothersome federal marshals ( one of ' em is grizzled Sam Peckinpah movie regular L . Q . Jones ) . The fantastic premise is given a semblance of gritty , lived-in plausibility thanks to the brightly conceived script , believable reactions the 18th century characters have to both Swann and his motorcycle , sound acting from a top-rate cast , and especially director William Dear's harsh , rough around the edges , very dingy and fiercely unromanticized evocation of the Old West . It's this latter element of ragged , dust-under-the-fingernails filthy historical authenticity which makes " Timerider " such an effective and engrossing offbeat sci-fi / Western outing . Former Monkey Michael Nesmith co-produced , co-wrote the quirky screenplay , and supplied the lively , thumping , guitar-blasting , synthesizer-driven rollicking rock score for this interesting anomaly . The Anchor Bay DVD offers an excellent letterboxed presentation of this unsung favorite , along with a disarmingly candid William Dear commentary , two theatrical trailers and a bunch of TV spots .
Jayne Mansfield's sad , haunting and underrated cinematic swan song	This cheap and offbeat , yet astute and absorbing slice of everyday life drama centers on the forlorn and unfortunate plights of the down in the dumps occupants of a seedy urban apartment complex . Writer / director Matt Cimber displays real skill and sensitivity at capturing the underlying sense of despair , regret , and desperation that defines the common working class folks who just sort of quietly exist . The acting by a sturdy cast is truly exceptional . Jayne Mansfield in her final filmic farewell in particular shines in a complex and challenging part as a troubled lady with multiple personalities : she starts out as hopeful and innocent teenager Johnnie , then becomes dejected pregnant cocktail waitress Mae , and ultimately devolves into jaded , worn-out prostitute Eileen . The third story centering on Eileen offers the most poignant moments , with a memorably crazed turn by Walter Gregg as creepy stalker sailor Billy and a positively heart-wrenching climactic closing shot . However , Mansfield ain't the whole show . Special kudos are also in order for the adorable Dorothy Keller as sweet fisherwoman Flo and Fabian Dean as amiable big lug Charley ; their scenes together are both highly affecting and beautifully acted . Moreover , there's fine supporting work from Billy McGreene as folksy superintendent Pop , Terri Messina as naive , impressionable teenager Maria , Martin Horsey as Johnnie's gawky , restless husband Frankie , and Bruno VeSota as one of Eileen's oddball customers . Laszlo Kovacs ' appropriately plain cinematography and James Sheldon's moody , melancholy score are both up to par . Although a tad slow and clunky in spots , this film overall sizes up as a lovely and touching little sleeper .
An enjoyably quick'n'painless piece of French soft-core crime thriller fluff	Assertive Monica ( slim brunette fox Joelle Coeur ) and her more passive gal pal Jackie ( zaftig blonde looker Gilda Arancio ) are a couple of nubile and attractive young drifters who stumble across a big and beautiful abandoned house in the middle of nowhere . The girls decide to crash for the night at this swanky abode . Things turn sour when the ladies run afoul of a trio of nasty no-count jewelry thieves lead by wicked , sadistic , yet alluring ice queen villainess Bea ( smoldering raven-haired dish Marie Helene Regne ) . Prolific French horror director Jean Rollin relates the flimsy meandering story at a leaden pace , but thankfully crams more than enough tasty distaff nudity and sizzling soft-core sex to ensure that this flick remains luridly entertaining throughout . Moreover , we've got the inevitable obligatory steamy lesbian encounter , an ineptly staged shoot-out set to groovy early 70's prog-rock music , a decent catfight , and some mild moments of torture and degradation . Pierre Raph's alternately jaunty and jazzy score , the pretty rural countryside scenery , Jean-Jacques Renon's plain , unpolished cinematography , and the laughably atrocious dubbing all further enhance this trashy potboiler's considerable scroungy charm . Plus the short'n'sweet 67 minute running time ensures that this tawdry romp certainly never outstays its welcome . A nifty serving of diverting Eurosleaze .
A terrifically wacky'n'tacky Troma trash treat	A leak at a nuclear power plant contaminates a crop of marijuana . Teenagers who smoke the toxic pot transform into crazed murderous mutants . One nerdy kid spazzs out and takes a fatal spill out of a window . A vicious gang of deranged goons called the Cretins led by the insane Spike ( a gloriously gonzo portrayal by Robert Prichard ) terrorize the other students . Worse yet , straight-laced goody-goody two shoes Chrissy ( sweetly played by the adorable Janelle Brady , who has a great topless scene ) and her equally square boyfriend Warren ( affable Gil Benton ) give in to their naughty lascivious urges and engage in raunchy sex . A hilariously wild sense of anything-goes raucous'n'tasteless lowbrow humor , ripely hammy acting from a game cast ( tubby Pat Ryan is an absolute hoot as shady nuke plant manager Mr . Finley ) , some yummy gratuitous nudity , a nonstop frantic pace , a handy helping of cartoonish over-the-top splatter , and an infectiously vibrant feeling of sheer go-for-it energy and enthusiasm all add immensely to the blithely silly'n'schlocky fun that's on abundant display in this gleefully madcap gut-buster . Michael Mayers ' snazzy cinematography makes nice use of vertical wipes . A grotesque lethal monster goes on a rousing and righteously gruesome rampage at the film's stirring conclusion . Cool catchy theme song , too . A total zany riot .
A really fun martial arts action romp	Reformed criminal Bruce ( handsome , charismatic chopsocky film star Bruce Le ) decides to go straight and settle down with his girlfriend after he gets released from prison . The gang he used to work for kidnap the fetching young daughter of an American ambassador ( co-producer Dick Randall in a small role ) . Bruce goes trekking all over the world in search of the lady . Directors Le and Joseph Velasco ( the latter also wrote the cheerfully ridiculous script ) relate the lively and eventful narrative at a nonstop brisk pace , toss in a pleasing plenitude of tasty gratuitous female nudity and lurid soft-core sex , and cram this baby with more frantic knock-down , drag-out kung fu scuffles than you can shake a pair of nun-chucks at . Perenial Asian bad guy thespian Harold " Oddjob " Sakata portrays his usual nefarious lead heavy who this time sports a lethal steel claw hand while the ubiquitous Bolo Yeung once again essays his umpteenth flunky part . Randall's hot redhead wife Corliss pops up in a handful of scenes as a tough female detective ( she's billed under the choice pseudonym of Chick Norris ! ) . The glossy widescreen cinematography and exotic globe-trotting locations give this flick a nice sense of scope . Better still , the neatly eclectic film library score alternates between schmaltzy elevator music-style instrumental versions of popular hit tunes ( which include the famous James Bond theme ! ) and funky , syncopated , groovy-jammin ' discoid funk . The rousing and lengthy climactic confrontation between Bruce and erstwhile best buddy Ron ( wiry Wang Jang Lee ) likewise hits the stirring spot . Hugely entertaining trash .
A nifty low-budget supernatural shocker	A motley bunch of young college news students check out the mysterious town of Acheron , a weird hamlet that's located in a remote fog-shrouded woodland area . They discover that not only is Acheron populated by an array of deadly and unrestful spirits who come out at night , but also that the ungodly place feeds on people's sins , wickedness , and deepest desires . Writer / director Tom Lewis concocts an effectively eerie and inspired take on the standard ghost town premise : he creates a strong and compelling creepy gloom-doom atmosphere which becomes more progressively unnerving and nightmarish as the plot unfolds , relates the intriguing story at a steady pace , further spices things up with a few modest lashings of grisly gore , and delivers one doozy of a surprise jolting ending . The capable acting from an appealing no-name cast rates as another substantial asset , with especially praiseworthy work by Brandon Largent as the decent , amiable Todd Harding , Laura Mazur as the troubled Courtney , Kathryn Carner as the bitchy Amber , America Young as the ruthlessly ambitious Misty , Tyler Lassiter as scruffy slacker Ruben , and Richard Kinsey as a sinister preacher . Royce Allen Dudley's sharp cinematography and Carlos Vivas ' moody , spooky score are both on the money solid . Only some dodgy CGI effects detract a bit from this otherwise sound and enjoyable horror sleeper .
Good , silly 80's teenkill body count horror fun	Oh yes , the 80's . That glorious magical era when oversexed naughty teenagers got brutally offed in one cheerfully trashy low-budget Grade B fright feature after another . Well , this time it's a group of kids who are partying in a shopping center after hours who include the adorable Kelli Maroney of " Night of the Comet " fame and the luscious Barbara Crampton of " Re-Animator " infamy who are targeted for slaughter by these laughably hokey-looking murderously malfunctioning security robots . Yep , this item is admittedly pretty silly and not in the least bit scary , but thankfully director Jim Wynorski keeps the movie hurtling along at a snappy pace , stages the copious kill scenes with a reasonable amount of flair ( the juicy exploding head gag is a definite gory highlight ) , elicits solid performances from a likable cast ( Maroney in particular is very spunky and appealing ) , and laces the whole dopey thing with plenty of campy humor and amusing in-jokes . Moreover , both Crampton and the busty'n'lusty Suzee Slater bare their breasts , the briskly concise 77 minute running time ensures that there isn't any boring lulls throughout , and such familiar junk picture faces as Dick Miller , Angus Scrimm ( acting under his real name of Lawrence Guy ) , Angela ( " Fairy Tales , " " H . O . T . S . " ) Aames , Gerrit Graham , Mel Welles , Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov ( the latter two reprise their roles from " Eating Raoul " ) pop up in funny cameos . Sure , it's no work of art , but it's nonetheless a good deal of nice , dumb , undemanding schlocky fun .
An infectiously absurd escapist action hoot	A vicious band of terrorist hijackers lead by bitter and vengeful covert operative William Stranix ( the always fine Tommy Lee Jones in peak wicked form ) take over a Navy battleship in order to get their evil hands on an arsenal of nuclear missiles . It's up to cynical and disgraced former Navy Seal turned measly cook Casey Ryback ( remarkably stiff'n'stolid stoneface supreme Steven Seagal sans his trademark ponytail ) and several others to stop them . Director Andrew Davis , working from a gloriously preposterous script by J . F . Lawton , relates the gripping " Die Hard " on a boat story at a nonstop breakneck pace , creates a reasonable amount of tension , and stages the copious action set pieces with considerable rip-roaring aplomb . Seagal is his usual dry and cardboard self . Fortunately , the strong supporting cast compensates for his flatness . Jones in particular makes for a great hateful and ruthless heavy . However , Gary Busey almost steals the whole show with his deliciously deranged portrayal of the treacherous Commander Krill , a man so heinous that he not only tries to drown his own men , but also has the gall to spit in Ryback's bouillabaisse sauce as well ( Gary even does a hysterically funny drag scene to boot ! ) . Plus there are sound turns by Patrick O'Neal as the sage Captain Adams , Andy Romano as the ramrod Admiral Bates , Colm Meaney as the coldblooded Doumer , Nick Mancuso as shady chain-smoking jerk Tom Breaker , and Troy Evans as the gung-ho Granger . Delectable " Baywatch " blonde babe Erika Eleniak isn't given much to do in the thankless role of the token hot chick , but at least bares her beautifully bountiful breasts in one of the single most laughably gratuitous topless scenes ever committed to celluloid . The brutal hand-to-hand fisticuffs and heated firefights are every bit as taut and exciting as they ought to be . Frank Tidy's slick cinematography , Gary Chang's rousing , throbbing score and a cool trashy rock soundtrack are all likewise up to par . Sure , this movie is wildly implausible and ridiculous to the extreme , but it's this very sense of gleeful absurdity which makes it so much tremendously entertaining dumb fun .
An enjoyably bent early 80's killer kid horror hoot	This agreeably perverse and oddball early 80's teen body count flick may never reach the astonishingly bent pinnacle of the deeply unsettling and criminally underrated murderous moppets movie " Devil Times Five , " but it's still an above average killer kid opus nonetheless . The slim , but serviceable plot centers on a trio of misfit tykes - - two bratty boys and one creepily twinkle-eyed , albeit angelic-looking little girl - - who are all born during a solar eclipse on June 9th , 1970 . When the strange antisocial trio , who stick together in a tightly self-contained and exclusive circle , reach ten years of age they suddenly go homicidally bonkers and declare open season on the hapless , unsuspecting local yokels of the heretofore sleepy and peaceful California suburb of Meadowvale . Writer / director Ed Hunt , the usually incompetent unsung hack responsible for such wonderfully wretched clunkers as the delightfully dopey " Starship Invasions , " the uproariously inane Jesus Christ vigilante parable ( ! ) " Alien Warrior , " and the stunningly silly " The Brain , " does a pretty solid and capable job here : the kill scenes are abundant and reasonably brutal ( the arrow-through-the-eye gag is especially nasty ) , there's a sizable smattering of gratuitous nudity and soft-core sex , a goodly amount of tension is neatly created and maintained , some nice dollops of dark humor punctuate the arrestingly warped mayhem , and the surprise grim ending manages to be truly jolting . Moreover , the top-drawer cast further elevates the proceedings to the perfectly watchable and absorbing : Jose Ferror as a small-town doctor , future " Jake and the Fatman " TV series star Joe Penny as an amateur astrologer , " The Prey " ' s Lori Lethin as the plucky babysitter heroine , Susan Strasberg as a bitchy school teacher , " American Ninja " ' s Michael Dudikoff as a chowderhead jock , and Cyril O'Reilly ( the lonely misanthrope vampire in the hauntingly melancholy " Dance of the Damned " ) as a libidinous teen dude who gets bagged while doing just what you think with some naked hot chick in back of a parked van . Billy Jacoby ( who went on to star in such late 80's direct-to-video dross as " Dr . Alien " and " Demonwarp " ) , Andy Freeman , and especially the eerily adorable Elizabeth Hoy are genuinely creepy and convincing as the terrible troika of chillingly evil and amoral rugrats . And , yes , that's none other than Julie Brown , the brassy comedienne who scored a surprise Top 40 hit with the hilarious novelty tune " The Homecoming Queen's Gotta Gun , " as the lovely , vacuous , full-breasted redhead bimbo who does a great lengthy , totally extraneous , yet still sizzling and much-appreciated nude striptease while dancing in her bedroom to a cheesy blaring rock song ! All in all , this baby sizes up as a sturdy and satisfying slasher item .
An oddly appealing piece of cheerfully cheap'n'cheesy 80's horror monster schlock	How's this for a novel premise : a foul , carnivorous , subterranean monster whose exact origin is never properly disclosed feasts upon sundry teenagers , pretty young honeys , cops , bums and little old ladies who are all unfortunate enough to be treading on the beach when the sucker is on the prowl , thereby puzzling the local clueless and ineffectual authorities and whipping up a heretofore sleepy California coastal community into a frenzied tizzy . Boy , does that ever sound fairly similar to " Jaws , " now doesn't it ? Although the threadbare story ain't much , this surprisingly fun cheapo fright flick somehow manages to be quite entertaining . Veteran B-movie flatfoot John ( " Black Christmas , " " Welcome to Spring Break " ) Saxon as the dour , irascible police chief who's disgusted with the whole bloody mess and the ever-coarse Burt Young ( Paulie in the " Rocky " films ) as the boorish , jocund homicide detective investigating the baffling murders both delightfully grouch it up while longtime favorite unsung character actor Stefan ( " Blue Sunshine , " " Spellbinder " ) Gierasch gleefully commits thespic grand larceny as a pompous , pipe-smoking coroner with a ludicrously protracted drawl ( Gierasch talks as if he graduated with top honors from the William Shatner Academy of Studiously Affected and Mannered Overdone Hammy Elocution ) . Despite several glaring flaws - - writer / director Jeffrey Bloom's hopelessly all-thumbs cinematic technique , sometimes excruciatingly sluggish pacing , drab performances by David Huffman and Marianna ( " The Baby , " " Messiah of Evil " ) Hill as a pair of middle-aged seaside lovers who make a belated attempt at rekindling their extinguished relationship , Gill ( " A Cold Night's Death , " " The Ultimate Warrior " ) Melle's rather inappropriate , but still funky moody jazz score , Steve ( " Dead and Buried , " " Donnie Darko " ) Poster's peculiarly fuzzy photography , and the lamest , phoniest , most pitifully unscary beast this side of the killer walking carpet in " The Creeping Terror " - - " Blood Beach " nonetheless still rates as a weirdly winning low-rent creature feature , mainly because a certain sweetly misguided , but very palpable and thus engaging enthusiasm permeates every single fabulously fumbling frame . It's this unusual synthesis of earnestness and ineptitude which ultimately makes this baby so endearing . And any picture which boasts a scene where a nasty would-be rapist gets gruesomely castrated by the rampaging monster will always get my vote .
A really amusing and entertaining Grade Z schlock camp hoot	Professor John Coleman ( nicely played by John Holland ) gets abducted by a group of evil Nazis . Coleman's decent , morally upright son-in-law Phil ( likable Walter Stocker ) and his sweet wife Kathy ( lovely Audrey Claire ) go to the South American country of Mandoras to save him . They discover the living disembodied head of none other than Adolph Hitler ( a hilariously manic portrayal by Bill Freed ) , who plans on taking over the world with a deadly nerve gas that only Professor Coleman knows the antidote to . David Bradley's competent direction maintains a steady pace throughout and effectively develops a colorful south-of-the-border atmosphere . The acting is generally solid , with especially stand-out turns by Nestor Paiva as polite , friendly , cigar-puffing police chief Alaniz and the delightful Dani Lynn as wacky slang-slinging beatnik hipster chick Suzanne . Film noir veteran Stanley Cortez's gorgeously sharp'n'slick cinematography gives the movie an attractive glossy look . The booming'n'bombastic stock library score is pretty funny . Ditto the priceless scene where a dead body falls out of a phone booth . Although a bit slow and talky , this notorious Grade Z schlock camp classic nonetheless radiates a certain cruddy charm that's both amusing and entertaining in equal measure . The BCI Eclipse DVD offers both the superior and more coherent original picture along with the extremely muddled and dreadful alternate version " They Saved Hitler's Brain . "
A nifty little devil cult horror flick	Succussful businessman Rick Turner ( a solid performance by Robert Alda ) experiences seductive visions of wicked and alluring witch Bianca Milan ( a deliciously sultry portrayal by breathtaking blonde beauty Linda Christian ) . Frank gets drawn to a toy doll shop run by the suave Francis Lamont ( smoothly played by Neil Hamilton ; Commissioner Gordon on " Batman " ) and becomes involved with a sinister satanic cult that worships the evil devil god Gamba . Meanwhile , Frank's sweet fiancé Donna Trent ( attractive brunette Ariadna Welter , who appeared in such Mexican horror flicks as " The Brainiac " and " 100 Cries of Terror " ) winds up in the hospital suffering from severe paralysis . Director William J . Hole , Jr . keeps the pace clicking along at a reasonably quick tempo and effectively creates a suitably spooky otherworldly atmosphere . Familiar trash picture regular Bruno VeSota has a nice bit as a cult member . Meredith Nicholson's crisp , handsome black and white cinematography , the moody score by Allyn Ferguson and Michael Terr ( the groovy swinging reverb guitar instrumental theme is fantastic ) , the tight 71 minute running time , the rousing fiery conclusion and the ambiguously dark ending further enhance the overall sound quality of this nifty little fright feature .
A fun and charming fantasy adventure romp	1898 . Hearty geologist Professor Otto Lindenbrock ( a solid performance by Kenneth More ) , his sweet and gutsy niece Glauben ( lovely Ivonne Sentis ) , her eager , but clumsy soldier fiancé Axel ( affable Pep Munne ) , and rugged shepherd porter Hans ( brawny Frank Brana ) embark on a stirring , but perilous expedition into the center of the earth . They discover a strange and startling subterranean world populated by warring sea beasts , huge poisonous mushrooms , lethal giant tortoises , and a gigantic ape ala King Kong . Our intrepid group also run across mysterious arrogant scientist Olsen ( ubiquitous Spanish horror film mainstay Jack Taylor in peak haughty form ) . Director Juan Piper Simon , who also gave us the splendidly sleazy slasher schlockfest " Pieces " and the deliciously ridiculous killer animal hoot " Slugs , " delivers a pretty lively and entertaining fantasy adventure outing that moves along at a steady clip and offers a reasonable amount of diverting thrills throughout . Andres Berenguar's vibrant cinematography and the lush , robust orchestral score by Juan Carlos Calderon and Juan Jose Garcia Caffi are both up to par . Moreover , the endearingly hokey rubbery monsters , laughably shoddy ( much less than ) special effects , the flavorsome period setting , priceless dopey dialogue ( favorite line : " A prehistoric boneyard is no fit place to bring up babies " ) , the good-natured tone , and an exciting climactic volcanic explosion all further enhance this picture's infectiously goofy charm . A pleasing piece of amiably silly piffle .
A real cracking action thriller winner	Eager beaver Vince ( a fine performance by Bill Paxton ) and his more cynical buddy Don ( the always excellent William Sadler ) are two Arkansas firemen who stumble across a map to a fortune in gold . Vince and Don go to a rundown derelict factory located in a dangerous East St . Louis ghetto neighborhood to retrieve the loot . They find themselves in considerable jeopardy when they run afoul of a lethal gang of drug dealers led by the ruthless King James ( a superbly menacing Ice T ) and his hot-tempered right-hand man Savon ( Ice Cube in peak surly form ) . Don and Vince manage to abduct King James ' crippled junkie brother Lucky ( a nicely twitchy De'voreaux White ) , which leads to a tense cat and mouse stand-off between the two opposing groups . Director Walter Hill relates the narrative hurtling along at a constant breakneck pace , expertly milks a maximum amount of suspense from the absorbing story , and stages the stirring action scenes with his trademark fiery brio and striking style . The tight , edgy script by Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis makes a bleak and potent statement about how greed and power lust bring out the worst in people while making a radical departure from the standard action picture formula : There are no clear-cut distinctions between the good guys and the bad guys in this dark tale of betrayal and disloyalty ; instead we've got a handful of desperate folks who all find themselves neck deep in a whole lot of trouble . The film further benefits from the uniformly sound acting from a tip-top cast : Paxton and Sadler have a sturdy , relaxed rapport , Ice T and Ice Cube spar with each other with rip-snorting gusto , plus there are stand-out turns by Art Evans as bitter , hapless old bum Bradlee , Stoney Jackson as the suave Wickey , Bruce Young as smooth gun dealer Raymond , Tommy " Tiny " Lester as the hulking Cletus , and Gwenn Plummer as itchy trigger man Luther . Lloyd Ahern's slick cinematography and Ry Cooder's rattling , rousing bluesy score are both solid and effective . The last third of the movie is especially gripping and exciting . A bang-up little beaut .
A really fun flick	The time : Sometime in the very distant ( nonexistent ) past . A tribe of evil primitive cave folks sacrifice gorgeous blonde women to the gods in order to be protected from lethal predatory dinosaurs . The lovely and feisty Sanna ( the remarkably shapely and beautiful Victoria Vetri , a delicious " Playboy " Playmate who looks totally smokin ' in her skimpy two piece fur bikini ) manages to escape from the evil tribe and joins a much nicer tribe where she meets and falls in love with the kind , noble Tara ( handsome hunk Robin Hawdon ) . When the moon appears on the horizon for the first time poor Sanna gets blamed for it and is subsequently banished from the tribe . Writer / director Val Guest treats the endearingly silly story with admirable seriousness and elicits sincere performances from the attractive cast . This immensely entertaining film offers a little something for everyone : we've got insanely hot cave babes clad in revealing outfits , cool and convincing stop-motion animation dinosaurs done by Dave Allen and Jim Danforth , muscular young men running about in loincloths , an attack by a carnivorous tree , Vetri playing with a cute baby dinosaur , men with spears fighting giant deadly reptiles , big killer crabs , fierce torrential storms , a wild beachside catfight , and , best of all , Vetri displaying her awesomely ample body in both a cave love scene and skinny-dipping sequence ( make sure to see the 100 minute full uncut version or else you'll miss this tasty latter stuff ) . Dick Bush's crisp cinematography delivers a few striking visuals while Mario Nascimbene's lush orchestral score hits the stirring spot . Patrick Allen glowers effectively as the brutish villain Khaku . The luscious Imogen Hassall also makes a strong impression as jealous brunette spitfire Ayak . A hugely enjoyable , if admittedly preposterous picture .
Ruggero Deodato's enjoyable entry in the popular 80's summercamp slasher genre	Ruggero Deodato's rather belated entry in the then trendy " Friday the 13th " - inspired 80's summercamp slasher horror sub-genre is a much more solid , enjoyable and even fairly scary fright feature than it's usually given credit for being . The dead simple story can be summed up in a single sentence : a hairy , homely , horrible homicidal Indian shaman viciously bumps off an affable bunch of fun-loving teens vacationing in a lovely , remote campsite that's located on a cursed area of land that was once owned by Native Americans . Yep , that's about it as far as a complex narrative is concerned . And that's about all you need , if you ask me . I mean , in a body count pic like this the plot really doesn't matter , now does it ? The toothpick-lean plot aside , the film delivers the goods overall : spaghetti splatter specialist Deodato ( the sweet , subtle , sophisticated gent who blessed us with the infamous " Cannibal Holocaust " ) provides adroit direction , the slick , sinuous , expansive cinematography is real easy on the eyes ( the shots where a fluid Steadicam goes snaking hither and tither amongst the trees are real nice ) , Goblin's Claudio Simonetti hits a righteously spooky , shimmering groove with his throbbing rock score , the kill scenes pack a gruesome , lingering wallop ( throat gashings , a girl gets dragged through broken glass , the ol ' axe in the noggin bit , that sort of grisly stuff ) , the characters are appealing , well-developed and attractive , there's a hefty amount of gratuitous nudity ( mostly female , but there's a naked fat guy , too ) , the rapid pace never falters , and the picturesque forest locations evoke a harrowingly palpable sense of ambient menace . The choice trash movie supporting cast qualifies as another significant asset : the ever-intense David ( " The Last House on the Left " ) Hess as the grouchy , unfriendly camp caretaker , the always winsome Mimsy ( " Riot on Sunset Strip " ) Farmer as Hess ' sweet , neglected , unfaithful wife and the great Charles ( " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " ) Napier as the bluff , helpful sheriff Mimsy's having an adulterous fling with , plus brief appearances by John ( " Deported Women of the SS Special Section " ) Steiner and Ivan ( " Jungle Holocaust " ) Rassimov . Sure , this movie sure ain't no classic , but it's still a superior sylvan slaughterfest just the same .
An offbeat and interesting early 60's post-nuke sci-fi oddity	Following a devastating nuclear holocaust mankind is forced to create a race of highly intelligent and adoptable humanoid robots ( derisively referred to as " clickers " ) in order to rebuild civilization . Problems arise when the robots ' remarkable evolution threatens mankind's status as the master race . A fanatical organization called the Order of Flesh and Blood led by the volatile Craigus ( a solid performance by Don Megowan ) are determined to stop the robots before it's too late . But are the robots a true threat to man's future existence ? Or could the robots be mankind's possible salvation instead ? Jay ( " The Killer Shrews , " " The Giant Gila Monster " ) Simms ' bright , witty , if overly talky script provides a wealth of tasty food for thought for the viewer to chew on , smartly addressing such heady provocative themes as faith , bigotry , identity , mortality and what it means to be human . Wesley E . Barry's effectively no-frills direction , Hal Mohr's splashy , colorful cinematography , the amusingly quirky dialogue ( " Why don't you beat it while you still have a beat to beat ? " ) , and the legendary Jack ( " Frankenstein , " " The Wolf Man " ) Pierce's nifty robot make-up ( the robots are hairless beings with blue skin and uncanny shiny silver eyes ) are all likewise up to par . Moreover , the movie's conspicuously ragged production values - - variable acting from an uneven cast , cardboard sets , a droning " spacey " score , stock library footage of an A-bomb blast which plays over the opening credits - - add to rather than detract from the film's oddly alluring singularity , giving this picture a peculiar charm that's impossible to dislike . Although a bit dull and static , " The Creation of the Humanoids " overall still qualifies as an enjoyable and intriguing low-budget post-nuke sci-fi oddity .
Harvey Keitel is the scariest villain ever in a 90's kiddie flick !	The plot for this family feature is pretty negligible ( an eminently insufferable should-be lovable'n'huggable little girl adopts a cuddly capuchin who's been trained to steal things as a pet and hides the little bugger from her disapproving parents ) , but fortunately this film does have one tremendous ace up its otherwise empty sleeve : the chimp's evil , sinister , glowering gypsy organ-grinder owner is played by none other than a hilariously miscast Harvey Keitel ! Sporting a mouth full of gleaming gold teeth , long , greasy , unwashed hair , an awful wardrobe of blindingly gaudy gypsy rags , gold chains hanging around his chest , a feeble attempt at a dense European accent that's betrayed by Harve's unmistakable Brooklyn rumble , and the same crazed'n'creepy aura that he brought to his sleazy street corner pimp role in " Taxi Driver , " the ever-manic Keitel acts with a savage intensity and gritty authenticity which seems alarmingly out of place in an alleged kiddie pic . One simply hasn't lived until witnessing the hair-raising moment in which Harvey blames the monkey for the recent loss of his latest girlfriend : " She even took my freakin ' food ! , " Keitel roars at the poor , cowering creature . " She hated you and your stinkin ' mess ! " Alas , at no point in the film does Harvey curse out the monkey at the top of his lungs while furiously masturbating . Moreover , this flick's cast and crew should send the mind of any devout trash cinema aficionado reeling : Ridley Scott ( ! ) was the executive producer , cinematographer Luciano Tovoli also shot Dario Argento's landmark giallo " Tenebre , " " Bad Georgia Road " director John Broderick co-produced , and the cast includes such " what the hell are they doing here ? " notables as Mimi Rogers , Christopher McDonald , and dependably gruff Abel Ferrara movie mainstay Victor Argo in one of his customary mob capo parts . And one last remark before I conclude this particular comment : I bet dollars-to-donuts that there's a whole generation of hopelessly messed-up six year old tykes who are currently experiencing marrow-freezing nightmares because of Harvey Keitel's frightening , fire-breathing , full-throttle histrionics in this film .
A bleak and cynical , yet still gripping thriller	A very bleak and cynical 70's all-star cast suspense thriller about a crazed motiveless sniper who for no rationale reason decides to blow away a bunch of spectators in a crowded stadium during a football game . It's up to ramrod police chief Charlton Heston , assisted by coldly efficient SWAT team commander John Cassavetes and antsy stadium manager Martin Balsam , to stop the mysterious lunatic before it's too late . Among the many folks in jeopardy are Beau Bridges as an unemployed dad who's trying to show his wife Pamela Bellwood and kids a good time , David Janssen and Gena Rowlands as a pair of middle-aged lovers , Jon Korkes as a pathetic jerk whose date with the lovely Marilyn Hassett goes disastrously awry , Mitchell Ryan as a gentle priest , Walter Pigeon as an elderly pickpocket , and Jack Klugman as a hapless compulsive gambler who's bet what little money he has left on the big game . Director Larry Peerce relates the tightly streamlined plot in a fiercely stark and unsentimental manner , artfully using subjective camera-work , long lenses , and high angle shots to stoke the gut-wrenching tension to a nerve-jangling fever pitch . The set-up of said suspense tends to be a bit laborious at times and the background exposition on the many secondary characters is likewise a tad extraneous ( and even a bit tedious , too ) , but the final climactic eruption of raw violence and sheer pandemonium ( the crowd explodes in a frenzied blind panic when the sniper starts shooting them ) is both gripping and disturbing in comparable measure . But what really gives this film an extra unnerving edge is its bitter cynicism and surprisingly upfront amorality , especially when it comes to the frequently brutish tactics used by Cassavetes to nail the sniper . The scene where Cassavetes gives an innocent spectator a severe beat-down and doesn't even apologize to the poor guy after-wards is particularly unpleasant and upsetting . This guy is the iron lung of law enforcement who's portrayed with a wired intensity and seething psychosis by Cassevetes that's genuinely frightening to behold . Whether intended or not , it's this nice nihilistic blurring the line between the cops and the sniper which in turn makes " Two-Minute Warning " a distinctly 70's kind of gritty and absorbing dead serious thriller .
A very enjoyable Disney adventure romp	The south just after the Civil War . Brave young David Burnie ( likable Johnny Doran ) and his equally gutsy best buddy Thad ( an appealing performance by Billy Attmore ) gain possession of a map for a treasure located somewhere in the Florida Keys . The lads are assisted by charming rascal Jim Burnie ( a fine Robert Foxworth ) , spunky Southern belle Lauriette Paxton ( delightfully played with radiant aplomb by Joan Hackett ) , and flamboyant charlatan physician Dr . Ewing T . Snodgrass ( a marvelously robust portrayal by Peter Ustinov ) . Moreover , a rival group of scurvy pirates led by the ruthless Spangler ( a perfectly nasty Vic Morrow ) are also determined to get their grubby hands on the treasure . Director Vincent McEveety , working from a colorful and eventful script by Don Tait , relates the thrilling story at a constant snappy pace , maintains a lighthearted tone throughout , and offers a rich and flavorsome evocation of the 19th century deep south . Of course , there are plenty of perils faced along the way which include a run-in with the Klu Klux Klan , a lethal horde of deadly mosquitoes , and a fierce hurricane . Popping up in nice supporting parts are Mills Watson as Spangler's mean right-hand man Catrell , Jane Wyatt as the feisty Aunt Effie , Robert DoQui as friendly ex-slave Ben , Dub Taylor as the peppery Sheriff Forbes , Dick Van Patten as a flashy con artist gambler , and Brion James as a mangy thief . Both Buddy Baker's rousing score and Frank V . Phillips ' crisp cinematography are up to snuff . A fun film .
A potently harsh'n'harrowing New Zealand " Deliverance " variant	A coed contingent of five rowdy street-savvy city kids venture into the remote woods for a weekend of fun and excitement ; they get more than they bargained for when they run afoul of a mean , nasty , reclusive , obsessively self-reliant and misanthropic forest-dwelling psycho hermit ( a first-rate rip-snorting villainous turn by the always excellent Bruno Lawrence , who confirms his scruffy status as the Down Under equivalent to Warren Oates ) who most emphatically doesn't cotton to any meddlesome outsiders trespassing on his fiercely guarded cut off from the rest of civilization secluded sylvan terrain . Naturally , the hapless group must resort to ferocious animalistic tactics to fend off this dangerously antisocial " leave me the hell alone " loony . Tautly directed with considerable muscular élan by Ian Mune ( who also co-wrote the lean , tight , compact script with Bill Baer ) , with breathtakingly lush and expansive outdoor photography by Kevin Hayward and an effectively spare , shuddery , skin-crawling synthesizer score by Stephen McCurdy , " Bridge to Nowhere " sizes up as a tense , edgy and gripping suspense thriller . Although Lawrence clearly dominates the film with his impressively fearsome portrayal of a cunning maniac who's not to be trifled with , the rest of the cast is equally on the money : gorgeous redhead Allison Routledge gives a warm , engaging performance as Lawrence's loyal , loving wife ( Lawrence and Routledge previously acted together in the terrific science fiction end-of-the-world pip " The Quiet Earth " ) , Phillip Gordon is genuinely frightening as a hot-tempered brute , and Matthew Hunter , Margaret Umbers , Shelly Luxford and Stephen Judd are credible and sympathetic as the other scared , vulnerable , totally out of their depth backpackers . An undeservedly forgotten little sleeper that's eminently worthy of rediscovery .
A very funny and charming comedy	Runtish nice guy caveman Atouk ( a wonderfully engaging performance by Ringo Starr ) has the hots for the gorgeous , but stuck-up and self-absorbed Lana ( luscious Barbara Bach , who looks simply stunning in her skimpy two piece fur bikini outfit ) . Atouk gets banished from his tribe by hulking brute chief Tonda ( fearsome behemoth John Matuszak ) . Atouk becomes leader of his own tribe of misfits . Moreover , the sweet Tala ( Shelley Long at her most cute and appealing ) gets a crush on Atouk . Director Carl Gottlieb , who also co-wrote the blithely inane script with Rudy DeLuca , crafts a good-natured piece of silliness that unfolds at a constant snappy pace and maintains an amiably daffy and pleasant tone throughout . Sidesplitting comic highlights include the discovery of fire , the invention of music , a predatory tyrannosaurus rex getting stoned after eating marijuana , a gut-busting appearance by a shaggy and shambling Abominable Snowman ( towering Richard Moll in gnarly make-up designed by Chris Walas ) , and Lana's ultimate comeuppance . The screwball humor remains endearingly goofy from start to finish ; it never becomes too mean or vulgar . The delightfully ridiculous stop-motion animation dinosaurs by David Allen are especially hilarious . In addition , the enthusiastic cast have a ball with the broad material , with stand-out work by Dennis Quaid as Atouk's loyal friend Lar , Jack Gilford as blind old man Gog , Cork Hubbert as dwarf Ta , and Evan Kim as articulate Asian dude Nook . Alan Hume's slick cinematography makes nifty frequent use of wipes . Lalo Schifrin's robust , bouncy , funky score likewise hits the nutty spot . A cool and amusing romp .
Much better than its poor reputation would suggest	I finally saw this infamous final theatrical fright feature from the legendary Hammer Studios and was pleasantly surprised to find out that it was nowhere near as bad as its many detractors claim . In fact , I thought this movie was quite good . Granted , it's got its flaws ( the much-ridiculed silly monster hand puppet and the weak climax are both below par ) , but overall this picture has a lot of solid stuff in it . For starters , the plot is fresh and compelling : Sinister excommunicated renegade Satanist priest Father Michael Rayner ( a wonderfully wicked Christopher Lee ) plots to impregnate sweet innocent nun Catharine ( a ravishing and beguiling Nastassja Kinski in her first big role ) so she will give birth to the spawn of the Devil . It's up to humble , but shrewd and charming best-selling occult novelist John Verney ( superbly played by Richard Widmark , who makes for an engagingly unlikely Hammer hero ) to stop Father Rayner and his avid followers before it's too late . Moreover , director Peter Sykes maintains a steady pace throughout and effectively creates a chillingly creepy atmosphere . The smart and intricate script by Christopher Wicking and John Peacock offers a gripping story and a strong pair of refreshingly mature adult characters as the two principal adversaries . David Watkin's polished cinematography and Paul Glass ' spare , spooky score are on the money fine . Kinski does well as an extremely fair maiden in distress ( and performs a truly startling full-frontal nude scene at the movie's conclusion ) . The stellar supporting cast qualifies as another substantial plus : Denholm Elliott as a wormy , wayward weakling member of the evil cult , Honor Blackman as Verney's spunky agent Anna Fountain , and Anthony Valentine as Anna's suave boyfriend David . Eerie , intelligent and underrated , this undeservedly maligned movie is well worth checking out by general horror film fans and hardcore Hammer aficionados alike .
By no means a good movie , but a very enjoyable and strangely endearing bad one	I must confess that I've always had a special abiding fondness for this admittedly clunky and all-thumbs big budget major studio fright film failure . Sure , it's pretty goofy and inept , what with John Frankenheimer's jarringly erratic direction , poky pacing , a painfully unsubtle and oversincere pro-ecology / anti-pollution message that's way too blatantly articulated in " The Omen " scribe David Seltzer's heavy-handed script , a ridiculously stuffy , grimly serious and portentous tone , and especially the hopelessly hokey special effects . The infamously laughable giant seven foot grotesquely misshapen killer mutant bear is an absolute riot ; the scenes with the bear on a murderous rampage are unintentionally gut-busting ( definite highlights include the kid in the sleeping bag being slammed against a rock and the truly priceless moment when the bear bites a screaming man's head off ) . Robert Foxworth and Talie Shire make for genuinely engaging leads while some of the secondary characters are unusually complex and well-drawn . Having would-be noble Native American Armand Assante come across like an unlikeable and antagonistic jerk and should-be hateful lumber mill boss Richard Dysart seem like a really pleasant and affable guy is an especially nice touch . Furthermore , the whole cast tackle the silly material with utmost conviction and commitment , thereby giving this otherwise totally absurd feature a much-needed dab of credibility . Both Harry Stradling , Jr . ' s slick photography and Leonard Rosenman's lively , thrilling score are up to par . The fact that the copious violence is quite brutal and graphic for a PG-rated film qualifies as a substantial plus . And that uproarious final shot plays like the perfectly pitiful punchline to a delightfully drawn-out cinematic shaggy dog joke .
The devil made her do it	A bitter and sexually frustrated crippled young woman ( superbly played with absolutely fearless abandon by Carla Gravina ) renounces her faith in God . Since said lovely young lady was in a previous life a witch who got burned at the stake as a heretic 400 years ago , this makes it doubly easy for Satan to take possession of her body . ( The scene where Gravina gives herself to Lucifer is a total doozy : a blue-painted man wearing a ram's head mask forces her to eat a severed toad's head and Gravina gleefully copulates with a goat . ) Pretty soon Gravina is making unseemly incestuous advances on her brother , cruising the streets for young men to seduce , using foul language at the diner table , frothing at the mouth , and levitating around the house . Father Mel ( " Nightmare City " ) Ferror and stepmother Alida ( " Suspiria " ) Valli are understandably perturbed . It's up to bishop Arthur ( " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " ) Kennedy and priest George ( " Tower of Evil " ) Coulouris to save Gravina's soul before it's too late . Capably directed by Alberto De Martino ( who also co-wrote the bold script ) , with sharp photography by notorious celluloid sleazemeister Joe D'Amato , a typically fine , haunting and stirring score by Ennio Morricone and Bruno Nicolai , a creepy , uneasy atmosphere , plenty of hilariously excessive profanity ( " You stinking pots of st ! " ) , some lovably chintzy optical effects , solid acting from a uniformly excellent cast , and a rousing climactic exorcism , this enjoyably trashy Italian exploitation horror outing really delivers the satisfyingly junky demonic possession goods .
A fun 80's action thriller	Master thief Sam Quint ( Tommy Lee Jones in peak rough'n'tumble craggy form ) is hired by the government to steal data from a shady organization . Quint hides the data in an experimental supercar called the Black Moon . The Black Moon gets ripped off by sassy ace automobile booster Nina ( a winning performance by the insanely foxy Linda Hamilton ) , who works for a stolen car ring run by the ruthless Ed Ryland ( a nicely slimy Robert Vaughn ) . Quint has to break into Ryland's impregnable office building so he can steal back the Black Moon . Director Harvey Cokeless maintains a constant brisk pace and stages the action scenes with real rip-snorting brio . Lalo Schifrin's robust , rousing , jazzy score pumps up the tension . Misha Suslov's slick cinematography gives the film an attractive polished look . The bang-up supporting cast rates as another major plus : Richard Jaeckel as nerdy scientist Earl Windom , Bubba Smith as intimidating government agent Johnson , Lee Ving as vicious thug Marvin Ringer , Dan Shor as Windom's amiable assistant Billy Lyons , William Sanderson as sweet deaf guy Tyke Thayden , and Keenan Wynn as the ailing Iron John . Jones makes for a refreshingly human and vulnerable protagonist . The climactic break-in sequence is especially tense and gripping . Moreover , there's an amusingly sly sense of humor evident throughout . This tight , trim and witty B action thriller gets right down to brass tacks and hits the stirring spot in a satisfying straightforward and unpretentious manner .
A fun 70's crime caper outing	Wily thief Duke Anderson ( the always fine Sean Connery in wonderfully charming form ) gets out of prison after serving ten years and immediately devises a plan to steal a bundle from the fancy Upper East Side New York City apartment complex his classy call girl mistress Ingrid ( winningly played with sexy and spunky aplomb by Dyan Cannon , who looks absolutely gorgeous ) lives in . Given financial backing by cagey , but reluctant mobster Angelo ( a terrific Alan King ) , Anderson rounds up a motley crew for the daring heist which includes merry gay antique dealer Haskins ( Martin Balsam camping it up with tremendous glee ) , brash safecracker the Kid ( a marvelously dynamic Christopher Walken ) , mellow wheelman Spencer ( likable Dick Williams ) , sour sadsack old-timer Pop ( solid Stan Gottlieb ) , and vicious brute Mafia hit-man Parelli ( a genuinely scary turn by Val Avery ) . Unbeknownst to Anderson , his every move is being watched and recorded by the authorities . Ably directed with smooth assurance by Sidney Lumet , with a constant snappy pace , a funky , jazzy , syncopated score by Quincy Jones , zesty acting from a first-rate cast , slick cinematography by Arthur J . Ornitz , colorful characters , an engaging sense of breezy humor , a neat underlying theme on how advanced technology is intruding on everyday life in both positive and negative ways , an infectiously groovy 70's vibe , and a tense , gripping and exciting last third depicting the big gig , this snazzy affair makes for a perfectly engrossing and entertaining crime thriller . Popping up in nifty bits are Ralph Meeker as hard-nosed police sergeant Delaney , Margaret Hamilton as feisty old battleaxe Miss Kaler , and Garrett Morris as brave patrolman Everson . A hugely enjoyable romp .
A really nice and charming comedy	Ambitious yuppie doctor Ben Stone ( a supremely assured and affable performance by Michael J . Fox ) completes his internship at a Washington hospital and rushes off to Los Angeles for a cushy high-paying job as a plastic surgeon . En route to California Ben finds himself stranded in the quaint small South Carolina hamlet of Grady , where he's forced to do 32 hours worth of community service . Ben plans on leaving town as soon as possible , but has second thoughts after meeting feisty and fetching ambulance driver Lou ( a delightfully spunky portrayal by the deliciously lissome Julie Warner ) . Director Michael Caton-Jones , working from an amiable script by Jeffrey Price , Peter S . Seamon and Daniel Pyne , keeps the pace bubbling along at a steady clip , gives the picture a gentle , folksy charm that never becomes too corny or sappy , maintains a pleasant , good-natured tone throughout , and displays a sincere affection for the colorful and likable salt-of-the-earth rural characters . Fox's ingratiating presence keeps the movie humming from start to finish ; he receives fine support from Warner ( her nude skinny-dipping introductory scene is a genuinely sexy corker ) , Woody Harrelson as shrewd , dashing life insurance salesman Hank Gordon , David Ogden Steirs as hearty , jolly Mayor Nick Nicholson , Barnard Hughes as cranky veteran physician Dr . Aurelius Hugue , Bridget Fonda as aggressively flirtatious man-hungry tramp Nancy Lee Nicholson , Frances Sternhagen as sour old maid Lillian , Roberts Blossom as crusty Judge Evans , Mel Winkler as laid-back , gregarious Melvin the Mechanic , and Eyde Byrde as stern , by-the-book Nurse Packer . George Hamilton contributes an amusing cameo as hotshot plastic surgeon Dr . Halberstrom . Michael Chapman's sunny cinematography gives the film an attractive sparkling look . Carter Burwell provides a tuneful , jaunty , countryish score . A sweet little winner .
A good deal of dopey fun	This completely ridiculous tongue-in-cheek adolescent sci-fi comedy romp represents 60's kitsch at its most delightfully dumb and inoffensive . The plot alone is pure silliness : A precocious little squirt scientific genius named - - what else ? - - Genius ( none other than future " Happy Days " TV show star and mainstream feature director Ron Howard ! ) creates a special formula called goo that causes both people and animals to growth substantially in size . Of course , a no-count band of rowdy rebellious teenagers led by the suave Fred ( an embarrassingly bad turn by Beau Bridges ) eat the goo and become evil tyrant towering behemoths who take over the town . It's up to nice guy Mike ( former Disney movie star Tommy Kirk ) to stop them . Boy , does this hilariously ludicrous honey deliver the campy goods with a gut-busting vengeance : we've got fumbling ( mis ) direction by the ever-inept Bert I . Gordon , uproariously poor and unconvincing ( not so ) special effects ( the huge wooden legs are especially laughable ) , extremely variable acting , a pair of giant dancing ducks , hopelessly dated " hip " slang ( favorite line : " Dig that nitty gritty " ) , a cheerfully silly tone , blithely lewd and idiotic humor ( one dude hangs off the breasts of a busty lady giant ! ) , an excellent rock soundtrack , and more insanely groovy dancing than you can shake a tail feather at ( the lengthy sequence with the over-sized teens dancing up a storm is positively sidesplitting ! ) . Better still , Jack Nizsche supplies a terrific catchy score ( the rumbling instrumental tune " The Last Race " is simply fantastic ) , both Freddy Cannon and the Beau Brummels make special guest musical appearances , and such hot babes as Joy Harmon ( the buxom blonde car wash girl in " Cool Hand Luke " ) , Tisha Sterling , and Toni Basil provide a plethora of delicious distaff eye candy . Stanley Kubrick film regular Joe Turkel plays the no-nonsense sheriff and Rance Howard even briefly pops up as a deputy . All in all , this infectiously inane stupidity sizes up as a total goofy hoot .
A delectably tacky 50's sci-fi kitsch hoot	Four men on a space ship - - ramrod Captain Neal Paterson ( stolid Eric Fleming ) , smooth ladies man Lt . Larry Turner ( smarmy Patrick Waltz ) , jolly Professor Konrad ( a delightfully lively Paul Birch ) and antsy comic relief Lt . Mike Cruze ( annoying Dave Willock ) - - land on the planet Venus and discover that men have been outlawed and women reign supreme . The wicked and hideously disfigured Queen Yllana ( juicily played to the hissable hilt by Laurie Mitchell ) plans on blowing up the Earth with her Beta Disintegrator . Meanwhile sympathetic scientist Talleah ( a perfectly vampy Zsa Zsa Gabor , whose heavy accent acts as a key source of often sidesplitting unintentional humor ) and her fetching female cohorts want the guys to themselves . Boy , does this legendary lemon possess all the right wrong stuff to qualify as a total sidesplitting camp classic : ham-fisted ( non ) direction by Edward Bernds , a poky pace , a cheerfully dopey , talky script by Charles Beaumont , paltry ( markedly less than ) special effects , a ridiculously serious tone , lush , bright , vibrant widescreen color cinematography by William P . Whitley , hot babes in skimpy outfits , laughably bad dialogue ( " Hey , you kids play rough ! " ) , groan-inducing sexist humor , a generic spooky'n'shivery score by Marlin Skiles , largely lousy acting , a surprise appearance by a hilariously hokey rubbery giant spider , and a rousing fiery conclusion . Better still , there's a clunky sincerity evident throughout that's both amusing and endearing in equal measure . A real gut-busting howler .
A very funny and inspired handy dandy combo parody of both " The Blair Witch Project " and " The Wizard of Oz "	Perky Dorothy Gale ( delightfully played with infectiously spunky aplomb by the adorable Meredith Salenger ) , the abjectly craven Cowardly Lion ( a hilariously whiny Curtis Eames ) , the brave Tin Man ( a fine Guy Stevenson ) , and the witless the Scarecrow ( solid Ron Repple , Jr . ) get hopelessly lost in the woods while filming a documentary on the Yellow Brick Road . Everyone soon succumbs to blind panic and morale rapidly deteriorates when no one can find the Yellow Brick Road . Director / co-writer Michael Rotman offers a wickedly amusing send-up of both " The Blair Witch Project " and " The Wizard of Oz " which perfectly nails the primitive homemade low-budget quality of the former and savagely pokes fun at the sweetly endearing characters in the latter classic family film . The biggest laughs are delivered by seeing these lovable childhood favorites swear , bicker and fight amongst each other in a most base and selfish manner , with Dorothy in particular proving to be a complete foul-mouthed riot ( choice sidesplitting line : " Where the beep is the Yellow Brick Road ? " ) . The ending is likewise positively sidesplitting , with the Scarecrow hanging upside down from the ceiling of a dark basement and Dorothy feebly kicking her ruby slippers together as she dies . Special kudos are in order for David M . Barsky's shaky hand-held cinematography . A total hoot .
An off-beat & intriguing 70's made-for-TV oddity	The always excellent Stacy Keach stars in this compellingly quirky mid 70's TV movie curio as a freelance photographer driving through the deep South who encounters a strange family of hillbilly kids who include John ( " The Deer Hunter " ) Savage , Arlene ( " The French Connection " ) Farber and Robby ( " Ode to Billy Joe " ) Benson ( the latter also heartily belts out the flavorsome folkie theme song ! ) . The peculiar parentless backwoods brood want both Keach and Samantha ( " The Brood " ) Eggar to be their surrogate father and mother , but Keach just ain't too keen on the idea of playing pa to these unruly and squabbling hick hellions . Tightly directed by Burt ( " Support Your Local Sheriff , " " Hannie Caulder " ) Kennedy , with a vivid evocation of the swampy remote marshland setting , polished photography by Gene Polito , a nicely harmonic country music score by Ron Frangipane , an off-beat and absorbing story , and uniformly fine acting from a solid cast ( Savage in particular impresses in an early thespic gig ) , " All the Kind Strangers " is well worth checking out .
A shamefully ignored and underrated 70's redneck action exploitation gem	Anarchy and lawlessness reign supreme in the podunk hick hamlet of Elk Hills . The town elders deputize tough , cagey Vietnam veteran Aaron ( a wonderfully robust and engaging performance by Kris Kristofferson ) and several of his fellow vet buddies to clean up the place . The plan goes sour when Aaron and his cruel cronies decide to take over Elk Hills after they get rid of all the bad elements . It's up to Aaron's decent do-gooder brother Ben ( amiably played by Jan-Michael Vincent ) to put a stop to him before things get too out of hand . Writer / director George ( " Miami Blues , " " Gross Pointe Blank " ) Armitage whips up a delightfully amoral , cynical and wickedly subversive redneck drive-in exploitation contemporary Western winner : he expertly creates a gritty , no-nonsense tone , keeps the pace brisk and unflagging throughout , and stages the plentiful action scenes with considerable muscular aplomb ( the rousing explosive climax is especially strong and stirring ) . The first-rate cast of familiar B-feature faces constitutes as a major asset : Victoria Principal as Ben's sweet hottie girlfriend Linda , the fabulous Bernadette Peters as flaky saloon singer Little Dee , Brad Dexter as the feckless mayor , David Doyle as a slimy bank president , Andrew Stevens as an affable gas station attendant , John Carpenter movie regular Charles Cyphers as one of the ' Nam vets , Anthony Carbone as a smarmy casino manager , John Steadman as a folksy old diner owner , Paul Gleason as a mean strong-arm shakedown bully , and Dick Miller as a talentless piano player . Moral : Don't hire other people to do your dirty work . William Cronjager's slick cinematography , Gerald Fried's lively , harmonic hillbilly bluegrass score , and the abundant raw violence further add to the overall trashy fun of this unjustly neglected little doozy .
An immensely enjoyable piece of chopsocky action junk	Shrewd , suave Chang Wong ( a solid and amiable performance by the handsome and charismatic Bruce Li ) and his redoubtable female partner ( superbly essayed with delicious vigor by the foxy Angela Mao ) devise an elaborate scheme to take out a heroin drug ring led by the nefarious Paul ( nicely played by the enormous Paul Smith of " Popeye " and " Dune " fame ) . Moreover , Chang also works for a rival dope-dealing organization in order to further stir things up . Director Jimmy Shaw crams this baby with a handy helping of hugely entertaining good stuff : wall-to-wall fierce and crazy martial arts fights , several groovy nightclub scenes ( the funky-chillin ' house band is simply amazing ! ) , a couple of brutal garrotings , inspired occasional use of strenuous slow motion , a nonstop speedy pace , a wild free-for-all confrontation between the two criminal factions , and a fantastic rousing climactic showdown between Li and Smith in which Li's graceful physical agility is pitted against Smith's fearsome brute strength . Chou Fu Liang's awesomely gnarly throbbing disco score hits the soulful spot . Chiou Yao-Hwu's reasonably polished cinematography likewise makes the grade . Best of all , the lovely Ms . Mao looks smoking hot in a sparkling silver jumpsuit and beats the living tar out of a teeming volume of guys . What's not to like about this totally fun vintage 70's grindhouse flick ?
The amazing exploding torso movie !	From Luigi Cozzi , the same dependably derivative dimestore cinema ace who blessed us with the marvelously mindless " Star Wars " copy " Starcrash , " comes this equally unoriginal , but still immensely enjoyable , often funny and excessively tacky Italian " ALIEN " cash-in . Severely demented'n'tormented German astronaut Siegfried Rauch brings back from Mars a gaggle of noisy , sticky , glowing bright green watermelon-sized eggs which are stored in a Columbian warehouse and smuggled into America ( they're disguised as prime coffee beans ! ) on a rusty freighter . Said evil eggs spew forth a foul , viscous , deadly liquid that makes folks explode something disgusting ; their torsos blow out and their guts erupt all over the place in a most wonderfully repulsive way . Naturally , the whole thing's a pernicious plot to wipe out the human race and make our planet more open to being colonized by your typically malevolent invading horde of conquer-happy extraterrestrials . The telepathic , slime-covered , preposterously hokey-looking wicked ET cyclops leader will make you laugh so hard that you might very well dry out your tear ducts . Ian McCulloch , that singularly charmless and nondescript British bore who saved the day in both Lucio Fulci's potently visceral spaghetti splatter milestone " Zombie " and the splendidly sordid'n'slipshod grindhouse nugget " Dr . Butcher , M . D . , " plays yet another insipid hero with his trademark bland , humorless , stiff-upper-lip solemnity , therefor making it easier for the more sociopathic viewers out there to cheer for the aliens with a clear conscience . Perfectly topped off by priceless dippy dialogue , dreadful acting , even worse dubbing , plentiful juicy gore , and a first-rate raw , throbbing , rough-grooving score by Goblin , this tasty piece of sci-fi / horror trash provides a great deal of infectiously schlocky fun .
A pretty goofy 70's porn flick riot	Legendary 70's porn stud Harry Reems of " Deep Throat " and " The Devil In Miss Jones " fame portrays Roger , a meek , lonely , dorky guy who works as a dog walker for rich , horny Ms . Mammal ( hysterically overplayed by 70's hardcore character actress Mary Stuart ) . While gawking and making faces at the gorilla cage in a nearby zoo , Roger fantasizes about having sex with Ms . Mammal while wearing a shoddy ape costume ( said suit is pretty tacky , with rubber gloves for hands and Harry's naked feet completely uncovered ) . You see , Roger secretly wants " to be a gorilla " ! Roger's sexually sicko dreams come true when he befriends the adorable Ellen ( the luscious Bree Anthony ) , a lovely lass who's also turned on by gorillas . If the story fails to make you burst out laughing , then several of this film's gloriously ludicrous production touches might very well cause you to crack up instead . For starters , there's the neatly varied array of carnal activity which includes fellatio , lesbianism , cunnilingus , and an especially lively partner swapping climactic foursome . Moreover , the gals holler such inane exclamations as " Oh , you big gorilla ! " and " You're such an animal " while doing just what you think with Roger . Plus Roger makes these funny " ooh , ooh , ooh ! " monkey noises as he gets it on with the ladies . Best of all , the movie makes splendidly schlocky use of fuzztone guitar-burning rock music : Besides the insanely groovy theme song " Everyone Wants to Be King Kong , " we also got choice crappy covers of " Ape Man " by the Kinks , " Whole Lotta Love " by Led Zeppelin , and a truly wretched instrumental mangling of " Come Together " by the Beatles ( ! ) . Director David Sears depicts all the libidinous goings-on in that highly graphic and clinical intense gynecological style which makes 70's porn so uniquely raw and alluring , thus ensuring that this blithely dippy hardcore romp is a real hoot from start to finish .
A really enjoyable Italian muscleman movie	Noble gladiator Rezio ( a fine and engaging performance by the handsome Richard Harrison ) gets freed by evil emperor Rabirio ( a nicely smug and hateful Leo Anchoriz ) and put in charge of an army . When Rezio learns of Rabirio's cruelty towards slaves , he joins a rebel army to overthrow the wicked tyrant . Directors Alberto Martino and Antonio Mompley , working from a tight and eventful script , relate the compelling story at a snappy pace , keep the lulls to an admirable minimum , and stage the plentiful action scenes with real lively and exciting brio ( for example , the movie opens with some absolutely brutal to-the-death arena combat ) . Both the rough'n'ready swordfights and vigorous battle set pieces deliver the stirring goods , with the rousing last reel revolt rating as an especially tasty highlight . The serious tone , suitably harsh violence , Carlo Franci's robust , roaring score , and welcome dearth of any distracting campy humor are further assets to the picture's overall sound quality . Better still , the acting from a capable cast is uniformly solid : Harrison makes for a strong and impressive hero , Anchoriz likewise does well as a wholly detestable villain , plus there are sturdy supporting turns by Isabelle Corey as the fiery Sira , Livio Lorenzon as honorable gladiator trainer and master Ito , Jose Marco as Rezio's loyal friend Vibio , Antonio Molino Rojo as Rabirio's wicked partner Euclante , and Edoardo Nevola as sweet , impressionable little boy prince Dario . A fun and entertaining picture .
A hugely enjoyable Grade B action film	Rugged ex-cop World War II veteran Burt Roth ( a marvelously crusty Lee Van Cleef ) and his equally tough Vietnam veteran bartender son Jim ( a typically fine David Carradine ) lock horns with ruthless Yakuza mobster Akira Tanaka ( a deliciously wicked Mako ) over who's got dibs on a priceless jade statue . Capably directed with real style and flair by the insanely prolific exploitation veteran Fred Olen Ray , with a brash , witty script by T . L . Lankford , a snappy pace , glossy cinematography by Paul Elliott , a gnarly rock soundtrack , an amusingly sarcastic sense of humor , a funky , syncopated score by Thomas Chase and Steve Rucker , a smidgen of gratuitous female nudity , a tight 86 minute running time , and several thrilling well-staged action scenes ( a wild and destructive protracted car chase rates as the definite exciting highlight ) , this slick , lively and entertaining low-budget romp makes for very rewarding viewing . The first-rate cast of familiar trash flick faces helps matters a whole lot : Ross Hagen as shifty , double-crossing hoodlum Cory Thorton , Brent Huff as the likable , laid-back Tommy Roth , Lois Hamilton as Jim's sweet , concerned wife Sara , Michael Berryman as vicious assassin F . C . , Dick Miller as sleazy small-time thief Steve , Laurene Landon as Steve's feisty partner Deborah Silverstein , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa as cruel torturer Toshi , Bobbie Bresee as helpful informant Anna , Dawn Wildsmith as a scrappy thug , and Michelle Bauer as a stripper . A neat little flick .
A superior sci-fi / horror hybrid from the masterful Mario Bava	A spaceship crew goes to a remote distant world to investigate a distress call . They run afoul of a race of malevolent disembodied aliens who wish to possess their minds and take over their bodies . Acclaimed Italian fright film director Mario Bava , working from an inspired and intriguing script by Ib Melchior and Louis M . Heyward , does his customary sterling job of creating and sustaining a supremely spooky , misty and brooding midnight-in-the-graveyard gloom-doom atmosphere which becomes more increasingly eerie , unsettling and nightmarish as the narrative progresses towards its perfectly bleak and nihilistic bummer ending . While the basic premise is pure science fiction , Bava treats said story as if it was a piece of sheer Gothic horror : the fog-shrouded landscape of the planet seems like a desolate cemetery , mangled corpses litter the floors of empty spaceships , and several dead astronauts wrapped in plastic rise out of the ground in strikingly stylized slow motion in the movie's single most scary set piece . Gino Marinuzzi , Jr . ' s shivery score further enhances the uncanny mood while the gorgeously vibrant color cinematography by Antonio Rinaldi , Antonio Perezolea and an uncredited Bava boasts plenty of prowling tracking shots . Barry Sullivan gives an excellent performance as the stalwart Captain Mark Markary . Both the luscious Norma Bengell and the ravishing Evi Marandi look positively smashing in their shiny black leather outfits . The special effects are pretty solid and convincing ; the miniatures in particular are really nifty . An obvious influence on both " Alien " and Carpenter's " The Thing " remake , this fine and satisfying winner is well worth checking out .
Another enjoyable yuletide TV special winner from Rankin / Bass	The evil wizard Winterbolt ( deliciously voiced with plummy aplomb by the great Paul Frees ) gets reawakened from his centuries of slumber and decides to take over Christmas from Santa Claus . He gives Frosty the Snowman and his family magic amulets so they can go see a circus in July without melting . Moreover , Winterbolt tries to get Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer to do something bad so his nose will go out . This typically pleasant and good-natured feature length holiday television program from the always reliable Jules Bass and Arthur Rankin , Jr . benefits greatly from a steady pace , nifty stop-motion animation , cool characters ( Winterbolt's fearsome snow dragons are genuinely gnarly ) , a simple and engaging story , an amusingly easy'n'breezy sense of gentle humor , and plenty of catchy'n'merry songs . Moreover , the cast all voice their roles with tremendous flair and affection : Jackie Vernon as Frosty the Snowman , Shelley Winters as Frosty's sweet wife Crystal , Red Buttons as affable lovestruck ice cream salesman Milton , Ethal Merman as feisty cowgirl circus owner Lily Lorraine , Billie Mae Richards as the endearingly nasal Rudolph , Mickey Rooney as the warm and lovable Santa Claus , Shelby Flint as fetching high wire artist Laine Lorraine , and Alan Sues as nasty , jealous , spiteful outcast reindeer Scratcher . A really fun and entertaining show .
An enjoyably lowbrow piece of early 70's Southern-fried soft-core smut	Bethal Buckalew , who churned out such choice , often innocuous and brashly facetious country-themed 70's soft-core sizzlers as " The Dirty Mind of Young Sally , " " Tobacco Roody , " " Sassy Sue , " and the uncharacteristically sadistic roughie " Below the Belt " for Harry Novak's unceasingly cut-rate schlock feature outfit Box Office International Pictures , rates as the poor man's Russ Meyer . Although Buckalew shares Meyer's penchant for broadly caricatured rustic settings and overdrawn hayseed stereotypes , as well as a similarly ribald'n'rowdy sense of rollicking redneck humor , Buckalew's invariably slapdash movies sorely lack the dazzling technical prowess and hopped-up vitality which makes Meyer's films such awe-inspiring treats . Still , it's the very crudeness and flagrant ineptitude of Buckalew's singularly stinky cinematic unskillfulness which gives his admittedly ham-fisted flicks a certain oddly endearing cruddy appeal . Think " Hee Haw " on Quaaludes with the asinine non sequitors intact , but the added attraction of comely naked down-home gals doing just what you think on a regular basis with hunky pea-brain yokel dudes and you'll have a good idea of what your average Buckalew romp is like . This typically shoddy and witless comedic corn-pone soft-core item is an excellent example of what I'm talking about . All the essential Buckalew ingredients are present and accounted for : static cinematography , a boozy'n'woozy country swing score that sounds like it was done by a severely inebriated third-rate bar band , lethargic pacing , flat acting , dreadful dialogue , dumbbell comic relief Buckalew regular John Tull reprising his unforgettably fatuous part from " Sassy Sue " as Junior , a stuttering , muscular , lobotomized lunk with a deviant sexual appetite for farm animals ( yuck ! ) ; corny good ol ' boy humor , nice-looking women frequently doffing their duds ( the gratuitous skinny-dipping scene qualifies as a definite steamy highlight ) , extremely crass jokes about marijuana , bestiality and interracial coitus , and , of coarse , a jaw-dropping plenitude of assorted sleazy soft-core sex scenes . Oh yeah - - and there's the faintest wisp of a so-called story : A shifty con man and his three tantalizing hot tramp lady friend accomplices put on a beauty contest at a cranky old crackpot geezer's seedy rundown abode . The only thing missing is George " Buck " Flower , but the terrifically trashy trio of luscious female leads more than carry the day on their own : slinky'n'saucy flaxen-tressed sexploitation veteran Monica Gayle ( the traitorous Patch in Jack Hill's fantastic " Switchblade Sisters " ) , petite'n'perky brunette cutie pie Wendy Winders , and tall , leggy drink of dirty blonde water Judy Angel all strut their scorching sexy stuff with marvelously gleeful and uninhibited abandon . As with any given Bethal Buckalew opus , viewers are best advised to put their brains on hold prior to watching this flick in all its delightfully dopey'n'draggy dunced-out glory .
The Cinefear DVD is very good	It always ticks me off when the drooling fanboy geeks on various internet web sites specializing in rare , obscure and offbeat cult cinema savagely ridicule particular DVDs because the transfers aren't polished and spit-shined to crystalline sparkling perfection or the discs don't have enough fancy-schmancy extras to appease their picky snotnose expectations . The unjustly vilified Cinefear DVD for William Girdler's enjoyably trashy 70's blaxploitation demonic possession hoot " Abby " is an excellent example of what I'm talking about . 70's drive-in flick aficionados the world over should be rejoicing that this heretofore hard-to-find and never officially available on video feature has been rescued from oblivion and put out on DVD so the option to see it is a valid and easily pursuable one . The fact of the matter is that whenever a movie comes out on DVD it gets a second lease on life and another chance to be discovered by a new audience that might have missed it when it first came out . Cinefear should be applauded for putting " Abby " out on DVD instead of being fiercely ridiculed for same . Contrary to what the hateful naysayers have articulated on numerous DVD review web sites the DVD itself is actually quite good . Besides a perfectly acceptable quality transfer , the extras alone make it a solid and praiseworthy release : Said tasty extras include the theatrical trailer , a radio spot , a still and poster gallery , and , best of all , an intelligent , informative and well-written essay on the troubled history of this gnarly little nugget . So ignore all the undeserved negative criticism and give the DVD a chance . It's well worth checking out and makes for a sound addition to your horror exploitation library .
A delightfully schlocky sci-fi / horror trash hoot	Sasquatch splatter schlock reaches its seriously stupid jaw-dropping zenith with this incredibly idiotic low-budget direct-to-video sci-fi / horror atrocity . A gaggle of bonehead kids venture into a spooky forest called Demon Woods looking for Bigfoot . Well , these immature collegiate dolts find Bigfoot all right : He's one mean bloodthirsty bastard with a nasty propensity for tearing off heads and spearing folks in the stomach with a tree branch . WARNING : Possible SPOILERS ahead . In a stupendously ridiculous surprise twist ending ( that's directly swiped from the 70's " Six Million Dollar Man " TV series ) , Sasquatch ultimately gets exposed as a front for a nefarious extraterrestrial who's worshiped by a crazed priest as a god ( ! ) , has a fondness for eating human hearts ( ! ! ) , and possesses the magical ability to reanimate the freshly dead so it can use the zombies as slave labor ( ! ! ! ) . As one character brilliantly deduces early in the supremely inane action , " Hey man , there's weird st in these woods ! Do you know what I mean ? " No kiddin ' , dude . But that's not all this silly dilly has to offer . We also get clumsy ( mis ) direction by Emmett Alston , who previously gave us the equally awful ( and uproarious ) " Nine Deaths of the Ninja . " Then there's the sorry sight of a rotund , trapped - in - a - dismal - career - slump George Kennedy grumbling his way through the demeaning part of a crusty old father who's determined to bag Bigfoot because it murdered his daughter . Better still , three luscious ladies dutifully doff their duds in the name of sleazy low-grade exploitation : Pamela Gilbert does just what you think with her boyfriend , Colleen McDermott takes a gratuitous shower , and the always desirable Michelle Bauer shucks her bikini top in order to avoid tan lines . The rusty tin-eared dialogue includes such priceless gems as " Come on you six foot fleabag ! " A real gut-buster .
A cool made-for-TV sci-fi / action flick	Rugged former secret government agent Henry Stanton ( a fine performance by Robert Conrad ) gets called out of retirement by the agency he used to work for to stop crafty , lethal and resourceful renegade cyborg assassin Robert Golem ( nicely essayed with smooth intensity by Richard Young ) . Shrewd'n'sassy scientist Mary Casallas ( winningly played by the fetching Karen Austin ) helps Stanton out . Writer / director Sandor Stern relates the involving plot at a snappy pace , develops a good deal of tension , stages the action scenes with considerable aplomb , and further spices things up with a slyly amusing sense of deadpan humor . Conrad and Austin display a pleasingly casual and engaging rapport as the likable lead characters ; they receive excellent support from Robert Webber as Stanton's huffy , slippery superior Calvin Lantz , Jonathan Banks as Lantz's steely partner Earl Dickman , Jessica Nelson as alluring , unsuspecting barroom pick-up Ann Walsh , and Nancy Lenehan as Mary's steady gal pal Grace Decker . Moreover , the violence is surprisingly rough and brutal stuff for a made-for-TV feature . Chuck Arnold's polished cinematography does the trick while Anthony Guefen supplies an effectively groovy'n'moody score and the special effects are pretty nifty and convincing . A neat little item .
Marvelously messed-up monkey movie madness	Representing good'n'gross nickel'n'dime exploitation horror sludge at its most feverishly enthusiastic and righteously offensive , Keith Crocker's deliciously scurrilous indie effort " The Bloody Ape " stands out as a terrifically trashy serving of top-rate tacky fun that's loosely based on Edgar Allen Poe's seminal short story " Murders in the Rue Morgue . " Eccentric vengeful carnival barker Lampini ( a delightfully hammy performance by Paul Richichi ) trains his 7-foot , 300 lb sideshow gorilla Gorto to kill all his enemies . Gorto gets loose and proceeds to wreak some major league mondo disgusto blood-spilling , gut-slinging , head-crushing , limb-rending , heavy on the puke-inducing splatter havoc : a hippie hitchhiker gets brutally castrated in a simply smashing scene that pays lovely homage to the infamous Bigfoot gore gem " Night of the Demon , " a naked chick taking a shower gets mangled , the ape rapes two nude women , a jerky cop has his head torn off , the savage simian beats a lady up and steals her car ( you'll hit the floor with hysterics when you see the ape recklessly driving the freshly stolen automobile down the street ) , and generally behaves in a highly vicious , psychotic and anti-social manner that's more befitting of your average garden variety sociopathic serial killer . And , just to spice things up a wee bit more , despicable racist slime homicide detective Lieutenant LoBianco ( robustly played to the hateful hilt by George Reis , who also portrays Gorto ) blames the killings on a luckless innocent black man ( the affable Chris Hoskins ) . Although a bit slow and talky during its first 10-odd minutes and further marred by one of those annoyingly inconclusive " it ain't over yet ! " - style sequel set-up endings , " The Bloody Ape " overall still does a splendidly scuzzy job of paying tribute to all those gleefully obnoxious fright flick gruefests of yore by delivering a tasty truckload of all the right seedy schlock movie stuff : we've got gratuitous female nudity galore , plenty of witty , knowing 70's movie and TV show references sprinkled in the often furiously raw and profane dialogue , a rich rogues ' gallery of superbly scummy supporting characters , a very agreeable no-nonsense , let's get right down to business attitude that's thankfully bereft of the smugly ironic , " I know more than you know " arrogant sensibility which undermines most fanboy affairs , grainy , rough-around-the-edges , but still quite polished and mobile cinematography ( besides some choice cheesy solarization , we also get some decent tracking shots and a little nifty hand-held camera-work towards the end of the flick ) , a veritable sea of messy , juicy , lowdown repulsive gore , a cockeyed view of the world which depicts humans as largely base , evil , horrible folks who enjoy doing crummy things to each other and subsequently gives the rampaging gorilla the oddly sympathetic aura of a mixed-up anti-hero , and , most importantly , an ever-present sense of very dedicated , eager and aiming to please affection for cheerfully lowbrow grindhouse cinema which proves to be quite engaging and extremely entertaining in equal measure . Directed with infectious gonzo zeal by Keith Crocker , who collaborated with George Reis on the script , photography , producing and editing ( the film took five whole years to complete ) , " The Bloody Ape " rates as a gloriously grody testament to fiercely self-reliant Do-It-Yourself underground cinema at its most beautifully bent , batty and berserk . By the way , I'm featured in the retrospective " making of " documentary that's a nifty extra on the excellent special edition DVD as a " trash film historian " under my real name of Joe Wawrzyniak ; just do your best to ignore my wildly gesticulating hands at the bottom of the frame as I happily discuss both this movie and the other flicks that influenced it .
An enjoyably lightweight action adventure romp	Rough'n'tumble professional burglar and safe cracker Rick Spear ( the late , great David Warbeck in fine rugged form ) is hired by smarmy , crippled British millionaire Lord Dean ( a pleasingly smooth portrayal by John Steiner ) to retrieve a sacred scepter that belonged to the god Gilgamesh from a temple in Istanbul . The nefarious Prince Abdullah ( neatly essayed with sneering aplomb by Aytekin Akkaya ) also wants to get his evil hands on the scepter . Capably directed by Antonio Margheriti , with slick cinematography by Sandro Mancori , a steady pace , a lively , rousing score by Aldo Tamborelli , a loose and engaging chemistry between Warbeck and Steiner , a groovy rocking theme song , a likable breezy tone , and several stirring well-staged action sequences ( I especially dug the nice use of funky miniatures for the car chase scenes ) , this film overall delivers the goods in a commendably straightforward and unpretentious manner . Warbeck and Steiner both excel in their roles ; they receive solid support from Susie Sudlow as Rick's sweet , fetching girlfriend Carol , Luciano Pigozzi as boozy , amiable old-timer Beetle , Ricardo Palacios as sly criminal Mohammed , and Achille Brugnini as Lord Dean's loyal servant Rupert . A perfectly entertaining little diversion .
A charming and touching fantasy sleeper	Troubled Lori Anderson ( superbly played by Sarah Jessica Parker ) is trying to recover from the untimely death of her father in a plane crash . Nice young Terry Stockton ( a solid and likable performance by Tom Shea ) also dies in a plane crash , but his spirit lives on and forms a special bond with Lori . Lori and Terry have to figure out together why he's still here . Writer / director Robert Wiemer delivers a thoughtful , moving and funny meditation on appreciating being alive , learning to cope with tragedy , and getting on with your life . The fine acting from a tip-top cast qualifies as a real significant plus . Shea and Parker make for a very engaging , if decidedly offbeat on-screen couple ; the chemistry between them is really sweet and palpable . They receive excellent support from Nancy Addison as Lori's concerned mom Betty , Rick Weber as Betty's decent , amiable cop boyfriend Alec Peiski , and Paul Bates as Terry's jolly best pal Paul Bart . Glenn Kershaw's polished cinematography and Paul Baillargeon's lovely , low-key score are both up to speed . Parker even sings a couple of wonderfully uplifting songs . A warm , gentle and affecting little gem .
An enjoyably inane piece of early 80's sword and sorcery trash	Busty'n'lusty medieval twins Mira ( Leigh Harris ) and Mara ( Lynette Harris ) vow to seek revenge on the evil sorcerer Traigon ( a constantly snarling Roberto Ballestros ) for both murdering their mother and attempting to kill them when they were little girls . Assisting the lovely ladies are horny barbarian Erlick ( hunky Bob Nelson ) and portly warrior Baldar ( chubby wonder Bruno Key ) . Said mission is naturally easier said than done because Traigon has many tricks up his sleeve and is obsessed with sacrificing one of the beautiful'n'bountiful babes so he can become powerful enough to rule the world . Director Jack Hill , working from a blithely dopey script co-written by Jim Wynorski , loads this laughably tacky sword and sorcery fantasy romp with all the necessary ingredients to make it a so-dumb-it's-fun high camp howler : a constant fast pace , gut-bustingly bad dialogue ( favorite line : " Death is only death , swine ! " ) , hokey ( far from ) special effects , terrible acting from a lame no-name cast , an outrageously overwrought conclusion , a few nifty monsters ( I especially dug the satyr which nays like a goat and the winged lion ) , and , of course , a decent smattering of gratuitous distaff nudity courtesy of the absolutely delectable Harris sisters . As an added bonus , we even get a thrilling score from future Oscar-winning A-list composer James ( " Titanic " ) Horner and a last reel appearance by an army of zombie swordsmen . Sure , this flick is goofy junk , but it's still quite entertainingly silly schlock just the same .
An eerie and elegant horror winner from the unbeatable duo of Vincent Price and Roger Corman	This film marked the final feature out of several horror movies the legendary Vincent Price and director Roger Corman did together that were adaptations of short stories by noted master of the macabre Edgar Allan Poe . Price delivers a typically splendid and commanding performance as Verden Fell , a morose and reclusive 19th century nobleman who's haunted by the recent death of his beloved wife Ligeia ( excellently played by the ravishing Elizabeth Shepherd ) . Ligeia returns as a pesky black cat to torment both Verden and his headstrong and vivacious new bride Rowena ( also essayed with winning grace by Shepherd ) . Corman , working from a witty and literate script by Robert Towne ( who later won an Oscar for his screenplay for " Chinatown " ! ) , does his usual expert job of creating a beautifully brooding and pervasive gloom-doom Gothic atmosphere , relates the grim story at a steady pace , and stages the rousing fiery conclusion with considerable rip-roaring brio . Moreover , Corman brings a stately quality to the morbid material . The uniformly top-rate acting from a capable cast qualifies as another substantial asset : Price shows admirable restraint and subtlety as the bedeviled protagonist , Shepherd excels in her juicy dual roles , plus there's fine support from John Westbrook as the dashing Christopher Gough , Oliver Johnston as loyal servant Kenrick , and Derek Francis as the hearty Lord Trevanion . Kenneth V . Jones ' lush , moody , melancholy score , Arthur Grant's sharp , vibrant , prowling color widescreen cinematography , and especially the bleak , grayish English countryside all further enhance the hypnotically creepy tone . A pleasingly spooky little gem .
An enjoyably creaky 50's horror potboiler	Charming widower Eric ( solid John Hudson ) and his sweet , pretty new wife Jenni ( appealingly played by Peggy Webber ) move into the gorgeous palatial mansion of Eric's late wife . Pretty soon Peggy starts to see an unsettling disembodied skull all over the place . Is she going crazy ? Or is the place really haunted ? Director Alex Nicol , working from an endearingly hokey script by John Kneubuhl , keeps the pace stately , but steady throughout , creates a suitably spooky atmosphere , elicits acceptable acting from a game cast , and stages the rousing conclusion with considerable aplomb . Floyd Crosby's moody black and white cinematography makes expert use of crazily tilted Dutch camera angles and gracefully gradual tracking shots . Ernest Gold's effectively eerie score likewise hits the spot . Nice supporting performances by Nicol as weird , slow , scruffy gardener Mickey and Russ Conway as friendly Reverend Edward Snow . Moreover , since the movie is a trim 62 minutes long it's never dull and gets right down to brass tacks with a refreshing dearth of pretense . Good , harmless Grade B fright feature fun .
An enjoyable revenge thriller	1945 , the Philippines . Several members of a platoon of American soldiers not only kill a Japanese general , but also rape and murder the man's wife . His son Kimon witnesses the ghastly event and vows revenge . Thirty-three years later the platoon members get back together in Manila for a reunion . The adult Kimon ( decently played by Leo Fong ) also arrives in Manila to pick off those who are responsible for butchering his parents . Director Jay Wertz relates the absorbing story at a rather slow , yet still steady pace , stages the action scenes with a reasonable amount of flair , delivers a sizable amount of bloody violence , and sprinkles in a dab of tasty female nudity to further spice things up . The sturdy cast of familiar B-movie faces qualifies as a substantial plus : Cameron Mitchell as the tough , no-nonsense , but compassionate Sam Hacker , Vic Silayan as amiable police chief Raoul Amante , Hal Bokar as mean , hateful , trouble-making jerk Tom Steadman , Philip Baker Hall as weak , cowardly alcoholic Mike Sills , Stack Pierce as the easygoing Frank Washington , Charlie Davao as arrogant and obnoxious martial arts film star Dante Salazar , and Chanda Romero as sweet prostitute Rita . Hope Holiday has a funny small part as sassy nightclub singer Sally . Moreover , there's a refreshingly thoughtful and reflective quality to Galen Thompson's script which adds some extra substance to the plot . William Loose's rousing score offers a few nifty variants on a handful of classic musical themes . A neat little flick .
An amateurish , but very enthusiastic and hence hugely enjoyable piece of low budget zombie horror splatter trash	A meltdown at a nuclear power plant causes a majority of people to turn into lethal , rot-faced , shambling zombies who naturally go on a grisly rampage . A ragtag handful of uninfected folks do their best to survive this grueling ordeal . Director / co-writer / producer Todd Sheets displays an appealingly sincere love and passion for go-straight-for-the-throat lively and gruesome horror fare : he maintains an unflagging snappy pace throughout , fills the screen with wall-to-wall crazy action , and thankfully keeps the terrible dialogue to a pleasing minimum . Moreover , Sheets certainly doesn't skimp on the gloriously graphic and excessive over-the-top splatter : this picture delivers a tasty truckload of flesh melting , evisceration , lots of gut munching , one dude has his heart yanked out , and there's even a nice impalement on a tree branch . Sheets earns bonus points for keeping the tone grim and nasty to the literal bitter end ( for example , almost all of the main characters wind up becoming zombie chow ) . Granted , this flick has its fair share of flaws : the ragged editing , several ham-fisted attempts at pathos , and the largely awful acting from a rank no-name cast all leave a good deal to be desired . Top thespic honors go to the pretty and perky Kasey Rausch for her winningly spunky portrayal of the resourceful Daria Trumillio . Frank Dunlay likewise does well as rugged take-charge army veteran Ralph Walsh . Best of all , Sheets ' sure grasp of an infectiously slambang sense of unrelenting headlong momentum and obvious affinity for the horror genre ensure that this remains a total blast to watch from start to finish .
A neat little indie low-budget vampire horror outing	Nice guy Bob Friedman ( a likable turn by Paul Borghese ) meets and falls in love with the sweet and appealing Angela ( a charming portrayal by fetching blonde looker Sarah Watchman ) . Bob and Angela get married . Complications ensue when Bob discovers that Angela is really a vampire who has to occasionally kill folks and drink their blood in order to stay alive . Can Bob and Angela find some way to get out of their dire predicament ? Writer / director Glenn Andreiev offers a fresh and interesting spin on the standard vampire premise while still delivering a generous serving of grisly gore , a handy helping of tasty female nudity , and even a little sizzling soft-core sex . Moreover , Andreiev depicts a genuinely touching romance between the two engaging main characters . The game no-name cast give competent performances : Borghese and Watchman are quite good and sympathetic in the lead roles , with solid support from Edna Boyle as Angela's wicked sister Cassandra , Mimi Stuart as Bob's shameless blackmailing slut ex-girlfriend Roxanne , and Burt Wright as the vampire sisters ' irascible caretaker Mr . Goodlife . Steven McKenzie's rough , grainy , but overall acceptable cinematography and Nicholas D . Kent's moody , shivery score further enhance the luridly creepy atmosphere . An enjoyable fright flick .
A solid and engrossing mystery thriller	Tom Berenger gives a typically excellent and engaging performance as Ernest DeWalt , a retiring , laid-back and amiable former cop turned crime novelist and college professor who's asked by the fiery , enticing Elizabeth Laughton ( well played by the lovely Valeria Golino ) to investigate the murder of her unfaithful husband Alex ( a fine Stephen Lang ) and the disappearance of his sultry tramp mistress Jeri Gillen ( a smoking hot Kari Wuhrer ) . Both DeWalt's attraction to Elizabeth and his precarious health complicate things to a substantial degree . Director Salome Brezinger , working from an absorbing script by Randall Silvis , wrings plenty of tension from the gripping story and adroitly creates a pungent , vivid and sweltering downhome Southern atmosphere . A top-notch supporting cast qualifies as another major asset : Robert Davi as a compassionate detective , Richard Edson as a sleazy whitetrash druggie , Geoffrey Lewis as a bumbling oaf , and Ellen Greene as a sassy diner waitress . As an added bonus , both Wuhrer and Golino take their clothes off . Anton Sanko's flavorsome , harmonic country score and Mauro Fiore's bright , pretty cinematography further enhance the overall sound quality of this nifty little winner .
A quite entertaining , but very loose H . P . Lovecraft adaptation	Ex-convict Blake Bailey goes to the small burg of Laffert's Corner , Massachusetts to unearth a corpse in the local cemetery that's stuffed with several million dollars . A heinous trio of nasty cooks led by smooth British baddie Jon Finch ( Jerry Cornelius in the fabulously flip sci-fi black comedy blast " The Final Programme " ) also materialize at the sleepy armpit podunk , eager to get their greedy , grubby , grasping paws on the hot loot . The only glitch : the hamlet's currently being besieged by a ghoulish gaggle of nocturnal subterranean cannibalistic zombies with wan complexions , egg-white eyes , longish pale hair , long black claws , gaunt skeletal faces , a mouthful of yellow fangs , and a decidedly inhospitable disposition . It's up to the hoodlums and a handful of fear-stricken beleaguered townspeople to make a stand against the lethal creatures or else they will all get devoured by the evil albino undead . Writer / director C . Courtney ( " Trancers III : Death Lives " ) Joyner , loosely adapting an H . P . Lovecraft story , does a real deft , fluent and commendable job with crafting a handy dandy blend of horror and crime thriller elements : the swift pacing , a reasonably enthralling and intricate story , the pretty high suspense factor , and a few punchy and genuinely stirring action sequences all add up to make for one really fun little fright flick . Moreover , the bang-up cast contribute uniformly up-to-snuff performances , with especially stand-out turns by the ever-fine Finch ( who makes for an exquisitely hateful heavy ) , Lovecraft movie perennial Jeffrey ( " From Beyond , " " Necronomicon " ) Combs as a boozy , bearded , chain-smoking physician , lovely , buxom " Hellraiser " series heroine Ashley Laurence as a resourceful , two-fisted take-charge survivalist , Mike Todd as the head fiend , Paul ( " Day of the Animals , " " The Manitou " ) Mantee as a virtuous , selfless priest , and , in a splendidly slimy small role , the always sublimely creepy Vincent Schiavelli as a wormy , untrustworthy mortician . Although by no means a classic , " Lurking Fear " nonetheless rates well as a solid , thrilling and worthwhile horror item .
A cool giallo from Dario Argento	Rock drummer Roberto Tobias ( a solid portrayal by Michael Brandon ) is stalked by a guy ( sinister Calisto Calisti ) who plans on blackmailing him . After accidentally killing the man , Roberto finds himself being tormented and terrorized by a crazed maniac who witnessed the murder . Said maniac begins bumping off folks who are close to Roberto . Writer / director Dario Argento brings his trademark fluid and hypnotic style to this engrossing giallo murder mystery thriller while maintaining a steady pace and tense atmosphere throughout . Of course , Argento stages the murder set pieces with his usual twisted gusto , with a climactic juicy decapitation rating as the definite grisly highlight . Moreover , Argento brings a welcome and amusing sense of offbeat humor to the picture : there's a striking perspective shot from inside a guitar , one person keeps receiving unwanted Swedish pornography in the mail , and Roberto beats up a hapless mailman he mistakes for the maniac . Mimsy Farmer delivers a strong performance as Roberto's frosty wife Nina ; her intense and forceful pull out all the stops acting at the film's conclusion is especially impressive . Brandon as Roberto makes for a decidedly flawed and less than sympathetic protagonist . Popping up in colorful supporting parts are the ever-amusing Bud Spencer as Roberto's grumpy friend Godfrey ( who Roberto refers to as " God " ) , Jean-Pierre Marielle as jolly openly gay private investigator Gianni Arrosio , and Oreste Lionello as flaky oddball the Professor . The killer's true identity is genuinely startling - - and strangely poignant . Franco Di Giacomo's sumptuous widescreen cinematography boasts a lot of wild camera angles while Ennio Morricone supplies a nicely spooky'n'shivery score . Well worth seeing for Argento fans .
A very enjoyable horror monster comedy hoot	A giant carnivorous prehistoric crocodile terrorizes a sleepy lakefront New England community in Maine . It's up to nice guy game warden Jack Wells ( a likable turn by Bill Pullman ) , naive big city paleontologist Kelly Scott ( a fine , feisty performance by Bridget Fonda ) , flaky rich ancient mythology buff Hector Cyr ( delightfully essayed with off-the-wall relish by Oliver Platt ) , and grumpy Sheriff Hank Keough ( the always excellent Brendan Gleeson ) to stop the ferocious reptile before things get too out of hand . Capably directed by Steve Minor , with a cheerfully silly and wickedly witty script by David E . Kelley , a steady pace , a shivery , ominous score by John Ottman , an engaging assortment of colorfully neurotic central characters ( Platt in particular is a total howl as the gloriously eccentric Hector ) , a good amount of tension , polished , sparkling cinematography by Daryn Okada , a refreshingly tight and trim 82 minute running time , an affectionate tongue-in-cheek tone ( this film pays nifty homage to the first two " Jaws " pictures ) , a cool animatronic crocodile by Stan Winston , a reasonable sprinkling of gore , and plenty of gut-busting deadpan dialogue , this infectiously quirky and self-parodic romp does the trick in a pleasingly sly and amusing unpretentious B-flick manner . Betty White almost steals the whole show as batty , foul-mouthed old broad Delores Bickerman while the gorgeous Meredith Salinger has a nice supporting part as perky Deputy Sharon Gare . A fun fright feature .
A really spooky and entertaining low-budget horror anthology winner	A bunch of young adults go deep into the woods to a remote cabin and tell each other several scary urban legend-style stories . First and coolest vignette - A diminutive albino Bigfoot creature stalks a teenage couple who find themselves stuck in the middle of nowhere after their car runs out of gas . Second and most frightening tale - Three college fraternity pledges spend the night at an old abandoned hospital that's said to be haunted . Third and most disturbing yarn - A mousy , repressed young coed turns out to be a deranged murderess . Finally , our motley group of young adults discover that the local legend of a vicious Indian wind demon isn't far-fetched in the least . Director James L . Wilson and writer Richard H . Wadsack neatly craft a fun and engrossing omnibus outing that eschews the usual graphic gore and bloodshed in favor of creating and sustaining a potently creepy and nightmarish midnight-in-the-graveyard gloom-doom atmosphere ; the opening credits sequence in particular is very chilling and the conclusion packs one hell of a terrifying punch . The isolated sylvan setting projects a truly unnerving sense of dread and vulnerability . The spirited shivery'n'shuddery score by Don Zimmers does the flesh-crawling trick . The pretty , fairly polished cinematography by Robert E . Rogers likewise hits the spot . Moreover , the game no-name cast all contribute winningly sincere and enthusiastic performances . A shamefully neglected and unheralded drive-in terror treat .
An excellent , unusual and exciting 70's drive-in exploitation variant on your standard prison picture	Token distaff feminist 70's drive-in movie writer / director Stephanie ( " Group Marriage , " " The Student Nurses " ) Rothman's intriguing and intelligent social allegory on how the strong cruelly oppress and viciously lord it over the weak , here cunningly done under the guise of being your standard down'n'dirty grindhouse exploitation prison item . Two rival factions , one peaceful and egalitarian , the other brutish and dictatorial , battle it out for supremacy on a remote island penitentiary where society's most heinous and irredeemable criminals are permanently banished to rot out the rest of their lives ( the basic premise definitely shares striking similarities to " Escape from New York " ) . The first-rate cast of familiar TV show and B-flick faces greatly enlivens this fun'n'funky favorite : " Lost in Space " cutie Marta Kristen in fine , feisty form ( she also looks mighty tasty in a skimpy halter top and cut-off denim hot pants ) , statuesque eyeful Phyllis ( " Sweet Sugar , " " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " ) Davis , Roger E . ( " The Mack , " " Hit Man " ) Mosley , Clyde ( " ' Gatorbait , " " Bury Me An Angel " ) Ventura , the beauteous Barbara ( " Seven , " " Junior Bonner " ) Leigh , Albert ( " The Incredible 2-Headed Transplant , " " The Female Bunch " ) Cole , the ever-scummy James ( " Planet of Dinosaurs , " " The Candy Snatchers " ) Whitworth , and even a pre - " Magnum P . I . " Tom Selleck as a nice guy doctor . Moreover , this film not only delivers the expected sex , nudity and violence ( Davis ' smoking hot skinny-dipping scene in particular is a luscious wonder to behold ) , but also plenty of meaty and provocative food for thought to chew on and digest as well . Hard to find , but definitely worth checking out if you're lucky enough to stumble across a rare copy of it .
A crackerjack and unjustly ignored sci-fi / horror gem	Created by the shady animal research outfit the Jenner Clinic as an unsightly malformed mutant hybrid of both human and monkey DNA , Chad ( vividly played by Douglas Mann , who skillfully alternates between being quite frightening and surprisingly touching ) is part man , part simian and all-nasty , a hairy , gnarled , hunch-backed toddler with the mind of a child , superhuman strength , an easily set-off temper and a murderous sociopathic disposition which makes him one seriously lethal piece of messed-up work . Chad breaks free from his cage ( where the poor critter has spent his entire life ) , butchers nine people , trashes the laboratory where he's been secluded from the rest of the world , and goes on the lam . He's doggedly tracked by diligent sympathetic journalist John Lynch , obsessed protective scientist Christine Kavanagh , and flinty , sinister , enigmatic lab company bigwig Hennessey ( a marvelously steely Kenneth Cranham ) , the latter a first-class baddie who's hellbent on covering up the whole bloody affair so he can continue his morally questionable experiments undeterred . Lawrence Gordon Clark's crisp , pacy direction , a knotty , thoughtful , intricately woven script by Stephen Gallagher which astutely examines a provocative science gone amok theme without ever becoming some preachy , self-righteous , heavy-handed tract ( Gallagher adapted his novel " Chimera " ) , fine acting from a uniformly excellent cast , top-rate make-up f / x by Bob Keen , a few gory kill scenes , an elegant orchestral score , a genuinely creepy and grotesque , but strangely poignant and pitiable subhuman monster tyke , the compact , gripping narrative , a strikingly poetic and haunting conclusion , and the all-around well-drawn intriguing characters ( Sebastian Shaw in particular has a lovely part as a sweet elderly scientist who unwittingly participated in Chad's creation ) combine together to form a scary , suspenseful and overall superlative fright feature sleeper which not only delivers the expected spine-tingling goods , but also gives the viewer plenty of tasty food for thought to gnaw on .
Gross , creepy and underrated	A sterling example of how a threadbare and unpromising premise can be made genuinely creepy and effective thanks to a proficient execution . Granted , the story ain't much : Young fellow Clark ( affable J . Eddie Peck ) and his sweet girlfriend Lisa ( a winning performance by late 80's flash-in-the-pan scream queen cutie Jill Schoelen of " The Stepfather " fame ) are driving their jeep across the parched , desolate Arizona desert . The pair take an ill-advised detour off the main road and discover an old abandoned nuclear test site . Things turn sour when one of the jeep tires goes flat . Things get worse when Clark gets bitten by a radioactive snake . And , naturally , things become all the more hairy and freaky when Clark's bitten arm starts to mutate into a foul , icky , highly deadly and disgusting snake monster ! As I said before , the hackneyed plot leaves plenty to be desired . However , with this supremely yucky and revolting horror movie gross-out splatterfest it's not the story that counts ; it's Screaming Mad George's astonishingly vile and revolting make-up f / x and Federico Prosperi's commendably able direction which really make the difference here . Among the picture's sickening highlights are a woman's jaw being torn off , a man's heart being yanked out of his throat , and Peck vomiting forth dozens of steaming slithery snakes . The acting is uniformly tops as well : Peck and Schoelen are credible and likable leads , with solid support from Bo Svenson as a mean , intimidating jerk sheriff , Jamie Farr as a friendly , helpful salesman , " Midnight Ride " ' s Savina Gersak as a kind , pious Baptist lady , Sydney Lassick as a meek , squeamish motel clerk , and " Parasite " ' s Al Fann as a belligerent gas station attendant . Roberto D'Ettorre Piazoli's crisp , fluid cinematography , the eerily forbidding atmosphere , Carlo Maria Cordio's spare , shivery score , the superbly spooky use of arid , swelteringly hot and sticky New Mexico locations , and the spectacularly grotesque and hence immensely upsetting bummer ending further enhance the overall flesh-crawling uneasiness of this harrowingly unpleasant and unnerving fright film surprise .
An effectively tense and sleazy thriller	Cunning and lethal blind maniac vagrant Neil ( a wired , intense , bravura performance by the late , great Rick Dean in one of his patented insane villain parts ) terrorizes a handful of folks in a strip club at gunpoint . Neil cruelly uses everyone's individual weaknesses against them . The main target of Neil's twisted obsession is lovely stripper Christina Martin ( well played by the stunningly gorgeous Maria Ford ) . Director Dan Golden , working from a clever and compact script by Duane Whitaker , wrings plenty of gut-wrenching tension from the simple , yet gripping premise and certainly doesn't skimp on the tasty bare distaff skin . Dean and Ford both turn in stand-out work in their juicy lead roles ; they receive excellent support from Lance August as stuttering shy guy Carey , George Tovar as corrupt cop Roland , Nikki Fritz as mannish , domineering lesbian Sandra , the adorable Ann-Marie Holman as Sandra's mousy , passive lover Kitten , and R . A . Mihailoff ( Leatherface in " Leatherface : Texas Chainsaw Massacre III " ) as tough bartender Little . Both Timothy Wynn's funky score and Andrea Rosotto's slick cinematography are up to par . Popping up in nice cameos are John Lazar ( Z-Man in " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " ) as a bar patron and Linnea Quigley as a waitress . The DVD boasts a few nifty extras : several trailers , a funny outtake reel , and a lively , informative and highly entertaining commentary by Rick Dean and Dan Golden . Good , nasty fun .
A choice trashy chunk of mean-spirited 70's drive-in exploitation junk	Whiny , mellow dope dealer Harris ( runty Robert Lott ) and moody , scruffy murderer Weed ( burly Michael Stearns ) are a couple of dangerous no-count criminals . The pernicious pair escapes from a chain gang and go on the lam . Director Lee Frost , who also co-wrote the harsh script , did the fairly polished cinematography ( the rousing break out sequence makes inspired use of split screen and freeze frames ) , and even co-edited the picture , crams a reasonable amount of gratuitous nudity , soft-core sex and raw violence into the flick to ensure that devout grindhouse sleaze movie fans will get their grubby money's worth . In addition , Frost keeps the pace suitably brisk throughout and effectively develops a fiercely hard'n'gritty tone . Porter Jordan's fantastic st-kicking hillbilly bluegrass score certainly hits the stirring and spirited spot ; the bluesy theme song in particular rates as an absolute hoot . Popping up in nifty secondary roles are Linda York as Harris ' lovely , loyal girlfriend Ann , Wes Bishop as trouble-making con Coleman , Bruce Kimball as tubby prison guard Fat Sam , Phil Hoover as a volatile racist Gentry , Ralph Campbell as an ornery farmer , and Barbara Mills as the farmer's lusty , unhappy young wife . Nice downbeat ending , too .
A very enjoyable and unjustly overlooked futuristic sci-fi action flick	In yet another bleak and depressing depiction of the future ( this time as a post-plague , post-World War III , perpetually dark and desolate wasteland run by strict authoritarian " 1984 " ish Big Brother types ) , young lovers Bone ( a solid and engaging portrayal by the handsome Peter Nelson ) and Helen ( a winningly fiery'n'feisty turn by the sexy Sherilyn Fenn ) are hired by crafty rich guy Jason ( a really amusing and entertaining David Carradine ) to pull off a few heists . When Jason doesn't live up to his side of the bargain Bone and Helen become wanted on the lam fugitives ala Bonnie and Clyde . Luis Llosa's capable , energetic direction ( Llosa went on to helm the trashy Sly Stallone vehicle " The Specialist " and the delightfully hokey giant killer snake hoot " Anaconda " ) , Daryl Haney's witty , profane script , Rick Conrad's rousing synthesizer score , and fine supporting performances by Michael Shaner as Bone's obnoxious brother Creon , Orlando Sacha as amiable old-timer Alexi and Robert Englund lookalike Don Manor as petty crook J . D . all ensure that " Crime Zone " makes the grade as a lively , exciting and overall above average sci-fi action romp .
An amusingly silly 70's drive-in diversion	A strangely affable piece of fluffy-headed 70's drive-in comedic piffle which lazily coasts along on the faintest whiff of a plot . The story as far as it goes centers on a spacey solar-powered futuristic supervan equipped with lasers and a plush interior created by your standard flaky inventor ( amiable nerd Tom Kindle ) . Evil corporate head T . B . Trenton ( white-haired perennial bad guy thespian Morgan Woodard doing his patented so - slimy - he - slides - when - he - walks villainous bit ) wants the supervan for himself so he can win a big annual van contest . Starry-eyed working class zhlub dreamer Morgan the Pirate ( impish Mark Schneider ) makes off with both the supervan and Trenton's rebellious teen daughter Karen ( cute , spunky , buxom brunette Katie Saylor ) . The expected wacky comic hi-jinks and crazy , careening slapstick car chases ensue . Sure , the admittedly skimpy story ain't much and the loosey-goosey pace meanders all over the place , but what this mama lacks in intricate and sophisticated narrative substance ( plenty , to be brutally honest ) it surely compensates for in giddy , good-natured , just - give - the - audience - what - they've - paid - to - see eager to please stupidity . For instance , there's a totally gratuitous , but still welcome wet t-shirt contest . Moreover , a nearly endless barrage of funky-throbbing disco songs about vans and van culture blares away on the soundtrack throughout . Irv Goodnoff's pretty , hazy , sunshine-soaked cinematography boasts a few fine sinuous tracking shots and radiates a distinctly 70's warm'n'fuzzy glow ( coincidentally , Goodnoff also shot the equally asinine , but still awesome " The Van " ! ) . Blustery custom car king George Barris puts in a guest appearance and a sweetly mellow laid-back vibe permeates the entire feature . Why , we even got slack direction from Lamar Card , a sappy romantic sub-plot , lots of filler footage of the van contest , so - loving - they're - downright - fetishistic close-ups of resplendently tacky van decals , dated CB lingo ( " We're doin ' it to it " ) , a gang of hostile bikers , a jailbreak , delightfully politically incorrect comic relief lisping homosexuals , and absolutely no pretense to get in the way of the enjoyably goofy'n'silly fun .
A surprisingly solid mid-80's made-for-TV vehicular " Death Wish " variant	When one thinks of the singularly raw , gritty and hard-hitting cinema of Abel Ferrara ( who's rough'n'tumble films include " Driller Killer , " " Ms . 45 , " and " Bad Lieutenant " ) , several scattered idiot box credits aren't the first thing to spring to mind . But back in the mid-80's the often fiercely indie and underground Ferrara briefly went mainstream and somehow wormed his way onto the boob tube , where he directed the " Crime Story " pilot , a few episodes of " Miami Vice , " and this fairly generic , yet miraculously rough-edged and compelling made-for-TV feature . Ken Wahl of " Wiseguy " TV show fame gives a somewhat stolid , but overall acceptable and engaging performance as an amiably zhlubby blue collar ordinary shmoe ace automobile mechanic whose younger brother gets killed by a drunk driver in a sinister black muscle car . Haunted by his bro's untimely death and angry as all hell , Wahl builds himself a lethal souped-up tow truck , hits the dark , hazy , perilous Los Angeles nocturnal streets looking for that spooky muscle car , and winds up becoming a self-appointed vigilante who takes out all those leering , unruly , bellicose , recklessly inebriated killers on wheels who pose a general threat to decent , law-abiding folks on the road with them . Naturally the cops want to nail Wahl real quick and the media turns him into a folk hero . Okay , so the plot is little more than a vehicular " Death Wish " variant crossed with " Duel " and the picture does suffer somewhat from unavoidable mild'n'middlebrow TV movie sanitizing ( the sporadic sappy pop-slop tunes mewling away on the soundtrack are especially irritating ) , but Ferrara's strong , sturdy and stylish direction certainly compensates for these minor flaws . As usual with Ferrara , he takes a provocative questioning stance with the obsessive , tormented protagonist , vigilantism is properly addressed as the knotty , nothing remotely simple or easy about it issue that it really is , James Lemmo's slick , polished , glittering neon-hued cinematography vividly depicts a luridly gleaming nighttime atmosphere , and the palpable evocation of the scary , forbidding and dangerous urban hellhole jungle setting positively seethes with a frightfully omnipresent menace . Moreover , there are fine supporting turns by Nancy Allen as a sweet radio talk show host , the always reliable Robert Culp as a hard-nosed detective , and Stan Shaw as Wahl's nice dude best buddy , David Frank supplies an effectively spare , shivery , jazz-flavored score , and the final showdown between Wahl and the muscle car delivers the pulse-pounding , heart-stopping , metal-mangling auto-to-auto stand-off goods . Sure , it's not exactly one of Ferrara's best-ever offerings , but this generally solid and satisfying item sure ain't no lemon , either .
An admirably offbeat & ambitious Italian post-nuke sci-fi item	One of the more interesting , creditable and refreshingly offbeat additions to the rather overburdened Italian post-nuke sci-fi / action genre which proliferated in the wake of " The Road Warrior " ' s meteoric success , " Rats " qualifies as one of the few genuinely good movies to be found in notorious spaghetti schlockmeister Bruno Mattie's largely ignoble cinematic oeuvre , mainly because it's just about the only Italian post-apocalyptic affair with a thoughtful , provocative subtext . 225 , A . B . ( After Bomb ) - A motley assortment of survivalist bikers seek sanctuary at an abandoned warehouse that's richly abundant in food , water and comfortable shelter . Naturally , there's one huge glitch : The place is also teeming with a horrid array of hungry , super-intelligent carnivorous rats with a sickening sweet tooth for human flesh . The basic plot seems routine and unpromising , but " Rats " luckily - - and , more importantly , successfully - - aspires to be more than just another by-the-numbers post-nuke killathon by cleverly working in an odd , imaginative , breaking - against - the - standard - mold religious allegory into the tense and scary proceedings . Furthermore , the characters are unusually well-drawn and solidly acted , going above and beyond cardboard cut-out status : the laconic , relaxed , grimly rational chopper gang leader Kurt ( neatly played with sufficient poise and charisma by Richard Raymond ) serves as a scruffy , rough-around-the-edges tough guy Christ figure , the savage , scurvy , libidinous Lucifer ( a magnificently malicious Christopher Bretnor ) assumes snarling , refractory rebel chores with frightful intensity , and the flighty , girlish motorcycle mama Lilith ( the tall , beauteous , dark-haired Moune Duvivier , who's indeed luscious enough to entice any man into engaging in sinful behavior ) represents the wicked carnal temptations of the flesh . Director / co-writer Mattie and co-director Charles ( " Curse of the Dead , " Monster Dog " ) Aured explore the dark , troubling , substantial themes of faith , loyalty and betrayal , man's inhumanity towards animals and his fellow man , the foolishness and self-destructive nature of greed , and stupid , self-affirming arrogance bringing about one's own untimely demise with a reasonable amount of depth and aptitude . Technically , the film is quite polished , with both Luigi Ceccarelli's tersely creepy and effective synthesizer score and Franco Delli Colli's vivid , shadowy , atmospheric cinematography rating as most up to snuff . The bleak , grimy , brooding tone , punctuated by several crudely upsetting rodent attack scenes ( Lilith's ultimate fate is notably nasty ) and capped off by a bitterly ironic , starling surprise twist ending , rarely falters . There's even some pretty spot-on cool dialogue ; a flamethrower-wielding Kurt cops the film's single most groovy line when he angrily growls : " I'm gonna warm their whiskers ! " Although not without its flaws - - atrocious dubbing , a few dreadful performances ( Ann Gisel Glass as the fidgety , hysterical Myra serves up a horribly overdrawn and indigestible slice of distasteful dried-up ham ) , and a slight degree of heavy-handedness pervades in the tackling of the weighty theological issues - - " Rats " nonetheless still warrants praise for its audacious willingness to boldly break from no-brainer after Wolrd War III sci-fi / action picture conventions by actually giving the audience a sizable ( and all too rare ) amount of food for thought to chew on .
A rather clunky , but overall sincere and touching social drama	Mischievous Johnny Banes ( scrappy Dion Gossett ) has an unfortunate knack for getting into all kinds of trouble : he smokes , lies , steals , rudely disrupts class , doesn't do his schoolwork , and even mugs an old guy for his money ! Worse yet , Johnny's vain struggling actress mother Denise ( nicely played by Sandy Reed ) and hard-working insurance salesman stepfather Phil ( a strong and likable performance by Renny Roker ) spend more time squabbling with each other than they do with Johnny . Writer / director Horace Jackson concocts a somewhat clumsy , but well-meaning and insightful social drama that pertinently addresses how severe parental neglect contributes substantially to juvenile delinquency . Moreover , Jackson tosses in occasional " what the hell ? " unexpected oddball moments : Denise gives Johnny a rubdown in a scene that's simmering with incestuous undertones and in one especially startling sequence a creepy pedophile assaults a little girl in a bathroom . The jolting downbeat ending packs a pretty potent punch , too . The kid actors are all appealingly natural ( Gossett in particular impresses as the moody and unhappy Johnny ) . Rich Holmes is memorably hateful as stern history teacher Mr . Bishop . Dennis Coffey's funky , syncopated score and Mark Rasmussen's plain , no-frills cinematography further enhance the gritty realism of this moving and effective picture .
A perfectly enjoyable , if totally predictable early 80's Chuck Norris action item	Okay , let's start this review off by stating for the record that this flick sure ain't no groundbreaking work of exceptional cinematic art . However , it's an enjoyably funky little martial arts action item that does the trick quite nicely , getting immediately down to butt-kicking business right from the stirring start and never letting up to the thrilling end . A clean-shaven , baby-faced Chuck Norris stars as rugged San Francisco cop Sean Kane , who after losing his partner in an ambush ( a brief appearance by Terry Kiser of " Weekend at Bernie's " fame ) quits the police force and decides to go after the no-count drug-dealing evildoers responsible on his own , using his chopsocky prowess to clean their clocks like nobody's business . So far , so formulaic and predictable . Fortunately , director Steve ( " Big Bad Mama " ) Carver maintains a snappy pace and a gritty atmosphere which keeps the pretty flimsy story on track throughout . The action is both plentiful and exciting , with especially cool use of strenuous slow motion and a substantial body count racked up by our man Chuck . Moreover , a bang-up supporting cast helps a lot : the late , great Mako as a fellow martial artist who's constantly criticizing Norris ' sloppy form ( Mako makes for a really funny comic relief character ) , Richard " Shaft " Roundtree as Norris ' huffy , disapproving superior , Rosalind Chao as a gutsy lady TV reporter , the always terrific Christopher Lee as the suavely slimy main villain , Matt Clark as a weaselly cop on the take , and the enormous Professor Toru Tanaka as a hulking ferocious flunky for the bad guys ( the scene where Tanaka beats up a Volkswagon is an absolute riot ! ) . Sure , this film will never be hailed as some kind of great overlooked classic , but it's nonetheless loads of solid , silly , straight-down-the-line early 80's action fun and that's good enough for me .
Of pigs and geeks	Stanley Coopersmith ( a fine and engaging performance by Clint Howard in his first juicy lead role ) , a paunchy , put-upon misfit techno nerd , gets in touch with Ol ' Scratch via way of a computer hook-up ( ! ) so he can get revenge on the vile antagonistic jerks who constantly accost him at the elite snobby military academy he attends . Directed with remarkably infectious go-for-it style and verve by Eric Weston and featuring plenty of outrageously over-the-top gruesome splatter ( gory highlights include a heart being torn out of someone's chest , a head being spun around and Coopersmith splitting a guy's noggin in two with a sword ) , a little gratuitous nudity ( the luscious Lynn Hancock warrants special kudos here as a comely , but bitchy secretary who gets attacked and eaten by ferocious demonic pigs while taking a shower ) , and a boffo shoot-the-fireworks wild climax set in a church , this funky early 80's low-budget " Carrie " clone sizes up as a whole lot of gleefully mindless schlocky fun . Howard simply shines in a strong and sympathetic substantial starring part , receiving sterling support from R . G . Armstrong as a boozy , abusive janitor , Charles Tyner as the stern colonel who runs the school , Lenny Montana as a nice guy cook , Richard Moll as an evil Devil cult leader , Hamilton Camp as a mean English teacher , Joe Cortese as a nasty priest , and Don Stark as Coopersmith's chief cruel cadet tormentor . The bang-up Anchor Bay DVD offers a nice widescreen presentation of an uncut and uncensored print along with the theatrical trailer , a still and poster gallery , and a very lively , informative and entertaining commentary by Weston and Howard . A delightfully trashy horror hoot .
An enjoyably silly and lively comedic 70's drive-in romp	A quirky , fluffy , free-wheeling series of humorous vignettes involving three aspiring student teachers ' seriocomic experiences at Valley High School in California . Susan ( " Blood Sabbath " ) Damante teaches an open-minded , but controversial after school class which promotes a healthy , up-front attitude about sex . Brooke ( " Dream No Evil " ) Mills blows off her hypocritical pseudo-bohemian male chauvinist art teacher lover Richard Doran in order to become more attached to a much more nice and considerate guy in her photography class . Streetwise black student Brenda Sutton pulls off an elaborate scam in which two drug cartels are pitted against each other in order to raise enough money to save a burgeoning learning center from closing down . The supporting cast is right on the money : Johnny Ray McGhee as an overaged borderline drop-out who assists Sutton with her crafty , dangerous ruse , the ever-sleazy Charles ( " The Hot Box " ) Dierkop as a ruthless Italian smack pusher , then popular radio disc jockey " the Real " Don Steele as a - - you guessed it - - super-smooth disc jockey , the ubiquitous ( and very short ) Dick Miller in a hilarious piece of miscasting as an uptight , foul-mouthed , irascible jerk of a basketball ( ! ) coach who turns out to be a brutal rapist , Tara Strohmeier as a cute teen , and none other than Chuck Norris , who has a quick " sneeze and you'll miss him " bit as a - - what else ? - - karate instructor . The essential drive-in movie ingredients for a solid and satisfying romp are all present and accounted for : mucho gratuitous nudity , sexual assault , goofy montages set to dippy early 70's pop-rock tunes , zany car chases , wacky shoot-outs , swear words , free love - - y'know , all that fun , funky junky stuff which makes these kind of flicks so worthwhile . Jonathan ( " White Line Fever , " " Heart Like a Wheel " ) Kaplan's speedy , stable direction , Stephen ( " Switchblade Sisters , " " Sister Sister " ) Katz's bright , pretty cinematography , and David Nichtern's nifty banjo-happy , harmonica-tinged blues and country music score earn passing marks as well , thereby clinching this baby's status as an endearingly wiggy , disjointed , and , yes , even charming so - idiotic - it's - oddly - appealing - and - entertaining New World Pictures teen sexploitation treat .
A funky low-budget horror psycho winner	What we got here is a real rarity , a genuine surprise , something that's almost unheard of and all too often hard to find : An extremely good , capably done , and intelligently plotted made-for-video low-budget indie fright flick that doesn't resort to the usual cheap excessive gore and gratuitous T & A in order to grab a viewer's attention . Instead , this creepily right-on little sleeper offers neatly realized three dimensional characters ( for example , the titular freaky bloodthirsty wacko is a toxic product of severe child abuse , thus making him a semi-pitiable individual who's just as much a victim as the people he preys on ) , decent acting , solid direction , a clever , firmly constructed script , fairly accomplished cinematography , a few effectively scary moments , authentically grungy Michigan locations , judiciously used splatter make-up , a potently rendered gloom-doom atmosphere , and a shivery , flesh-crawling synthesizer score to relate the arrestingly oddball tale of a grubby , disaffected , socially maladaptive seething misogynist psycho ( well played with edgy dysfunctional conviction by Carl Zschering ) who acquires the magical ability to transform his physical appearance so he can become whoever he wants at any time . Under the guise of a cute , seemingly shy and awkward teenage girl ( the toothsome Ann Flood ) , the nutjob befriends and eventually kills an ever-growing number of unsuspecting high school girls in order to get back at his mean mother and equally nasty aunt for grossly mistreating him as a kid . This peculiar shape-shifting story angle thankfully manages to be more than just a silly , ridiculous " gimme a break , man " gimmick , primarily because the story itself is handled with commendable seriousness and competence . Highlighted by several shockingly ghastly murder set pieces ( our sicko likes to cannibalize his victims ) and topped off with a wonderfully twisted nihilistic ending , " The Nostril Picker " makes for an unexpectedly gripping and highly satisfying horror outing .
A real wild and gory blast of a horror flick	Mysterious drifter Brayker ( superbly played by William Sadler ) possesses the last of seven ancient keys that the demonic , yet charismatic Collector ( deliciously essayed with lip-smacking sardonic panache by Billy Zane ) needs to acquire in order to destroy humanity . Brayker seeks refuge in a rundown motel . The Collector and his army of lethal , grotesquely ugly ghouls lay siege to the joint . Ably directed with considerable rip-snorting flair by Ernest Dickerson , with slick cinematography by Rick Bota , a handy helping of graphic gore ( gruesome highlights include a fist punched through a head and an arm being ripped off ) , unusually well-drawn and engaging characters , a rousing score by Ed Shearmur , an admirably straight tone , and inspired touches of pitch-black gallows humor , this movie delivers a fast-paced package of fun and frights . Sadler and Zane are terrific in the leads ; they receive excellent support from Jada Pinkett-Smith as spunky ex-con Jerryline , CCH Pounder as tough , cynical motel proprietor Irene , Brenda Bakke as forlorn prostitute Cordelia , Thomas Haden Church as sleazy abject coward Roach , Dick Miller as lovable old drunk Uncle Willie , John Schuck as ramrod Sheriff Tupper , Charles Fleischer as the meek Wally , and Gary Farmer as bumbling Deputy Bob Martel . A very solid and satisfying horror picture .
A neat little Italian crime drama	Honest , dedicated Commissioner Bonavia ( superbly played by Martin Balsam ) risks both his life and career in order to arrest wily , powerful and evasive mobster Ferdinando D'Ambrosio ( a marvelously slimy portrayal by Luciano Catenacci ) . Bonavia clashes with shrewd , smooth and by-the-book young district attorney Traini ( the always fine Franco Nero ) over the questionable methods he uses to nab D'Ambrosio . Director Damiano Damiani , who also co-wrote the sharp , complex and intriguing script with Salvatore Laurani , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace and does an expert job of maintaining a serious and gritty tone throughout . The uniformly sound acting from a tip-top cast rates as another substantial plus : Balsam and Nero both excel in their meaty roles , with fine support from Marilu Tolo as D'Ambrosio's frightened old flame Serena LiPuma , Giancarlo Prete as gutsy union organizer Rizzo , Claudio Gora as crooked attorney general Judge Malta , Arturo Dominici as shifty mafia shyster lawyer Canistraro , and Adolfo Lastretti as dangerous , unhinged hoodlum LiPuma . Both Riz Ortolani's moody , melodic score and Claudio Ragona's polished cinematography are up to speed . The potent central message about pervasive corruption and travesties of justice packs one hell of a strong punch . Moreover , the film's tough , no-nonsense sensibility stays grimly true to itself to the literal bitter end . Those expecting your usual nasty and sleazy shoot ' em up action picture will be disappointed , but fans of more demanding and complicated fare should appreciate this admirably ambitious and intelligent character study of two radically contrasting law enforcers . Well worth a look .
A neat early 60's low-budget sci-fi romp	A team of astronauts go to Uranus and discover that not only is the supposedly barren planet hospitable ( there's a lush , verdant green forest were there ought to be dry desert ! ) , but also encounter several beautiful young women . But underneath this pleasant facade lurks an evil alien brain which can manipulate men's minds and make either their deepest desires or greatest fears become real . Naturally , said brain plans on conquering Earth . Director Sidney Pink , who also co-wrote the clever and interesting script with Ib Melchior , relates the arresting story at a slow , yet steady pace and does a nice job of creating an intriguingly outré atmosphere . The cast all give solid performances , with stand-out contributions by the ever-reliable John Agar as the cheery Captain Don Graham and Carl Ottosen as the hard-nosed Commander Eric . Better still , ravishing blonde Greta Thyssen as Greta , lovely Ann Smyrner as Ingrid , and fetching brunette Ulla Moritz as Lisa supply some mighty tasty distaff eye candy . Kudos are also in order for the funky special effects which include a gnarly stop-motion animation one-eyed rat monster , a giant spider , and the huge pulsating alien brain . Aage Wiltrup's bright , sharp color cinematography and Ronald Stein's moody score are both up to speed . The thrilling mondo destructo climax hits the stirring spot while the groovy lounge ending credits theme song is a total swingin ' gas . But what really makes this picture such a fun and entertaining winner is the infectiously inspired sense of pure imagination evident throughout . Worth a look for science fiction buffs .
A remarkably solid and satisfying belated sequel to the classic original	Norman Bates ( a strong and touching portrayal by Anthony Perkins ) gets released from the sanitarium after spending twenty-two years under psychiatric treatment . Nervous and vulnerable , Norman gets a job at a diner , befriends flaky young waitress Mary ( nicely played by the adorable Meg Tilly ) , and struggles to maintain his fragile sanity . Meanwhile a series of terrible murders occurs . Is it Norman or someone else behind the killings ? Ably directed by Richard Franklin , with a clever , witty and inspired script by Tom Holland , the tricky and involving plot takes plenty of nifty twists and turns while building to a chilling and startling conclusion . Perkins really holds the picture together with his outstanding lead performance ; he pulls off the extraordinary feat of making Norman simultaneously scary and pitiable in equal measure . The supporting cast are likewise excellent : Vera Miles as the vengeful Lila Loomis , Robert Loggia as kind , supportive shrink Dr . Raymond , Dennis Franz as disgusting sleazeball motel manager Warren Toomey , Hugh Gillin as affable Sheriff John Hunt , and Claudia Bryar as the sweet , protective Emma Spool . Dean Cundey's handsome cinematography and Jerry Goldsmith's supremely spooky'n'lovely score further enhance the overall sterling quality of this superior sequel .
A delightful fantasy adventure treat	Brave , noble , resourceful farmboy turned knight Jack ( well played with dashing aplomb by Kerwin Mathews ) has to rescue fair damsel Princess Elaine ( a charming performance by the lovely Judi Meredith ) from the vile clutches of powerful evil sorcerer Pendragon ( essayed with marvelously sinister brio by Torin Thatcher ) and his creepy , whimpering henchman Garna ( a perfectly detestable Walter Burke ) . Assisting Jack on his bold quest are eager young boy Peter ( likable Roger Mobley ) , hearty , scruffy Viking Sigurd ( the solid Barry Kelley ) , and cheerful , helpful leprechaun Diablotin the Imp ( a winningly warm and witty portrayal by Don Beddoe ) . Director Nathan Juran , who co-wrote the smart script with Orville H . Hampton , handles the fanciful subject matter with admirable conviction and seriousness , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace , and stages the action scenes with considerable rip-roaring panache . The stop-motion animation creatures are quite colorful and enjoyable ; they include a dancing little doll man , a huge nasty giant , a vicious two-headed beast , a gnarly sea lizard , and a flying harpy . Plus we also have a bunch of strikingly grotesque witches . Better still , there's a real sweet innocence and good-natured quality to this movie that's both refreshing and engaging in equal measure . David S . Horsley's crisp cinematography , a robust , rousing score by Paul Sawtell and Bert Shefter , and the endearing characters all add immensely to the overall irresistible appeal of this hugely entertaining little gem .
An interesting and incisive Italian political Western	Tight-lipped and blithely indifferent gunslinger Marco ( a fine and intense Terence Hill in a refreshing change-of-pace serious role ) gets hired by evil land baron Don Antonio ( the always excellent Fernando Ray ) to assassinate a man who's planning to start a revolution amongst the local oppressed and impoverished peasants . After finishing his assignment , Marco realizes the error of his ways and sides with the peasants to overthrow Antonio's cruel reign . Director Mario Camus , who also co-wrote the thoughtful and literate script , eschews the expected shoot ' em up formula in favor of something more lofty and ambitious : a thinking man's oater that deals with the weighty Marxist theme of how the strong and wealthy upper class make their living exploiting and degrading the poor and powerless lower class . While it sounds heavy-handed and the pace periodically drags in spots , this movie nonetheless manages to be a gripping and satisfying viewing experience thanks to the well-drawn central characters , the right-on leftist politics , and occasional outbursts of exciting and well-staged action . Kudos are also in order for the sturdy acting from a capable cast : Hill in particular excels in a meaty non-comedic lead role , plus there are praiseworthy contributions from Rey , Mario Pardo as Marco's loyal , easygoing brother and partner Jacobo , Maximo Valverde as the mean Ramon , Angel Lombarte as the hot-headed , but decent and charismatic worker's union leader Jose , Maria Grazia Buccella as feisty hotel proprietor Soledad , and William Layton as the humane Don Lucas . Roberto Geraldi's bright , picturesque cinematography does the trick . Augusto Martelli's twangy score likewise hits the harmonic spot . A pleasant surprise .
An enjoyably hokey piece of cheap 60's sci-fi cheese	A group of astronauts and their big , clunky robot find themselves stranded on Venus . They run afoul of various prehistoric monsters and kill a Pteradactyl who's worshiped as a god by a bunch of lovely young ladies led by Moana ( the delectable blonde bombshell Mamie Van Doren ) . Director Peter Bogdanovich's debut feature rates highly as one deliciously cheesy slice of pure kitsch : we've got poky pacing , tin-eared dialogue , grave sub-Paul Frees droning narration from Bogdanovich himself , laughably lousy monsters ( besides the pathetic Pteradactyl , there's also an equally atrocious giant killer Venus flytrap plant and several guys in tacky Godzillaesque rubbery dinosaur suits ) , cruddy dubbing , the astronauts tooling around Venus in a funky hover car , cardboard characters , and a bevy of gorgeous alien gals wearing seashell bikinis and skintight hip-hugger pants who communicate with each other through telepathy . Moreover , there's loads of striking special effects footage taken from the Russian science fiction picture " Planeta Bur " that's truly breathtaking to behold . Keith Benjamin's moody , wonky score deserves plaudits as well ; the odd , otherworldly ghostly singing done by the Venusian women is genuinely haunting . Flemming Olsen's bright , colorful cinematography likewise does the trick . While by no means a good movie , this flick nonetheless proves to be strangely hypnotic in its jaw-dropping badness .
An amiably silly piece of 70's drive-in piffle	Here's a perfectly brainless , senseless , shiftless , witless , virtually plot less and basically pointless 70's drive-in car chase comedy time capsule relic that's ripe to bursting with all the right rotten stuff so it can measure up as a fine bit of lobotomized " we're all just having a little fun " dippy entertainment . We've got Stacy Keach's forever trapped in a B-movie grind brother James and no-name numbskull Stanley Livingston as a pair of nitwit drifters who bumble , fumble and stumble their aimless way throughout the entire picture . Then there's groovy disco music and even groovier disco dancing . Moreover , for your viewing pleasure there's lots of good-looking gals in tight cut-off shirts and hot pants . The hilariously dated CB lingo makes for mighty funny listening ( my favorite lines are " We're going 10-7 " and the often repeated " See you in a short-short " ) . " Green Acres " TV series regular Alvy Moore portrays a feckless hillbilly sheriff . Familiar 70's exploitation feature face Albert ( " The Hard Ride , " " Sweet Sugar " ) Cole appears as a greasy hood . Funky wah-wah guitar riffs rip away on the soundtrack . Two mellow dudes who sell grass for a living figure as secondary characters . But that's not all . There's more . A 70's feminist strong-minded chicks pushing around wimpy-willed dudes subtext ala " Truck Stop Women " gets clumsily tossed into the ramshackle brew . An armored car robbery occurs in such a quick and cursory manner that it seems tacked on as an afterthought . An endless " running around in circles " search for a stolen van owned by blustery Kustom Kar King George Barris takes center stage as the key piece of the action . A sub-Mickey Rooney raspy-voiced speed demon middle-aged guy who helps the sheriff by driving him willy-nilly all over the county and a rascally midget provide comic relief . Busty brunette Carla Ziegfeld fills out her role in more ways than one as " Hotwire , " a nasty wench socialite who runs a combo drug , stolen car and prostitution ring . Hey , what's missing ? Oh yeah - - a story . Well , there ain't one . Instead , director Anthony Cardoza and screenwriter T . Gary Cardoza allow the sloppy , digressive , permanently stuck in park free-form narrative to grind its wheels into the ground in a strangely amiable and hence oddly enjoyable fashion .
A deliciously slimy and sordid piece of pure 70's exploitation swill	Depraved , sadistic dwarf Olaf ( a genuinely creepy and unnerving portrayal by Torben Bille ) and his boozy , overbearing mother Lila Lash ( a perfectly wicked performance by Clara Keller ) abduct lovely young ladies , hook them on heroin , imprison the gals in the dungeon-like attic of their shabby boardinghouse , and force the hapless lasses to work as prostitutes . When newlyweds Peter ( drippy Tony Eades ) and Mary ( fetching , buxom blonde babe Anne Sparrow ) rent a room in the ratty abode , Olaf naturally can't wait to get his naughty little hands on Mary . Director Vidal Raski , working from an extremely sick and mean-spirited script by William Mayo , really delivers the lowdown harsh and raunchy goods in a commendably stark , graphic , and unflinching manner : we've got plentiful full-frontal female nudity , voyeurism , incredibly explicit steamy and strenuous sex scenes , a raw , seamy and uncompromisingly twisted scuzzball atmosphere , flagellation , beaten-down women strung out on smack , severe sexual deviance and repression , and Olaf using a cane on poor Mary in a positively vile and unspeakable way . There's a pervasively grimy , seedy , and downright nasty sense of all-out decadence and perversity evident throughout that in turn gives this picture an extra foul and unsettling skin-crawling repellent edge . With his broad , leering grin , annoying throaty chortle , and uncanny resemblance to a diminutive degenerate Jack Black , Bille's Olaf makes for a truly scary and repulsive tiny freak of a main villain . Lasse Bjorne's rough , no-frills cinematography gives the movie an appropriately gritty look . Ole Orsted's neatly varied score alternates between droning dissonance and groovy-jammin ' psychedelic prog-rock . A few from out in left field cabaret musical numbers further enhance this flick's overall oddball allure . Essential viewing for devout aficionados of unapologetically kinky and disgusting celluloid filth .
A fun late 80's killer doll horror winner	The evil spirit of vicious serial killer Charles Lee Ray ( the ever creepy Brad Dourif ) gets transferred into the body of a popular doll . Plucky single mother Karen Barclay ( superbly played by Catherine Hicks ) purchases the doll as a birthday present for her son Andy ( an endearingly sweet performance by Alex Vincent ) . Chucky the doll comes back to murderous life and embarks on a killing spree . Director Tom Holland , working from a clever and witty script that he co-wrote with Don Mancini and John Lafia , treats the frankly silly story with admirable seriousness , keeps the pace brisk and unflagging throughout , and builds a good deal of tension which culminates in a lively and exciting conclusion . Moreover , although the tone is basically straight , Holland still injects the proceedings with a wickedly nasty sense of dark humor . Additional kudos are in order for the uniformly excellent acting by a bang-up cast : Hicks makes for a sympathetic lead , Vincent is adorable as Andy , Dourif does the voice of Chucky with his customary rip-roaring crazed aplomb , plus there are sound contributions from Chris Sarandon as cynical , skeptical detective Mike Norris , Dinah Manoff as Karen's spunky best gal pal Maggie Peterson , Neil Giuntoli as Lee Ray's cowardly partner Eddie Caputo , Raymond Oliver as voodoo priest Dr . Death , and Alan Wilder as Karen's jerky boss Mr . Criswell . This film even manages to astutely address such timely 80's topics as single parenthood , mass media commercialization , and urban squalor and decay ( Karen buys Chucky from a street peddler ) . The tight 87 minute running time ensures that the movie never drags or gets bogged down in needless tedious filler . Kevin Yagher's animatronic doll puppet f / x are nifty and impressive . Bill Butler's polished cinematography makes effectively fluid use of a prowling Steadicam . Joe Renzetti's shivery score does the shuddery trick . All in all , this surprise 80's horror hit holds up quite well and remains a neat little romp .
An enjoyably trashy horror murder mystery potboiler	After a wealthy old geezer dies , his four greedy and no-count backstabbing kids get together at the family mansion so they can get their grubby paws on his sizable inheritance . Naturally , there's a catch : They all have to spend an entire week at the estate before they can collect the dough . Of course , a vicious killer starts brutally bumping folks off . Carl Monson's blunt direction fails to wring much tension from Eric Norden's trite , yet deliciously lurid script ( a sleazy incest subplot is especially tasty ) , but does succeed in creating a compellingly seedy atmosphere and stages the murder set pieces with considerable go-for-it grisly gusto ( said kill scenes include an axe to the noggin , a bullet to the head , an electrocution and a guy being stung to death by bees ) . The stand-out trash movie cast qualifies as another significant asset : Jeff Morrow and Faith Domergue from " This Island Earth , " rugged Western film perennial John Russell , the luscious Brooke Mills from " The Big Doll House , Buck Kartalian of " Planet of the Apes " ( very funny and creepy as a masochistic butler ) , Richard Davalos from Jack Hill's " Pit Stop , " and the ubiquitous John Carradine as the mean , overbearing patriarch of the extremely depraved and dysfunctional clan . The gritty , washed-out photography by Jack Beckett and Ben Rombouts , Jamie Mendoza-Nava's spooky'n'shuddery score , and the delectably hammy performances add immensely to the picture's oddly appealing and engrossing ratty charm . Entertaining low-grade junk .
An authentically grimy piece of 70's drive-in horror junk	The wealthy De Lorca family has suffered from the curse of vampirism throughout the centuries . Suave patriarch Carlos ( decently played by Paul Everett ) invites four lovely young women to his creepy isolated opulent estate . Carlos singles out rich blonde Yvonne ( the supremely snotty and unappealing Dolores Heiser ) as the ideal candidate to be impregnated by his vampire son Juan ( the pitifully unscary and unconvincing Chuck Faulkner ) and uses the other luckless gals as mere disposable canon fodder . Man , does this gloriously ghastly abomination possess all the right wretched stuff to rate as a choice chunk of cheapo dime-store cinema cheese : fumbling ( non ) direction by Robert R . Favorite , mostly atrocious acting from a lame no-name cast ( Bob Lelizia cops the top thespic dishonors with his singularly stinky portrayal of pathetic mute idiot hunchback servant Perro ) , a sluggish pace , rough , grainy , ugly-as-dirt cinematography , shoddy make-up ( one bloodsucker babe sports a mouthful of obvious chintzy novelty schlock shop plastic fangs ! ) , an annoying generic ooga-booga synthesizer score by Lee Peters , tacky gore , and a seriously depressing surprise bummer ending . Moreover , we also got a smidgen of gratuitous female nudity , a grotesque demon dude running amok , and a hot belly dancer doing her sexy thing at a local tavern . The seedy backwater Florida locations add a tasty regional flavor to the gloomy proceedings . In fact , this flick often plays like a lurid Southern-fried version of your basic paltry Andy Milligan fright feature . To sum up , it's worth a watch , but only if you are a really hardcore aficionado of deliciously dreadful micro-budget obscure dreck .
Burt Reynolds excels in this tough and exciting 70's private eye mystery action thriller	The ever-cool Burt Reynolds gives a typically fine and credible performance as Shamus McCoy , a scruffy , but smooth and studly rugged womanizing private detective who's hired by flaky rich guy E . J . Hume ( a pleasingly offbeat turn by Ron Weyand ) to find a killer and retrieve a fortune in stolen diamonds . During his investigation McCoy makes the acquaintance of the lovely , vivacious Alexis ( delightfully played by the gorgeously voluptuous Dyan Cannon ) and uncovers a wild plot to sell surplus military weapons on the black market . Adroitly directed by Buzz ( " The Hunter " ) Kulik , with a colorful and compelling , if rather muddled script by Barry Beckerman , a groovy score by Jerry Goldsmith , occasional exciting outbursts of raw rough'n'tumble fisticuffs , gritty , but lush cinematography by Victor J . Kemper , a funky New York City atmosphere , and a few charmingly quirky touches ( McCoy sleeps on a pool table with a mattress on it and has a deep-seated dread of large dogs ) , " Shamus " makes for a hugely enjoyable and often thrilling private eye flick . Popping up in solid supporting parts are Larry Block as funny sports trivia freak informant Springy , Joe Santos as hard-nosed police Lieutenant Promuto , John P . Ryan as crazed fanatical army Colonel Hardcore , and John Glover in his film debut as a pathetic heroin addict . Excellent downbeat ending , too . Granted , we're not talking unjustly overlooked lost classic here , but this baby overall sizes up as a most entertaining vintage 70's Burt Reynolds star action vehicle .
A gloriously ludicrous laugh riot	Ladies and gentlemen , we've really got ourselves a winner here . Actually we don't , but boy is this film an often hilarious and always entertaining horrible hoot of a stinker . Poor Alma ( fetching Julia Ruiz ) is suffering from an ancient Mayan curse that causes lethal poisonous snakes to grow inside of her body . Alma and her deranged shaman husband Brujo ( Alby Castro , who feverishly overacts with delicious eye-rolling intensity ) stowaway on a train that's bound for Los Angeles . Naturally , a bunch of deadly vipers get lose so they can terrorize the motley assortment of passengers . The Mallachi Brothers , working from an absurd script by Eric Fosberg , treat the ridiculous premise straight , thereby creating a wonderfully wretched piece of deliriously campy cheese . The cruddy CGI effects , the pathetically unfrightening common variety Gardner snakes ( there's would-be scary rattlesnake noises added to the soundtrack to imbue them with a faint sense of otherwise nonexistent menace ) , the plodding pace , the total dearth of any tension or momentum , the obvious rickety stage-bound train set , and especially the simply astonishing " you gotta be kiddin ' me ! " over-the-top preposterous ending are all downright awesome in their very jaw-dropping awfulness . Better still , we also got game ( if lame ) acting from a no-name cast , a nice smidgen of tasty gratuitous female nudity , a funky hum'n'shiver score , and plenty of extremely gross and grotesque make-up f / x . Bonus points for the fact that the token irritatingly cutesy little girl gets eaten by a large reptile and for the stoner engineer who gets caught smoking crack out of a hollow light bulb ( ! ? ) . An absolute gut-buster of a kitsch howler .
A creepy , quirky and effective early 70's devil worship horror flick	A young couple - - father Ben ( solid Charles Bateman ) , wife Nicky ( the lovely Ahna Capri ) and their daughter KT ( the cute Geri Reischl of " I Dismember Mama " fame ) - - find themselves trapped in a small California desert town populated by hysterical lunatics . Worse yet , there's a pernicious Satanic cult that's been abducting little children for their own diabolical purposes . Director Bernard McEveety , working from an offbeat and inspired script by William Welch and L . Q . Jones ( " Devil Times Five " director Sean MacGregor came up with the bizarre story ) , relates the compellingly oddball plot at a slow , yet steady pace and ably creates a creepy , edgy , mysterious ooga-booga atmosphere . Strother Martin delivers a wonderfully wicked and robust performance as Doc Duncan , who's the gleefully sinister leader of the evil sect . The top-rate cast of excellent character actors qualifies as a substantial asset : Jones as gruff , no-nonsense Sheriff Hillsboro , Alvy Moore as friendly local Toby , and Charles Robinson as a shrewd , fiercely devout priest Jack . John Arthur Morrill's bright , polished widescreen cinematography , Jamie Mendoza-Nava's spooky score , and the wild , rousing climactic black mass ritual are all likewise up to speed . The idea of having toys come to murderous life is simply ingenious ( the opening scene with a toy tank coming real and crushing a family in their car is truly jolting ) . Nice eerily ambiguous ending , too . A pleasingly idiosyncratic and under-appreciated winner .
A solid and thrilling 70's cop flick	A team of tough rogue New York cops led by the rugged , hard-nosed Buddy Manucci ( superbly played by the always excellent Roy Scheider ) go after a group of nasty mobsters involved in a kidnapping ring after one of their number gets killed by them . Director Philip D'Antoni , the producer of " Bullet " and " The French Connection , " ably creates a potent , gritty , starkly amoral no-nonsense tone , maintains a steady pace throughout and stages the action scenes with considerable rip-roaring vigor . Don Ellis ' rousing string score further pumps up the raw'n'rattling intensity while the scrappy Big Apple locations and Urs Furrer's rough , grainy cinematography both greatly enhance the overall grungy realism . Moreover , the fine line distinguishing cops from criminals gets chillingly blurred in this picture : the titular squad use harsh , brutish and morally dubious strong-arm tactics as a means to an end for enforcing the law and there's certainly no code of honor amongst the thugs and thieves who populate the seedy urban underbelly that's vividly depicted in this movie . Nice supporting performances by Tony Lo Bianco as wormy , sniveling snitch Vito Lucia the Undertaker , Richard Lynch as vicious psychotic hoodlum Moon , Bill Hickman as Moon's equally coldblooded partner Bo , Jerry Leon as funky flatfoot Mingo , and Joe Spinell as a parking garage attendant . An extremely wild and exciting protracted heart-in-your-throat mondo destructo car chase qualifies as a definite highlight . The climactic shootout likewise delivers the stirring goods . A real bang-up little winner .
A really fun horror / action hybrid romp	An elite commando squad led by the rugged Hawk ( an engaging performance by Casper Van Dien ) and his equally tough longtime buddy Grieves ( the hulking , deep-voiced Kevin Grevioux , who's excellent ) run afoul of lethal and powerful vampires in a South American rain forest . Grieves gets turned into a vampire and becomes the leader of a savage roving herd . Moreover , Hawk has to rescue his spunky scientist ex-wife Dr . Laurie Williams ( winningly played by luscious blonde looker Jennifer O'Dell ) from the bloodsuckers ' evil clutches . Writer / director Kevin VanHook concocts a fresh , lively and inspired horror / action genre hybrid that delivers likable characters , a handy helping of graphic gore , a constant snappy pace , and plentiful rousing and well-staged action scenes . In addition , VanHook puts a novel spin on standard vampire lore : these vampires are extremely smart , hunt in packs , and can walk around in broad daylight . Van Dien and Grevioux are fine in the leads ; they receive able support from Tony Plana as amiable local innkeeper Javier , Ray Park as a pair of vicious martial arts acrobatic twins , Joyce Giraud as fierce , yet sexy vampire vixen Estrella , Lynda Carter as the hard-nosed Colonel Jessica Weaver , and Danny Trejo as jolly , wily fisherman Montegna . Matt Steinauer's slick cinematography and Ludek Drizhal's stirring score are both up to speed . Spirited and exciting , this nifty little feature makes for hugely enjoyable viewing .
A genuinely creepy zombie horror flick	Young widow Karen Tunny ( winningly played by the lovely Lisa Heuring ) and her two daughters - - brash teenager Sarah ( spunky hottie Scout-Taylor Compton ) and sweet , perky moppet Emma ( adorable sprite Chloe Moretz ) - - inherit a rundown house located deep in the remote Pensylvannia forest after their father dies . Said dense woodland region turns out to be the nightly stalking grounds of a bunch of lethal zombie kids who were all killed in a tragic mining cave-in back in 1913 . Director J . S . Cardone does an adept job of creating a compellingly eerie atmosphere , maintains a slow , but steady pace throughout , stages the shock scenes with considerable grisly aplomb , and coaxes fine acting from a bang-up cast . Nice supporting performances by Ben Cross as gruff , jumpy , religious hermit Hanks , Martin McDougall as mean , arrogant millionaire Carlton , and Geoffrey Lewis as grouchy plumber Harold . The ferocious pasty-faced flesh-eating ghoul tykes armed with shovels and pick-axes are genuinely creepy and unsettling little buggers . Moreover , there's a strong subtext concerning greed , the evils of child exploitation , justice being served and reaping what you sow that in turn adds surprising poignancy to the story . Emil Topuzov's misty , polished cinematography , Tim Jones ' supremely spooky'n'shivery score , the refreshingly well-drawn and likable main characters , and the beautiful Bulgarian sylvan scenery further enhance the overall sturdy quality of this solid and satisfying fright feature .
A hugely enjoyable 50's sci-fi / horror precursor to " Alien "	An expedition to Mars picks up Colonel Edward Carruthers ( an excellent performance by Marshall Thompson ) , who's the sole survivor of a previous disastrous mission to the red planet . A strong , lethal and seemingly indestructible reptilian alien beast ( Ray " Crash " Corrigan in a cool rubber suit ) also stows away on board the spaceship and starts bumping off various crew members . Director Edward L . Cahn , working from a smart and taut script by noted science fiction author Jerome Bixby , wrings plenty of harrowing suspense from the absorbing premise ( said premise was an obvious influence on " Alien " ) . Moreover , Cahn maintains a steady pace throughout and stages the shock scenes with considerable panache . The cramped set design , stark lighting , and inspired use of both shadows and suggestion all add immensely to the creepy and claustrophobic atmosphere . The shuddery ooga-booga score by Paul Sawtell and Bert Shefter further enhances the eerie tone . Kenneth Peach's crisp black and white cinematography offers several nifty fades , wipes and dissolves . Kudos are likewise in order for the sound acting from a sturdy cast , with especially praiseworthy work by Thompson , Kim Spalding as the hard-nosed Colonel Van Heusen , Ann Doran as the compassionate Dr . Mary Royce , Paul Langton as the sarcastic Lieutenant James Calder , Dabbs Greer as the shrewd Eric Royce , and Richard Benedict as the excitable Bob Finelli . A highly satisfying little winner .
Unpleasant , but undeniably gripping and potent	Marjorie ( a splendid and riveting performance by Farrah Fawcett ) narrowly avoids being assaulted in her car by vicious serial rapist Joe ( superbly played with frightening conviction and intensity by James Russo ) . However , Joe steals her wallet and finds out where Marjorie lives . He pays her a visit one fateful day . After subjecting Marjorie to plenty of degradation and psychological abuse , Marjorie manages to turn the tables on Joe and locks him in the fireplace . What is Marjorie going to do with Joe ? Director Robert M . Young and screenwriter William Mastrosimone concoct a harsh , gritty and often disturbing morality tale that astutely nails the stark brutality and painful debasement of rape while also showing how any person when pushed to extremes is capable of shocking acts of violence and inhumanity . Joe perceives women strictly as objects while Marjorie only sees Joe as an " animal . " However , this movie to its admirable credit refuses to make Joe out to be simply a vile one-dimensional creep ; instead he's a terrifyingly real and ultimately pitiable human monster with a wife and kid ( Joe's climactic confession in particular is genuinely poignant ) . Fawcett and Russo are both outstanding in the leads ; they receive fine support from Diana Scarwid as the passive Terry , Alfre Woodard as the sensible Patricia , and Sandy Martin as sympathetic policewoman Officer Sudow . Both Curtis Clark's agile cinematography and J . A . C . Redford's shivery , skin-crawling score greatly enhance the considerable claustrophobic tension . A real powerhouse .
Victor Salva's supremely creepy and effective debut horror feature	A trio of dangerous psychopaths escape from a nearby asylum and murder three circus clowns . The deranged fruitcakes dress up in the clowns ' garish costumes and make-up . They proceed to besiege a large mansion where three brothers - - jittery Casey ( the solid Nathan Forrest Winters ) , friendly Geoffrey ( winningly played by Brian McHugh ) and mean overbearing bully Randy ( a marvelously hateful turn by a then unknown Sam Rockwell ) - - live . Tautly directed by Victor Salva ( who later gave us the excellent road thriller pip " The Nature of the Beast " and the deliciously perverse " Jeepers Creepers " pictures ) , with surprisingly strong performances by the three capable youthful leads , plenty of creepy atmosphere , a pleasingly concise 81 minute running time , and a respectable corpse count of eight , " Clownhouse " makes the grade as a gripping and well-made edge-of-your-seat nail-biter . The clever subversion of the naturally unsettling aura about clowns ( what's actually behind the cheery smiling facade ? ) is an especially smart and inspired touch . Moreover , Salva wisely downplays graphic gore and excessive violence in favor of deftly creating and sustaining a supremely eerie and unnerving tone . It's the film's potently spooky and nightmarish mood which really clinches its sterling status as an extremely scary and harrowing horror sleeper .
A true oddity	Dean Stockwell gives a deliciously droll and wired portrayal of Jack Whittier , a hotshot presidential press assistant who gets bitten by a werewolf while on assignment in Budapest , Hungary . Whittier comes back to the United States and begins terrorizing the nation's capitol , turning into a werewolf whenever there's a full moon and bumping off various folks in the immediate area . Writer / director Milton Moses Ginsberg concocts one hell of a strangely engaging and amusing eccentric blend of tacky horror and broad political satire , rather clumsily mixing the disparate elements together into a pretty messy , yet still funny and enjoyable synthesis . Technically , the film is very slipshod , with rough , grainy photography , ragged editing , generic spooky music and the laughably shoddy werewolf make-up leaving something to be desired , but still adding substantially to the picture's singularly screwy charm . Fortunately , the game cast come through with delightfully ripe performances : Biff McGuire as the smarmy Nixonesque president , Clifton James as an oily , huffy attorney general , Thayer David as a ramrod police inspector , June House as the president's desirable hottie daughter , Michael Dunn as quirky mad scientist Dr . Kiss , and James Tolkan as a shady fed in sunglasses are a total blast to watch . Best-ever scene : the werewolf attacks a screaming woman trapped in an overturned phone booth . An authentically offbeat curio .
An enjoyably inane Mexican horror wrestling hoot	A mad doctor who's referred to as - - what else ? - - " the mad doctor " kidnaps women so he can use them as objects for his nefarious brain transplant experiments . The doctor , assisted by the brutish humanoid ape beast Gomar ( an idiot mute strongman with the brain of a gorilla who when he's decked out in some chintzy bulletproof outfit can butcher four cops no problem ) and a legion of expendable goons , unfortunately can't find a gal with the necessary stamina to survive his grueling operations . When one of the doc's many female victims is the sister of wrestling star Gloria Venus ( the lovely , voluptuous Lenora Velazquez ) , who along with fellow wrestler Golden Rubi ( the gorgeously statuesque Elizabeth Campbell ) and a pair of blundering , ineffectual peabrain cops decide to take on the evil medico . After the girls burn down his lab and disfigure his face with acid , the mad doctor builds himself a ferocious lady wrestler called Vendetta and poses as her creepy manager ( the doc covers his scarred mug with a mask ala Santo ! ) , unleashing Vendetta on both Gloria Venus and Golden Rubi for a riotous climactic wrestling match . With its rusty tin-eared dialogue ( " I must say that this particular criminal is disconcerting " ) , a snazzy beatnik jazz score , countless ineptly staged fight scenes , a self-consciously cutesy'n'campy sense of humor , bloodless violence , laughable costumes ( the mad doctor's white hood disguise makes him look like a rogue Klu Klux Klan member ! ) , scrappy , washed-out black and white cinematography , winningly bad acting , implausible plot twists ( the particularly unbelievable man with an ape's brain brain idea really stands out here ) , cruddy make-up f / x , and breezy tongue-in-cheek tone , this absolute howler rates as an often sidesplitting serving of sensationally silly south-of-the-border schlock .
A supremely tough , gritty and exciting sword and sorcery fantasy action winner	Conan ( Arnold Schwarzenegger in the tailor-made role that launched his career ) vows to get revenge on evil cult leader Thulsa Doom ( a grandly wicked James Earl Jones ) , who killed both of Conan's parents and everyone in his village . Conan is assisted by the brave Valerie , Queen of Thieves ( a fine performance by the exquisitely graceful and gorgeous Sandahl Bergman ) , loyal thief / archer Subotia the Mongol ( an extremely likable turn by champion surfer Gerry Lopez ) , and a batty , but wise wizard ( the excellent Mako ) . Director John Milius , who also co-wrote the smart and gutsy script with Oliver Stone , does a masterful job of creating a hard , serious , rough-edged tone , maintains a steady pace throughout , and stages the action scenes with considerable rip-snorting brio . The sterling cast qualifies as a significant asset : Max von Sydow hams it up deliciously as the drunken King Osric , William Smith makes a strong impression as Conan's father , Valerie Quennessen is absolutely ravishing as a fair princess who falls under Thulsa Doom's spell , Cassandra Gaviola has a memorably sexy bit as a lovely , yet lethal witch , brawny behemoths Ben Davidson and Sven-Ole Thorsen serve as perfect foils for Conan as two of Thulsa Doom's nasty henchmen , and Jess Franco film regular Jack Taylor even pops up in a small part as a priest . Kudos are also in order for the wonderfully robust , stirring and flat-out beautiful full-bore orchestral score by Basil Poledouis . Duke Callaghan's stunning widescreen cinematography and Ron Cobb's striking production design add immensely to the overall breathtaking epic scope and majestic sweep of this hugely enjoyable rough'n'tumble fantasy action treat .
Good , silly early 80's low-budget cheesy horror fun	Famous and mysterious recluse Raymar , who's some kind of lethal telekinetic psychic vampire , abruptly dies under bizarre circumstances . Nice girl high school student Julie Wells ( a warm and sympathetic performance by the lovely Meg Tilly ) wants desperately to be accepted by the snobby clique the Sisters ( played to sublimely bitchy perfection by Leslie Speights , Robin Evans and the ever-cuddly Elizabeth Daily ) , so she agrees to spend a night in a creepy mausoleum where Raymar's body has been interred as part of an initiation rite . Naturally , Raymar still has his extraordinary powers , so it's going to be a very long and harrowing night of pure nerve-wracking terror for poor Julie . Director / co-screenwriter Tom McLoughlin ( who later gave us the enjoyably tongue-in-cheek " Friday the 13th Part VI : Jason Lives " ) eschews graphic gore in favor of creating a brooding and eerie atmosphere , but fails to pull this particular feat off because the first hour is way too slow , talky and uneventful to be remotely scary or suspenseful . However , I nonetheless still found this flawed fright flick to be oddly appealing and entertaining . The big poofy hairdos , a goofy music montage sequence , badly timed false scares ( including the ubiquitous hand on the shoulder gag ! ) , a scene at a glittery video game arcade , kids gleefully smoking pot , and the hilariously dumb teen slang ( " nerdle brain " ! ? ) give this picture a certain endearingly quaint 80's period charm . Hal Trussell's handsome , polished cinematography ( I especially dug the smoothly gliding Steadicam tracking shots ) , Bob Summers ' spooky , yet funky hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , and Tom Burman's splendidly ghoulish make-up f / x are all up to snuff . The ever-stolid Adam West of TV's " Batman " fame merely takes up space in a nothing secondary part . The mausoleum makes for an impressively vast and unsettling main location . The grand finale with a bunch of ghastly rotting corpses popping out of their coffins and floating about qualifies as a marvelously macabre shock set piece . Sure , this baby definitely ain't some unjustly unsung gem , but it still delivers plenty of pleasingly silly and diverting cheesy fun all the same .
An enjoyably silly mid 60's Italian low-budget sci-fi hoot	A destructive series of freakish natural disasters decimate the earth . The cause of said disasters turns out to be a barren , yet lethal , living and breathing asteroid that's hurtling through space on a collision course with our world . It's up to an intrepid team of astronauts led by courageous ramrod Commander Jackson ( a suitably stiff'n'stalwart Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ) to destroy the asteroid before it's too late . The fate of our planet depends on Jackson and his team successfully accomplishing their desperate mission . Director Antonio Margheriti keeps the pace moving along at a steady , speedy clip and plays the utterly absurd story ludicrously straight . Moreover , all the necessary winningly crummy ingredients for an entertainingly asinine piece of unmitigated drivel are present and accounted for : cruddy dubbing , wooden acting , cardboard characters , a corny stock film library score , and wonderfully rinky-dink ( far from ) special effects ( I especially dug the Tonka toy miniatures ) . Sure , this admittedly schlocky flick is dumb , chintzy and totally ridiculous , but this engagingly inane and immaterial piffle nonetheless is still tons better and more enjoyable than the abominable " Armegeddon . "
An amusingly broad and goofy porno comedy from the always dependable Joe Sarno	Hopelessly gawky'n'geeky mama's boy Melvin ( played to endearingly nerdy perfection by Doug Stone ) discovers sexy genie Amara ( the absolutely adorable blonde dish Chris Jordan ) in a bottle . Amara grants Melvin five wishes . Melvin wishes that he can become his favorite hardcore movie stars so he can make love to beautiful adult film actresses . Writer / director Joe Sarno , who usually makes thoughtful and intelligent serious soft-core pictures , loads this radical change-of-pace full-blown goofy porno farce with plenty of often hilarious crude jokes , lots of gleefully inane Jewish shtick humor , and outrageously broad Jewish stereotypes . While it might sound offensive , Sarno thankfully takes any potentially objectionable edge off by successfully creating and maintaining a sweet good-natured sensibility that's impossible to either resist or dislike . Moreover , the capable cast have a ball with their colorfully kooky roles . Ultramax in particular contributes a hysterically sidesplitting portrayal of Melvin's overbearing shrew of a mother Ms . Finkelfarb . Harding Harrison likewise amuses as Melvin's whiny kvetch best friend Irving Stein . Delicious brunette Tina Russell enjoys a nifty dual role as both herself and Melvin's flaky gal pal Janet Geckel . The sex scenes are quite funny and fairly explicit : Highlights include doctor Harry Reems having a threesome with a trio of hot babe patients , private detective Marc Stevens giving a luscious female criminal the special treatment , and hunky insurance salesman Eric Edwards getting intimate with his libidinous distaff clients . Joao Fernandes ' rough , no-frills cinematography , the blithely bouncy'n'playful score , and the authentically grubby New York City locations further enhance the infectiously silly charm of this cute little hoot .
A jaw-dropping marvel of gut-busting ineptitude	The mummy of long dormant , but powerful Haitian voodoo priest Gatanebo ( a chromedomed Aldo Sambrell , who's appeared in countless Italian spaghetti westerns ) gets revived on a luxury South Seas ocean cruise liner as a big buff bald guy and proceeds to terrorize the passengers . Gatanebo beheads several folks , occasionally reverts back to his prune-faced mummified state , and develops the hots for Sylvia ( ravishing redhead Eva Leon ) , who reminds him of his old lady love Kenya ( the equally gorgeous Tanyeka Stadler ) . Boy , does this beautifully bad and berserk baby possess all the right wrong stuff to qualify as an enjoyably dreadful dud : we've got clunky ( mis ) direction by Manuel Cano , a plodding pace , a talky , rambling script by Santiago Moncada , laughably lousy dubbing , garish cinematography by Roberto Ochoa , incredibly cheesy make-up f / x ( the paper mache decapitated heads are uproariously phony and unconvincing ) , a groovy swingin ' psychedelic lounge score by Fernando Garcia Morcillo , plenty of cheesy red-tinted flashbacks of Gatanebo frolicking on the beach with Kenya , and lots of hysterically bad dialogue ( " I am a homemade cop ; a little clumsy and a little old " ) . The cast of colorful supporting characters further adds to the unintentional hilarity : Fernando Sancho as the lazy , cigar-chomping Inspector Dominguez , Alfredo Mayo as stuffy anthropologist Dr . Kessling , Maria Antonio del Rio as an irritating shrew , and Enrique del Rio as her long-suffering husband . Moreover , Leon takes a bath and a voluptuous native exotic dancer really shakes her awesomely ample figure several times throughout the picture . Keep your eyes peeled for the wondrous moment when the cameraman's reflection can be clearly seen in a mirror during an attack scene . A shamefully unsung schlock riot .
A fun Italian zombie splatter romp	Six black slaves are resurrected as lethal and vengeful zombies through voodoo and go on a gruesome spree in Brazil . Vacationing British guy Kevin ( smooth Kevin Van Hoven ) , his spunky American girlfriend Jessica ( fetching blonde Sonia Curtis ) , and Sonia's whiny , annoying brother Dick ( the extremely obnoxious Joe Balogh ) all find themselves in considerable jeopardy . Director / co-writer Umberto Lenzi manages to create a reasonably creepy atmosphere ( the sequence with the zombies coming out of their graves in a misty cemetery is especially strong and memorable ) , relates the story at a snappy pace , and stages the splatter set pieces with his customary lip-smacking grisly gusto . The pleasingly hideous make-up f / x by Franco Casagni deliver the ghastly goods ; nasty highlights include an eye gouged out with a crowbar , an axe splitting open someone's skull , and a bloody throat slashing . Moreover , the shambling , rot-faced zombies with their egg-white eyes , unsightly faces , and rattling chains are genuinely unnerving . The cast for the most part give really bad performances , although Maria Alves contributes an amusing turn as superstitious maid Maria . Franco Micalizzi's spirited spooky'n'shuddery score , Maurizio Dell'Orco's crisp , handsome cinematography , and a lively last third with Kevin burning up those pesky zombies real good with a bunch of Molotov cocktails are all up to speed . An enjoyably schlocky piece of low-grade Italian horror junk .
A very funny low-budget send-up of ALIEN	This delightfully goofball " Airplane " - style spoof of ALIEN in particular and lovably lousy 50's sci-fi cheapie clunkers in general has the daffy crew of the spaceship U . S . S . Vertigo - - pompous macho jerk captain Leslie Nielson , obsessive , glory-seeking mad doctor Patrick MacNee ( " Knowledge is my candy ! " ) , relentlessly perky , but uptight morale officer Cindy Williams , crude , slobby pervert Gerrit Graham , and writer / director Bruce Kimmel as the meek , cloddish , browbeaten cook / janitor - - discover a mysterious unknown organism on a heretofore uncharted and previously undiscovered barren planet . The initially minuscule organism promptly grows into a large , tubby , one-eyed , red-skinned , slime-dripping man-eating gelatinous humanoid blob which in time-honored hoary B-movie fashion proceeds to devour most of the crew before being jettisoned into space . Kimmel wittily uses the obvious two-cent budget to the film's amiably chintzy advantage : the deliberately tacky special effects , hokey-looking monster , crummy sets , rigidly static and immobile cinematography , broadly hammy acting , cardboard characters , and cornball synthesizer score all serve as amusing dead-on deadpan send-ups of the flat production values and hackneyed conventions that were ripely abundant in those endearingly awful science fiction programmers of yore . More importantly , the frothy , facetious tone strikes just the right note of wide-eyed affection throughout , never seeming either smug or condescending in its cheery poking fun at stupidly generic sci-fi potboilers . Definite comic highlights : a TV news program which shows gorilla extraterrestrials invading Earth , when the ugly thingie heartily belts out the sidesplitting ditty " I Wanna Eat Your Face , " and the final shot which hilariously parodies that age-old " it ain't over yet ! " inconclusive sequel set-up non-ending cliché . Granted , it's no " Dark Star , " but this nifty little number overall rates as a pretty funny and enjoyably asinine tongue-in-cheek outing all the same .
Another worthy and entertaining horror anthology outing from those fine folks at Amicus	A quintet of men find themselves trapped in a deep , mysterious high-rise building basement where they relate their recurring nightmares to each other . 1st and most eerie tale , " Midnight Mess " - Ruthless criminal Rogers ( a solid Daniel Massey ) tracks down his sister Donna ( a marvelously sinister Anna Massey ) to a remote small town which turns out to be populated by vampires . 2nd and most darkly amusing story , " The Neat Job " - Overbearingly neat and tidy nit-picker Critchit ( a perfectly irritating Terry-Thomas ) drives his sweet , long-suffering wife Eleanor ( the delightful Glynis Johns ) murderously around the bend with his annoying fussiness . The sick punchline to this one is simply great . 3rd and most nifty yarn , " This Trick'll Kill You " - Arrogant magician Sebastian ( well played to the cocky hilt by Curt Jurgens ) and his wife Inez ( lovely Dawn Addams ) seal their gloomy fates when they steal an Indian rope trick . 4th and most ironic segment , " Bargain in Death " - Shrewd con artist Maitland ( the excellent Michael Craig ) concocts a seemingly foolproof insurance scam by faking his own death , but his plan goes horribly awry . Arthur Mullard contributes a winningly droll turn in this one as a clumsy oaf gravedigger . 5th and most nasty vignette , " Drawn and Quartered " - Struggling , destitute , bitterly vindictive painter Moore ( a splendidly performance by Tom Baker , who's barely recognizable beneath a big , bushy beard ) uses voodoo to get revenge on three greedy fellows who exploited him . Capably directed by Roy Ward Baker , with a tight script by Milton Subotsky , sharp cinematography by Denys N . Coop , a supremely spooky'n'shivery score by Douglas Gamley , a morbidly funny line in wickedly witty gallows humor , and tip-top acting from a bang-up all-star British cast , this film makes for a good'n'gruesome omnibus outing .
A solid and touching 70's made-for-TV drama	This surprisingly strong and absorbing made-for-TV drama tackles the pretty sordid subject of male prostitution with admirable taste and restraint . Sensitive aspiring artist Alexander Duncan ( an excellent and convincing performance by Leigh McCloskey ) winds up adrift , desperate and penniless in Los Angeles after he's thrown out of the house by his cranky , disapproving , overbearing farmer father ( a sturdy cameo by Lonny Chapman ) . Alex befriends slick , fast-talking male hustler Buddy ( a delightfully dynamic Asher Brauner ) and becomes a male prostitute . He gets arrested , but a sympathetic shrink ( nicely played by Earl Holliman ) has the charges dropped . Alex winds up living with friendly closeted homosexual pro football player Charles Selby ( well portrayed by Alan Feinstein ) , but both of them know that their relationship together isn't going to last forever . Capably directed by John Erman , with a thoughtful script by Dalene Young and Walter Dallanbach , sunny cinematography by Gayne Rescher , a funky score by Fred Karlin , a touching love story between Alex and Dawn , and bang-up supporting turns by Eve Plumb ( Jan on " The Brady Bunch " ) as Alex's loyal and loving reformed ex-hooker girlfriend Dawn , Jean Hagen as Alex's drunken , rundown land lady , Juliet Mills as a wealthy sophisticated lady customer Alex spends the night with , Jonathan Banks as a troubled gay man , Frances Faye as herself ( she performs on stage at a groovy swingin ' gay party ) , and P . J . Soles as a giggly football groupie , this movie overall rates as a solid , compelling and ultimately quite moving little drama .
A nifty nudie fantasy romp	Young marine biologist Dr . Samuel Jamison ( a likable performance by director George Rowe in his only acting gig ) discovers a bunch of lovely and enticing lady mermaids while searching for buried treasure located deep in the ocean nearby an isolated Mexican island . Writer / director John Lamb gives this simple tale a certain sweet and strangely innocent charm . Moreover , Lamb also maintains a steady pace throughout and brings a sense of genuine awe to the fantastic subject matter . The actresses who portray the titular topless sea sirens are quite attractive and well-endowed ; Diane Webber and Gaby Martone in particular are totally ravishing . Popping up in cool supporting roles are the singular Timothy Carey as nasty no-count criminal creep Milo Sangster , Jose Gonzales-Gonzales as excitable Mexican fisherman Pepe Gallardo , and John Mylong as weird old gent Ernst Steinhauer . Lamb's beautiful bright color cinematography offers a wondrous wealth of stunning visuals ( the underwater photography is often very striking ) . Richard La Selle's lush , stirring orchestral likewise hits the melodic spot . An enjoyable little flick .
A nifty and interesting little low-budget 70's drive-in variant on " The Andromeda Strain "	A surprisingly solid , engrossing and reasonably tense $1 . 98 one set wonder drive-in sci-fi thriller in the same strange , deadly disease from outer space medical chiller vein as " The Andromeda Strain . " The Viking space probe returns from Mars with an unwanted guest : a weird , fatal , positively unknowable plague which kills its victims when they fall asleep , causing their heads to expand until their skulls crack open and their brains come seeping out . A motley assortment of five people at a remote Wisconsin railway station get the lethal bug and must do their best to stay awake while scientists work around the clock to whip up a cure before it's too late . Directed , produced and edited as a true labor of low-budget love by Bill Rebane , whose largely awful cinematic track record includes the laughably horrible " The Giant Spider Invasion , " " The Alpha Incident " comes across as a most pleasant surprise . Granted , what we have here is very little money , a minimal set , a small cast , strictly elementary music and cinematography , but plenty of ambition and a welcome smidgen of genuine film-making ability . It's the rare movie where its paltry five-and-ten cent production cost and tight , pared down , stripped - to - the - bare - essentials look and feel actually work in its favor ; the total lack of potentially credibility-killing high gloss razzle dazzle ensures that the picture's gritty , no-frills style retains an oddly arresting and utterly convincing sense of plain , everyday , true-to-life mundane plausibility which in turn both heightens and strengthens the steadily escalating suspense . Ingrid Neumayer's uncommonly well thought-out script is another substantial plus , scoring points for its increasingly bleak , pessimistic tone ( the dark , downbeat ending is especially potent ) , hard cynical attitude towards secretive , sinister military operations , barbed dialogue ( " Don't look at me like I'm crazy - - I'm trying to stay alive ! " ) , clearly drawn and distinctive characters , and an intriguing air of general mystery . The cast of dependable B-movie vets come through with capable performances : frequent bit player and occasional screenwriter John ( " The Witch Who Came from the Sea , " " They Live " ) Goff in a rare meaty leading role as breezy , feisty , antagonistic blue collar hothead Jack , Stafford ( " The Stunt Man , " " The Forest " ) Morgan as enigmatic , levelheaded biochemist Sorenson , Ralph ( " The Food of the Gods , " " Without Warning " ) Meeker as weary , doddering train depot manager Charlie , Carol Irene Newell as perky secretary Jane , softcore sexploitation film regular John ( " The Black Godfather , " " This Is A Hijack ! " ) Alderman as coldly rational researcher Dr . Rogers , and , best of all , the always entertaining and invigorating George " Buck " Flower as gabby , gregarious railroad worker Hank , a lovable ol ' slob who unwittingly first catches the maleficent contagion when his curiosity gets the best of him . Truth be told , this feature sure ain't no earth-shattering major work of cinematic art , but for a down'n'dirty spare change grindhouse quickie " The Alpha Incident " is fine of its type and packs an unexpectedly strong wallop .
A deliciously cheesy low-budget sci-fi schlock hoot	Perpetually all-thumbs Baltimore , Maryland no-budget sci-fi dreck picture filmmaker Don Dohler strikes out with enjoyably abysmal results with his first ill-advised foray into " I got money , I have no clue how to direct , but I'll make myself a motion picture because I want to " Do It Yourself dimestore cinema . The fill-in-the-blanks obvious and predictable plot concerns a spaceship which crash-lands in the woods located nearby the sleepy podunk town of Perry Hill . A trio of pernicious and ferocious extraterrestrial beasts - - the Leemoid , a clunky stop-motion animation lizard dinosaur which sucks out people's lifeforce and turns their bodies into dried-out husks ; the Interbyce , a black , scaly , crusty-faced insect being wearing blue jeans ( ! ) , and the Zagatile , a hirsute , towering , long-legged Bigfoot-locking behemoth with lethal sharp claws - - escape from the downed craft and embark on a murderous spree , picking off a sizable share of the dipstick hillbilly populace . Boy , does this delightfully dopey unintentional riot really cover all the right wretched camp movie bases , starting with Dohler's characteristically ham-fisted direction and by-the-numbers cookie cutter cliché-ridden script . The pitifully fake , unconvincing ( substantially less than ) special effects are quite rubbery and laughable , with two of the creatures being clearly nothing more than a pair of hapless dudes in lumpy Halloween costume party-style outfits ( the Zagatile is especially crummy ) . The community theater level acting from a stock bunch of eternally awful Dohler film regulars is hilariously horrible : ungainly beanpole Tom Griffith cuts a most unimpressive figure as the earnest good ol ' boy sheriff , Dick Dyszel ( better known as Washington , DC TV horror show host Count Gore Devol ) does an odiously smarmy turn as the corrupt , money-grubbing mayor , blubbery beefcake Don Leifert wears a fixed scowl and snarls all his lines as an arrogant , trouble-making redneck monster hunter , and " Cinemacabre " fanzine editor George Stover nerds it up somethin ' gawky as a dweeby doctor . Brit McDonough's ratty cinematography , shot on chintzy , scratched-up 16mm film stock , gives the whole cockeyed affair the oddly endearing poverty-row look and feel of a slightly embellished home movie . Kenneth Walker's noodling , creepy-crawly synth score shrilly screams " Cheeseball sci-fi schlock flick music ! " The lowdown funky blue-eyed soul garage group Atlantis make a great cameo appearance cranking out a slow-grinding tune at a seedy bar . The atrociously banal dialogue boasts such tin-eared gems as " She's a cool chick and we're gonna take her with us " and the immortal deduction " Looks like my meteor is some kind of spacecraft . " Several unsightly white guy mushroom Afros and tacky sideburns , the choppy editing , poorly synced sound , a clumsy " Jaws " - derived subplot dealing with a few greedy and unscrupulous politicians who want to cover up the killings because it's bad for business , and an absurdly telegraphed would-be surprising twist ending cap off the goodies to be relished in this sloppy and amateurish , yet somehow still crudely appealing and entertaining clunker .
A satisfyingly sleazy sliver of vintage 70's drive-in exploitation trash	Totally bonkers psycho Alan ( Zalman King in robust , divinely unhinged and uninhibited gonzo form ) and his more mellow , but still quite lethal brother Peter ( a sedately sinister Robert Porter ) are a pair of odious , malefic , resolutely vile and unwholesome degenerate biker louts who gleefully torment , terrorize , manhandle , degrade and generally flat-out grossly mistreat a prissy school teacher ( plucky , comely brunette Brenda Fogarty ) and her bus load of four nubile strumpet teenage girl students ( Susie Russell , Cathy Worthington , Jill Voight and Dina Ousley , all sublimely delectable fair maidens who are just ripe with adolescent purity and ingenuousness ) in a remote area of the California desert . That's it for the admittedly skimpy plot and frankly who cares about some fancy-schmancy story , for what this really base and repulsive vintage 70's drive-in sleaze lacks in style and substance ( plenty , man ) , it more than compensates for with a winning abundance of ferociously foul-minded hardcore grindhouse cinema sliminess . We've got blunt direction by Earl Barton , grainy cinematography by Erwin Jay Barer , and a get-down funky syncopated score by Igo Kantor . Moreover , we also got rape , gratuitous nudity , a thrilling motorcycle chase that's followed by an equally exciting foot chase , a truly mean misogynistic bent , a few fiercely protracted murder set pieces , a marvelously vicious last reel onslaught of mass killing and destruction , and absolutely no redeeming artistic quality to ground the assorted trashy activities in any slight semblance of unwanted pretense or needless gravity . Best of all , it's considerably enlivened and made essential viewing by the incomparable Zalman King's frenzied , overwrought , explosively insane and unrestrained scenery-gulping histrionics . With his unsightly mass of curly , unwashed greasy hair , soiled dirt-stained blue jeans , irritating wheezing , deranged cackle , nasal , slurred mumble-grumble voice , enormous wrap-around black shades , fixed , unblinking baleful stare , crazed facial expressions ( King contorts his sweaty puss into a hilariously pained grimace whenever he bags somebody ) , scraggly five day beard , getting wackier by the minute slow burn intensity , and hysterically out of it live-wire mugging , King could pass for either David Hess ' severely dysfunctional sociopathic near twin brother or a twitchy heroin addict who's in dire need of an immediate fix . An exquisitely gnarly'n'nasty nugget .
A worthy follow-up to the excellent original	Director / co-screenwriter Bob Clark follows up his surprise hit original with this solid and often sidesplitting sequel . This time those rowdy lads at Angel Beach High are pitted against a bunch of uptight killjoy religious fanatics led by the smarmy Reverand Flaval ( a perfectly slimy Bill Wiley ) who object to a Shakespeare festival on the grounds that the Bard's work is obscene . Moreover , the local Klu Klux Klan aren't happy that Native American John Henry ( likable James Runningfox ) is playing the lead in the production of " Romeo and Juliet . " Clark not only incorporates the expected wild'n'raunchy anything-goes humor that was a key pleasing ingredient of the first film , but also takes wickedly nasty satiric potshots at such deserving targets as racial prejudice , religious hypocrisy and political corruption . Once again the cast really sink their teeth into their parts with unbridled gusto . Special kudos are in order for Dan Monahan as the impish Pee Wee , Kaki Hunter as the cheerfully bawdy Wendy , Nancy Parsons as stern gym teacher Ms . Balbricker , and Eric Christmas as the timid Principal Carter . Comic highlights include a nice tongue-in-cheek homage to Clark's earlier fright feature " Children Shouldn't Play With Dead Things , " Ms . Balbricker singing on the toilet , and Wendy acting like a loud obnoxious ill-mannered immature brat at a posh French restaurant . Cisse Cameron has a memorably sexy bit as a luscious stripper who disrobes in a cemetery . Reginald H . Morris ' slick cinematography , Carl Zittrer's lively , rousing score , and the catchy golden oldies soundtrack are all likewise up to par . There's even a surprising amount of sweet sensitivity to be found amid all the wacky tomfoolery . Granted , this film doesn't totally match the gut-busting hilarity of the incredible original , but it's still plenty of good , naughty fun all the same .
One of Ted V . Mikels ' better movies	Hunky , lecherous businessman Cliff ( handsome Gary Kent ) and his sweet , lovely wife Mindy ( the adorable Lee Anna ) move from Grand Rapids , Michigan to Los Angeles , California . They take up residence in an apartment complex where several alluring young ladies also live . Pretty soon Cliff is having an affair with the boss ' secretary while poor neglected Mindy becomes involved with exotic and predatory nightclub owner and bisexual dominatrix Tanya ( enticing brunette firecracker Verne Martine ) . This enjoyably tawdry melodrama rates as one of infamous Do-It-Yourself indie schlock cinema auteur Ted V . Mikels ' better films : The competent direction , Gregory Sandor's fairly polished cinematography , the steady pace , Icaras De Docaras ' groovy bongo drums-driven score , solid acting from an attractive cast ( slinky dish Maureen Gaffney makes an especially favorable impression as the uninhibited Joanie ) , some kinky stuff like bondage and sadomasochism , the racy script , a nice smattering of female nudity , and a smidgen of mild soft-core sex all ensure that this picture hits the sizzling salacious spot . A nifty and satisfying little walk on the swingin ' 60's wild side .
A solid and exciting chase action thriller winner	The Yukon territory in 1931 . Rugged , laconic loner trapper Albert Johnson ( a splendidly terse and stoic Charles Bronson ) saves a badly wounded canine from a brutal dogfight . The guys involved in the dogfight decide to pay Johnson a visit . Johnson shoots and kills one of the men in self-defense . Tough Mountie Sergeant Edgar Millen ( a strong , steely turn by Lee Marvin ) tries to arrest Johnson , but he gets away and so begins one of the deadliest manhunts in history . Director Peter Hunt relates the gripping story at a steady pace , vividly evokes the Great Depression period setting , stages the action scenes with rip-roaring flair , and frequently punctuates things with startling outbursts of raw , bloody violence . Bronson and Marvin both excel in the leads ( their one big confrontation scene is a taut , crackling doozy ) ; they receive fine support from Andrew Stevens as eager , by-the-book , fresh-faced rookie Alvin Adams , Carl Weathers as the jolly Sundog , Ed Lauter as gruff , huffy troublemaker Hazel , Angie Dickinson as the sweet , enticing Vanessa McBride , Henry Beckman as wily veteran tracker Bill Lusk , August Schellenberg as the hot-tempered Deak De Blearque , Maury Chaykin as the scruffy , dim-witted Claurence , Len Lesser as the grizzled Lewis , Scott Hylands as cocky airplane pilot Hank Tucker , and Willam Sanderson as the clumsy Ned Warren ( he gets his arm caught in a bear trap ) . James Devis ' slick , expansive cinematography , Jerrold Immel's rousing , majestic score , and the desolate wintry landscape all further enhance the overall sound quality of this cracking good and stirring picture .
An entertaining comedic pirate romp	Wily and suave buccaneer Blackie ( a smooth and charming portrayal by the always solid Terence Hill ) clashes with several fellow pirate captains while trying to get exclusive dibs on both a fortune in gold and enticing fair damsel Isabel ( the ravishing Silvia Monti ) . Director Lorenzo Gicca Palli and screenwriter George Martin ( who also appears in the movie as Blackie's bumbling destitute partner Don Predro ) concoct an amiably silly tongue-in-cheek swashbuckler that unfolds at a steady pace while offering a winning blend of colorful characters , a flavorsome period setting ( the sets and costumes are both impressively lavish ) , and plenty of lively action which includes the expected rousing sword fights and no-holds-barred rough'n'tumble fisticuffs . This jolly affair further benefits from spirited acting from an engaging cast : Hill displays his usual affable charisma as Blackie , Monti is simply luscious as Isabel , Bud Spencer is suitably redoubtable as Blackie's gruff rival Skull , plus there are neat supporting contributions by Diana Lorys as feisty barmaid Manuela , Edmund Purdom as the irritable viceroy , Monica Randall as the fetching Carmen , Sal Borgese as the kindly Martin , Pasquale Basile as primitive brute Stiller , and Fernando Bilbao as hulking strongman Moko . Jaime Deu Casas ' polished cinematography gives the picture a nice sense of scope . Gino Peguri's jaunty score likewise hits the cheery spot . An enjoyable flick .
An engrossingly creepy 70's made-for-TV thriller	Albert Graves ( splendidly played by Arthur Kennedy ) and his wife Alice ( a top-drawer performance by Teresa Wright ) are a nice middle-aged couple who discover young , homeless , troubled Richard Atley ( a frightfully edgy portrayal by Tom Happer ) residing in a crawlspace in the basement of their house . They adopt Richard as if he was the son they never had . Things work out for a spell , but eventually turn sour when Richard's volatile nature asserts itself with tragic results . Director John Newland ( who also gave us the terrifically freaky " Don't Be Afraid of the Dark " ) , working from an intriguing script by Ernest Kinoy , does an able and effective job of creating and maintaining an absorbingly mysterious tone . Jerry Goldsmith's beautifully classy and eerie score adds substantially to the tension . Urs Furrer's slick , pretty cinematography likewise hits the spot . Kennedy and Wright do sterling work in the leads ; they receive bang-up support from Happer , Eugene Roche as folksy , responsible sheriff Emil Birge , Dan Morgan as doddery old shopkeeper Harlow , and Matthew Cowles as local troublemaker Dave Freeman . This offbeat and enjoyable little winner would make a perfect double bill with the similarly solid and unnerving " Bad Ronald . "
A deliciously groovy 70's drive-in cult horror treat	Robert Quarry gives a suavely sinister and mesmerizing performance as Count Yorga , a smooth , cultured and highly dangerous Bulgarian vampire who's posing as a psychic medium in modern-day 70's Los Angeles , California . Yorga preys on several young ladies and incurs the wrath of their boyfriends , who find that killing Yorga is easier said than done . Directed with real skill and assurance by Robert Kelljan ( who also wrote the witty script ) , with sharp cinematography by Arch Archambault , a steady pace , a lively , shuddery score by Bill Marx , a good deal of tension , and an extremely wild , rousing and gruesome conclusion that comes complete with a surprise downbeat ending , this horror opus puts a really nifty and entertaining contemporary hip spin on the usual bloodsucker premise . This movie further benefits from solid acting from a largely attractive cast : Roger Perry as the concerned , practical Dr . James Hayes , Donna Anderson as the fetching Donna , Michael Macready as Donna's worried , protective boyfriend Michael Thompson , Michael Murphy as the brash Paul , Judy Lang as the alluring , outgoing Erica Landers , Edward Walsh as Yorga's brutish , creepy manservant Brudah , and buxom blonde 60's soft-core cinema starlet Marsha Jordan as one of Yorga's sexy , yet lethal vampire brides . Better still , Kelljan totally pushes the PG rating to the limit : Erica snacks on a cute little kitten in one particularly shocking scene and Yorga's vampire brides all show off a lot of cleavage . George Macready supplies the supremely sonorous narration which bookends the picture . A real fun'n'funky delight .
More amusingly crummy zombie horror splatter junk from Todd Sheets	Tireless and irrepressible Do-It-Yourself indie schlock horror blunder wonder Todd Sheets works his cinematic ( anti ) magic once again with this third delightfully dreadful installment in this perfectly pathetic series of cheap'n'cheesy micro-budget shot-on-video horror zombie gorefests . This time a bunch of zombies that were used by the government in the near future to fight in a major war are shot into space . Naturally , the space shuttle gets caught in a time warp and comes back to Earth in the present . Of course , the ravenous horde of flesh-eating fiends proceed to terrorize a motley assortment of wholly hateful and unappealing folks who are trapped inside a high school . Besides the needlessly convoluted and ludicrous premise that's essentially an godly blend of " The Breakfast Club " and your standard zombie fright feature , other choice cruddy stuff to relish in this goodie are rough , ugly and unpolished shot-on-smeary-video cinematography , a headache-inducing roaring hard thrash metal rock soundtrack , an excruciatingly sluggish and drawn-out opening third ( the so-called " action " doesn't really kick in until the 40 minute mark ! ) , poor acting from a lame no-name cast , awful , pun-ridden , ridiculously profane dialogue ( the almighty " F " bomb gets dropped with appalling frequency in practically every other line ! ) , terrible CGI ( far from ) special effects , and a frustrating circular non-ending . However , Sheets does deliver on his customary gleefully excessive and over-the-top unflinching in-your-face graphic splatter : blood squirts all over the place , guts are torn out , and entrails are devoured with appropriately disgusting gusto . A hilariously horrible howler .
A pleasingly perverse and twisted early 80's killer kid horror hoot	Here's a particularly weird , warped and flat-out unsettling little low-budget killer kid horror favorite . This truly strange offering centers on 12-year-old oddball Jamie , a friendless , sexually precocious and socially maladjusted pre-pubescent teen creep whose sole pal is a teddy bear with glowing red eyes that occasionally talks to him . Jamie's heretofore lousy lot in life perks up considerably when two good things go his way : his parents hire a sexy young lady ( nicely played by brunette hottie Jeannie Ellis ) to look after him and , better still , Jamie discovers a deep hole in the nearby woods with a bunch of big , hairy , carnivorous prehistoric humanoid beasts he dubs " trogalogs " residing in it . Pretty soon Jamie is not only spying on his babysitter in the shower , but also feeding various folks who mercilessly persecute him and / or put a crimp in his lifestyle - - his babysitter's football player boyfriend , the mean schoolyard bully and his equally nasty girlfriend , even some cranky old biddy in a wheelchair who lives down the street - - to his newfound butt-ugly , fanged and hirsute flesh-eating monster buddies . Director Lew Lehman really plays up the intrinsic perversity of the alarmingly aberrant premise ; he has the evil little brat " hero " cut out nude photos from a book and force the uptight , yet attractive local librarian to secretly strip for him in front of an open window ( ! ) . Lehman's aided substantially in his goal to present Jamie as one deliciously deviant and depraved puppy by the strikingly obnoxious performance by homely and charmless child actor Sammy Snyders : With his stringy build , bumpy nose , grating raspy voice and unsightly salad bowl haircut , Snyders qualifies as one of the most grotesquely off-kilter and unsympathetic murderous little twerps you will ever see in a fright flick . The movie has a very cool surprise ending , too . The Anchor Bay DVD offers this demented dilly on a two-sided flipper disc with the hilariously horrendous late 80's direct-to-video clunker " Hellgate ; " it's a satisfyingly clean and crisp widescreen presentation with a skimpy still and poster gallery as the only extra .
A deliciously cheesy zero budget zombie splatter laugh riot	Do-It-Yourself indie horror auteur Todd Sheets returns with another entertainingly atrocious nickel'n'dime shot-on-video clunker that's basically just a feeble excuse to sling around a lot of watery blood and gleaming guts as often as possible . An evil demonic scarecrow resurrects the dead as ravenous rot-faced zombies so they can feast on the living . A bunch of bickering college kids , a trio of dangerous escaped convicts led by the vicious Slade ( Byron Nichodemus hamming it up to an outrageous degree ) , two equally savage sleazeball hoodlums , and a trio of hottie sisters all have to do their best to survive this harrowing ordeal . That's it for the needlessly muddled and convoluted plot , but fortunately what this hilariously horrendous hoot lacks in narrative coherence ( plenty ) it more than compensates for with a pleasing plethora of gloriously gross'n'graphic gore . Disgusting highlights include a woman having her fingers chopped off , a fatal gunshot to a young gal's groin , attempted necrophiliac rape , evisceration , and , of course , more repulsive entrail eating than you can shake a pile of moist intestines at . Moreover , we've also got rough , grainy cinematography that constantly alternates between washed-out color and grimy black and white , ineptly staged fight scenes , lousy acting from a uniformly pathetic no-name cast ( Jerry Angell in particular cops the top crummy thespic dishonors for his laughably abysmal histrionics as slimy no-count psycho criminal Joe Bob ) , a grating head-banging thrash metal soundtrack , and a generic shivery'n'ominous synthesizer score . Let's not forget the ridiculous ending in which several of our survivors stumble across a few vials of flesh-eating bacteria to use on the shambling undead hordes . Sure , this flick is pure dreck , but it has a certain endearingly abominable quality to it that in turn makes it a great deal of so-awful-it's-awesome Grade Z fun for hardcore aficionados of bad fright fare .
An enjoyably off-center black comic parody of gangster movies	Loopy , but shrewd and formidable mob boss Vic ( an excellent performance by Richard Dreyfuss ) gets released from a mental hospital . Several of Vic's fellow criminal cohorts who include volatile henchman " Brass Balls " Ben London ( a gloriously manic and over-the-top hammy portrayal by Gabriel Byrne ) , the smarmy Jake Parker ( a perfectly smug Kyle MacLachlan ) , and vicious rival " Wacky " Jacky Jackson ( a neat turn by Burt Reynolds ) all try to bump Vic off . Meanwhile , laid-back and self-assured hit-man Mickey Holliday ( nicely played with low-key confidence by Jeff Goldblum ) finds himself caught in the middle of all this deadly lunacy . Writer / director Larry Bishop brings a supremely hip , quirky , and original idiosyncratic sensibility to this deliciously dark and deadpan pitch-black comedy about betrayal , loyalty , and ruthless ambition run dangerously amok . The bang-up cast have a field day with the colorfully grotesque rogues ' gallery of blithely amoral and treacherous hoodlums : Ellen Barkin as tough , sultry moll Rita Everly , Henry Silva as Vic's reliable right-hand man Sleepy Joe Carisle , Gregory Hines as philosophical smoothie Jules Flamingo , Diane Lane as Vic's sweet , perky mistress Grace , Billy Drago as the slimy Wells , and Christopher Jones as brutish rub-out artist Nicholas Falco . Bishop makes the most of his juicy secondary role as lethal and laconic ace assassin Nick . Popping up in nifty bits are Billy Idol as a blustery thug , Michael J . Pollard as the ill-fated Red , Joey Bishop as mortician Mr . Gottlieb , Rob Reiner as a jolly chauffeur , and Richard Pryor as Jimmy the Gravedigger . Byrne's delightfully insane duet with singer Paul Anka on " My Way " rates as a definite sidesplitting highlight . A tense and amusing climactic Mexican stand-off likewise tickles the funny bone something hysterical . Frank Byers ' slick cinematography , the outrageously nutty dialogue , Earl Rose's jazzy cocktail lounge score , and a choice soundtrack of vintage swinging golden oldies all further enhance the engagingly peculiar charm of this immensely entertaining one-of-a-kind curio .
A hugely enjoyable 50's horror creature feature romp	A giant , ugly prehistoric fish causes any living thing which comes into close contact with it to revert to a wild , brutal and murderous primitive state : a friendly German Shepard turns into a fanged ferocious wolf , a dragonfly transforms into a big killer insect , and , worst of all , amiable college professor Arthur Franz becomes a strong , hairy , lethal apelike Neanderthal beast who embarks on a deadly rampage . Silly ? Oh yeah . Still quite fun and enjoyable ? You bet . Ace 50's sci-fi / horror master Jack ( " The Creature from the Black Lagoon , " " The Space Children " ) Arnold's proficient direction , Russell Metty's crisp black and white photography , admirably sincere and committed acting from a mostly solid cast ( Joanna Moore as Franz's concerned , fetching blonde fiancé and the ubiquitous Whit Bissell as a skeptical colleague are especially good , although 50's teen scream pin-up hunk Troy Donahue gives a hopelessly flat and colorless performance as a drippy student ) , a nifty plot which provides a clever contemporary variant on " Dr . Jeckyll and Mr . Hyde , " Joseph Gershenson's effectively spare'n'shivery score , and several jolting jump-out-at-you shocks ( the single most startling moment occurs when the Neanderthal man tosses a hatchet right into a forest ranger's face ! ) all ensure that this fright feature remains a highly entertaining item from start to finish . The Universal DVD offers a nice fullscreen presentation with the trailer as the sole extra ( legendary voice actor Paul Frees handles vocal chores on said trailer with his trademark lip-smacking aplomb ) .
A taut and gripping 70's made-for-TV thriller	Businessman Chuck Brenner ( a strong and engaging performance by James Brolin ) gets mugged and knocked unconscious in the bathroom at a department store . When Chuck comes to , he finds himself locked inside the store with a bunch of ferocious Doberman guard dogs . Writer / director Frank De Felitta , who also wrote the superior supernatural shocker " The Entity , " relates the arresting story at a snappy pace and does an adept job of creating plenty of sweaty , nerve-wracking suspense . Fred Mandl's agile cinematography and Gil Melle's primal , robust , throbbing score greatly enhance the white-knuckle tension . Brolin excels in the strenuous and demanding lead role : Scared and delirious , suffering from severe blood loss ( one of the vicious canines bites his leg ) and fending off those pesky pooches with either a chair or a flaming mop , Brolin has you rooting for him every harrowing step of the way . Moreover , the supporting cast likewise contributes solid work : Susan Clark as Chuck's bitter estranged ex-wife Elaine , Earl Holliman as Elaine's patient , practical new hubby David Moore , Robert ( " Trouble Man " ) Hooks as smooth , helpful police Sergeant Connaught , and Tammy Harrington as Chuck's adorable little daughter Carrie . An excellent nail-biter .
An amusing horror comedy short	A miserable henpecked sci-fi movie fan ( a solid performance by writer / director Jason Knuth ) wishes that his shrewish and nagging wife ( a perfectly bitchy Beth Knuth ) was dead . The wife gets killed in an automobile accident , but comes back to life as a pesky rot-faced zombie . This short'n'sweet little horror comedy romp maintains a nicely deadpan tone throughout , pokes affectionate fun at both cheesy fright fare and hardcore film nerds , and culminates in a nifty , if rather predictable conclusion . Moreover , the zombie make-up is really gnarly , the cinematography is likewise pretty crisp , the generic shivery synthesizer score does the trick , and the soundtrack boasts a few lively rock songs . Plus the outtakes are absolutely sidesplitting . A real hoot .
A wonderfully wretched Grade Z horror gore schlock howler	Since I'm a hardcore aficionado of Grade Z garbage I must confess I was really looking forward to this notoriously lousy piece of absolute grindhouse horror splatter trash . I just recently snagged a copy of this brain-numbing bilge on DVD and dared to give it a stare . WOW ! This sure ain't your garden variety bad flick . Instead , it's a very special and oddly endearing sort of unbelievably bad flick . Let's start with the lovably preposterous premise : Prehistoric cult members Gar ( some hopelessly wooden stiff acting under the incredible pseudonym of Crackers Phinn ) and Tra ( the equally woeful Barbara Monker , who's really Barbara Bain of " Space : 1999 " fame ! ) are banished from their tribe for cannibalizing little kids in order to gain eternal youth . Prior to getting the boot the wizened old crone queen puts a curse on the pernicious pair : they are forever doomed to walk the earth in perpetual suffering in which they age one year every ten years and must resort to further flesh-eating to become young again . Fortunately in the early 80's in Los Angeles Gar leaves the park the two have been living in and marries a hot , but snippy young lady ( an early appearance by popular 80's horror scream queen Linnea Quigley , who looks awful cute , but can't act for spit ) and has a daughter who he names Bondi ( the adorable Tamara Taylor ) . Naturally , something sinister is afoot here : Both Gar and Tra plan on devouring Bondi's precious innocent virginal flesh when she turns 16 in order to achieve complete everlasting eternal life . Boy , now that's what I call an absurdly complex , convoluted and rather confusing story ! Besides the gloriously gonzo narrative , this choice chunk of prime tasty celluloid cheese further boasts dreadful direction by Lawrence D . Foldes , muddy , shaky , vertigo-inducing cinematography by William De Diego , cruddy make-up effects , tacky excessive gore , choppy editing , a rancid score by Chris Ledesma , a threadbare , barely coherent and rambling script , sluggish pacing , a stupid shock surprise ending , and uniformly dismal acting from a pitiful cast ( Meeno Peluce wins the grand thespic booby prize as an obnoxiously hearty young kid runaway while poor Aldo Ray is wasted in a nothing minor part as a writer ) , all of which are exceptionally atrocious . The film's single most jaw-dropping sequence occurs when Bondi gets abducted by three degenerate rapists in a van , but is saved by a magical amulet given to her by her father which causes the van to go off a bridge and explode ! Another stupendous moment has Gar and Tra shooting crummy laser beams out of their eyes . And let's not forget the pathetic handful of moaning rot-faced zombies who pop up for the stirring conclusion . As an added bonus , both Linnea Quigley and Tamara Taylor have nude scenes . This sublimely shoddy stinker is a real must-see for devout fans of deliciously down'n'dirty dimestore dreck cinema .
An eerie , offbeat and interesting early 70's Hammer Gothic horror oddity	Wicked , decadent Baron Zorn ( a robust , rip-snorting portrayal by Robert Hardy ) keeps both his frail daughter Elisabeth ( touchingly played by the delicately comely Gillian Hills ) and tormented son Emil ( Shane Briant in his excellent film debut ) locked up inside his dismal castle because of a hereditary family curse of insanity . Meanwhile a bunch of gorgeous peasant girls in a nearby village are being brutally murdered by a mystery maniac . Pretty soon the frightened townspeople succumb to mass hysteria . Director Peter Sykes , working from a quirky , intricate , literate and compellingly subversive script by Christopher Wicking ( who also wrote " The Oblong Box " and " Scream and Scream Again " ) , expertly crafts a spooky , artsy and intriguing psychological portrait of madness and despair , relating the story at a slow , stately rate and deftly creating a potently gloomy and melancholy atmosphere . Popping up in enjoyably colorful supporting roles are Patrick Magee as a cynical , unhelpful charlatan psychiatrist , Yvonne Mitchell as a loyal housekeeper , Manfred Mann lead singer Paul Jones as Elisabeth's ardent suitor , and Michael Hordern as a deranged , doddery priest . Arthur Grant's exquisitely lush'n'lovely pastoral cinematography , the brooding 19th century setting , Harry Robinson's eerie , elegant score , and a dark narrative which boldly explores such disturbing themes as incest , repression and the sins of the fathers further enhances the overall fine quality of this flavorsome Gothic horror outing .
An amusingly awful early 80's collegiate slasher hoot	Your average garden variety psychotic nutcase ( deliciously essayed with unhinged glee by Stephen Sachs ) knocks off various dim-witted young " adults " ( to use the term very loosely ) in Dayton Hall University , which is being closed down for demolition . Featuring dreadful acting by the entire cast ( Daphne Zuniga makes her ignominious and inauspicious film debut here as Debbie , a bimbo who has her head crushed by a car ! ) , a hefty corpse tally of 10 , okay make-up f / x by Matthew Mungle , a few bloody murders ( baseball bat bludgeoning , chicken wire strangulation , your standard drill through the head bit , that sort of gruesome thing ) , a downbeat surprise twist ending which was later copied in " Intruder , " a creepy score by Christopher ( " Hellraiser " ) Young , a slight smidgen of gratuitous female nudity , and endearingly incompetent direction by Jeffrey Obrow and Steve Carpenter ( who also blessed us with " The Power " and " The Kindred " ) , this entertainingly abysmal slice'n'dice atrocity sizes up as a good deal of delectably dopey and drecky low-grade fun .
A solid and unjustly forgotten 70's blaxploitation sleeper	Calivin Lockhart gives an excellent and affable performance as the Baron , an idealistic and impractical independent filmmaker who's struggling to get his first completed movie distributed . Calvin's a starry-eyed , woolly-headed dreamer with delusions of grandeur who gets a painful and jarring crash course in brutal , sordid reality when one of his financiers , a vulgar and flamboyant dope dealer called the Cokeman ( a superbly cool and sweetly villainous turn by Charles MacGregor ) , demands that Calvin immediately cough up the $300 grand the Cokeman lent to him for his picture . The Cokeman desperately needs the dough to pay off a debt he owes to mean , racist , neurotic , homophobic and highly image conscious bon vivant loan shark Joey ( veteran bad guy character actor Richard Lynch in peak scurvy form ) . Hard up for cash , Lockhart is forced to turn tricks as a gigolo , with his prize customers being wealthy elderly widow Joan Blondell and affluent , married young tease Caroline ( the lovely Marlene Clark ) . Under Phillip Fenty's able , assured direction ( Fenty also wrote the unusually thoughtful script and previously penned the screenplay for " Superfly " ) , this offbeat and interesting feature does an equally adept job as both a taut , gripping down and dirty crime flick and a trenchant , absorbing examination on the difference between dreams and reality , how far one is willing to go to make one's dreams come true , the desire to have control over your life , and the powerful need to be a success on your own terms . The catchy , funky , groovy soundtrack , uniformly top-notch acting ( Lynch , decked out in flashy white suits and a snazzy top hat , especially shines as the eminently hateful and manipulative main bastard heavy ) , a sharply delineated contrast between the cold harshness of life on the streets and the lazy , decadent opulence of the high life , and the compelling , thematically rich narrative further enhance this film's overall sound quality . Although sometimes a bit slow and pretentious , " The Baron " still warrants praise as an ambitious , intriguing , uncommonly reflective and refreshingly unconventional existential thinking man's blaxploitation gangster sleeper .
A bleak & gritty , yet solid & engrossing British kitchen sink drama	Set in a plausibly dreary and defiantly anti-nostalgic late 50's era Britian , this grimly serious kitchen sink drama relates the turbulent up and down tale of one Jim MacLaine ( superbly played by David Essex of " Rock On " fame ) , a discontent working class bloke who wants to be a rock star so he can successfully transcend the dismally unrewarding banality of plain old normal bourgeoisie existence and live a free , spontaneous , not attached to any heavy responsibility life . Jim drops out of school and moves out of his mother's house . He winds up going nowhere slowly , selling beach chairs on the arid shore in order to scrape by , until a shrewd smoothie busboy ( Ringo Starr in a surprisingly excellent performance ) takes the shy , naive Jim under his wing and teaches the heretofore sweet , guileless lad the fine art of picking up girls and gypping patrons at the local carnival of their spare change . Pretty soon Jim degenerates into a cold , heartless womanizing cad who's incapable of commitment and , as long as he refuses to settle down , just a few steps away from the fame he seeks . Loosely based on John Lennon's actual early exploits , with an outstanding golden oldies soundtrack and a rough , seedy , marvelously unglamorous and unromanticized depiction of the 50's , " That'll Be the Day " offers an engrossingly seamy and minutely detailed evocation of drab blue collar life , chiefly centering on the pertinent role rock music plays in serving as an outlet for overcoming the horrid ordinariness of said average lifestyle . Claude Whatham's astutely observant direction delivers a striking wealth of piquant incidental touches - - the ghastly shabbiness of Jim's cheap apartment , the faulty , out-of-tune speakers at a rundown dance hall , the grungy sleaziness of the fairground Jim works at , an incredibly cheerless wedding reception - - which in turn brings a splendidly gritty , lived-in conviction to Ray Connelly's meticulous , unsparingly downbeat script . Moreover , the acting is uniformly top-notch ( Essex's finely underplayed characterization is especially strong ) , with commendable work turned in by Rosemary Leach as Jim's doting , concerned mother , James Booth as Jim's restless and unreliable absentee deadbeat dad , and Billy Fury as hotshot lounge singer extraordinaire Stormy Tempest . A sterling cinematic testament to rock music's undying allure and magical ability to create hope in an otherwise bleak and thankless world .
An enjoyable horror comedy short	Suave vampire Anton ( smoothly played by Jeremy Harrison ) and his sultry spouse Monica ( deliciously essayed with supremely sexy and wicked aplomb by Becky Biggs ) plan to have attractive , but sexually frustrated young couple Christopher ( an endearingly whiny performance by Jason Amerson ) and Jill ( a perfectly uptight turn by Kelly A . Young ) over for dinner . But the bloodsuckers ' bestial and deranged snarling subhuman pet Toby ( a marvelously crazed portrayal by Dave R . Watkins ) threatens to ruin everything with his rude and unruly behavior . Writer / director Watkins delivers a brisk and witty short horror comedy feature that offers a fine amusing line in twisted black humor , pokes inspired fun at the suburbanite obsession with always maintaining a pleasant and respectable appearance , and culminates in a neat surprise conclusion that's neither obvious nor expected . This film further benefits from the uniformly solid acting by an appealing and good-looking cast , with the pretty and alluring Biggs rating as the definite stand-out of the bunch . Melanie Mascioli's slick cinematography and Daniel Solammon's shuddery , syncopated score are both up to speed as well . A cute little tongue-in-cheek fright flick romp .
A pleasingly sleazy and mean-spirited serving of down'n'dirty Italian crime action trash	Sadistic no-count killer Nanni Vitali ( excellently essayed with lip-smacking wicked relish by Helmut Berger ) and three equally brutish hoodlums escape from prison . The foul foursome embark on a savage spree of rape , murder and robbery . Vitali even abducts and defiles frightened hapless lass Giuliana Caroli ( a solid turn by the strikingly gorgeous Marisa Mell ) . Rugged police Inspector Giulio Santini ( a properly steely performance by Richard Harrison ) becomes determined to bag the despicable Vitali . Writer / director Sergio Grieco keeps the movie rattling along at a constant swift pace , stages the stirring action scenes with considerable rip-snorting brio ( the occasional use of strenuous slow motion is especially effective and impressive ) , and does an expert job of creating and sustaining a harsh , gritty , resolutely tough-minded and nasty-hearted tone . Vittorio Bernini's crisp , handsome widescreen cinematography gives the picture an attractive glossy look . Umberto Smaila's funky , throbbing score likewise hits the groovy spot . Best of all , this extremely hard-edged winner certainly doesn't skimp on the excessive full-bore profanity , tasty female nudity , raunchy sex , and rough , unflinching , no-holds-barred ferocious violence . A satisfyingly sick and vicious little beaut .
An enjoyably goofy tongue-in-cheek sequel to the classic 50's original	This belated purposefully campy sequel to the ' 58 cult sci-fi / horror classic has old gooey being thawed out and going on a voracious feeding frenzy in a sleepy small Southern California town . It's up to amiable hippie Robert Walker , Jr . and his sweet girlfriend Gwynne Gilford to stop the lethal gelatinous sentient mass of alien goop before it's too late . Of course , uptight sheriff Richard Webb doesn't believe a word of their incredible far-fetched story . Directed with oddly engaging incompetence by a clueless Larry Hagman ( J . R . on " Dallas " ! ) , with hokey special effects by Tim Baar , a delightfully corny score by Mort Garson , a silly script by Jack Woods and Anthony Harris , rough , unpolished , but still blindingly garish cinematography by Al Hamm , gleefully hammy acting from an appealingly enthusiastic cast , and a lively climactic raid on a bowling alley by the writhing pile of deadly jello , " Beware ! the Blob " provides a great deal of infectiously giddy'n'goofy fun . Appearing briefly as blob food are Carol Lynley as a vacuous flower child , Gerrit Graham as an obnoxious party animal , Dick Van Patten as an overzealous cub scout troop master , Godfrey Cambridge as a lazy Alaska pipeline worker , Marlene Clark as Cambridge's nagging wife , Cindy Williams as a pot-smoking teenager , Shelley Berman as a smarmy barber , Burgess Meredith as a grouchy wino , Hagman as a whiny drunk , and Del Close ( Reverend Meeker in the terrific ' 88 " The Blob " remake ) as a pitchfork-wielding dude with an eyepatch covering his left eye . An entertainingly inane hoot .
An amiably silly and harmless tongue-in-cheek Western comedy romp	The ever-solid and charming Fred " the Hammer " Williamson stars as a rugged itinerant gunslinger who becomes the reluctant constant patsy for slick'n'shrewd con man Richard Pryor . The crafty duo experience a series of goofy misadventures in the Old West in this amiably inane and inconsequential piece of low-budget blaxploitation sagebrush fluff . Competently directed by Williamson ( who also wrote the slight , but witty script ) , the rambling narrative saunters along at a pleasingly relaxed rate , the tone remains pleasant and playful throughout , and there's a winningly breezy'n'easy chemistry between the two leads , with Williamson engagingly playing the long-suffering straight man to Pryor's smartaleck joker . Moreover , Williamson stages the expected rough'n'tumble fisticuffs , heated shoot-outs , a daring jailbreak and frantic horseback chase sequences with a reasonable amount of skill and brio . Popping up in nifty supporting parts are Thalmus ( " Blacula , " " Cool Breeze " ) Rasulala as a rascally old coot with two hot daughters and former Tarzan Mike Henry as a dumb , ornery cuss . Both Luchi ( " Friday Foster " ) De Jesus ' cool soulful score and especially the funky R & B theme song really hit the groovy spot . Granted , " Blazing Saddles " this picture sure ain't , but it's a satisfyingly lightweight and good-natured diversion just the same .
A sad , sometimes funny , often sobering and underrated sleeper	I'm actually a big fan of this movie and consider it to be quite underrated . By now anyone who bothers to read these reviews knows the plot , so I won't waste your time with yet another synopsis . Instead , I'll just explain certain aspects of this film which make it in my book a genuinely solid and touching picture . First off , the emotional rapport between David Arquette and Lukas Haas is just lovely : loose , natural and totally unaffected , the chemistry between these two is very credible and engaging . Moreover , the supporting cast all turn in bang-up performances . Elliott Gould was extraordinary in his brief , yet startling appearance as an in-the-closet married gay man with a wife and kids . You don't know whether to laugh or cry at the sight of this pathetic guy ; it's this peculiar complexity Gould projects which makes his cameo so striking and unforgettable . Richard Kind as a compassionate hotel clerk brings a truly sweet and appealing warmth to his part . But the real revelation here is Keith David as a kindly and protective " angelic " homeless man . Usually cast in intimidating tough guy parts , David gets a rare chance to show a more soft and sensitive side that I especially enjoyed seeing . And to hear David sing a forlorn gospel song in that magnificent liquid bass during the ending credits constitutes as a substantial extra treat ! Arliss Howard turns in a thoroughly creepy and compelling characterization as a man whose severely repressed homosexuality manifests itself as pure psychotic rage . The other thing in the movie that warrants additional kudos is the stupendous blues score by noted blues musician Charles Brown ; it perfectly captures the downbeat tone of film and exudes a sense of bleakness and despair that's in itself very powerful . The gritty , no-frills , washed-out cinematography likewise accurately pegs a deep-seated feeling of grungy sordidness and hopelessness as well , although those constant fades to black struck me as a rather annoying stylistic flourish that's jarringly at odds with the basic gritty realism . The somewhat telegraphed ending may be predictable , but it's still very devastating . Furthermore , I give the film bonus points for having the strength of its own bitter convictions ; there's no fake " everything works out " Hollywood happy ending . And the occasional moments of darkly funny humor are neatly incorporated into the overall film ; they add some much-needed levity and stop the movie from becoming too unbearably depressing . All in all , " Johns " sizes up as a sound indie picture that warrants a second look and reappraisal .
A prime twisted piece of Italian horror nunsploitation trash	A series of brutal murders occur in a convent . Stalwart , no-nonsense priest Father Valerio ( well played by Carlo De Mejo ) investigates the killings and discovers that the devil himself might be responsible for all the mayhem . Director / co-writer Bruno Mattei does an expert job of creating and sustaining a potently brooding gloom-doom atmosphere . Moreover , Mattei delivers several effectively nasty moments , starting with an incredibly tasteless sequence in which a deranged nun stabs the crotch of a dead woman and subsequently mutilates her vagina ( ! ) before totally flipping out and bumping off a fellow sister . Other grisly highlights are a priest getting turned into a human torch , weird gardener Boris ( a memorably creepy Franco Garofalo ) having his throat torn out by a German shepherd , and a newborn baby being dunked into a pot of boiling water . This film further benefits from the dusty , cobwebby set design ( the basement full of human skulls is especially unnerving ) , Giuseppe Bernardi's slick , shadowy cinematography , a splendidly severe and sinister performance by Franca Stoppi as the formidable Mother Vincenza , and , best of all , a throbbing , groovy-rockin ' score by Goblin . A hugely enjoyable chunk of perfectly offensive celluloid blasphemy .
Lucio Fulci's very cool and interesting futuristic sci-fi / action flick	Framed for the murder of three guys who killed his wife by an all-powerful megalomaniacal master computer , nice guy reigning " bloodbike " champion Drake ( the ruggedly appealing Jared Martin ) is forced to engage in a ferocious only one winner allowed mass televised old Rome-style gladiatorial combat game called " The Battle of the Damned " that offers just the right amount of nasty and copious real-life bloodshed the jaded future TV audiences need in order to get their violence fix . Whipped into fierce fighting shape by sadistic trainer Raven ( a robustly evil Howard Ross ) and befriended by token compassionate chick Sarah ( the lovely Eleanor Gold ) , Drake has to mix it up in lethal combat on elaborately made-up motorcycles with a savage bunch of barbarians who include Al Cliver as a scruffy ape , Hiruiko ( Al ) Yamanouchi as a feral mohawked chopsocky demon , and almighty blaxploitation bad-a Fred " the Hammer " Williamson as a cool , composed , cocky and swaggering smooth dude . A most uncharacteristic self-criticizing sci-fi / action picture departure by famed Italian horror movie specialist Lucio Fulci , this suitably violent and gory outing offers a barbed , cynical , corrosive commentary on the bloodthirsty gorehound viewers who enjoy watching Fulci's gruesome fright features by showing a bleakly amoral futuristic society where warring TV stations try to score high ratings by broadcasting excessively brutal and barbaric fare like " The Danger Game , " a particularly gross simulated atrocity offering which crassly caters to the lowest common denominator by going heavy on the mondo fake bloodspilling . Fulci co-wrote the acrid , biting script with frequent screenwriter Dardano ( " Zombie , " " The Beyond " ) Sachetti , Cesare Frugoni and Elisa Briganti . Riz ( " Don't Torture A Duckling , " " Cannibal Holocaust " ) Ortolani supplies a booming , wildly wailing , hard-grooving Goblinesque score . Joseph Pinori's gaudy , luminescent , loud bright color-saturated cinematography gives the film a garishly ornate , glittering , dazzling look that's in equal parts florescent Christmas tree lights glow and blinding pinball machine arcade high-gloss sheen . Fulci stages the killbike sequences with wired , heart-racing gusto , with guys astride motorcycles slicing'n'dicing each other with swords , lances , spiked clubs and hammers . Unique in its genre due to its pointed , self-recriminating exploration of using violence as a cheap titillating device and an obvious precursor to " The Running Man , " this funky item makes for a refreshingly unusual and oddly thought-provoking addition to the sci-fi / action genre .
A deliciously down'n'dirty 70's distaff drive-in movie variant on " The Defiant Ones "	Brassy , just looking out for herself black hooker Pam Grier and earnest , considerate of others white chick revolutionary Margaret Markov escape from jail , disguise themselves as nuns ( the sight of Pam and Margaret running around the Phillippines in nun's habits is well worth the price of purchase alone ) and go on the lam , trying to avoid being apprehended again so Margaret can hook back up with her underground guerrilla army pals . Sleazoid lecherous rhinestone cowboy bounty hunter Sid Haig , who gives a sidesplitting comedic performance that's so broad that I swore he was doing an absurdly overdrawn caricature of sardonic country and western singer / songwriter Kinky Friedman ( Sid's large droopy hat , hokey Texas drawl , gaudy fringe jackets , day-glow boots , furry mustache and especially the six-shooters tied to both legs are pure overkill ) , is hired by the local corrupt dirtbag authorities to track the gals down . Directed in crisp , straightforward , " let's get down to some serious butt-kicking business " - style by Filipino exploitation movie ace Eddie Romero ( who also co-produced the flick with John Ashley ) , with an original story by Jonathan ( " Caged Heat , " " Crazy Mama " ) Demme and Joe ( " Angels Hard As They Come , " " The Hot Box " ) Viola , this American International Pictures release blatantly rips off the central premise from " The Defiant Ones " and grafts it on to a perfectly trashy , smack dead on the money winning handy dandy combo of a junky women-in-prison film and your basic chase thriller which really delivers the delectably down'n'dirty exploitation feature goods : a lengthy prison shower scene which comes complete with Lynn ( " Frogs , " " Dirty Mary , Crazy Larry " ) Borden as a masturbating voyeur lesbian guard who's a dead ringer for Cheri Caffaro , excessively violent and bloody gun battles , a few explosions , a crackling , positively volatile go-for-the-jugular hoppin ' chemistry between the always great Grier and the lovely , willowy blonde looker Markow ( Pam and Margaret , a dynamic distaff duo made in schlock movie heaven , reteamed for the equally excellent " The Arena " ) , coarse dialogue ( " Some jive-a revolution don't mean st to me ! " ) , authentically gross and sweaty Filipino extras , a wired score by Harry Betts which features a pile-driving cowbell relentlessly banging out a bone-rattling Morse code beat , ferociously brutal cat fights , raunchy humor , and the ever-welcome presence of the almighty Vic Diaz , who pours on the slimy charm by the nauseating bucketful as a horrendously vile scuzzball pimp who peddles dope on the side . What's not to like ?
A hilariously horrendous high camp hoot	Virtuous white ninja Gordon ( the ever suave Richard Harrison ) vows revenge on the evil Kogan ( outrageously overplayed with eye-rolling hammy brio by Tao Chiang ) and his no-count squad of nasty black ninjas after they murder his sweet girlfriend Lori ( the lovely Maria Francesca in a too brief cameo ) . Meanwhile , Kogan enlists the aid of a wicked witch to conjure up spirits in order to get a family out of a house on a patch of land with a secret treasure hidden on it . Writer / director Godfrey Ho delivers an undeniably clumsy , incoherent and nonsensical , yet often sidesplitting and hence hugely entertaining blend of martial arts and supernatural elements into a gloriously ludicrous cinematic hodgepodge that comes complete with lousy dubbing , plain cinematography by Raymond Chang , a frantic nonstop pace , hysterically inept fight scenes , some tasty gratuitous female nudity , a smidgen of soft-core sex ( a hot amorous ghost lady seduces a guy while he's sleeping in bed with his wife ! ) , campy bad guys , cheesy ( not so ) special effects , a funky , syncopated discoid score , and an annoying little boy named Bobo . Moreover , we also get such choice gut-busting moments as a severed head in a basket and the ghost girl masturbating as she watches the guy make love to his wife . Yeah , this flick is by no means a refined work of subtle and sophisticated celluloid art , but it does possess a certain loopy charm and wiggy energy which makes it a lot of fun to watch . A deliciously crummy schlock riot .
A very enjoyable and suspenseful thriller from William Castle	Libby Mannering ( cute brunette Andi Garrett ) and Kit Austin ( adorable blonde Sarah Lane ) are a couple of fun-loving teenage girls who get their kicks calling strangers over the phone and exclaiming " I saw what you did and I know who you are ! " . Libby and Kit find themselves in considerable jeopardy when they pull this particular prank on Steve Marak ( excellently played with brooding menace by John Ireland ) , a hot-tempered brute who's just murdered his wife ( an effectively startling set piece that clearly imitates the famous shower scene from " Psycho " ) . Adroitly directed by William Castle , with a clever and absorbing script by William P . McGivern , a steady pace , a nicely varied score by Van Alexander that alternates between bouncy frothiness and shivery jumpiness , a good deal of tension ( the last third is especially harrowing ) , an engagingly playful sense of lightweight humor , and sharp black and white cinematography by Joseph F . Biroc ( Biroc's use of light and shadow is nothing short of masterful ) , this fun and gripping thriller offers proof positive that Castle could grab an audience without always resorting to gimmicks . The sound acting from a sturdy cast rates as another substantial asset : Lane and Garrett make for very pretty and appealing leads , Joan Crawford contributes a typically classy and commanding turn as Marak's headstrong lover Amy Nelson , Sharyl Locke almost steals the whole show with her delightfully spunky portrayal of Libby's bratty little sister Tess , and John Crawford has a cool bit as a state trooper . A neat little flick .
Bill Rebane's good'n'goofy Sasquatch cinema romp	A pair of no-count crackers are savagely killed by Bigfoot after they abduct the enormous fellow's young ' un . A slimy businessman ( an outrageously hammy turn by Richard Kennedy ; the evil Nazi general in " Ilsa : She Wolf of the SS " ) who wants to snare the full-size galoot so he can cruelly exploit Sasquatch for his own selfish ends puts a hefty bounty on Bigfoot's head . A bunch of hillbilly hunters , eager to collect the plentiful reward money , venture into the woods to nab the huge hairy humanoid beast . It's obvious that this picture was a true labor of low-budget love for Wisconsin-based Do-It-Yourself auteur Bill Rebane , who not only directed , but also produced , co-wrote the script and even co-edited the feature as well . Additionally , Rebane cast his son Randolph as the baby Bigfoot ! Actually , truth be told , Rebane does a pretty skillful job in every department : the performances are acceptable , the pace quick and steady , the photography proficient , the jazzed-up 70's cop show-style score seriously smokes , the philosophical country theme song likewise kicks , the wintry snow-covered landscapes look lovely , the Sasquatch attack scenes are staged with a reasonable amount of vigor , and we even got a nice dash of savory local folklore ( the creatures are described as the " Legend of Aurak " ) . Heck , the sterling B-movie cast alone earns this pup a passing mark : the ubiquitous exploitation flick twosome of John Goff and George " Buck " Flower ( who also appear together in Rebane's " The Alpha Incident " ) , " Blood Beach " ' s Otis Young , Stafford ( " The Zebra Force , " " The Forrest " ) Morgan , and Buck's sweetly plump daughter Verkina . The Bigfoot family , who more closely resemble yetis with their white fur , teeth and claws , are a reliable source of unintentional amusement , for they prove to be more fat , clumsy and lumbering than George " Buck " Flower .
An extremely charming and funny indie comedy gem	Director / co-writer Robert Townsend gives a wonderfully engaging performance as eager and affable aspiring actor Bobby Taylor , who's having trouble getting that one major role that will launch his career . While waiting for his big break Bobby daydreams about being a movie star . Townsend delivers a pointed , incisive and often uproarious comic critique of racial stereotypes in mainstream Hollywood fare with a series of spot-on and frequently sidesplitting parodies . " Sneakin ' in the Movies , " a hilariously rude spoof of TV review shows , rates as the definite gut-busting highlight : two hip homeboys from the hood give their profane opinions on recent theatrical releases ( they both give one flick they totally hate the finger ! ) . Other amusing skits are " Black Acting School " ( one of the courses is Jive Talk 101 ) , the blaxploitation send-up " Jivetime Jimmy's Revenge , " and the tongue-in-cheek private eye romp " Death of A Breakdancer . " Townsend effortlessly carries the picture with his supremely amiable presence . Excellent supporting turns by Helen Martin as Bobby's loving grandmother , Anne-Marie Johnson as Bobby's loyal girlfriend Lydia , Starletta Dupois as Bobby's sweet mother , Craigus R . Johnson as Bobby's adorable younger brother Stevie , David McNight as Bobby's sad failure Uncle Ray , Keenan Ivory Wayans and Ludie Washington as a couple of shiftless hot dog stand workers , and Dom Irrera as a low-rent schlock movie screenwriter . Moreover , there's a palpable feeling of genuine heart and warmth in this film which in turn adds immensely to its considerable charm . A real delight .
A very charming 80's comic fantasy variant on " Faust "	Sweet , but lonely computer nerd Bradley Brinkman ( the engagingly gawky Steve Levitt ) ain't pleased with his lackluster lot in life . So he sells his soul to sexy spirit O'Brien ( the astonishingly hot Deborah Shelton ) and the gleefully wicked main evil dude Dr . D ( a delightfully droll James Coco ) so he can become handsome and irresistible beefcake stud muffin on wheels Hunk Golden ( winningly played by John Allen Nelson ) . But will being Hunk enable Bradley to finally find happiness ? Writer / director Lawrence Bassoff relates this charming 80's comic fantasy variant on " Faust " in an infectiously frothy , silly and lightweight manner ; he maintains a bubbly good-natured tone and pleasant sense of goofy humor throughout . The excellent supporting cast qualifies as a substantial additional plus : Rebeccah Bush as helpful , sympathetic psychologist Sunny , Cynthia Szigeti as chatty , obnoxious Chachka , Avery Schrieber as Bradley's huffy boss Constantine Constapopolis , Melanice Vincz as vapid former cheerleader Laurel Springs , Hilary Shepard as arrogant brunette babe Alexis Cash , and Robert Morse as pompous , drunken TV show host Garrison Gaylord . Bryan England's glossy cinematography and David Kurtz's neatly bouncy'n'catchy score are both up to par . A nice little movie .
A very solid , satisfying and even superior sequel	The first of three follow-ups to the popular " Tombs of the Blind Dead , " this is one of those rare sequels that's actually a good deal better than the original . While the initial feature has its moments ( the climactic train massacre sequence is an absolute gut-wrenching tour-de-force of heart-stopping horror ) and plenty of creepy atmosphere to spare , it nonetheless suffers from a heavy-going lethargy which prevents it from being an all-time classic . On the other hand , this fright film has almost no dreary lulls to speak of , substantially benefiting from a tightly wound plot , a quick , snappy pace , more dynamic direction and an invigorating sense of rip-snorting vitality noticeably lacking in the previous movie . This time the murderous cannibalistic Knights Templar , a dastardly group of Devil-worshiping monks who drink human blood in order to acquire immortality , are resurrected 500 years after they were slaughtered by the townspeople of a small Portuguese so they can butcher the ancestors of their killers during an annual gala bicentennial festival . With their hideous skull-like faces , hollow eye sockets , and filthy flowing white robes , the Knights Templar qualify as genuinely scary and unnerving supernatural zombie menaces . The various attack scenes are executed with a truly rousing panache ; the fight between the townspeople and the Knights Templar in the village square is quite thrilling . There's even some nice touches of irony sprinkled throughout , with the ultimate dismal fates of the contemptibly craven no-count mayor ( excellently played with hammy élan by rotund Italian spaghetti Western regular Fernando Sancho ) and the crippled local dolt being especially spot-on . Furthermore , the film earns bonus points for its grimly serious take-no-prisoners tone : A little girl who's put in considerable jeopardy loses both her parents to the unrelenting Knights Templar . And those strikingly ghostly slow motion shots of the Knights Templar riding their horses across the desolate countryside possess an amazingly eerie poetic quality . So , if you only see one " Blind Dead " outing in your lifetime , make sure it's this pleasingly lively and on the money entry .
A hugely enjoyable all-star British Amicus horror anthology romp	Young psychiatrist Dr . Martin ( the always fine Robert Powell ) goes to a sanitarium for the incurably insane for a job interview . He expects to talk to one Dr . Starr , but winds up conversing with the wheelchair-bound Dr . Rutherford ( a marvelous Patrick Magee ) instead . Rutherford challenges Martin to find out who among the four patients is Dr . Starr . If Martin chooses the right one he gets the job . First and most gruesome tale , " Frozen Fear " - The disembodied body parts of the snippy murdered Ruth ( the perfectly bitchy Sylvia Simms ) come back to lethal life to exact a grisly revenge on both her weak faithless husband Walter ( a superbly sniveling Richard Todd ) and his sexy mistress Bonnie ( the solid Barbara Parkins ) . Second and most poignant anecdote , " The Weird Tailor " - Poor kindly tailor Bruno ( the excellent Barry Morse ) is hired by the mysterious Mr . Smith ( beautifully played by the great Peter Cushing ) to sew together a suit out of a strange white fabric which has the ability to resurrect the dead . Third and weakest story , " Lucy Comes to Stay " - Troubled schizophrenic Barbara ( the gorgeous Charlotte Rampling ) blames her naughty alter ego Lucy ( the equally ravishing Britt Ekland ) for killing her brother . This particular episode is way too slight and obvious to really work , but fortunately the delectable distaff eye candy provided by striking beauties Rampling and Ekland ensure that it remains watchable enough throughout . Fourth and most outrageous yarn , " Mannikins of Horror " - Mad Dr . Byron ( a delightfully deranged Herbert Lom ) transfers his spirit into a diminutive , but dangerous mechanical doll facsimile of himself so it can embark on a deadly spree . Director Roy Ward Baker makes the most out of the macabre merriment that's richly abundant in revered " Psycho " novelist Robert Bloch's wickedly witty script . Baker ably creates a properly creepy atmosphere and elicits sterling performances from a top-drawer all-star cast . Denys Coop's crisp , handsome cinematography and Douglas Gamley's robustly booming'n'bombastic score are likewise on the money effective . The wraparound segment's conclusion is truly shocking and unexpected as well . An immensely entertaining omnibus outing .
An enjoyably tawdry 60's no-budget exploitation potboiler	Frustrated and unhappy restless sweet young thing Myrtle Pennypacker ( adorable blonde dish Shirley Boyd ) goes off the deep end after she discovers that abusive husband George ( writer / director Dale Berry ) is cheating on her . Myrtle gets committed to an asylum , but escapes and tracks George down so she can kill the two-timing jerk . Berry relates the trashy story at a constant snappy pace and fills out the skimpy 69 minute running time with plenty of mild soft-core sex scenes and a decent smattering of tasty female nudity ( the definite highlight occurs when a foxy brunette removes all her clothes to take an utterly gratuitous , but still much-appreciated bath ) . Moreover , we also get a fierce catfight , Myrtle doing a wild dance on top of a table at a seedy bar , and a neat bit by Larry Buchanan film regular Bill Thurman as a hulking would-be rapist who has a fist fight with George . The rough , scratchy black and white cinematography , ragged editing , and poorly dubbed in dialogue all greatly enhance the pervasive seaminess . The groovy swinging jazz score hits the soulful spot . The cool rocking bluesy theme song likewise smokes . Nice bummer ending , too . A pleasingly sleazy diversion .
An enjoyably silly comedic soft-core romp	Longtime favorite 70's soft-core starlet Sharon Kelly lands one of her best starring roles in this enjoyably junky outing as the eponymous Alice Goodbody , a lovably ditsy waitress at a Hollywood greasy spoon diner who dreams of celluloid superstardom . One fateful day she makes the acquaintance of perpetually on the make sleazeball Second Assistant Production Manager Myron Mittleman ( splendidly played to smarmy perfection by Daniel Kauffman ) , who gets Alice a bit part in a ghastly musical version of " Julius Caesar " ( a spot-on silly send-up of " Jesus Christ , Superstar " ) . Alas , Alice's sudden good fortune proves short-lived after she's struck in the face by a runaway boom mike . However , the fiercely determined and resourceful Alice promptly learns the valuable lesson that the only way to really make it in show business is by making love with the right higher-up connected people . Pretty soon Alice has done just what you think with a handful of kinky major Hollywood biggies and her ascent to tremendous film fame is secured . Sure , this flatly made , stiffly directed ( by Tom Scheuer , who also wrote , produced and edited the picture as well ) , and cheaply produced item is without a doubt shamelessly stupid lowbrow nonsense , but a spirited turn by the ubiquitous George " Buck " Flower as a goofball voyeur food fetish sex freak , a bouncy soundtrack loaded with catchy , upbeat songs , and , most of all , the always delightful Sharon Kelly's indomitably effervescent presence and boundless vitality as well her often undraped and thoroughly yummy voluptuous body make this dippy affair a great deal of solid and satisfying dumb fun just the same .
An enjoyably trashy piece of biker exploitation schlock	Rough'n'tumble , laconic , no-nonsense former Green Beret Vietnam veteran Stryker ( a typically fine performance by Lance Henrikson ) goes to visit his old soldier buddy Tick Rand ( the always affable George Kennedy ) in a small Arizona desert town . Unfortunately , a gang of ferocious bikers led by the vicious Pigiron ( William Forsythe snarling it up with his customary rip-snorting brio ) are terrorizing the community . It's up to Stryker and Rand to put a permanent stop to these nasty no-count hooligans . Competently directed by Simon Nuchtern , with polished cinematography by Gerald Freil , a decent smattering of gratuitous nudity , a funky , syncopated score by Pino Donaggio , well-developed main characters ( there's a nice chemistry between Kennedy and Henrikson ) , and a handy helping of raw violence , this grungy biker version of the classic Western " Shane " makes for an entertainingly scrappy affair . The cool cast of familiar B-feature faces helps matters a whole lot : Karen Black as two-bit floozy barmaid Rachel , Richard Lynch as lecherous weakling priest Reverand Romano , Claudia Udy as Tick's tough hottie daughter Katie , Leo Gordon as the gruff , but ineffectual sheriff , Mickey Jones as evil Harley hound Zero , and wildman stand-up comedian Sam Kinison in a funny bit part as an obnoxious born again Christian barber . Good , low-brow fun .
A fine return to fabulously freaky fright film form by the always worthwhile Jeff Lieberman	Longtime favorite quirky horror cult movie director Jeff Lieberman , the swell fellow who blessed us with such enjoyably idiosyncratic terror treats as " Squirm , " " Blue Sunshine , " " Just Before Dawn , " and " Remote Control , " makes a triumphant belated return to fabulously freaky form with this wickedly funny and entertaining horror black comedy hoot . Bratty ten-year-old Douglas Whooly ( excellently played to obnoxious perfection by Alexander Brickel ) unwittingly befriends a diabolically clever murderous maniac ( an exceptionally expressive mute pantomime portrayal by Joshua Annex ) who's dressed up as the Devil . Video game addict Douglas thinks the dangerous lunatic is just like Lucifer from his favorite game , so he decides to become Satan's Little Helper and assist the madman as he terrorizes a suburban community on Halloween . Lieberman has a wonderfully warped ball with the deliciously dark and depraved premise , using the nifty plot to take stinging satiric potshots at such relevant topics as religion , exceedingly violent video games , and how said video games can cause kids who avidly play them to become indifferent to the severity of real-life violence and brutality . The acting is uniformly up to par , with especially praiseworthy work by Amanda Plummer as Douglas ' wacky mom and the ravishingly gorgeous blonde hottie supreme Katheryn Winnick as Douglas ' sassy'n'sexy older sister . Better still , Lieberman further enhances the picture with his patented funky oddball ( and weirdly amusing ) touches : there's a strikingly abundant amount of incestuous lesbian innuendo to be found in the relationship between Plummer and Winnick ( Plummer at one point gleefully smacks Winnick on the butt ! ) , the Satan man kills a cat and writes " Boo " on a wall with the slain kitty's blood , Douglas and the Satan man merrily mow down people in a grocery store parking lot with a shopping cart ( said hapless individuals include a pregnant lady and an old blind dude ) , the Satan man later on in the movie disguises himself as Jesus ( which enables Winnick to say the following fantastic line : " Jesus is Satan " ) , and one guy at a costume party is dressed up as the wormface character from " Squirm . " Dejan Georgevich's slick cinematography and David Horowitz's spare , yet effectively spooky score are both solid and impressive . Joyfully sick , twisted and of course quite amoral , this baby overall delivers a handy helping of delectably deranged tongue-in-cheek fun for aficionados of deviant fright film cinema .
A superior 70's revolt-of-nature fright feature	Man's foolish , environmentally unsound overuse of aerosol spray cans causes the ozone layer to deplete ; this in turn makes all the animals in the High Sierras go totally crazy and become nastily aggressive , brutally assaulting and , yes , even killing numerous hapless homo sapiens . A motley bunch of bitchy , irritating campers led by macho expert trail guide Chris George get jumped by the assorted righteously ticked-off wildlife , who have declared open season on us unfortunate humans . Directed with commendable assurance and competence by late , great seasoned 70's schlock movie maven William ( " Abby , " " Grizzly " ) Girdler , further enhanced by Bob Sorrentino's pretty , polished cinematography and Lalo Schifrin's eerie , understated score , " Day of the Animals " passes muster as a reasonably creepy , fast-paced , and hence way above average eco-fright item . The top-notch all-star junk picture cast includes Chris George's hot blonde wife Lynda Day , a hilariously miscast Richard Jaeckel as a nerdy , wimpy , bespectacled outdoors loving scientist , Ruth Roman as a stressed-out single mom trying to bond with her estranged teenage son , Michael Ansara as a proud and dignified Native American , Andrew Stevens as some goofball young guy , Paul Mantee as a tough jock pro football player who's dying of cancer , Susan Backlinie ( the sexy skinny-dipper who gets munched by the great white shark in " Jaws " ) as an early victim , Michelle ( " Demon Seed " ) Stacy as a traumatized mute little girl who's rescued and protected by Jon Cedar , and , best of all , Leslie Nielsen , who gloriously overplays his ripe hammy part as a hateful racist advertising executive who goes completely bonkers ( Leslie roughs up a young lady , impales Stevens with a tree branch , and even wrestles a bear during a raging thunderous storm ! ) . One especially juicy animal attack occurs when a folksy small town sheriff gets pounced in his kitchen by cute , yet lethal mice . Overall , this baby sizes up as loads of highly diverting and entertaining low-budget drive-in horror fun .
A hugely entertaining Japanese monstermash	In 1999 all the big monsters have been put on a remote and secure island . An evil horde of alien invaders make the various giant monsters turn on mankind and trash major cities all over the world . An intrepid band of humans must find a way to defeat the aliens or else destroy all the monsters before it's too late . Director Ishiro Honda , who also co-wrote the compelling script , relates the clever story at a steady brisk pace , treats the plot with admirable seriousness , and stages the large scale mondo destructo mayhem with his customary rip-snorting aplomb . It's a real treat to see such popular Japanese monsters as Godzilla , Rodan , Mothra , Varon , and King Ghidorah all together in the same movie . The protracted climactic battle between King Ghidorah and the other monsters rates as a definite exciting highlight . The funky special effects and cool guys-in-rubber-suit creatures are not exactly convincing , but they do possess a certain gnarly charm . The sincere acting from a game cast , Akiro Ifukube's moody , surging score , and Taiichi Kankura's glossy widescreen cinematography are all up to speed . A total blast .
Still yet another enjoyably trashy Italian post-nuke sci-fi picture	Okay , we all know the post-nuke sci-fi action picture score by now . Well , here we go again . Once more what's left of society following a devastating nuclear holocaust has degenerated into total every-man-for-himself , kill-or-be-killed , survival-of-the-fittest barbarism . The callous , haughty upper class get their twisted sicko jollies off by hunting expendable contaminated poor folks . One team of contemptibly snooty wealthy scum nihilists , lead by vicious master swordsman Erasmas ( a superbly hateful Harrison Muller ) and arch bitch Idra ( played to the eminently hissable hilt by Marina Costa ) , almost succeed in killing wimpy decent dude Allan ( a likable performance by William Mang ) . Allan is saved and nursed back to health by tough , but tender-hearted ex-cop Sam ( grizzled veteran macho man supreme Woody Strode in peak rugged form ) . Sam transforms Allan from a slow , clumsy pushover into a mean , fast , ultra-lethal fightin ' machine through an especially harsh , painful and arduous bout of rigorous training . Allan , primed and ready to stomp some serious booty , tracks down the rich aholes who nearly did him in and picks ' em off one at a time . Basically just another rehash of that much copied and ripped off hoary old chestnut " The Most Dangerous Game , " this spare , gritty , very ugly and ferocious little number gets by on the basis of its raw , no-frills , rough-edged brutality alone , unnervingly blurring the line between the good guys and the bad guys by depicting a grim future where violence and savagery are an everyday part of life . Although marred by a tepid opening third and an all-too-apparent two-cent budget , " The Final Executioner " does possess the right sleazy materials to measure up as a properly hard-hitting and two-fisted up to speed action item : Besides the copious nasty and often unsparingly grueling violence , there's also a generous sprinkling of sex and nudity , plus rape , torture , degradation and even voyeurism . Now , that's exactly what low-grade exploitation trash is all about !
An eerie , gripping and intelligent sci-fi / horror thriller	Obsessive scientist Alex Harris ( well played by Fritz Weaver ) gets so caught up in his work making the brilliant super computer Proteus IV that he neglects his fed-up , beautiful wife Susan ( a terrific performance by the lovely Julie Christie ) , leaving her all alone in their fancy fully automated home . Proteus IV ( superbly voiced with suavely smarmy'n'sinister élan by an uncredited Robert Vaughn ) traps Susan in her house and plans to impregnate her in order to spawn an offspring that's a living , breathing , flesh and blood organic human being . Director Donald ( " Performance " ) Cammell directs the potentially lurid premise with admirable taste and restraint , ably creating an eerily ambiguous tone ( we never learn if Proteus ' intentions are either benign or malevolent ) and milking plenty of claustrophobic tension from the compelling story . The smart and insightful script by Robert Jaffe and Roger O . Hirson provocatively addresses the then ahead-of-its time , still quite relevant and topical issue of artificial intelligence run dangerously amok . Comic actor Gerrit Graham has a nice change-of-pace straight part as an ill-fated computer nerd . WARNING : Possible SPOILER ahead . Popular 70's child actress Michelle ( " Day of the Animals " ) Stacy makes a startling last reel appearance as the little girl made by Proteus who utters the chilling line " I'm alive " in Vaughn's tinny , metallic voice . Christie maintains her dignity throughout . The film starts out a touch slow , but really gets cooking once Proteus locks Susan in the house and begins terrorizing her . Bill Butler's stunningly polished cinematography , Jerry Fielding's spooky offbeat score , and the excellent special effects further enhance the overall sterling quality of this superior sci-fi / horror hybrid thriller .
An intriguingly odd and atmospheric , if rather slow and muddled horror-Western item	The American Frontier , 1750 : A motley bunch of Irish pioneers led by the meek Reverand Will Smythe ( a strikingly quirky performance by Dennis Lipscomb ) trespass onto sacred Native American territory that's haunted by a malevolent devil witch who turns pesky interlopers into tortured souls whose faces are implanted on trees . Although marred by a confusing story and often lethargic pacing , this compellingly peculiar horror-Western oddity nonetheless casts an effectively spooky and arresting spell on the viewer thanks to Avery Crounse's stylish direction ( Crounse also wrote the idiosyncratic script ) , a creepily off-kilter and nightmarish atmosphere , plenty of stunningly bizarre and beautiful visuals , Brad Fiedel's fine , eerie score and the sheer fascinating weirdness of the outré story . The uniformly solid acting from a tip-top cast constitutes as another additional plus , with noteworthy turns by Kathleen Crockett as a strange mute psychic teenage girl who knows what's going on , Guy Boyd as a rugged mountain man , and Will Hare as an ill-fated old-timer . By no means a perfect fright flick ( it's rather slow , sometimes unfathomable and the ending is dissatisfying ) , but an admirably unusual , inspired and unconventional genre-blending low-budget indie effort just the same .
A supremely eerie and effective Norwegian slasher winner	Five teenage snowboarders - - mature , composed , take-charge Jannicke ( superbly played by Ingrid Bolso Berdal ) , nice guy Eirik ( a fine performance by Thomas Alf Larsen ) , jocular Morten Tobias ( a wonderfully engaging portrayal by Rolf Kristian Larsen ) , amorous Mikal ( a solid turn by Endre Martin Midtstigen ) , and Mikal's sweet , sexy girlfriend Ingunn ( the fetching Viktoria Winge ) - - are forced to spend the night in a remote abandoned ski lodge after Morten has an accident and breaks his leg . However , there's a deadly and ferocious lunatic ( hulking behemoth Rune Melby ) residing in said lodge who naturally doesn't take kindly to any interlopers on his property . Director Roar Uthaug , working from a familiar , but serviceable script by Thomas Moldestad , makes expert and inspired use of the desolate wintry setting ; both the dingy rundown motel and bleak snowy mountainside landscape evoke a very vivid and palpable sense of dread , isolation , and vulnerability . Moreover , Uthoag takes his time to establish the premise and the genuinely likable main characters before delivering the expected gut-wrenching thrills and brutal violence . While the violence featured herein isn't that graphic or gruesome , it still manages to pack quite a wallop ( the protracted murder of Ingunn is especially strong and upsetting ) . What gives this film an extra edge over the usual slice'n'dice fare is its welcome emphasis on creating a powerfully spooky and unsettling tone ( the lodge registers as an extremely creepy and claustrophobic place ) and admirable lack of any dumb silly humor to diminish the severity of the stark and unflinching horror . The last third of this movie is truly tense , gripping and harrowing stuff that culminates in a haunting and startling climax ( the killer even gets a poignant back story ) . Daniel Voldheim's striking cinematography uses both washed-out colors and shadowy lighting well , plus offers several breathtaking panoramic shots of the vast mountains . Magnus Beite's shivery score likewise hits the shuddery spot . Highly recommended .
An intriguing true life made-for-TV drama	Kindhearted social activist and filmmaker Micki Dickoff ( a fine performance by Veronica Hamel ) is shocked when she discovers that her sweet and optimistic childhood best friend Sunny Jacobs ( wonderfully played with endearing radiance by Mimi Rogers ) has been incarcerated for fifteen years in prison for allegedly killing a state trooper . Micki does her best to uncover the truth about what really happened so Sunny can be freed from jail . Director Micki Dickoff and screenwriters Rama Laurie Stagner and Dan Witt concoct a strong and compelling tale about a gross miscarriage of justice which serves as a frightening and provocative expose on how the legal system can work against an innocent person . Moreover , this film also delivers a touching message about the triumph of the human will and how one person can indeed make a big difference . Hamel and Rogers both excel in the lead roles ; their warm and engaging chemistry makes the friendship between their characters totally moving and convincing . The movie further benefits from sound supporting performances from a sturdy cast : Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Sunny's decent ex-con boyfriend Jessie , Carlos Gomez as shrewd and helpful defense attorney Jose Quinon , Brian Markinson as slimy and self-serving prosecuting attorney Satz , Mary Maya as Micki's spunky lawyer best gal pal Christie , Denise Richards as Sunny's bitter , estranged daughter Tina , and Piper Laurie as Jessie's supportive mother Kay . A gripping and worthwhile picture .
A cool 50's sci-fi alien invasion flick	A horde of evil invading aliens unleash a giant robot named Kronos on our planet . Kronos goes on a rampage . It's up to stalwart scientist Dr . Leslie Gaskell ( well played by Jeff Morrow ) to figure out a way to stop Kronos before it's too late . Director Kurt Neuman , working from a clever script by Louis Goldman , relates the story at a steady pace and maintains a serious tone throughout . The picture begins a little slow , but kicks into gear and starts cooking once Kronos arrives and runs amok ( the sequences with Kronos causing all kinds of mass destruction are both exciting and impressive ) . This film further benefits from the commendably sincere acting by a solid cast , with especially praiseworthy work by Morrow , Barbara Lawrence as fetching , spunky lab assistant Vera Hunter , John Emery as the detached , possessed Dr . Hubbell Eliot , George O'Hanlon ( the voice of George Jetson on " The Jetsons " ) as the affable Dr . Arnold Culver , and the ever-reliable Morris Ankrum as the concerned Dr . Albert Stern . Karl Struss's crisp widescreen black and white cinematography , the nifty special effects ( Kronos looks pretty gnarly ) , and the spirited shuddery score by Paul Sawtell and Bert Shefter are all on the money as well . A fun film .
A very energetic and entertaining 60's grindhouse thriller gem	Nutty rich lady Virginia Marcus ( a deliciously wicked and vampy performance by Eileen Lord ) offers three folks who are all murderers - - sniveling heroin addict Buddy ( twitchy Ed Brandt ) , haughty actor Charles Freeman ( a perfectly snooty Frank Grace ) , and brutish champion wrestler Rocco ( essayed with snarly aplomb by legendary real-life boxer Jake LaMotta ) - - $100 , 000 thousand dollars each if they manage to stay alive for twenty-four hours in Manhattan . Naturally , there's a catch : Virginia plans to hunt down and kill each and every one of these guys like a pack of wild animals . One-shot movie director Herb Stanley relates the familiar " The Most Dangerous Game " - style premise with surprising style and panache : he keeps the pace rattling along at a speedy clip , develops a substantial amount of tension , makes inspired use of authentically seedy New York City locations , sprinkles in a generous amount of grisly violence , and stages the rousing hunting sequences with tremendous rip-roaring brio ( the big back alley confrontation between Rocco and Virginia is an absolute corker with Virginia dressing up as a matador and taking Rocco on like a ferocious charging bull ! ) . Special kudos are in order for the inventive and impressive black and white cinematography : the overhead camera shots , distorted lens , askew angles , and lively hand-held camera-work ensure that this picture remains quite visually exciting throughout . The swinging groovy jazz score likewise does the trick . The much-criticized tacked-on gratuitous female nude inserts and lurid soft-core sex scenes further enhance this film's trashy appeal . Granted , the acting is decidedly hit or miss , with Lord's gleefully nasty portrayal of the cackling and cunning Virginia rating as a definite stand-out . Moreover , the tight 69 minute running time qualifies as another major asset ; this picture never drags and certainly delivers the mean'n'lean lowdown scuzzy goods . Highly recommended for exploitation cinema fans .
An offbeat and interesting 70's road movie curio	Mature , stable Jesse ( a solid performance by Richard Hatch ; Apollo on " Battlestar Galactica " ) , his more nutty and impulsive immature best friend Pat ( an effectively loopy and intense portrayal by Doug Chapin ) , Jesse's caring fiancé Kathy ( nicely played by the lovely Susanne Benton of " A Boy and His Dog " fame " ) , and Pat's fragile gal pal Jo Ella ( essayed with sweet charm by the cute Ann Noland ) all decide to embark on a cross country road trip in a Winnebago prior to facing the challenges of encroaching adulthood . Relationships between everyone become increasingly strained by this journey : Jesse has a fling with Jo Ella , Pat attempts to rape Kathy , and the whole thing culminates with the now deranged Pat terrorizing the other three on a beach while riding around on a motorcycle . As the above plot synopsis alone suggests , this film sure ain't your standard crude'n'sleazy Crown International Pictures drive-in exploitation fare . Granted , this feature does deliver the expected soft-core sex and tasty female nudity ( Jo Ella does a wild impromptu tabletop striptease at a funky bar ) , but director Noel Nosseck and screenwriter Arnold Somkin focus more on low-key and incisive introspection rather than the usual seedy thrills . The gradual pace and character-driven plot take a little getting use to , but thankfully this movie hits an appealingly mellow and laid-back distinctly 70's groove early on and offers some poignant insights into the difficulty of growing up and facing responsibility . Moreover , there are quite a few bitter truths to be found in the tense and homoerotic friendship between Jesse and Pat . The acting from the attractive and personable young cast is uniformly strong , with Hatch in particular the stand-out among the bunch . Stephen M . Katz's bright , sunny , sparkling cinematography makes exquisite occasional use of fades and dissolves . Rick Cunha's catchy country-rock score likewise does the trick . An intriguing and ultimately pretty touching oddity .
A tense and exciting psychological thriller	Jamie Lee Curtis gives a superb and winning performance as Megan Turner , an eager and gutsy , but neurotic and vulnerable rookie cop who blows away a supermarket hold-up guy ( an electrifying cameo by Tom Sizemore ) on her first night of active duty . Demented Wall Street broker Eugene Hunt ( a terrifyingly intense and wired portrayal by Ron Silver ) steals the crook's gun and embarks on a killing spree ( he carves Megan's name on the bullets , no less ! ) . Moreover , Hunt also begins dating the initially unsuspecting Turner . Director Kathryn Bigelow , who also co-wrote the sharp and incisive script with Eric Red , relates the compelling narrative at a constant quick pace , expertly builds plenty of gut-ripping tension , gives the film an attractive polished look , and really pulls out all the stirring stops for the rousing climactic shoot-out between Hunt and Turner on the streets of New York City . This film further benefits from fine acting by a bang-up cast : Curtis makes for a very strong and sympathetic , yet troubled and flawed heroine , Silver's cunning and charming psycho likewise sizes up as a memorably crazed and frightening villain , plus there's sound supporting turns by Clancy Brown as tough , cynical homicide detective Nick Mann , Elizabeth Pena as Megan's loyal friend Tracy Perez , Louise Fletcher as Megan's timid , browbeaten mother Shirley , Philip Bosco as Megan's gruff , abusive father Frank , Kevin Dunn as the stern Assistant Chief Stanley Hoyt , and Richard Jenkins as cagey , sarcastic attorney Mel Dawson . Brad Fiedel's shivery , rattling score and Amir M . Mokri's slick , striking cinematography are both excellent and effective . Granted , the story is wildly implausible , but thankfully Curtis ' complex and intriguing central characterization of Meg , the hard , gritty tone , the riveting cat and mouse games between Hunt and Turner , and , most of all , Bigelow's stunning sense of pure cinematic style and panache keep the picture on track . A taut , edgy and absorbing little winner .
A good'n'gruesome little redneck horror romp	This cheerfully ( and uproariously ) gruesome tongue-in-cheek Southern-fried horror opus centers on the demented hayseed Pruitt clan - - crackpot religious fanatic papa Jake ( delightfully played to the cackling wacko hilt by Danny Nelson ) , his sweet-natured portly oaf son Roy ( an endearingly goofy Ralph Pruitt Vaughn ) and his surly sadist brother Hiram ( an amusingly nasty Christian Hesler ) - - who use hapless passersby as involuntary donors for their nefarious human body organ spare parts ring . Competently directed by Tucker Johnson ( who also co-wrote the witty script ) , with first-rate make-up f / x by Tony Gardner and Bill " Splat " Johnson , fine acting from a solid cast ( Lori Birdsong is especially impressive as the feisty crippled heroine while Ray Walston as an unscrupulous black marketer and the always awesome John Saxon as Birdsong's hard-nosed dad deliver typically up to speed performances ) , plenty of sidesplitting sick humor ( the throwaway Elvis joke is really funny ) , and a hilarious ending credits religious hymn theme song that's warbled off-key by the deliciously deranged Pruitt family ( " Are you warshed in the blood of the lamb " ) , " Blood Salvage " makes the grade as a good'n'grisly backwoods terror tale .
A neat 70's made-for-TV Western	Mean and formidable bounty hunter Kinkaid ( a suberbly hard-edged portrayal by Clink Walker ) nabs likable outlaw Billy Riddle ( an engaging performance by John Ericson ) in order to collect the substantial reward that's been placed on his head . Kinkaid and Riddle go trekking across a remote desert region . Riddle's naive , but loyal and feisty prostitute girlfriend Mae ( a delightfully spirited turn by Margot Kidder ) tags along . Complications ensue when the trio runs afoul of a no-count gang of mangy desperadoes lead by the shrewd and fearsome Angus Keough ( Richard Basehart in deliciously robust and wicked form ) . Firmly directed by John Llewellyn Moxey , with a smart , intriguing script by Jim Byrnes , a steady pace , several exciting and well-staged action scenes , crisp cinematography by Ralph Woolsey , well-drawn characters ( for example , Kinkaid is really a tragic and lonely figure while Riddle ultimately gets exposed as a sniveling selfish coward ) , a pleasingly harmonic folksy score by the Orphange , a tough , gritty tone , and a refreshing surprise ending , this film makes for an enjoyable and engrossing sagebrush saga . Moreover , this movie benefits from uniformly fine acting from a tip-top cast : Walker impresses in the lead , Basehart registers strongly as a memorably cunning and nasty villain , Kidder shines in the token female role , plus there's solid support from Arthur Hunnicutt as a grizzled sheriff , Gene Evans as amiable saloon keeper Tom Brady , Rex Holman as the laid-back Driskill , Dennis Cross as the hot-tempered Rufus , and Paul Harper as grubby trader Hargus . A nice little picture .
A solid and inspired Hammer adaptation of the classic story	1874 , London . Obsessive and reclusive weakling Dr . Jekyll ( superbly played by Paul Massie ) creates a formula that causes him to transform into his evil and impulsive id run amok alter ego Mr . Edward Hyde , who stirs up much trouble and eventually tries to take over Jekyll's meek personality altogether . Director Terence Fisher and writer Wolf Mankowitz offer a sound , absorbing and surprisingly elegant psychological take on the often told tale along with a flavorsome evocation of the Victorian era . This film further benefits from splendid acting from a top-notch cast : Massie delivers an impressively anguished portrayal of a tormented split personality in the demanding lead role , Dawn Adams brings real class and poise as Jekyll's fed-up faithless wife Kitty , the always great Christopher Lee positively oozes smarm as Kitty's shameless ne'er-do-well gambler lover Paul Allen , ravishing brunette beauty Norma Marla burns up the screen as fiery , sultry dancer Maria ( her introductory snake dance set piece is memorably sexy ) , and David Kossoff does well as Jekyll's wise , concerned colleague Dr . Ernest Littauer . Better still , this movie rates as pretty bold stuff for the decade it was made in : we've got opium smoking , adultery , implied nudity , mild profanity , and even ( offscreen ) rape . Having the wimpy and homely , but humane and pleasant Jekyll turn into the suave and handsome , yet foul and caddish Hyde is a very nice touch , thereby suggesting it's what's on the inside that makes a man either good or bad . Look fast for Oliver Reed as a nightclub bouncer . Both Jack Asher's vibrant color cinematography and the jaunty , dramatic orchestral score by David Heneker and Monty Norman are up to snuff . Well worth a watch .
An excellent and exciting futuristic prison winner	In a grim totalitarian near future married couples are allowed to have only one kid . John Brennick ( a solid and engaging performance by Christopher Lambert ) and his pregnant wife Karen ( well played by the fetching Loryn Locklin ) get arrested for trying to have a second child . They are both sent to a brutal subterranean maximum security penitentiary run by the cruel Prison Doctor Poe ( a splendidly wicked Kurtwood Smith ) . Of course , John plans to escape and take Karen with him . Director Stuart Gordon relates the absorbing story at a brisk pace , does an expert job of maintaining a tough , gritty tone throughout , and stages the thrilling action scenes with rip-roaring verve ( the climactic jailbreak sequence in particular is quite tense and stirring ) . The uniformly ace acting from a tip-top cast qualifies as another significant asset : Lambert and Locklin make for sympathetic leads , Smith excels in one of his customary bad guy roles , plus there are stellar supporting performances by Jeffrey Combs as flaky , bespectacled computer whiz D-Day , Lincoln Kilpatrick as wise trustee inmate Abraham , Tom Towles as mean roughhouse bully Stiggs , Vernon Wells as vicious top con Maddox , and Clifton Collins , Jr . as scrappy young punk Nino Gomez . David Eggby's fluid , polished cinematography , the nifty special effects , Frederic Talgorn's moody , rousing score , and a few dollops of grisly gore are all on the money effective and impressive . A very cool and satisfying science fiction film .
An enjoyably dopey mid 80's Crown International Pictures teen comedy romp	Amiable college varsity Coach Chip Williams ( the always solid Richard Roundtree of " Shaft " fame ) has to whip his wacky team of misfit players into shape for a major regional tournament being held in Las Vegas . Said wacky misfits include charming stud muffin on wheels the Kid ( hunky Scott Strader ) , affable mellow dude Jeff ( cute Perry Lang ) , raucous wildman Ripper ( the incredible Donald Gibb ; Ogre from " Revenge of the Nerds " ) , and excitable Mexican Chito ( the hilarious Trinidad Silva ) . But these nutty guys are more interested in having fun than winning a big game . Capably directed with infectiously easy'n'breezy panache by Steve Carver , with bright , sunny cinematography by Adam Greenberg , lots of cool-jammin ' songs on the bouncy soundtrack , an endearingly sweet'n'silly tone , engaging acting from the likable and attractive young leads , a groovy , hard-rockin ' score by David McHugh , cheap gay jokes , a priceless sequence in a sleazy biker bar , a nice smattering of gratuitous nudity , and several thrilling tennis games , this flick overall rates as an entertainingly lightweight diversion . The eclectic supporting cast qualifies as a substantial plus : future " Law & Order : Special Victims Unit " TV series regular Mariska Hargitay as adorable tennis groupie Nicole , Christopher Lee as pompous killjoy college President White , R . G . Armstrong as bumbling , sycophantic athletic director Coach Bettleborn , and future mainstream movie director Tom ( " Liar , Liar , " " Bruce Almighty " ) Shadyac as arrogant rival tennis champ Chris . Good , goofy fun .
Al Adamson's stunningly bad sci-fi soft-core musical comedy marvel	Late , great Grade Z drive-in exploitation filmmaker par excellence Al Adamson really outdoes himself with this gloriously ghastly sci-fi soft-core musical comedy atrocity which plumbs deliciously dismal and dopey depths in sheer celluloid silliness and jaw-dropping stupidity . In the grim totalitarian future of 2047 sex has been deemed an illegal act by the Big Brother-like impotent bumbling idiot the Controller ( an amusingly goofy Erwin Fuller ) . However , sweet'n'sexy Cinderella ( radiant blonde cutie pie Catherine Erhardt ) remains determined to change things for the better . With the help of her effeminate Fairy Godfather ( a flamboyantly campy Jay B . Larson ) , Cinderella attends a grand gala ball with the specific plan of seducing handsome stud Tom Prince ( the dorky Vaughn Armstrong ) and teaching everyone that making love is a positive , pleasurable and wholly acceptable activity . Adamson directs this ridiculous yarn with his customary all-thumbs incompetence , staging the incredibly awful'n'inept song and dance sequences with a totally sidesplitting lack of skill and flair . The uproariously abysmal " We All Need Love " number with people in absurd animal costumes awkwardly prancing about the forest is a hilariously horrendous marvel ; ditto the equally abominable " Mechnical Man " routine featuring a bunch of clumsily cavorting robots . Louis Horvarth's crude , static cinematography , the tacky plastic miniatures , Sparky Sugerman's groovy throbbing disco score , the copious gratuitous nudity ( ravishing brunette hottie Sherri Coyle warrants special praise in this particular department ) , the brain-numbingly puerile attempts at leering lowbrow humor ( Roscoe the Robot law enforcer is especially irritating ) , and the uniformly terrible performances ( Renee Harmon's outrageously hammy portrayal of Cinderella's wicked overbearing stepmother cops the big booby prize here ) further enhance the strikingly abundant cheesiness to be savored in this delectably dreadful doozy .
A hilariously horrendous tongue-in-cheek porno comedy hoot	Picture an episode of " Happy Days " gone incredibly seedy , with lots of foxy naked women and scuzzy hardcore sex scenes , with the added attraction of a fantastic rockabilly score and plenty of amusingly leering humor , and you'll have a good idea of what this enjoyably mindless 50's nostalgia-tinged mess is like . Writer / director / producer / star Johnny Legend , a show biz jack of all trades whose many job titles include wrestling manager , filmmaker , rockabilly singer / songwriter ( Legend's potent double whammy of the truly cool " Are You Hep to It ? " and the especially smokin ' " Hot Rocks " are featured on the movie's stand-out soundtrack , which boasts such appropriately salacious tunes as the deliriously bawdy " Slip , Slip , Slippin ' In " by Mac Curtis , Ray Campi's feverishly cooking " Eager Boy , " and Alvis Wayne's tart'n'tasty " I Wanna Eat Your Puddin ' " ) , cameo actor , and general all-around self-stylized California eccentric , juggles several balls here with largely disastrous results , creating a delightfully obnoxious tongue-in-cheek fiasco with an endearingly rank and witless sense of breezy'n'cheesy high school locker room humor . Legend even acts in this gloriously ghastly and off-the-wall period oddity ; he hammily portrays manic , fast-talking , foul-mouthed second-rate Wolfman Jack wannabe disc jockey Mambo Remus . The plot is messy , sprawling , and virtually nonexistent , the editing , sound quality , and cinematography are all strictly home movie level amateurish , the characters by and large extremely unappealing numbskulls ( Tony Conn in particular is seriously creepy and unlikable as lonely , tormented , pathetic middle-aged voyeur loser Willy ) , and the dialogue is pretty terrible , but that really doesn't matter much . This film is still awful funny in a so-crass-it's-killer sort of way . The loosely knit , often crudely humorous and usually quite sexually graphic vignettes rigidly adhere to an " American Graffiti " - like multi-storied format ; my favorite subplot focuses on the randy escapades of a sex-crazed madwoman called Babs the nuthouse nympho . Better still , the hardcore sex scenes are every bit as rough and raunchy as they ought to be ( among the highlights are the gorgeous Serena masturbating with an automobile cigarette lighter and legendary Me Decade porn stud John Holmes doing just what you think with two lovely ladies both inside and beside a pool ) . Plus there's lots of uproariously tasteless bad jokes about such trashy topics as smoking weed , cunnilingus , fellatio , rape , and even bestiality . A real sleazy hoot .
A really enjoyable redneck stock car racing drive-in flick	Rory Calhoun ( Farmer Vincent in " Motel Hell " ) gives a dead bang-on solid portrayal as Mitch Cooper , a smoothly charming former moonshine runner turned professional stock car racer who , after wrecking both his car and his ankle in a brutal smash up , takes time off from racing to teach cocky eager beaver kid Les York ( played with bright , wide-eyed gusto by the likable John Gentry ) how to drive well on the track . Mitch takes a fancy to York's lovely , no-nonsense wife Rene ( a winningly sparky'n'spunky performance by toothsome blonde Connie Hines ) , which leads to Les ditching Mitch so he can drive for a jerk millionaire who only cares about winning . In fact , success transforms Les into a greedy and selfish egomaniac , therefor causing Mitch and Les to become bitter adversaries . The two race against each other at a grand high stakes race . Granted , Alexander Richards ' stand-issue script doesn't cover any new ground , but Paul Helmick's efficient direction , a hearty supporting turn by the always engaging Alan Hale , Jr . ( The Skipper on " Gilligan's Island " ) as an amiable , anecdotal pit crew chief , an interesting , commendably unglamorous warts-and-all depiction of professional stock car racing which shows how the sport can become an addiction and poison a man's blood , a colorful evocation of the grimy , sweaty , ferociously competitive and occasionally dangerous ultra-macho racetrack milieu , a marvelously mawkish ballad called " He's Gone Away " sung by Ann Stevens , Joseph Brunt's nifty cinematography ( there's some nice use of cheesy fade-outs and snazzy super-impositions ) , and authentically gritty racetrack footage of the Darlington , South Carolina Southern 500 that doesn't skimp on the dust-flying , dirt-kicking , rubber-shredding , tire-screaming , butt-tearing floor it and go the distance action movie goods make this honey a perfectly enjoyable and up to speed Southern-fried drive-in potboiler .
An entertaining 30's horror romp	The great Boris Karloff gives a typically splendid performance as Professor Morlant , a stubborn , dying Egyptologist who acquires a powerful ancient jewel that's supposed to make him immortal . Morlant comes back to life as a hideously disfigured murderous ghoul after someone steals the jewel from his tomb . Director T . Hayes Hunter relates the eventful story at a constant zippy pace , does an expert job of creating a beautifully eerie atmosphere in the first half of the picture , and adroitly blends elements of both horror and humor into a hugely enjoyable mix . The enthusiastic acting by the tip-top cast qualifies as another substantial asset : Cedric Hardwicke as conniving , treacherous lawyer Broughton , Ernest Thesiger as Morlant's disloyal servant Laing , Anthony Bushell as Morlant's irate nephew Ralph , Dorothy Hyson as Morlant's sweet , fiery niece Betty Harlow , Kathleen Harrison as Betty's dotty friend Kaney , Sir Ralph Richardson in his film debut as jolly priest Nigel Hartley , and Harold Huth as crazed Arab zealot Aga Ben Dragore . Kudos are also in order for Gunther Krampf's stunning black and white cinematography ; the spooky shots of fog-shrouded nighttime London streets are simply exquisite . The roaring , dramatic score by Louis Levy and Rupert Downing likewise hits the stirring spot . My sole complaint is that Karloff isn't in the film enough : Although prominently featured at the start , dear Boris alas remains off-screen for much of the action in the middle of the movie , but fortunately comes back with a ferocious vengeance for the rousing incendiary conclusion . That minor criticism aside , this feature overall rates as a good deal of vintage 30's golden oldie horror fun .
An excellent seriocomic Australian crime caper romp	A rip-snortingly good seriocomic Australian crime caper romp about Kev and Mick , who are a couple of slothful , shiftless , luckless , jobless , penniless , hopelessly dumb and perpetually beer-blasted couch potato twentysomething slacker meatheads who are constantly hard up for booze money . The dim-witted duo decide to reverse their misfortune by robbing a bank . Naturally , things don't go as planned , with a rival gang of clown-masked stick-up boys who've been holding up banks all over the city gumming up the works . This delightfully offbeat feature scores a 100 % smack dab on the money bull's eye thanks to its engagingly off-kilter sense of raucously wiggy humor , keenly observant feel for and genuine sympathy towards miserably impoverished , just barely scraping by bottom - of - the - socioeconomic - ladder lower-class people , uniformly bang-up acting , fluid photography , and commendably unpredictable loosey-goosey narrative structure . Writer / director David Caesar tells the whole manic story with dynamic , barn-storming panache and punchy , pacy , rat-a-tat-tat bravura style to burn , adroitly pulling off a difficult balancing act of laugh-out-loud uproarious comedy and quietly affecting low-key drama ( a subplot concerning the leader of the rival gang needing the stolen loot to support his junkie wife's drug habit proves to be especially poignant ) . The robbery itself is a marvelously tense and thrilling tour-de-force set piece . Best of all , Ben Mendelsohn as the hostile , dangerously temperamental Kev and Jeremy Simms as Kev's more laid-back , long-suffering bud Mick display a wonderfully edgy and oftentimes downright electric chemistry . While the main characters are unarguable losers , the film overall is a total winner .
Tod Slaughter is deliciously hammy in this immensely entertaining 30's low-budget horror quickie	Slimy and deranged Fleet Street , London barber Sweeney Todd ( a gloriously ripe and juicy serving of prime eye-rolling Victorian theatrical ham by Tod Slaughter ) murders costumers for their money and valuables . His baker accomplice Mrs . Lovatt ( a fine performance by Stella Rho ) disposes of the bodies by turning them into meat pies . Complications ensue when Sweeney tries to get the lovely young Johanna Oakley ( the fetching Eve Lister ) to marry him , which doesn't meet with Mrs . Lovatt's approval . Director George King relates the engrossingly ghoulish story at a constant swift pace and does a nice job of evoking a flavorful 19th century period atmosphere . Moreover , the game cast sink their teeth into the macabre material with obvious relish : While Slaughter clearly dominates the show with his marvelously over-the-top portrayal of the demonic and depraved Sweeney , there are still bang-up supporting turns by John Singer as Sweeney's eager young apprentice Tobias Rag , Bruce Seton as likable working class sailor Mark Ingerstreet , D . J . Williams as Johanna's stern father Stephen Oakley , Davina Craig as cheery maid Nan , Jerry Verno as Mark's helpful friend Pearley , and Billy Holland as smarmy , blackmailing fence Mr . Parsons . Technically , this picture is a rinky-dink shambles , with rough cinematography , scratchy sound , primitive fade-outs , and a mushy string score , but Slaughter's delightfully devilish full-blooded histrionics and a most amusing sense of pitch-black gallows humor both ensure that this film is a great deal of wickedly enjoyable fun all the same .
A very creepy and unsettling horror feature	Eager , but sensitive atheist medical student Alison Blanchard ( a fine and sympathetic performance by fetching blonde Corri English ) must overcome her own squeamishness about mortality while taking her gross anatomy class . Things get freaky when the unrestful spirit of the female cadaver she's supposed to dissect tries communicating with her from the beyond and starts committing a series of murders . Director / co-writer Jason Todd Ipson does an expert job of creating and sustaining a grim , intense and morbid atmosphere which becomes more increasing nightmarish and harrowing as the story unfolds . Moreover , Ipson keeps the tone relatively serious throughout ; he never lets the plot get too silly or spoofy at any point . This film further benefits from uniformly sound acting from a capable cast : English truly impresses in the lead , plus there are excellent supporting contributions from Scot Davis as the nice , charming Brian Cross , Joshua Alba as the thoughtful , superstitious Carlos Aclar , Jay Jablonski as the brash , happy-go-lucky Rick O'Connor , Derrick O'Connor as stern , no-nonsense instructor Dr . Blackwell , and Reb Fleming as helpful psychiatrist Dr . Carolyn Saltz . The gruesome and convincing make-up f / x are guaranteed to make you squirm . Both Michael Fimognari's slick , shadowy cinematography and Michael Cohen's spooky'n'shuddery score further enhance the overall eerie and unnerving mood . A most effective and hence recommended shocker .
An enjoyably silly piece of vintage 60's psychedelic kitsch	Oh yeah , baby ! Now this film may not be good in a conventional sense of the word , but man is it one hopelessly dated , yet charming and unintentionally amusing slice of swingin ' 60's camp silliness . Rock singer / songwriter , former smack addict , and onetime Mick Jagger main squeeze Marianne Faithful portrays Rebecca , a bored housewife who bails on her drab , stuffed shirt hubby , dons a spectacular skintight leather jumpsuit , hops on a shiny , powerful custom chopper , and drives halfway across Europe to reunite herself with her absolute to die for stud muffin college professor lover Daniel ( the ever-cool Alain Delon ) . This marvelously messed-up and ridiculous misfire boasts clumsy direction by Jack Cardiff ( who also did the often stunning garish cinematography ) , a groovy score by Les Reed , the gorgeous Marianne looking positively smashing both in and out of her clothes , plenty of funky oh-so-60's psychedelic visuals ( I especially loved the brilliant ruddy whirlpool with the silhouetted seagulls flying around it ) , a startling bummer of a surprise downbeat ending , and , best of all , Marianne articulating via voice-over all these incredibly dippy heavy sentiments on such worldly topics as war , tying the knot ( " Marriage is a little death " ) , love , obsession , and , naturally , the galvanizing , liberating feel of a mean machine throbbin ' between your legs ( shout it with me everyone : " My black motorcycle devil makes love beautifully ! " ) . Like , biker zen , dude .
A real amusingly awful stinker of a cheap sci-fi alien invasion wash-out	A bunch of evil and deadly aliens land in the remote woods of a sleepy rural community and terrorize the countryside . It's up to decent , clean-cut youth Stan Kenyon ( handsome , smooth-voiced John Ashley ) and his sweet girlfriend Susan Rogers ( fetching brunette honey Cynthia Hull ) to stop them before it's too late . Limply directed in a flat style and with an appalling lack of finesse by notorious Grade Z blunder wonder Larry Buchanan , with static cinematography by Ralph K . Johnson , lousy and unconvincing ( markedly less than ) special effects , a drawn-out and meandering narrative ( the pace plods along at an agonizingly gradual crawl ) , a numbing excess of dreary dialogue , stiff acting ( top thespic dishonors go to Warren Hammack as smug smartaleck Lieutenant Robertson and Tony Huston as the bumbling Corporal Culver ) , irritating inept comic relief Air Force officers , cardboard characters , an alternately droning or overwrought stock film library score , and no tension or momentum to speak of , this spectacularly shoddy lemon makes for an enjoyably atrocious piece of outright irredeemable schlock . The ugly , lumpy , lumbering titular extraterrestrial monsters are laughably pathetic ; they're obviously guys in hokey rubber suits covered with cheesy eyeballs and sporting painfully visible zippers ! Buchanan regular Bill Thurman pops up in a small part sans lines as an Air Force sergeant . An absolutely cruddy hoot .
A very funny 30's comic short	The evil Dr . Wong ( essayed with lip-smacking sinister panache by Val Durand ) abducts prominent scientist Professor Edwin Millstone ( solid Wilfred Lucas ) . Blundering bank guards Monte Collins and Tom Kennedy search through Chinatown to find Dr . Wong and rescue the professor . Director Del Lord maintains a zippy pace throughout and pitches the wacky humor at an amusingly broad level . This cheerfully inane romp reaches its gut-busting peak in an alley way sequence in which our two nitwit protagonists meow like cats . Moreover , a monstrous apeman runs amok in the last reel and further adds to the infectiously goofy hilarity . Collins and Kennedy make for an amiably bumbling duo , with nice support from Phyllis Crane as Professor Millstone's fetching daughter . Both the jaunty , merry score and Benjamin H . Kline's crisp black and white cinematography are up to speed . Granted , this comic short sure ain't subtle or sophisticated in its buffoonish humor , but it's still a delightfully silly hoot just the same .
A lively and hugely enjoyable car chase romp	Cliff Robertson contributes one of his sturdy , pleasant , reassuring reliable old pro portrayals as Judd Pierson , a crusty , disillusioned crackerjack race car driver whose career has hit the skids . Despite the efforts of loyal , adoring , wide-eyed mechanic Casey ( a likably relaxed performance by boyish , fluffy-haired 70's teen heartthrob Leif Garrett ) , Judd's feeling pretty lousy because he's stuck doing death-defying stunts for a third-rate crash and burn thrill show traveling across New Zealand . So when gutsy , dedicated germ warfare disease researcher Christine Ruben ( lovely Lisa Harrow ) promises to pay Judd $3 , 000 to drive her through some treacherous winding backroads , Casey persuades Judd to accept her offer . But unbeknownst to either Judd or Casey , Ruben takes along a sample of a deadly virus she's been working on ; it's a top secret bug that the company she works for wants back by any means necessary . Naturally , a lethal team of assassins lead by the sublimely snooty slimeball Shane Briant give chase . Director Bruce Morrison , abetted by a briskly efficient screenplay ( said script Morrison co-wrote with James Kouf , Jr . and henry Fownes ) , Stephen McCurdy's jazzy , hard-blasting score , spirited acting by a fine cast , a sharp sense of dry , biting humor ( " There's nothing in our contract about leading us into the valley of death and getting out butts shot off " ) , beauteous New Zealand countryside scenery , and Kevin Hayward's handsome , gleaming cinematography , pumps up the pace and maintains a neck-snappingly fast sense of constant momentum . The awesomely well-mounted chase sequences are staged with lip-smacking verve and a camera gets affixed to the side of the wildly careening automobiles , thereby infusing the rousing proceedings with a jangly , punchy , invigorating vitality . Sure , this honey doesn't cover any fresh chase / action thriller ground , but it certainly goes through the familiar motions in a most satisfyingly dynamic and straightforward manner . In fact , this solid , neatly executed number would make a swell double bill with the somewhat similar and equally kickin ' " The Chain Reaction . "
A perfectly foul , harsh and disgusting Nazisploitation flick	All kinds of horrible stuff happens to the luckless lady prisoners at SS Camp 5 . Their fierce and sadistic Nazi captors either force the women to become prostitutes so they can sexually service Nazi officers and boost morale or use them as guinea pigs for barbaric scientific experiments . Director / co-writer Sergio Garrone certainly doesn't skimp on the leering low-grade sleaze : we've got plentiful gratuitous distaff nudity , two group shower scenes , an orgy , a few sordid soft-core sex scenes , and one very nasty rape . Moreover , Garrone delivers the raw , ugly and sickening brutality by the nauseating bucketful : Among the hideous sights on display are four would-be escapees being torched in an oven , various poor ladies having their legs set on fire , one gal has her head crushed in a vice , another gets repeatedly punched in the stomach with sharp brass knuckles , a third lass has flaming bamboo sticks placed under her fingernails ( ouch ! ) , and a fourth woman has her tongue torn out with a huge pair of tongs . This thoroughly fetid flick further benefits from the sound acting by a capable cast , with especially stand-out turns by foxy Pam Grier lookalike Rita Manna as feisty Jamaican Alina , Giorgio Cerioni as the humane Colonel Strasser , Serafino Profuma as cruel commandant Lt . Hans , Paola Corazzi as fetching blonde Edith , Patrizia Melegna as mean Nazi bitch Greta , Paola D'Egidio as the gutsy Deborah , Attilio Dottesio as quack scientist Dr . Abraham , and Paola Lelio as homely fat whorehouse madam Magda . Maurizio Centini's plain cinematography , the moody , melancholy , flesh-crawling synthesizer score by Vasili Kojucharov and Roberto Pregadio , and the grim , despairing tone all greatly add to the overall considerable sliminess and mean-spiritedness of this choice sick Italian Nazisploitation trash .
A hilariously horrendous horror anthology hoot	Writer / director Ron Ford thoroughly butchers three classic short stories written by H . G . Wells , Mary Shelley , and Rudyard Kipling in this extremely bad , yet often sidesplitting and hence strangely entertaining micro-budget omnibus outing . First and dopiest tale , " Crystal Gazing " - Nerdy , henpecked antique shop owner Winston Kale ( geeky wonder Greg Cannone ) becomes obsessed with an odd green crystal that enables him to see into an alien world . Naturally , his naggy wife Alice ( the insufferably shrill Oriana Nicole Tavoularis ) doesn't approve of Winston's fixation on this peculiar object . The surprise conclusion to this episode is a doozy . Second and most enjoyably trashy segment , " Cold Feet " - Unhappy husband-to-be Eric ( a solid performance by Michael Labarbera ) becomes infatuated with the tantalizing postcard photo of a luscious dominatrix ( well played by lovely brunette looker Veronica Carothers , who also portrays a stripper and a weird cat-faced humanoid creature ) , which in turn gets him in hot water with both his shrewish fiancé Virginia ( the awful Michelle Galles , who sports the world's worst artificially enhanced disproportionate lopsided breasts ) and overbearing father-in-law Wendel ( a perfectly jerky Joe Haggerty ) . This story delivers lots of tasty female nudity courtesy of Ms . Carothers and a smoking soft S & M-themed simulated soft-core sex scene . Third and most sublimely ridiculous anecdote , " Bestiality " - Evil mobster Harry Green ( the outrageously hammy Randal Malone ) has a werewolf curse placed on him by a powerful shaman ( the hopelessly wooden Craig Johnson ) after he takes a valuable gold ring that belongs to the shaman's tribe . This yarn offers the show's biggest unintentional belly laughs thanks to its excessive profanity ( the almighty f-bomb is dropped with amusingly absurd abandon ) , shoddy splatter , and a pathetically unconvincing simian lycanthrope . Jeff Leroy's hazy'n'fuzzy shot-on-video cinematography , the hit-or-miss acting , the cheesy digital ( far from ) special effects , Joe Woelfel's grating synthesizer score , the cruddy make-up , the tacky gore , and especially Ford's all-thumbs ( mis ) direction all further enhance the infectiously atrocious entertainment value of this uproariously terrible turkey .
An enjoyable little low-budget straight-to-video bleakly futuristic sci-fi flick	2030 : In the grim greenhouse effect ravaged future psychotic android Quinn ( deliciously played to the fabulously freaky hilt by Bill Moseley ; Otis in " House of 1 , 000 Corpses " ) kills a few people in a rundown old TV station because grouchy owner Lathan Hooks ( a lively , although sadly brief turn by Ralph Waite ; the father on " The Waltons " ) is secretly giving information to a group of underground fighters who are opposed to the oppressive authoritarian Orwellian " 1984 " - ish government . Although this film suffers a bit from a muddled script by J . S . Cardone ( who also wrote and directed the superior " Shadowzone " ) and occasionally sluggish pacing , " Crash and Burn " still nonetheless rates as an engrossing and entertaining sci-fi action opus thanks to Charles Band's energetic direction , well drawn characters , solid acting from a sturdy cast ( the lovely Megan Ward makes for an engagingly spunky heroine while veteran character actor John Davis Chandler pops up in a nice bit as a crusty gas station proprietor ) , nifty stop motion animation by David Allen , pleasingly grody make-up f / x by Greg Cannom , and a stirring score by the indefatigable Richard Band . Good , modest Grade B fun .
A delightfully dippy and laughable giant monster riot	A lethal gigantic alien buzzard comes to our planet so it can eat folks and lay eggs . The military and a team of scientists join forces to stop the nasty thing . Director Fred F . Sears treats the silly story with remarkable seriousness and maintains a snappy pace throughout . The cast all play their stock cardboard characters with admirable sincerity : Jeff Morrow as stalwart hero Mitch MacAfee , Mara Corday as spunky mathematician Sally Caldwell , Morris Ankrum as the severe Lt . Gen . Edward Considine , Robert Shayne as the ramrod General van Buskirk , Edgar Barrier as suave scientist Dr . Karol Noymann , and Louis Merrill as likable , superstitious farmer Pierre Broussard . Both Mischa Bakaleinikoff's booming'n'bombastic score and Benjamin H . Kline's crisp black and white cinematography are up to par . The no-kidding straight tone , uproariously awful dialogue ( " I didn't invent this flying nightmare - - I just saw and reported it ! " ) , and especially that hopelessly ludicrous and unconvincing cheesy turkey puppet all add immensely to the overall campy hilarity . The scenes with the behemoth bird beast attacking people and destroying property are positively sidesplitting . An absolute hoot .
An enjoyably cheesy sequel to the excellent original	The diabolical devil doll returns to wreak more havoc . This time it comes to life and turns into a hideous scaly humanoid lizard beast which terrorizes several folks holding a lavish Halloween birthday party for little girl Tania ( cute Renata del Rio ) on a closed film studio . It's up to occult expert Julio ( the ever-amiable Pedro Fernandez ) to stop the foul fiend before dawn . He's assisted by sweet singer Mayra ( the foxy Tatiana ) and stern movie mogul Roberto Mondragon ( a perfectly huffy Joaquin Cordero ) . Director Rene Cardona III treats the gloriously ridiculous premise with total seriousness , thereby providing a wondrous wealth of often gut-busting unintentional campy humor . Moreover , Cardona III relates the silly plot at a snappy pace , manages to create a fair amount of creepy atmosphere , and pours on the gore with lip-smacking élan ( blood and goo literally flows , spurts and squirts all over the place ! ) . The clawed'n'fanged reptilian monster is an absolute riot ; he's a goofy-looking thing with a long tail , a big banana-like nose , and absurd pointy ears ! The lovably primitive ( markedly less than ) special effects are likewise pretty funny . Better still , the lovely Tatiana even performs a bouncy pop-rock number ! Xaxier Cruz's slick , fluid cinematography and Pedro Plascencia Salinas ' funky , syncopated score are both up to par . A real hoot of a schlockfest .
A nifty little early 80's college-set slasher flick	The seven lady members of the Theta Pi Sorority accidentally kill their overbearing shrew of a house mother Ms . Slater ( a memorably huffy Lois Kelsa Hunt ) and try to dispose of her body by hiding it in a filthy old pool . Unbeknownst to the girls , Ms . Slater has a hideously malformed son named Erik ( the creepy Charles Serio ) who doesn't take the news of his mother's untimely death too well . In fact , Erik proceeds to exact a harsh and bloody revenge on the girls by bumping them off in assorted gruesome ways . While it's admittedly routinely plotted and predictable , this cool little slasher feature still makes the cut thanks to Mark Rosman's stylish and assured direction , a respectable body count of nine , several gory kill scenes ( said murders include an iron rod in the torso , a steak knife in the neck , and a cane whacking to the head ) , sound acting from a capable cast , Richard Band's splendidly eerie and elegant orchestral score , a smidgen of gratuitous nudity ( the luscious blonde looker Eileen Davidson is notable in this department as the slutty Vicki ) , a reasonable amount of tension , Timothy Suhrstedt's lush , handsome cinematography , and a few inventive oddball touches ( a severed head in the toilet , the heroine confronting the killer while tripping on hallucinogenic drugs ) . Above average of its type and well worth checking out for fans of 80's slice'n'dice low-budget horror flicks .
A very solid & suspenseful 70's vehicular horror film	An admirably sober-minded entry in the demonic killer car fright film sub-genre , this surprisingly creepy and unnerving picture has a big , ugly , driverless black sedan terrorize the dusty , desolate desert armpit burg of Santa Ynez , New Mexico . It runs over several folks left and right before stalwart Sheriff Wade Parent ( an excellent , properly steely and courageous James Brolin , who ironically went on to become a spokesman for Amco ! ) forms a posse to track the evil automobile down and destroy it . The admittedly absurd fantastic premise stretches credibility to a near breaking point , but thankfully the plot's patent ridiculousness is successfully surmounted by Elliot Silverstein's smooth , plain , unfussy direction , Leonard Rosenman's ominous , menacing score , Gerald Hirschfield's gritty , panoramic cinematography ( the widescreen shots of the arid , sprawling desert terrain evoke a harrowingly palpable sense of isolation and vulnerability ) , a grimly serious , brooding tone that's rife with dread , despair and a particularly nerve-wracking sense of gradually escalating hopelessness , all-around bang-up acting ( Ronny Cox is especially fine as a weak , alcoholic deputy ) , realistically drawn warts-and-all characters , judiciously used special effects , and , most significantly , a remarkably solemn , mature and even complex script by Dennis Shyrack , Michael Butler and Lane Slate which refuses to explain the car's uncanny supernatural powers , therefor creating a marvelously ambiguous and very unsettling gloom-doom mood that's further enhanced by generous sprinklings of believably harsh unfairness and stark amorality ( both caring , compassionate original sheriff John Marley and Brolin's sweet schoolteacher girlfriend Kathleen Lloyd are killed while vile , hostile wife beater R . G . Armstrong helps save the day ) . The typically terrific Anchor Bay DVD for this genuinely scary and gripping 70's vehicular horror outing offers a gorgeous'n'gleaming letter-boxed presentation along with the theatrical trailer and a couple of nifty thumbnail bios .
A fun Italian mad scientist horror romp	Gorgeous stripper Jeanette ( well played by luscious blonde looker Susanne Loret ) has her face horribly disfigured in a car accident . Sinister , obsessive scientist Professor Alberto Levin ( a perfectly creepy portrayal by Alberto Lupo ) manages to restore Jeanette's beauty with an experimental serum , but naturally said serum's results are only temporary . Levin must murder several lovely young ladies for their cells in order to make the operation a permanent success . Director Anton Giulio Majano , working from a compelling script by Alberto Bevilacqua and Gino De Santis , relates the twisted story at a steady pace , maintains a suitably grim , serious tone throughout , and stages the rousing climax with considerable flair . Aldo Giordani's stark black and white cinematography offers a few impressively misty atmospheric visuals . Armando Trovajoli's spooky jazz-tinged score does the shivery trick . The make-up and special effects are pretty crude , but effective just the same . Loret and Lupo do solid work in the lead roles ; they receive nice support from Franca Parisi as Levin's loyal , jealous assistant Monique Riviere , Sergio Fantoni as Jeanette's concerned sailor ex-boyfriend Pierre Mornet , and Roberto Bertea as browbeaten mute servant Sacha . Granted , the poor dubbing and occasional slow spots detract a bit from the movie's overall quality , but this picture still sizes up as an enjoyable fright feature just the same .
An enjoyably lowbrow piece of diverting junk	Hard-nosed and demanding macho photographer Jack Hackerman ( excellently played to the fiercely rugged hilt by Ross Hagen ) and a handful of models go to a remote rural ranch to shoot pictures for a forthcoming calender . Things turn sour when a crazed cross-dressing misogynistic psycho dressed up like a nurse starts bumping off the ladies . Hagen , who both co-directed the film with John Stewart and co-wrote the amusingly tawdry script , takes a while to get the story going in the rather draggy opening half , but picks up steam and really starts cooking once the killings begin and goes for broke with a gloriously over-the-top explosive conclusion . Moreover , Hagen plunges into the delightfully deranged deep end with deliciously histrionic eye-rolling gusto as the giggly wisecracking transvestite nutjob . The murder set pieces are appropriately bloody and brutal . Better still , the female cast members are all quite sexy and attractive : Keely Simms contributes an endearingly sweet turn as the perky Cindy , the always ravishing redhead Juliette Cummins burns up the screen with her customary saucy aplomb as a naughty slut who gets slashed up in a bathtub after performing a sizzling striptease , Susan Jennifer Sullivan amuses as the fetching , but stand-offish Lisa , Lisa Axelrod is smoking hot as the lusty Jennifer , and gorgeously statuesque blonde stunner Dona Speir makes a brief appearance as bitchy veteran model Nancy Johnson . The guys are likewise solid : Gregory Scott Cummins as Cindy's possessive , hot-tempered boyfriend Johnny , Troy Donahue as Jack's loyal assistant Alan , and Hoke Howell as snoopy private investigator Lara . The flashy photo sessions with their shamelessly blatant blend of sex and violence are total trashy hoots . The slick cinematography by Thomas L . Callaway and Gary Graver gives the movie a nice glittery look . Stu Goldberg's groovy-rockin ' score hits the funky spot . A good deal of entertaining Grade B schlocky fun .
A very solid and enjoyable killer automobile offering	Stephen King's sole directorial effort " Maximum Overdrive " still qualifies as one of the single most horrible cinematic adaptations of his work to date . It's a total mess that's fatally undone by intolerably obnoxious nincompoop characters , sloppy plotting , and a simply dreadful sense of rancidly unamusing toilet bowl humor . Granted , the central premise - - a comet which brushes perilously close to the Earth's atmosphere somehow causes all the trucks to take on a murderously intelligent and malevolent sentient life of their own , with a bunch of demonic semis holding a motley assortment of people hostage in a besieged diner - - was promising , but King's messy , clumsy and horrendously diffuse ( mis ) direction and a narrative ridden with enough gaping plot holes to drive a Diesel through ' em failed to due said premise any justice . Fortunately , this second celluloid take on the short yarn " Trucks " rates as a markedly better and more effective picture : It's smart , absorbing and suspenseful , with sure , low-key direction , a tight , sharply focused script , a few nifty violent episodes ( a mailman getting gruesomely snuffed by a vicious tiny toy dump truck provides a blackly funny highlight ) , a refreshing paucity of both needless pretense and equally unnecessary razzle-dazzle , a commendably straightforward , matter-of-fact , down-to-earth sober tone , realistic sounding dialogue , a genuinely eerie atmosphere of total desolation ( the dry , dusty desert locations help immensely here ) , spare , unflashy cinematography , appealingly plain everyday country folks main characters , and a splendidly bleak surprise ending punching up the quality level to a finely high and well-sustained standard indeed . Timothy Busfield as an affable nice guy gas station proprietor and the fetching Brenda Bakke as the quick-thinking , level-headed heroine lead the uniformly solid no-name cast ( Jay Brazzeau is especially engaging as gentle , philosophical old hippie Jack ) . Moreover , this film mean business throughout and doesn't play fair , actually going as far as to bump off some of the more likable characters . It's this latter element of grim seriousness that makes all the difference , thus enabling a fantastic premise to acquire a reasonable semblance of plausibility which in turn puts this feature over as a good little fright flick .
A solid and satisfying martial arts revenge item	Karate master Kazuma ( the almighty Sonny Chiba ) gets severely beaten up and crippled by a vicious gang of thugs lead by evil rival Nikaido . Kazuma trains his loyal daughter Yumi ( a fine and moving performance by beautiful brunette Etsuko Shihomi ) in the martial arts so she can exact a harsh revenge on the pernicious bastards . Directors Yataka Kodaira and Yutaka Kohira maintain a steady snappy pace throughout and stage the copious brutal , blood-spilling and bone-breaking fight scenes with plenty of violent aplomb ( one especially thrilling set piece has Yumi single handedly taking out a pack of ferocious Doberman Pinchers ) . Hanjiro Nakada's snazzy cinematography makes nice use of shaky hand-held camera , funky freeze frames and strenuous slow motion . Shunsuke Kikuchi's groovy , rousing " wacka wacka " score likewise does the trick . The villains are a truly mean , nasty and hateful bunch , with the best one being a blind , white-haired swordsman . Shihomi makes for a strong and sympathetic tragic heroine whose sole reason for existing is to avenge her father . A bang-up little winner .
An utterly tasteless and hence hugely enjoyable Mexican horror splatter hoot	A kindly surgeon performs a heart transplant on his dying son . Naturally , there's a major glitch : said ticker was taken from a gorilla , which somehow causes the once nice kid to mutate into a brutal , brawny , bloodthirsty and hideously ugly apeman who embarks on a repulsively graphic crime spree , raping and killing wriggling topless women with sickening sadistic abandon . ( The apeman snuffs a few guys as well , so this flick can't be accused of being overly sexist . ) Clumsily directed without a single iota of restraint or subtlety by veteran trashmeister Rene Cardona , who also co-wrote the senseless script with his chip off the old schlock son Rene Cardona , Jr . , this sleazy , cheesy and remarkably vulgar gut-buster has more than enough gratuitous nudity ( the homely , lumpy lady wrestler heroine's shower scenes are especially nasty ) , ratty poverty-row production values , flat acting , terrible dubbing , extremely disgusting gore ( genuine heart surgery footage was used for the operation scenes , plus one poor guy has his scalp torn off ! ) , sluggish pacing , flabby , meandering plotting , marvelously messed-up dialogue ( " It's more probable that of late more and more you're watching on your television many of those pictures of terror " ) , and laughably amateurish make-up f / x to live up to its legendary status as a truly happening'n'horrendous hunk of scummy , low-rent , bottom of the barrel Grade Z south-of-the-border exploitation schlock junk .
A total bawdy hoot !	Sweet hairdresser Penny Pittman ( a typically charming and radiant performance by lovely blonde 70's drive-in cinema starlet Candice Rialson ) discovers that her vagina can talk and sing . Penny's helpful agent / psychiatrist Dr . Pearl ( affably essayed by Larry Gelman ) turns Penny and her foul-mouthed speaking cervix ( who's affectionately named Virginia ) into an unlikely reluctant celebrity : Penny and Virginia appear as guests on Professor Irwin Corey's TV show , record a funky hit disco song called " Wang Dang Doodle , " have sex with a whole high school basketball team , pop up on a game show , and star in a musical porno feature surrounded by dancing and singing men dressed up in chicken costumes ( this latter particular jaw-dropping sequence rates as the definite gut-busting surreal highlight of the entire picture ) . Director Tom DeSimone , working from a cheerfully crass and silly script by Mark Rosin and Norman Yonemoto , milks a lot of infectiously naughty laughs out of the one-joke premise , maintains a zippy pace throughout , and keeps the raunchiness at bay by effectively creating a surprisingly zany and good-natured tone . Besides the talking vagina gimmick , we also get hilariously bawdy jokes about predatory lesbians , preening homosexuals , and , of course , sex . The ravishing Rialson just barely manages to retain her dignity in the rather thankless lead role and bares her lovely body as often as possible . The supporting cast is likewise up to par : Perry Bullington as Penny's clumsy nice guy lover Ted , Jane Kean as Penny's proud , supportive mother Eleanor Pittman , Rip Taylor as Penny's effeminate gay boss Mr . Jo , Cynthia Hoppenfeld as Penny's loyal best gal pal Linda Ann , Michael Taylor as hunky romantic stud Dick , and Robert Lipton as pretentious hardcore film director Jon David . Tak Fujimoto's polished cinematography gives the movie a nice slick look . Moreover , the boom mike dips into the top of the frame at alarmingly frequent intervals . A choice wacky chunk of vintage 70's lowbrow humor .
An uproariously campy 60's horror schlock hoot	A motley assortment of tourists are vacationing on a remote island . The group runs afoul of evil botanist Baron von Meser ( the ubiquitous Cameron Mitchell in top suavely sinister form ) and his lethal giant vampire tree ( ! ) . Director Mel Welles ( Mr . Mushnik in the original " The Little Shop of Horrors " ) treats the laughably ludicrous premise with total seriousness , thus resulting in a true so - schlocky - it's - downright - spectacular unintentional camp riot . The colorfully quirky stock cardboard supporting characters are especially amusing ; my favorites are feisty old bat Myrtle , eccentric botanist Prof . Jules Demerest , shrewish slattern Cora , and creepy mute servant Baldi . The great animated opening credits sequence , the poor dubbing , the completely inappropriate , but still cool jazzy'n'smoky cocktail lounge score , and the incredibly wild over-the-top gruesome ending are all likewise hilarious . Only the fairly slick cinematography manages to rise above the general ineptitude of this gloriously ghastly marvel . A total howler .
An entertainingly tacky piece of Mexploitation horror schlock	The legendary Boris Karloff ended his illustrious career by making four cheapie fright flick clunkers in Mexico . This is the token moody period Gothic horror entry from the bunch . Karloff gives a typically spry and dignified performance as Matthias Morteval , an elderly eccentric patriarch who invites several of his petty , greedy and backbiting no-count relatives to his creepy rundown castle for the reading of a will . Pretty soon the hateful guests are getting bumped off by lethal life-sized toy people who populate the place . Onetime Mexican sex symbol Andres Garcia of " Tintorera " infamy portrays the dashing police officer hero and Julissa looks absolutely ravishing as the sole likable female character . The clunky , plodding ( non ) direction , trite by-the-numbers script , ugly , washed-out cinematography , ridiculous murder set pieces ( a gross fat slob gets blasted right in the face by a miniature cannon ! ) , overwrought string score , morbid gloom-doom atmosphere , largely lousy acting ( Karloff notably excepted ) , cheesy mild gore , poor dubbing and rousing fiery conclusion all lend this enjoyably awful lemon a certain endearingly cruddy and hence oddly amusing ratty charm . A real campy hoot .
A very creepy and unnerving 70's low-budget killer kid horror item	Freaky 11-year-old Rosalie ( perfectly played to the eerie hilt by Rosalie Cole ) lives with her cranky widowed pop in the remote woods of the deep South in the 1930's . Strange , snotty and friendless , Rosalie has a most unsettling tendency to hang out in the local misty cemetery . Moreover , the creepy killer kid possesses psychic abilities that enable her to make objects move and a scarecrow come to murderous life . Worse yet , the evil child's late mother was an institutionalized lunatic and the deadly little darling can even resurrect the dead ( the scene where a snoopy old lady neighbor has her face gruesomely torn off by a zombie is especially tense and scary ) . When Rosalie's sweet governess Alicianne ( a personable performance by the very pretty and appealing Laurel Barnett ) discovers what's going on , both her and Rosalie's more sensible older brother Len ( a likable turn by Richard Hanners ) find themselves in considerable jeopardy . This culminates in a truly horrific and nerve-wracking climax where the two hole up in a ratty old tool shed that's attacked by Rosalie's supremely unnerving , rot-faced , dirt-covered shambling zombie pals . Capably directed by Robert Voskanian , this effectively spare'n'spooky low-budget rural shocker is a handy dandy combo blend of " The Bad Seed , " " Carrie , " and " Night of the Living Dead . " It works remarkably well thanks to a strong brooding gloom-doom rustic Southern atmosphere , some really unusual and imaginative cinematography ( the occasional use of off-kilter tilted camera angles is particularly good at creating and sustaining a genuinely disturbing nightmarish mood ) , a vividly rendered period setting , a superbly wonky , dissonant and discomfiting droning synthesizer score , solid and credible acting from a game no-name cast , the wonderfully ugly and upsetting zombie make-up ( the hideous undead ghouls look like they lurched off the set of a Lucio Fulci film ) , and a nice sprinkling of ghastly gore . Odd , intriguing and often frightening , this baby is well worth checking out .
Hammer's first and sadly only werewolf movie	Spain in the 18th century : Cruel tyrant Marques Siniestro ( a wonderfully wicked Anthony Dawson ) imprisons a poor beggar ( a fine Richard Wordsworth ) in the basement of his castle . The beggar degenerates into a deranged feral state and rapes a mute servant girl ( the stunningly gorgeous Yvonne Romain ) . The servant girl dies after giving birth to a little boy named Leon on Christmas Eve , which according to local superstition means that the unfortunate lad is cursed . Leon is raised by the kindly Don Alfredo Corledo ( splendidly played by Clifford Evans ) . The decent , but anguished young man Leon ( an outstanding performance by Oliver Reed ) goes to work at a wine cellar and falls for the lovely Cristina Fernando ( a charming turn by the comely Catherine Feller ) . Alas , Leon becomes a savage werewolf when the full moon comes out at night and terrorizes the countryside . Director Terence Fisher maintains a steady pace throughout , effectively creates a brooding gloom-doom atmosphere , and stages the werewolf attack scenes with considerable aplomb . Arthur Grant's sharp , vibrant color cinematography , Benjamin Frankel's moody , shuddery score , Roy Ashton's excellent make-up f / x ( the werewolf is genuinely frightening ) , and the rousing conclusion are all up to speed . Reed impresses in an early lead as the tormented Leon ; Justin Walter also does well as Leon as a little boy . Michael Ripper has a funny bit as a raving old drunk . Best of all , there's a touching tragic aspect to the story which gives this picture a surprisingly substantial amount of additional poignancy and resonance . A solid and satisfying fright feature winner .
A very enjoyable fantasy adventure	Brave and honest legendary strongman Hercules ( perfectly embodied by the brawny and handsome Steve Reeves ) joins the noble Jason ( solid Fabrizio Mioni ) and his Argonauts on a perilous quest to find the golden fleece . During their dangerous journey Hercules and company encounter a tribe of beautiful , yet lethal Amazons , a bunch of savage apemen , and the lumbering dinosaur that guards the golden fleece . Director / co-writer Pietro Francisco relates the absorbing story at a steady pace , handles the fanciful subject matter with admirable respect and sincerity , maintains a serious tone throughout , and stages the action scenes with reasonable gusto ( a lively climactic large scale battle is especially exciting ) . Reeves as Hercules makes for a touching and sympathetic hero as he wishes to be mortal and have human emotions so he can win over the favor of fair maiden princess Iole ( the lovely Sylva Koscina ) . Hercules ' feats of incredible strength are pretty nifty and stirring ; highlights include wrestling both a ferocious lion and an equally vicious bull , pulling a tree out of the ground by the roots , and knocking over enormous pillars . The good acting by a competent cast qualifies as another substantial plus : Giana Maria Canale as ravishing Amazon queen Antea , Ivo Garrani as the weak and pathetic King Pelias , Arturo Dominici as the evil , treacherous Eurysteus , Gabriele Antonini as the eager Ulysses , and Mimmo Palmara as the arrogant Iphitus . Mario Bava's gorgeous widescreen cinematography gives the picture an impressively expansive scope . Enzo Masetti's robust , rousing score likewise does the trick . A fun flick .
Good , schlocky 70's drive-in horror fun	Mild-mannered high school student Vernon Potts is a strong candidate for the Pencil Neck Geek of the Year Award . The thuggish jocks in his gym class are always ruthlessly picking on him and beating him up . His bitchy English teacher gives him mucho flack for only caring about biology and chemistry . Vernon's negligent , self-absorbed dad is so wrapped up in making a fast buck that he completely ignores the poor boy . Even the grubby , mean-spirited janitor constantly browbeats him . After being forced to drink a special liquid formula he created for a biology experiment , Vernon acquires the necessary power to violently turn the tables on his cruel tormentors . Wormy , sniveling mouse Vernon occasionally mutates into a hairy , club-footed humanoid monster which embarks on a grisly murderous rampage , brutally slaying everyone who ever treated him badly . The custodian has his face dunked in a steaming vat of sulfuric acid , the English teacher has her hand lobbed off with a paper cutter , and , best of all , the malicious blackmailing football coach gets messily hashed when Vernon stomps all over his squat body while wearing spiked running shoes ! Okay , I'll admit that this shoddily made low-budget male adolescent revenge horror fantasy clunker is so incredibly bad that it's often downright gut-busting , but I nonetheless thoroughly enjoyed it just the same . Larry N . Stouffer's ham-fisted direction is loaded with lots of laughably inept affectations ; his maladroit use of oddly tinted camera angles in order to capture and convey a creepy mood of impending menace in particular stands out as a tremendous source of inadvertent hilarity . Erstwhile child star Pat Cardi gives a nice , personable portrayal of the pitiably meek Vernon , but the rest of the cast , which includes the ever-smooth and ingratiating Austin ( " Assault on Precinct 13 " ) Stoker as the casually assiduous cop investigating the killings and " Don't Look in the Basement " ' s Rosie Holotik as the fetching heroine , deliver comically dreadful performances . ( Cardi and Stoker also appeared together in " Battle for the Planet of the Apes . " ) Even 70's football stars Mean Joe Greene , Calvin Hill and Craig Morton have no clue why they were even invited to this celluloid nightmare . Janis P . Valtenburg's chintzy , grainy , unsightly cinematography and the mandatory ghastly ending credits theme song ( a sad , haunting , unforgettably atrocious pop-slop ballad called " Vernon's Theme " sung by Jerry Coward ) are likewise hilariously atrocious . However , Don Hulette's funky , groovy , syncopated score does manage to hit the correct right-on happening spot . Good , schlocky 70's drive-in horror fun .
A nifty period action drama	Noble Viking warrior Rurik ( a strong and credible portrayal by Cameron Mitchell ) vows to protect the fiery Karin ( well played by the lovely Lisa Wagner ) and her spunky son Moki ( the charming Louis Polletin ) from the vile clutches of the savage Hagen ( a perfectly hateful Frank Ross ) and his army of nasty brutes . Director / co-writer Mario Bava takes a welcome break from his usual horror fare to deliver a surprisingly complex and low-key , but still occasionally exciting period action drama that's essentially a thoughtful and inspired variant on the classic Western " Shane . " Bava relates the absorbing story about revenge , betrayal and loyalty at a steady pace and stages the down'n'dirty fight scenes with considerable brio ( a protracted confrontation between Rurik and Hagen in a tavern rates as a definite thrilling highlight ) . Antonio Rinaldi's breathtaking widescreen cinematography takes full advantage of the beautiful seaside scenery . Marcello Giombini's robust , rousing score likewise does the trick . The cast all give sound performances : Mitchell excels in one of his best roles , with sturdy support from Wagner , Ross , and Jack Stuart as Karin's gallant husband Harald . Best of all , the main characters are refreshingly complicated and genuinely engaging . A fun film .
A likable , if rather lightweight 70's blaxploitation romp	Tough , two-fisted Italian Catholic priest Father Charlie ( well played with steely conviction by Lino Ventura ) and rugged ex-cop Lee Stevens ( a solid and charismatic performance by Isaac Hayes ) join forces to find out who's responsible for a recent bank robbery in which one million dollars got stolen . Naturally , these guys find themselves neck deep in all kinds of trouble . Director Duccio Tessari relates the fun story at a constant snappy pace , makes fine use out of the gritty urban Chicago locations , adds a few amusingly quirky touches ( for example , Father Charlie performs last rites on recently killed criminals ! ) , and sprinkles plenty of rousing shoot-outs and rough'n'ready fisticuffs throughout . Fred Williamson has a welcome change-of-pace bad guy role as the nasty Joe Snake , plus there are sound supporting turns by Paula Kelly as scared hooker Fay , Vittorio Sanipoli as smooth businessman Mike Petralia , William Berger as the hard-nosed Captain Ryan , and Luciano Salce as a disapproving bishop . Hayes ' funky , throbbing , soul-deep score hits the groovy spot . Aldo Tonti's slick cinematography likewise does the trick . While this movie is pretty tame and inoffensive compared to most 70's blaxploitation grindhouse fare ( there's no nudity , only mild profanity , and the violence isn't that graphic ) , the breezy tone and engaging chemistry between the well-matched leads make this picture an enjoyable enough diversion .
A hilariously raucous and original comedy blast	When it comes to gleefully broad , bawdy , lowbrow " Mad " magazine-style " to hell with good taste and proper decorum " - like zany goofball humor , this unfairly overlooked late 80's period horror comedy riot really takes the splendidly sophomoric cake , ravenously gobbles it up with a commendable lack of subtlety and restraint , and vomits it back up all over the audience with an outrageously deviant gleam in its winningly nutty eye . 1692 , the time of the Salem Witch trials : The local rigid , repressive , morally upright and seriously uptight god-fearing puritan residents of a small New England hamlet are whipped up into a furious witch-burning frenzy by the cunning money-grubbing judge Stuart Pankin and insatiably lascivious idiot mayor Dave Thomas ( the latter's hilarious portrayal of a leering , terminally on-the-make sleazy politician uncannily foretells former President Bill Clinton's notorious skirt-chasing antics ) . Little do the gullible townspeople know that both Hizzoners are behind a sneaky real estate scheme ; they're manipulating the yokels to barbecue certain folks so they can confiscate their land and make a bundle selling it at the highest possible price ( yep , there's some spot-on stinging satire on 80's yuppie corporate greed and self-serving amorality run grossly amok , plus lots of similarly on-target sideswipes at the religious right's expense , what with all the townspeople being exposed as boozing , whoring , two-faced hypocrites ) . Moreover , real-life lusty , man-eating witch Faith ( the ever-ravishing Barbara Carrera camping and vamping it up like nobody's business ) takes advantage of the mass hysteria by making sweet innocent baker Sara ( a radiant Kelly Preston ) look like a witch so she can have her salacious way with Sara's klutzy , but hunky husband-to-be ( amiable doofus Patrick Cassidy ) . Director John Moffit cranks up the uproariously lewd , silly , most politically incorrect and hence quite delightful poor taste buffoonery to the marvelously brash and dippy max , joyously stooping to many howl-inducing lows for the sake of a solid cheap laugh . Wimpy mama's boy priest Bud Cort goes blind and does a wicked Ray Charles impersonation . Puritans roast hot dogs while burning witches at the stake . A man cursed with flatulence backfires like crazy in a crowded church ; the same guy later has sex with a turkey ( ! ) and commits suicide . Sara's breads and cakes take on the obscene shapes of large breasts and erect penises . A Thanksgiving diner degenerates into a boisterous wild party complete with drinking , dancing , pot-smoking , and " Louie , Louie " blasting on the soundtrack . A tavern holds New England clam chowder women's wrestling matches . A solemn funeral procession gets rudely disrupted by a stray cat . Dr . Joyce Brothers is branded a heretic at a witch trial when she diagnoses the puritans as paranoid , homicidal , sexually frustrated lunatics ! My favorite gag has the delectable Barbara Carrera transforming into the spectacularly ugly and haggish Anne Ramsey , whose remarkable resemblance to a squat , gnarled , unsightly garden gnome is ingeniously taken advantage of here . Okay , so this ain't exactly a highly insightful and sophisticated work of refined cinematic art , but it's definitely rowdy , wacky , amusing and above all irreverent enough to still earn this particular reviewer's seal of approval .
Likable tongue-in-cheek comedy Western	Charming , blithely amoral devil-may-care rogue Jesse Smith ( nicely played to the suavely cool hilt by Richard Harrison , who also co-directed this film ) and peaceful , devout straight-arrow Mormon Lester O'Hara ( a lively and credible performance by Donald O'Brien ) are estranged half brothers who reunite after receiving a sizable inheritance from their deceased mother . The wildly contrasting mismatched duo get into all kinds of trouble while trying to claim said inheritance . Directors Harrison and Renzo Genta relate the story at a constant quick pace , maintain a lighthearted tone throughout , and pitch the amusing lowbrow humor at a very broad , yet still enjoyable level . Moreover , the plentiful outbursts of gunplay and fisticuffs are staged with considerable aplomb , with a fierce rough'n'tumble barroom boxing match between Jesse and a hulking brute rating as a definite thrilling highlight . Harrison and O'Brien display an engagingly spiky chemistry in the leads , with sound support from Gino Maturano as ruthless one-eyed bandit gang leader Poker , Anna Zinnemann as brassy prostitute Elena Von Schaffer , George Wang as an irritable Chinese restaurant owner , and Federico Boido as wily outlaw Blondie . Carlo Savina's bouncy , jaunty score further enhances the infectiously bubbly merriment . A perfectly amiable diversion .
A fun & enjoyable low-budget early 60's JD hoot	Five delinquent adolescents known collectively as " the Choppers " terrorize the countryside by stripping cars left by the side of the road with ruthless efficiency . The laughably clueless local yokel cops bumble , fumble and stumble around in fruitless circles until the discovery of a lone chicken feather at a crime site ( ! ) steers them in the right direction . Tautly directed by Leigh Jason , crisply shot in gorgeous black and white , further graced by hip slangy lingo ( " square johns " for decent law-abiding citizens , " bandits " for the fuzz ) , groovy music ( highly unlikely and sublimely geeky flash-in-the-pan wannabe teen scream idol Arch Hall , Jr . belts out a couple of endearingly goofy songs ) , solid acting , continuity errors aplenty , and snappy pacing , this funky little item sizes up as a good deal of trim , no-frills , mean'n'lean early 60's JD crime movie fun . Yummy blonde " Playboy " Playmate Marianne Gaba ( Miss September ' 59 ) looks quite delectable in her tight sweater and form-fitting skirt . Rotund veteran sleaze film character actor Bruno Ve Sota has one of his best-ever roles as Moose , a greedy , grubby , no-count , cigar-chewing junkyard owner who fences stolen automobile parts on the side . Scrawny chopper Rex Holman also portrayed a member of the lethal highway gang in " Panic in Year Zero . " Arch Hall , Sr . , who both wrote and produced this picture , pops up in a sizable supporting part as a smooth-voiced radio reporter and does marvelously mellifluous vocal work on the film's nifty trailer . Moreover , this flick scores bonus points for depicting the choppers as toxic products of messed-up families : Musclehead Torch has a pathetic drunk for a dad , Holman was raised by an aunt and uncle after his original parents dumped him when he was just a baby , and cocky ringleader Hall , Jr . is a spoiled rotten rich brat who's hungry for kicks . Those fine folks at Something Weird Video offer this baby on a terrific DVD double bill with the equally excellent and entertaining Arch Hall , Jr . rock'n'roll star vehicle " Wild Guitar . " Can you dig it , daddy-o ? I sure can - - and certainly did .
Beware the beautiful blonde babes from outer space !	Flirtacious Lily ( the stunningly gorgeous Stefanie Von Pfetten ) and aggressive Constance ( the equally foxy Kim Poirier ) aren't your standard run-of-the-mill tasty hot blonde college babes . They are actually dangerously alluring and enticing extraterrestrials who have come to Earth to mate with human males . Unfortunately , these delectable intergalactic honeys cause men to freeze from the inside out while having sex with them . Plus they sprout icky tentacles when aroused and don't have navels . It's up to aimless slacker freshman Luke ( winningly played by Corey Sevier ) to stop them before they turn every last libidinous party hearty dude on campus into giant frosty popsicles . Director / co-screenwriter Matthew Hastings has an absolute infectiously inane ball with the enjoyably ridiculous premise , skillfully blending raucous humor and off-center horror into a highly amusing and entertaining synthesis . Moreover , Hastings keeps the pace speeding along at a brisk tempo , elicits spirited acting from a fresh , attractive and appealing young cast , and stages the shock scenes with rousing go-for-it aplomb . Daniel Villeneuve's crisp , fluid cinematography , the catchy , thrashin ' rock soundtrack , the nifty special effects , a smidgen of nudity , genuinely likable characters , the shivery'n'spooky score by Daryl Bennet and Jim Guttridge , the stirring conclusion , and a dandy surprise twist ending are all up to par . Elias Toufexis is an amiably goofy hoot as the sweet virginal Roger , Meghan Ory registers strongly as Luke's scrappy'n'spunky best gal pal Alex , former " Baywatch " TV show regular Nicole Eggert pops up as a feisty lady cop , and Richard Burgi jerks it up delightfully as a gruff homicide detective . Good , solid tongue-in-cheek Grade B sci-fi / horror fun .
A charming little documentary	Actress Stella Stevens , looking as lovely and vibrant as ever , candidly talks about portraying whore with a heart of gold Hildy in " The Ballad of Cable Hogue . " Stevens points out that the film was at heart a tragic love story , that star Jason Robards was a perfect gentleman , the vocal for the duet " Butterfly Mornings " was recorded a capella in a single take , and praises executive producer Phil Feldman for having the guts to stand up to director Sam Peckinpah . Moreover , Stevens doesn't pull any punches concerning Peckinpah : she relates that Bloody Sam lacked tact and maybe even common sense , how his hostile temperament made things difficult for everyone on the set , and reveals that Peckinpah was of short stature and dressed more like a cowboy than a director , plus he always wore his trademark mirror sunglasses to hide the fact that he was a constant lier . In addition , Stella discusses starting her career as a model and confesses that she prefers comedy over drama . Well worth a watch for both Stella Stevens fans and aficionados of " The Ballad of Cable Hogue " alike .
A genuinely creepy and superior 70's revolt-of-nature horror outing	After their original prey is killed off by insecticides , a bunch of lethal poisonous arachnids develop a serious case of the mankind munchies and start chowing down on the unsuspecting local yokel residents of the sleepy country hamlet of Verde , Arizona . Pitted against the deadly eight-legged little horrors are amiable veterinarian Rack Hansen ( a surprisingly solid and subdued performance by the almighty William Shatner ) and lovely , but feisty feminist entomologist Diane Ashley ( superbly played by the alluring Tiffany Bolling of " The Candy Snatchers " and " The Centerfold Girls " fame ) . Tensely directed by John " Bud " Cardos ( who also gave us the not half bad " The Dark " and the fine " Mutant " ) , with plenty of creepy atmosphere , a flavorsome country soundtrack , several truly flesh-crawling spider attack scenes ( the whole sequence where the spiders attack the townspeople in mass volume is extremely potent and unnerving ) , sharp cinematography by John Arthur Morrill , one doozy of a startling shock twist bummer ending , well-drawn and likable characters , a spooky score by Dorsey Burnette , and solid acting from a sturdy cast that includes the ever-reliable Woody Strode , Lieux ( " Grave of the Vampire " ) Dressler , and Hoke ( " Humanoids from the Deep " ) Howell , " Kingdom of the Spiders " rates highly as a superior 70's killer animal fright flick .
A really cool and enjoyable oddball 70's crime caper flick	This really choice and pleasingly idiosyncratic early 70's low-budget canine crime caper winner delivers the quirky low-key nickel'n'dime junk movie goods with mucho gusto and a welcome dearth of pretense . Irascible criminal mastermind Eddie , fed up with the gross constant ineptitude of his hopelessly fallible human cohorts , kidnaps and trains a sextet of non-error prone super-sharp Doberman pinchers to pull off an intricate bank heist . This funky little number hits all the necessary bases : we've got a speedy steady pace , competent , assured direction by Bryon Ross Chudnow , nifty gritty lowlife characters , solid pro acting , a crankin ' soulful heavy on the brass score by Bradford Craig and Alan Silvestri , exquisite crystal clear cinematography by Robert Caramico , a terrifically tense heist set piece , cheesy montages set to marvelously mawkish light FM tunes , and even a slight mild sprinkling of good old fashioned gratuitous sex and violence . Bonus points are in order for both the fabulously corny country-and-western theme song ( " They were the dog gonest gang that man did ever see " ) and the fact that each dobie is named after a notorious 30's Depression era criminal ( Ma Parker , Dillinger , Bonnie , Clyde , etc . ) . In short , this fun flick overall rates as the totally authentic gnarly article .
A nicely spooky 70's made-for-TV horror winner	Sweet young Diane Shaw ( a fine and sympathetic performance by the comely Belinda J . Montgomery ) is given a place to stay by the seemingly friendly Lilith Malone ( superbly played by the ever reliable Shelley Winters ) following the death of Diane's mother ( Diane Ladd in a strong cameo ) . Diane discovers much to her display that her mother was a member of an evil Satanic cult and made a deal with the devil to marry her off to the chosen one when she reaches legal age . Director Jeannot ( " Jaws 2 " ) Szwarc does a commendable job of creating and sustaining a compellingly eerie and mysterious atmosphere . J . J . Jones ' polished cinematography gives the picture a bright , attractive look . Lawrence Rosenthal's shuddery'n'spooky score likewise does the trick . The bang-up supporting cast qualifies as another major asset : Jonathan Frid ( Barnabas on " Dark Shadows " ) as Lilith's creepy mute chauffeur Mr . Howard , Robert Foxworth as charming architect Steve Stone , Abe Vigoda as sinister anthropologist Aliknine , Joseph Cotten as the amiable Judge Weatherby , Ian Wolfe as the kindly Father MacHugh , and Lucille ( " Private Parts " ) Benson as the flaky Janet Poole . The dark surprise ending is a real corker , too . A very solid and satisfying vintage 70's made-for-TV fright feature .
An enjoyably breezy'n'easy Crown International drive-in romp	Cocky , blustery , bored stiff country boy Bobby ( swaggering Bill Adler ) drives his souped-up van to Los Angeles in search of kicks and competition . Bobby falls a over teakettle in love with assertive , self-assured rival lady driver Moon ( adorable ' 74 " Playboy " Playmate of the Year Cynthia Wood ) and befriends hip , brawny greaser Chooch ( hulking David Hayward ) , Chooch's insatiable nympho carhop main squeeze Wanda ( cuddly , curly-haired perennial 70's B-movie cutie starlet Tara Strohmeier of " Hollywood Boulevard " and " The Kentucky Fried Movie " ) , wide-eyed naif Greg ( boyishly affable Dennis Bowen ) , and Greg's foxy gal pal Camille ( lovely brunette knockout Melissa Prophet ) . William ( " The Incredible Melting Man " ) Sachs ' airy , aimless , virtually plot-less episodic script follows the sextet's silly misadventures as they ride roller coasters at the amusement park , cruise the strip , disco dance to flickering strobe lights at the local clubs , play pinball at the arcade , race their mean machines , and fall in love under the twinkling California stars . Sach's throwaway direction lets the rickety narrative ramble in enjoyably ramshackle fashion , neatly capturing a righteously funky lowdown cool tone , offering up a highly satisfying plenitude of bare female flesh and simulated soft-core sex , and punctuating the sub - " American Graffiti " antics with frequent dashes of sophomoric humor . Uptight killjoy cop Al Zass ( balding dork Dana Gladstone ) winds up handcuffed to his police car on a sweltering hot beach . A busty babe flashes her breasts at the fuzz . A mysterious leather-clad motorcycle mama ( statuesque eyeful Di Ann Monaco ) picks up Greg so she can have sex with him . A grunting pig runs amok on Malibu beach . Ken Mansfield and Ron Wright's catchy humming score pulsates to a throbbing disco beat . Joseph Mangine's bright , shiny , neon-reflecting cinematography gives the groovy after hours action a glittering nighttime glow . Sure , this likeably brainless Crown International Pictures drive-in piffle never really goes anywhere , but it provides a good deal of oddly pleasing dumb fun just the same .
A supremely icky and unnerving Japanese horror creepfest	A burn patient at a dank , grimy , rundown and understaffed hospital gets accidentally killed as a result of malpractice one fateful evening . The doctors and nurses responsible for his death decide to cover up the incident . Another hapless fellow with a horrific decomposing rash gets brought into the hospital that same night . Pretty soon various staff members start acting crazy and die in assorted grisly ways . Writer / director Masayuki Ochiai relates the genuinely upsetting story at a hypnotically slow pace and does an expert job of creating an oppressively bleak and unpleasant atmosphere that becomes increasingly gloomy and nightmarish as the grim story unfolds . The cast all contribute uniformly excellent performances , with especially sturdy work by Shiro Sano as the coldly rationale and opportunistic Dr . Akai , Koichi Sato as eager young Dr . Akiba , Masanobu Yakashima as the guilt-ridden Dr . Uozumi , and Kaho Minami as stern head nurse Mrs . Shiozaki . Moreover , Ochiai doesn't skimp on the incredibly gross and disgusting graphic carnage : needles are jabbed in arms , internal organs turn into hideous goop , blood seeps out of ears , and bodies dissolve into foul liquid gunk . Hatsuaki Masui's dark , restless , shadowy cinematography and Kuniaki Haishima's spare , skin-crawling score further enhance the clammy and distressful tone . But what really makes this picture so powerfully spooky and frightening is its unsparingly eerie and unrelenting sense of creepy " what the heck's going on here ? " ambiguity . The surprise twist ending packs quite a jolting punch , too . A superior Japanese horror scarefest .
Good , cheesy , retro 50's monster-on-the-loose sci-fi / horror fun	Astronaut Steven West ( stolidly played by Alex Rebar , who subsequently quit acting to write and / or produce such dreadful , eminently disposable fright film tripe as " Demented , " " Home , Sweet Home , " " Terror on Tour , " and " To All A Good Night " ) returns from a successful Saturn mission with a mysterious degenerative skin disease which causes his skin to melt at an alarmingly accelerated rate . Steven escapes from a military hospital , ventures off into the quiet sylvan countryside , and goes on a grisly murderous spree , chowing down on an obese nurse's pudgy pus , ripping a fisherman's head off , disrupting a game of hide and seek being played by three obnoxious pot-puffing stoner kids , attacking a bickering elderly couple picking lemons late at night , assaulting a young married couple ( one of them is former " The Hills Have Eyes " cannibal clan member Janus Blythe ) in their cabin , and generally behaving like a big , nasty , butt-ugly liquefying nuisance . Hot on Steven's goopy , blood-drenched , severed limb-littered trail are true blue best buddy Dr . Ted Nelson ( the colorless Burr DeBenning ) , rigid ramrod General Michael Perry ( gruffly essayed by burly , rugged 50's B Western fixture Myron Healey ) , and earnest small-town lawman Sheriff Neil Blake ( amiable lug Michael Aldredge ) . Basically a chintzy , dopey and hokey retro 50's creature feature all sleazed and slimed up for the cheap thrill happy 70's drive-in crowd , this American International Pictures production delivers plenty of good , dumb , two-cent trashy low-budget fun . Director / writer William Sachs , who also gave us the racy teen sex comedy " Van Nuys Boulevard " and the goofy sci-fi spoof " Galaxina , " alternates between straight-faced scares and witty tongue-in-cheek buffoonery , sardonically parodying hackneyed monster movie conventions in a disarmingly affectionate manner that's gently mocking rather than smugly condescending in its flip , mordant tone . Despite Rebar's insipid performance , Steven West still makes for a strangely touching and sympathetic rampaging ghoul ; the oddly poetic shots of Steve lurching across the bright , sunny forest landscape and the remarkable sequence where he quietly contemplates his wretched , hopeless plight in an abandoned cemetery are unusually haunting and poignant , bringing a welcome dash of pathos to the titular beast that's both admirable and affecting . Rick Baker's gory , graphic , exceedingly hideous and ultra-gooey make-up f / x are every bit as gross and disgusting as they ought to be . Willy Curtis ' nifty cinematography makes especially adroit use of such always effective visual flourishes as slow motion , split screen and slow , stately fades . Arlon Ober's suitably melodramatic score , liberally laced with stinging staccato fuzz-tone guitar riffs , ain't nothing to complain about , either . Acclaimed director Jonathan Demme has a riotous bit as a leering , voyeuristic scuzzbag photographer who tries to force headstrong , strikingly gorgeous model Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith to take her top off . An admittedly inane , but still most enjoyable sci-fi / horror winner all around .
An excellent and underrated crime thriller	Honest black cop Michael Rhoades ( a fine performance by Mario Van Peebles ) takes a stand against a racist group of white vigilante police officers called the Phantoms and does his best to acquire the necessary evidence to bust these guys . Of course , Rhoades immediately finds himself in considerable jeopardy . Directed with real style and assurance by Mario and Melvin Van Peebles , with a strong script by Rick Natkin and David Fuller , a credible sense of pervasive moral baseness and corruption , a tough , gritty tone , slick cinematography by Rhett Morita , an engrossing plot , a moody score by Larry Brown , a provocative subtext about the abuse of power , a snappy pace , and several exciting action scenes , this movie makes the grade as a tense and compelling cop flick . The picture further benefits from sound acting from a top-rate cast : Josh Brolin as sadistic former marine Keith DeBruler , Cynda Williams as helpful FBI agent Anita Boyard , the always great J . T . Walsh as smarmy Lieutenant William Eyler , Stephen Lang as the slimy , venomous Moose Tavola , Sean McCann as venerable old-timer Clute Mirkovich , Melvin Van Peebles as wise , amiable veteran Andre Speier , and Bruce Smolanoff as hateful jerk Theo Jensen . A solid and satisfying film .
A good , goofy & enjoyably gory giant monster on the loose flick	I bought this immensely enjoyable little direct-to-video giant monster on the loose fright flick as an impulse buy at a local Wal-Mart for only five bucks and am glad that I did , for this funky little B-horror creature feature turned out to be a pleasant surprise . The basic plot centers on a motley assortment of folks being terrorized by a gigantic flesh-eating fish in the Louisiana bayou . Sure , the premise is admittedly asinine , but both director Mark A . Z . Dippe and his cast treat it with commendable seriousness . Because the silly story is taken seriously instead of done in some smugly patronizing cutesy-campy way , a sizable amount of tension is created and sustained throughout . Better still , the fish attack scenes are staged with considerable élan and are every bit as brutal and gory as they ought to be ( the definite splatter highlight occurs when one hapless victim gets gruesomely bitten in half ) . The fish monster itself is a really cool and gnarly-looking beast ; the CGI effects are remarkably up to snuff and the animatronic puppet is likewise fairly convincing . Moreover , the story wasn't as by-the-numbers predictable as I expected ; the shockingly abrupt and nasty demise of one character in particular was genuinely startling . Special kudos are in order for the uniformly excellent cast : Tory Kittle makes for a solid and engaging hero , lovely ladies A . D . Aubert , China Chow and Noelle Evans supply delectable distaff eye candy for male viewers to ogle , Raoul Trujillo is an absolute hoot as a crazed loner ' Nam vet , and character actors Muse Watson as a grizzled fisherman , the always amusing Richard Edson as an amiable stoner dude , and Mark Boone Junior as a cagey seasoned tracker acquit themselves well in colorful supporting roles . I also appreciated the picture's pleasing paucity of pretense ; it's a briskly paced 84 minute affair that right from the start rolls up its sleeves , spits on its hands , and gets immediately down to business with a laudably snappy straightforwardness . Granted , it's no classic , but it's nonetheless still loads of entertainingly inane goof-ball fun .
A nicely spooky and effective supernatural horror murder mystery thriller sleeper	Sensible , independent , down-to-earth young single woman Meg ( the reasonably pretty , but rather plain and refreshingly unglamorous redhead Heather Bolton ) purchases a used Jaguar Mark IV automobile that's haunted by the unrestful spirit ( expressively played to eerily mute perfection by the lovely Perry Piercy ) of the previous owner who was murdered in it . A mysterious man ( handsome , quietly menacing David Letch ) who might be the killer begins to stalk Meg . Capably directed in an effectively clean , spare , very low-key and no-frills style by Gaylene Preston , carefully scripted by Preston , Geoff Murphy and Graeme Tetley , nicely shot by Thom Burstyn and further graced with a beautifully classy and elegant orchestral score by Jonathan Crayford , this pleasingly subtle and understated supernatural horror mystery thriller weaves a highly spooky and unnerving spell on the viewer , slowly unraveling its tricky story at an admirably stately and unhurried pace while also neatly managing to avoid a standard cut'n'dried narrative trajectory . Furthermore , Preston gives the fantastic premise a semblance of believability by grounding said far-fetched tale in a plausibly banal and unremarkable evocation of grindingly drab and mundane day-to-day reality . With her spunky persona and attractively dumpy looks , Bolton makes for an extremely credible and appealing everywoman in distress . The conclusion is a genuinely harrowing white-knuckle nail-biter . A real sleeper .
Interesting short	Grief-stricken Derek ( a solid and moving performance by Edwin Navas ) feels guilty following the untimely death of his girlfriend Courtney Everly ( a haunting portrayal by Cara Mantella ) in an automobile accident . Derek seeks refuge in the woods to no avail . Instead he's tormented by ghosts , visions , creepy hillbilly hunter Otto Fisk ( essayed with hearty aplomb by Philip Covin ) , and the specter of Courtney , who encourages Derek to kill himself . Writer / director Dave R . Watkins crafts an intriguing and provocative cinematic meditation on guilt and forgiveness that benefits greatly from an eerie and uncertain ambiguous tone ( for example , the phantoms might be real or just imaginary products of Derek's troubled mind ) , the isolated backwoods setting , and a compelling story that doesn't culminate in the obvious expected conclusion . The slick cinematography by Dan Slemons gives the picture an attractive polished look while Daniel Solammon's shivery and throbbing score adds substantially to the uncanny mood . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly sound acting from the capable cast , with especially praiseworthy work from Ben Bailey as Derek's sympathetic friend Karl and Tom Thon as Courtney's angry father Mr . Everly . Worth a look .
A very strong and absorbing 70's made-for-TV end-of-the-world science fiction winner	This solid 70's end-of-the-world made-for-TV picture has a few striking similarities to William Girdler's " Day of the Animals . " Like that sturdy nature-gone-amok killer animal flick this feature amounts to a very effective and genuinely eerie effort . Stalwart , resolute father Peter Graves , his bookish chip off the old block science nerd son George O ' Hanlon , Jr . , and antsy daughter Kathleen Quinlan are camping in the High Sierras when a solar flair explosion occurs . The explosion wipes out most of mankind , leaving only a scattered minute handful of people left . Graves and his kids make a perilous trek to Malibu , California . They pick up dazed , shell-shocked , grief-stricken mother Verna Bloom and gutsy little boy Michael James Wixted , have their car stolen by a panicky guy , and fend off packs of vicious wild dogs along the way . John Llewellyn ( " The Night Stalker " ) Moxey's spare , no-frills direction lets the starkly plotted story unfold in a creepily gradual and unforced manner , eschewing any potentially credibility-killing flashy pyrotechnics in favor of a lean , stripped-down style that deftly creates and sustains a certain gritty plausibility . This in turn gives the film a quietly unsettling power that remains taut and absorbing to the very end . The convincing , laudably restrained performances by a fine cast , the tightly wound script by John Lewis ( " The Mechanic " ) Carlino and Sandor ( " Shark Kill " ) Stern , the plain , unadorned cinematography , the minimal , unobtrusive score , and an uncompromisingly downbeat ending that's capped off by a delicately optimistic conclusion all add considerable substance to this gently moving paean to the essential human need to survive and keep living .
One of Hammer's best and most enjoyable Dracula pictures	Alan ( solid Charles Tingwell ) , his wife Helen ( ravishing brunette beauty Barbara Shelley ) , Charles ( affable Francis Matthews ) and his spouse Diana ( the equally fetching blonde looker Suzan Farmer ) are traveling through the Carpathian Mountains . The two young English couples find themselves in substantial jeopardy when they run afoul of Dracula ( awesomely played with tremendously ferocious brio by the great Christopher Lee ) . It's up to hale'n'hearty no-nonsense priest Father Sandor ( a wonderfully robust and commanding portrayal by Andrew Keir ) to kill the evil bloodsucking undead fiend before it's too late . Ably directed with considerable flair and style by Terence Fisher , with a supremely spooky'n'stirring full-bore orchestral score by James Bernard , several well-mounted shock set pieces , beautifully crisp and polished widescreen cinematography by Michael Reed ( the stately prowling tracking shots are especially impressive ) , a constant brisk pace , plenty of eerie , misty , mysterious atmosphere , WARNING : Possible SPOILER ahead - a rousing conclusion with Dracula drowning in a frozen lake as the ice breaks around him , exquisitely verdant forest scenery , and bang-up acting from a first-rate cast ( Thorley Walters in particular shines in a brief , but memorable turn as Dracula's meek , weak-willed Renfield-like servant Ludwig ) , this strong and immensely enjoyable fright feature rates highly as one of Hammer's best-ever Dracula pictures period .
A fun low-budget 50's " The Most Dangerous Game " copy	Johnny Randall ( a solid Robert Reed ; the father on " The Brady Bunch " ) , Betty Scott ( tasty blonde June Kenney ) , Peter Garwood ( the likable Gene Perrson ) , and Jeanne Perry ( fetching brunette Joan Lora ) are four teenagers who find themselves trapped on a remote secluded and uncharted tropical island run by the evil Dr . Albert Balleau ( essayed with deliciously slimy relish by Wilton Graff ) , a real sadist who gets his sick kicks out of ruthlessly hunting humans in the jungle with a crossbow . Written , directed and produced with a modicum of competence by Ralph Brooke , this flick gets off to a rather slow and talky start , but eventually culminates in a tense , gripping and surprisingly violent last third . Richard Cunha's rough , grainy , yet fairly polished cinematography and the booming'n'bombastic stock film library score are both up to speed . Veteran character actress Lilyan Chauvin ( Mother Superior in the seasonal slasher classic " Silent Night , Deadly Night " ) pops up as Balleau's faithless wife Sandra . The scene where one of Belleau's pernicious flunkies gets dunked into a vat of acid rates as a definite gruesome highlight . Granted , this scrappy little B-flick quickie sure ain't no cinematic gem , but it's still much better and more enjoyable than its undeservedly lousy reputation would suggest .
A really fun and enjoyable vintage 70's yuletide TV special	Santa Claus ( robustly voiced by the ever-exuberant Mickey Rooney ) gets a bad cold and decides to take a year off . Ms . Claus ( given an endearingly warm voice by Shirley Booth ) sends bumbling elves Jingle Bells and Jangle Bells along with baby reindeer Vixen to go out into the world to find plenty of holiday cheer in order to persuade Santa to go ahead with his usual routine . Meanwhile , the constantly feuding Miser Brothers further muck things up . This delightful Noel family musical television program from Jules Bass and Arthur Rankin , Jr . , the same fine folks who gave us such sparkling gems as " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " and " Frosty the Snowman , " offers a winning mix of good-natured humor and several highly catchy songs . However , it's the marvelously campy antics of the Miser Brothers who make this show a prime piece of hilarious entertainment : George S . Irving is deliciously manic as the cantankerous overgrown brat Heat Miser while Dick Shawn is camp perfection as the smarmy hambone Snow Miser ; their scenes are a complete sidesplitting joy to watch and the jaunty burlesque songs they both heartily belt out are simply awesome . Rhoda Mann likewise impresses as the folksy matronly voice of Mother Nature . The funky stop-motion animation and the light , upbeat tone further enhance the overall merry charm of this lovely little beaut .
A nicely sick and sleazy piece of low-budget Southern-fried Satanic trash	Unhappy and discontent suburban teen Bobby ( expertly played to the obnoxious hilt by Stephen White ) lives in abject misery in the Florida suburbs . He's relentlessly browbeaten by his overbearing stepfather ( a marvelously hateful Eldon Macham ) and equally nasty shamelessly flirtatious tease of an older step sister ( a perfectly bitchy Joyce Molloy ) . Fed up with all this abuse , Bobby runs away from home and winds up being savagely sodomized by a gang of greasy gay guys . The evil homosexuals leave Bobby clad solely in his underwear on the side of the road . Luckily for Bobby he's saved by a nearby Satanic cult . Attractive lady cult member Sherry ( the luscious Kathleen Archer ) gets the hots for Bobby , but cult leader Simon ( superbly essayed with mucho suavely slimy aplomb by Robert C . Ray II ) thinks Bobby is too much of a weak , passive wimp to cut it as a worthy member of the cult . So Bobby escapes from the cult's dangerous clutches ( killing four guards in the process ) and exacts a harsh revenge on his stepfather , step sister and the foul gay goons who brutally raped him in order to prove he's got the right tough stuff to qualify as a soldier in Lucifer's army . " Satan's Children " is a sensationally sick , twisted and depraved doozy of a low-budget 70's drive-in horror flick . Writer / director Joe Wiezycki relates the deranged story in a tight , snappy , straightforward manner that ensures that there's never any dreary lulls to speak of . The stark , no-frills style of the picture , best epitomized by John " Mak " Makinen's plain , grainy photography and Ray Fletcher's odd , spare , droning score , adds an immediacy to the warped proceedings that's both skin-crawlingly creepy and strangely compelling in comparable measure . The final image in this film is very scary and disturbing , concluding things on a shockingly nihilistic note that the Devil himself would approve of . Those fine freaky folks at Something Weird Video offer this hardcore ferocious piece of deviant Southern-fried sleaze on an ideal DVD double bill with William Girdler's laughably lousy debut feature " Asylum of Satan . "
A really enjoyable low-budget sci-fi / horror flick	Three attractive young couples go to a remote peaceful island off the coast of New England for a weekend frolic . Things turn sour when a crashed meteor creates not only a fierce storm which traps the kids on the island , but also unleashes a lethal humanoid alien creature that goes on a murderous rampage . Writer / director Steven Charles Castle crafts a really nifty , lively and entertaining Do-It-Yourself low-budget Grade B indie sci-fi / horror romp : the acceptable acting from a game no-name cast , a reasonably brisk pace , the likable characters , a generous smattering of splatter , the sharp photography , a cool rockin ' score , a tight 74 minute running time , and the startling downbeat surprise ending are all pretty solid and up to par . Granted , both the tacky CGI effects and silly guy - in - an - obvious - bulky - rubber - suit monster are admittedly cheesy , but they possess a certain clunky charm that's impossible to dislike . Better yet , there's a raw energy and infectiously wholehearted go-for-it enthusiasm evident throughout that's both endearing and enjoyable in comparable measure . Overall , this engagingly modest picture amounts to good , cheap fun that's pleasingly reminiscent of such funky 80's items as " Nightbeast " and " The Deadly Spawn . "
An enjoyably bizarre Mexican sci-fi / horror oddity	1661 : Evil and unrepentant sorcerer Baron Vitelius d'Estera ( well played with suitably dour relish by Abel Salazar ) gets burned at the stake for practicing witchcraft . Before he dies the Baron vows to return 300 years later to kill the descendants of his executioners . In 1961 a passing comet resurrects the Baron as a grotesquely malformed brain-eating humanoid beast with pointy ears , a swollen face , fangs , and a long forked tongue who embarks on a brutal rampage . Capably directed by Chano Urueta , with a gloomy tone , a novel and inspired script by Federico Curiel and Adolfo Lopez Portillo , a steady pace , a lively ooga-booga shivery score by Gustavo Cesar Carrion , a gloriously hideous monster , several nifty quirky touches ( the Baron keeps the cerebrums of his victims in an urn so he can snack on them ! ) , stark , fairly polished black and white cinematography by Jose Ortiz Ramos , and solid acting from a cast that includes familiar south-of-the-border fright feature stalwarts German Robles , Luis Aragon and Ariadna Welter , this truly peculiar item makes for hugely entertaining viewing . The laughably hokey English dubbing and endearingly chintzy ( not so ) special effects only add to this picture's considerable loopy charm . A pleasingly offbeat one-of-a-kind weirdie .
A nice 60's horror movie blend of vampirism and Satanism	Writer Paul Baxter ( likable William Sylvestor ) and his newfound model girlfriend Karin ( ravishing redhead beauty Tracy Reed ) meet elegant French aristocrat Arman du Moliere ( a supremely suave and sinister portrayal by Hubert Noel ) while vacationing in rural Brittany . Moliere turns out to be a vampire who abducts Karin so she can be a human sacrifice for the Satanic cult that he's the leader of . Director Lance Comfort , working from a nifty and inspired script by Lyn Fairhurst , relates the compelling story at a steady pace , ably creates a creepy atmosphere , and offers a strong evocation of the remote rustic region . The solid acting from a sturdy cast rates as another substantial plus : Sylvestor and Noel are fine in the leads , with good support from Carole Gray as lusty gypsy Tania , Diana Decker as perky socialite Madeleine Braun , Peter Illing as the huffy , yet laid-back Inspector Illing , and Victor Brooks as the helpful , hard-nosed Inspector Hardwick . Reginald H . Wyer's vibrant cinematography , Bernie Fenton's spooky'n'shuddery score , and the rousing conclusion all further enhance the entertainment value of this enjoyable 60's fright feature .
An offbeat and haunting documentary about the 1989 Russian invasion of Afghanistan	Richard Stanley's strange and experimental 32-minute avant garde documentary about the Russian invasion of Afghanistan and the subsequent formation of the Taliban eschews standard narration in favor of simply presenting the events with a series of oddly lovely and often startling images . Immo Horn's dazzling cinematography offers a wondrous wealth of breathtaking visuals : a white crescent moon in the clear night sky , a bright orange sunset , soldiers fishing in a sparkling blue river , extraordinary sweeping shots of mountainous vistas , armed soldiers marching across the parched desert , soldiers stockpiling weapons , guns , tanks and cannons being fired , and the ruined flaming wreck of a destroyed tank all possess a strong and arresting cumulative power that's impossible to shake . Simon Boswell's beautifully haunting and moody score likewise impresses as well . Essentially a quirky and coolly meditative visual tone poem ( in fact , a Surfi poem serves as the sole bit of narration in the entire picture ) , this singular documentary makes for a very powerful viewing experience .
A nifty 80's horror anthology outing	This omnibus affair offers four scary tales altogether . First and most tense story , " Terror in Topanga " - Chainsmoking housewife Lisa ( well played by the lovely Christina Raines ) finds herself being stalked by a vicious escaped psychopath when she goes out late at night for a pack of cigarettes . This vignette culminates in a positively harrowing conclusion , plus boasts neat cameos by familiar character actors Anthony James as a store clerk and William Sanderson as a gas station attendant . Second and coolest yarn , " Bishop of Battle " - Cocky whiz kid arcade rat J . J . Cooney ( a likable portrayal by Emilio Estevez ) reaches the thirteenth level of the tough video game the Bishop of Battle ( voiced with sinister aplomb by James Tolkan ) and finds himself in considerable jeopardy when the game becomes dangerously real . Several gnarly punk songs by Fear on the soundtrack and the funky special effects make this one a total blast to watch . Third and most exciting segment , " The Benediction " - The always excellent Lance Henrikson gives a typically fine and intense performance as MacLeod , a Catholic priest who loses his faith and subsequently has a frightening encounter with an evil satanic black pick-up on a lonely stretch of desert road . This absorbing " Duel " variant makes effectively eerie use of its desolate isolated setting and is highlighted by the startling sequence in which the pick-up bursts forth from the ground . Fourth and most freaky anecdote , " Night of the Rat " - A suburban family are terrorized by a huge demonic rodent that invades their home . Richard Masur and Veronica Cartwright excel as the unhappy bickering married couple , child actress Bridgette Anderson is remarkable as their sweet little girl Brooke , and Albert Hague contributes an engaging turn as folksy exterminator Mel Keefer . This story builds plenty of tension and offers a truly creepy and unsettling atmosphere that's slightly marred by some unfortunately shoddy ( not so ) special effects towards the end . Director Joseph Sargent maintains a brisk pace throughout and stages the shock scenes with commendable efficiency . Craig Safan supplies an appropriately spooky'n'shuddery score . The slick cinematography by Mario DiLeo and Gerald Perry Finnerman gives the picture a smooth glossy look . A fun fright feature .
An excellent and enjoyable Japanese science fiction alien invasion winner	A rural town gets completely destroyed . The military investigates and discovers a giant bird-like robot that levels everything in its lethal path . The robot belongs to the Mysterians , an alien race who want a piece of land and human women to mate with . The military refuses to comply with the aliens ' requests and declares all-out war on the Mysterians . Director Ishiro Honda , working from a compelling script by Takeshi Kimura , relates the engrossing story in a pleasingly straightforward and unpretentious manner . Moreover , Honda does a fine job of maintaining a steady pace and effectively creates a serious tone . The thrilling action set pieces and impressively prodigious sequences of mass destruction really hit the stirring spot . Akira Ifakube's robust , rousing , full-bore orchestral score , Hajime Koizuma's vibrant , expansive cinematography , and the nifty special effects are all likewise solid . The cast all contribute sound and credible performances , with especially praiseworthy work by Akihiko Hirata as diligent tragic hero Ryoichi Shiraishi and Takashi Shimura as the wise scientist Dr . Tanjiro Adachi . Essential viewing for fans of Japanese science fiction .
A fun 40's poverty-row Bela Lugosi horror cheapie	The bitter and vindictive Dr . Paul Carruthers ( essayed with deliciously wicked aplomb by Bela Lugosi ) creates huge monstrous killer bats so he can get revenge on his employers who used and exploited him . Carruthers gives his victims a special shaving location that attracts the bats . Smartaleck newspaper reporter John Layton ( winningly played by Dave O'Brien ) and his amiable photographer " One-Shot " McGuire ( an engaging performance by Donald Kerr ) investigate the killings . Director Jean Yarborough , working from a compact script by John Thomas Neville , relates the story at a constant brisk pace , stages the bat attack scenes with a reasonable amount of flair , and adds a few inspired touches of amusing black humor . This film further benefits from the spirited acting by its sturdy cast : Suzanne Kaaren makes a nice impression as the pretty and charming Mary Heath , Arthur Q . Bryan huffs and puffs to a delightful degree as irascible newspaper editor Joe McGinty , Yolande Mallot supplies some tasty eye candy as cute French maid Maxine , and Guy Usher contributes a fine turn as arrogant corporate bigwig Henry Morton . David Chudnow's suitably overwrought melodramatic score and Arthur Martinelli's fairly polished cinematography are both up to par . However , the giant bats are hilariously hokey looking and markedly less than frightening . That sole criticism aside , this movie overall rates as a highly enjoyable fright feature quickie .
A really cool and enjoyable Aussie cult biker winner	Someone is picking off members of the outlaw biker gang the Grave Diggers after one of their number witnesses the assassination of a politician at an outdoor rally in a public park . Straight-laced undercover cop Stone ( stiffly played by Ken Shorter ) infiltrates the club in order to protect them and find out who the killer is . Director / co-writer Sandy Harbutt astutely pegs the whole empowering feeling of doing your own thing , refusing to buckle under to the status quo , and the sense of pure unbeatable strength riding a mean machine with your closest mates gives you . Moreover , Harbutt shows the bikers in a positive and sympathetic light without ever exploiting or glamorizing them in the process . In fact , the strong bond of loyalty and camaraderie amongst the Grave Diggers is truly touching and heart-warming . The cast members who portray the Grave Diggers look , act and sound like the genuine gnarly article , with especially stand-out turns by Harbutt as tough , charismatic leader the Undertaker , Hugh Keays-Byrne as the scruffy , yet sensitive Toad , Vincent Gil as the crazed Dr . Death , Rebecca Gilling as the Undertaker's sassy moll Vanessa , James H . Bowles as the grubby Stinkfinger , Bindi Williams as the laid-back Captain Midnight , and Roger Ward as the rowdy Hooks . Helen Morse likewise does well as Stone's fetching , but long-suffering girlfriend Amanda . Only Shorter's bland acting as Stone leaves something to be desired . Graham Lind's gritty , but polished cinematography offers plenty of striking visuals : Toad tripping on acid in the park , an impressively massive biker funeral procession roaring down the highway , and the stunning climax in an empty cemetery . Billy Green's groovy hard-rocking score hits the funky-jammin ' bull's eye as well . But what makes this picture so special and resonant is that it has the pungent stench of gritty authenticity about it . So take the trip and check it out , mate .
An effectively grim and grisly end-of-the-world sci-fi / horror outing	The time : the immediate near future . Society has fallen apart as the direct result of a sudden and unexpected gas shortage . A ragtag group of survivors led by the wise and kindly Professor Darwin ( an excellent performance by Robert Carradine ) seek refuge in an empty and abandoned hospital . Said group find themselves in considerable peril when a deadly band of savage nocturnal cannibals called Rovers attack the place on a nightly basis and pick them off one at a time . Writer / director Mark Young depicts a plausibly bleak and brutal vision of the future that might be right around the corner . Moreover , Young relates the absorbing story at a steady pace , builds a strong sense of dread and plenty of nerve-wracking tension ( the Rovers ' attacks on the survivors are quite vicious and horrifying ) , maintains a properly bleak and desolate tone throughout , and further spices things up with a few nice lashings of gore ( gruesome highlights include a bloody throat slicing , a meat cleaver in the head , and an especially nasty acid facial ) . Better still , there's no silly obtrusive humor to detract from the severity of the harsh survival-of-the-fittest premise . In fact , the plot makes a potent and provocative central point about the fine line between civilized beings and wild barbarians . The sterling acting from a sturdy cast helps matters a whole lot : Rachel Miner as the spunky , resourceful Neon , Rider Strong as the mean , selfish Ford , Nicole DuPort as the humane and sensible , yet tough and resilient Dakota , Michael Kelly as the surly , malcontent Viper , Alexandra Barreto as Ford's timid girlfriend Torino , Emily Catherine Young as the mute , fragile Nova , Michael Madsen as the calmly malevolent Jackal , and Vinnie Jones as the feral Mongrel . Gregg Easterbrook's shadowy , prowling cinematography makes the most out of the dark and claustrophobic setting . Elia Cmiral's shivery , rattling , hard-rocking score likewise hits the bull's eye . A solid and satisfying movie .
A refreshingly offbeat and original vampire horror picture	A race of genetically enhanced vampires called the Brotherhood has peacefully coexisted with human beings for 300 years . Crazed renegade vampire Brother Edgar ( superbly played with frightening intensity Leo Gregory ) starts preying on human beings and plans on changing the natural order of things by infecting everyone with a lethal mutant virus . It's up to dour , compassionate vampire Brother Silus ( a fine portrayal by Dougray Scott ) and tough , but kind-hearted human police captain Lilly ( a splendidly hard-nosed performance by Saffron Burrows ) to stop Edgar before it's too late . Writer / director Glenn Standring offers a fresh and intriguing spin on the standard vampire premise which eschews the usual bloodsucker lore in favor of cleverly blending elements from the horror , alternate reality science fiction , and police detective action thriller genres into an inspired , arresting and imaginative synthesis . Moreover , Standring relates the absorbing story ate a slow , yet steady pace , maintains a grim'n'gloomy Gothic atmosphere throughout , and still manages to deliver the expected graphic gore and exciting action set pieces . Better still , Standring brings a maturity and intelligence to the material that's admirably adult and sophisticated in its sensibility . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly excellent acting by a tip-top cast : Scott and Burrows do stand-out work in the lead roles , Gregory makes for a lively and formidable villain , plus there are sturdy supporting contributions by Stuart Wilson as the wise , pragmatic head vampire Brother Augustus , Scott Willis as the sarcastic Detective Jones , and Stephen Ure as disgusting toady Frederick " Freddy " Sykes . Leon Narbey's moody cinematography gives the film a nifty gray and grimy look . Anne Dudley's brooding score likewise does the trick . A pleasingly different and creative fright feature .
An enjoyably cruddy piece of slasher schlock	This deliciously cheesy howler gets off to a rip-roaring start with busty blonde babe Sally ( luscious Meredith O'Brien ) doing just what you think with her nerdy boyfriend Vic ( the extremely dorky Vinnie Bilancio ) . Of course , right after they're finished both of them are brutally butchered by maniacal machete-brandishing psycho the Clown ( the pitifully unscary Shemp Moseley ) . Sensitive Tricia ( Jennifer Ritchkoff ) , nice , considerate Steve ( Michael Taylor ) , jerky , irritable , foul-mouthed Jay ( the supremely annoying Tim Young ) , and stuck-up Nicole ( foxy blonde Betheny Zolt ) all go camping in the same sylvan area where a rash of gruesome murders have occurred throughout the years . They find themselves stranded and on their own in the woods after their tough tomboy guide Harris ( Courtney Taylor ) gets offed . Writer / director Brad Sykes shamelessly trots out all the tried'n'true slice'n'dice clichés ala " Friday the 13th " : we've got the nutty old guy ( wildly overplayed by Joseph Haggerty ) warning the young adults to stay away from Camp Blood ( naturally said warning is ignored or else there wouldn't be a movie ) , shaky hand-held camera-work for the killer's point of view stalking shots , the scary urban legend-type story told around a campfire , and even the ever-popular " have sex and die " routine . The tacky , unconvincing gore , Jeff Leroy's crude , fuzzy , static , washed-out cinematography ( the ugly color in this picture looks dingy and dismal throughout ) , the laughably amateurish acting from the lame no-name cast , a generic ooga-booga spooky'n'shivery synthesizer score by Ghost , the dreadful excessively profane dialogue , the draggy pace , a talky script , the nonexistent tension , and the incredibly obnoxious characters all further enhance the lovably lousy charm of this endearingly crummy hoot .
A nicely eerie , intelligent and involving 70's sci-fi / horror made-for-TV flick	Although her sweet , caring schoolteacher husband David ( the fine George Grizzard ) had a vasectomy three years ago , successful painter Ann Collins ( marvelously played with meticulous focus by the lovely Barbara Eden of " I Dream of Jeannie " fame ) has somehow managed to become pregnant . Even weirder than Ann miraculously having a bun in the oven is the radical shift in her once normal , now increasingly flipped-out behavior : Ann starts putting way too much salt on her food , gulps down steaming hot black coffee by the gallon , develops a peculiar predilection for freezing cold temperatures , reads sociology books by the dozens , starts talking in an odd unidentifiable foreign tongue , and becomes cranky to the point of being downright hostile . Is Ann going crazy ? Or , more disturbing , is the rapidly developing fetus she's carrying some kind of alien creature with potentially malevolent intentions ? This frightfully effective and absorbing made-for-TV domestic sci-fi / horror hybrid mixes elements of " Rosemary's Baby , " " The Exorcist " and " The Stepford Wives " into a highly creepy and compelling synthesis , cleverly mining a fine line in flesh-crawling thrills from its quietly unnerving central theme : The placid tranquility of a bland , everyday , affluent upper middle-class suburbanite setting gets totally ripped asunder by inexplicable otherworldly occurrences which defy logical categorization and hence can be neither controlled nor comprehended through ordinary means . Lee Philips ' low-key , rather pedestrian direction inadvertently works in the film's favor ; his lack of flashy cinematic flourishes and pretty mundane style greatly enhance the movie's vivid and convincing evocation of a plain , average , nothing fancy or unusual environment . Richard ( " Duel , " " The Night Stalker " ) Matheson's script is typically sound : intelligent , insightful , mature ( e . g . , when David first finds out about Ann's condition he accuses her of being unfaithful ) , mysterious and paranoid , with the fantastic premise made believable and intriguing by grounding it with acutely observed , true-to-life , three-dimensional characters and an uneasy tone which remains pleasingly enigmatic and ambiguous to the very end . Eden and Grizzard are excellent in the leads , making for a thoroughly plausible and appealing middle-aged couple . David Doyle as a kindly , helpful amateur hypnotist , Nehemiah Persoff as a bewildered doctor , and Joyce Van Patten as Ann's concerned , sympathetic best friend contribute sturdy supporting performances . The surprise conclusion with the baby's actual origins finally being revealed packs a socko startling punch . Eerie , understated and above all proficiently done , this nifty chiller diller rates as a serenely unsettling little scarefest .
A gloriously ludicrous laugh riot	When it comes to hilariously horrible high camp howlers , this exceptionally abominable micro-budget atrocity really takes the cruddy cake . First off , there's the stupendously silly plot : Mad scientist Dr . Arana ( essayed with hammy élan by Jackie Coogan ; Uncle Fester on " The Adams Family " ) conducts evil experiments in the remote Mexican desert of Zarpa Mesa : he turns a bunch of lovely ladies and malformed male midgets into lethal predators by injecting them with spider venom ! A motley bunch of folks run afoul of said freaks when their plane crashes in the immediate area . Hopelessly incompetent directors Ron Ormond and Herbert Trevos make a total fumbling hash out of the dumb , talking and meandering script . Hoyt S . Curtin's monotonous scores uses the same irritating two chord flamenco guitar riff ad nauseam . Pompous stentorian narrator Lyle Talbot prattles on incessantly sans rhyme and reason . The scratchy static cinematography by Karl Strauss and Gil Warrenton doesn't help matters any as well . The game , but lame cast struggle valiantly with the ridiculous material : Robert Knapp as stalwart airplane pilot Grant Phillips , Mary Hill as the snippy Doreen Culbertson , Richard Travis as wealthy jerk Don Mulcahey , Harmon Stevens as the hearty , cracked Dr . Leland Masterson , Chris-Pin Martin as the superstitious Pepe , and Samuel Wu as sinister loyal stoical servant Wu . Moreover , Dr . Arana's bevy of beautiful babes supply lots of delicious eye candy . Tandra Quinn in particular as the wickedly enticing and animalistic Tarantella is especially alluring ; her crazy seductive dance in a smoky bar qualifies as the definite highlight of the whole movie . A hokey giant puppet spider shows up to further add to the gut-busting cheesiness . Sure , this flick is incredibly awful junk , but it possesses a certain clunky sincerity which in turn makes this unintentionally uproarious kitsch hoot strangely entertaining in its very jaw-dropping crumminess .
A wildly entertaining tongue-in-cheek indie horror splatter treat	A motley assortment of folks go on a tour of a remote backwoods New Orleans , Louisiana swamp area . Of course , our group runs afoul of the vicious , deranged and murderous Victor Crowley ( Kane " Jason " Hodder under lots of impressively grotesque make-up ) , a hideously deformed sick hick who doesn't cotton to any interlopers on his land . Writer / director Adam Green pays loving homage to retro 80's type down'n'dirty horror exploitation fare : we've got gleefully graphic and over-the-top unflinching gore being poured on by the gallon ( grisly highlights include a spine being torn out , someone's head getting twisted off , decapitation by shovel spade , and a memorably nasty belt sander to the face gag ) , a handy helping of tasty gratuitous bare female breasts , a delightfully ugly and unhinged larger-than-life local legend villain , endearingly broad stock characters , an amusingly crude sense of raucous humor , and an infectiously enthusiastic feeling of pure go-for-it gruesome fun . The sincere acting from the game cast rates as another major plus : Joel David Moore as the mopey , nerdy Ben , Deon Richmond as Ben's affable , happy-go-lucky best friend Marcus , Tamara Feldman as the forlorn , but feisty Marybeth , Mercedes McNab as the ditsy Misty , Joleigh Fioreavanti as the luscious , stuck-up Jenna , Parry Shen as obnoxiously hearty tour guide Shawn , and Joel Murray as smarmy amateur soft-core porn filmmaker Shapiro . Popping up in nifty bit parts are Robert Englund as abusive redneck Sampson and Tony Todd as ill-tempered tour guide Reverend Zombie . Will Barratt's slick cinematography , Andy Garfield's shivery , spirited score , the funky rubber make-up f / x , and the roaring alternative rock soundtrack are all on the money excellent and effective as well . Granted , this flick doesn't do anything fresh or groundbreaking with its standard premise , but it does deliver the enjoyably trashy goods with a certain rowdy wit and giddy energy that's impossible to either resist or dislike . A total blast .
A really enjoyable monster mash	A race of evil aliens ( they're actually giant cockroaches who inhibit the bodies of recently deceased folks ) call upon the ferocious three-headed dragon King Ghidorah and sharp-beaked bird beast Gigan ( he's got a huge buzzsaw in his belly ! ) to destroy us puny helpless humans so they can take over the planet . Luckily , the almighty Godzilla and his spike-backed gigantic porcupine pal Anguirus come to the rescue . The opening third of this creature feature romp is pretty slow , talky and rather tedious , but fortunately things start to seriously cook when the monsters engage in an incredibly lengthy , violent and vigorous anything-goes fight ( the definite highlight occurs when Anguirus runs its spikes repeatedly into King Ghidorah's torso ! ) . Moreover , the expected protracted mondo destructo city stomp sequence likewise totally hits the satisfying spot . Akira Ifukube's robust , rousing orchestral score constitutes as another substantial asset . Ditto Kiyoshi Hasegawa's crisp widescreen cinematography . The lovably rinky dink miniatures and hokey rubber monster suits possess their usual chintzy charm . The scenes where the behemoth beasts roar and rumble at each other prior to mixing it up with considerable go-for-it gusto are hysterically funny . Overall , this Godzilla outing provides a good deal of infectiously inane and outrageous fun .
A satisfying conclusion to this hilariously raunchy series	Those rowdy sex-obsessed lads at Angel Beach High are about to graduate . They lock horns once again with their old nemesis Porky ( a perfectly nasty Chuck Mitchell ) , who wants our gang to throw a big championship basketball game and force Meat ( amiable Tony Ganios ) to marry his homely daughter Blossom ( the amusingly gawky Wendy Feign ) . Director James Tomack nicely recaptures the often uproarious sense of hysterically raucous'n'raunchy humor which made the first film such a gut-busting hoot . Better still , this movie doesn't skimp on either the riotously ribald comic set pieces or tasty female nudity : the lovely Rose McVeigh as sultry biology teacher Miss Webster engages in kinky roleplaying with a fellow teacher and gorgeous blonde babe Kim Evenson ( Playboy's September 1984 Playmate of the Month ) bares her beautiful breasts as yummy Swedish foreign exchange student Inga . Plus a bunch of guys expose their butts for the ladies . Moreover , there's a surprisingly warm and touching sweetness to be found amid all the blithely lowbrow tomfoolery . The cast all essay their parts with tremendous aplomb : Dan Monahan as the giddy Pee Wee , Kaki Hunter as the cheerfully naughty Wendy , Nancy Parsons as strict authoritarian gym teacher Ms . Balbricker , and Eric Christmas as meek principal Mr . Carter are all especially delightful . Robert C . Jessup's polished cinematography , a terrific golden oldies soundtrack , and Dave Edmunds ' catchy , vibrant score further enhance the overall solid quality of this enjoyable closing chapter in this hugely entertaining series .
A really fun and enjoyable seriocomic Australian road movie romp	Cocky , fun-loving , smart-mouthed and libidinous womanizing American hellion Tex ( puckish , tousle-haired Joseph Bottoms ) and his shy , quiet , more serious and grown-up Aussie pal Alby ( affable strapping behemoth Grigor Taylor ) are a couple of bored stiff carnival workers who are eager for some fun and excitement . So they quit the carny life and go hiking across the countryside searching for thrills . The young guys get more than they bargained for when they meet aggressive homosexual drug dealer Arnold ( bullish , brutish John Clayton ) , beat the freak up , and steal both his substantial wad of cash and smokin ' souped-up Corvette . Pretty soon Tex and Alby get into further trouble when they cruise the hot , sunny beaches , pick up sweet , fetching female thumber Lynn ( the astonishingly cute Judy Davis in her spunky film debut ) , swing with sexy , wild'n'loose night club singers Sugar and Spice ( exuberantly played by Sandra MacGregor and Wendy Hughes ) , resort to robbery when their money runs out , and try to evade being nabbed by both the police and an understandably vengeful Arnold . An amiably rowdy , raunchy and rambunctious seriocomic road movie meditation on the youthful need to lead a free , easy and spontaneous " do whatever you want " existence , this picture starts out rather sluggishly , but thankfully gains snap and momentum as it plugs along . Igor Auzins ' nimble direction , a catchy , neatly percolating discoid score by Sherbet , Dan Burstall's luminous cinematography , the richly verdant rustic scenery and gorgeous sandy seaside locations , relaxed , charming chemistry between the engagingly roguish Bottoms and the more subdued Taylor , a pleasingly tight'n'trim 82 minute running time , and a rousing last reel car chase ensure that this likably scruffy shaggy dog yarn remains a perfectly mellow and enjoyable diversion all the way down the line .
Good cheesy 80's horror gore fun	A bunch of mostly obnoxious and grossly unappealing teens go to a creepy , remote , rundown old mortuary located nearby a cemetery to attend an anything-goes all-out Halloween party being hosted by freaky occult-obsessed oddball Mimi Kinkade and her vacuous , boy-hungry bimbette friend Linnea Quigley . The loutish , profane , beer-guzzling , sex-happy dipstick dimwits hold a séance as a joke ( very bad idea , ' cause the desolate old dive is naturally said to be haunted by demonic spirits ) . Of course , that ill-advised séance awakens those decidedly grumpy and hostile evil spirits , who gruesomely kill and possess a majority of the kids , turning them into ugly , fanged , clawed , boil-faced murderous ghouls who wreak the usual grisly havoc throughout the duration of an especially long , dark and harrowing night of pure terror . Yep , this is essentially your umpteenth vigorously graphic and unrelenting wall-to-wall cheap shock-ridden " Evil Dead " rehash , replete with closed-off , there's no easy way out claustrophobic single self-confined setting , outrageously excessive splatter set pieces , an incessantly pounding hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , a total sense of gloom'n'doom-laden grim nightmarishness , and vibrantly in-your-face manic careening cinematography ( the expected headlong rush-inducing hyperactive hand-held camera-work , smooth , sinuous tracking shots , crazily tittled camera angles , even the camera on a dolly doing a gracefully gliding 180 degree figure eight ) . Fortunately , Kevin S . Tenney's slick , assured , stylish direction keeps the extremely threadbare and derivative proceedings thundering along at a speedy clip ; moreover , Tenny gives the film an attractive polished look and effectively creates a certain crudely energetic and enthusiastically grotesque spooky ooga-booga carnival funhouse atmosphere . However , Steve Johnson's marvelously gory and imaginative make-up effects are the true star of the show . Bloodthirsty highlights include disgusting fat slob Hal Havins ( who played a similarly irritating obese ahole role in the immortal " Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-A-Rama " around the same time ) having his tongue bitten off , Quigley shoving a whole tube of lipstick in one of her breasts ( yow ! ) and gouging a guy's eyes out while she's making love to him ( double yow ! ) , a libidinous teen couple getting offed while doing exactly what you think in a coffin ( the chick has her neck snapped while the dude has his arm chopped off ) , Kinkade setting her hands on fire , and , in the film's single most nasty scene , a mean old man has his throat slit from the inside out after eating an apple piece laced with razor blades . The trashy'n'thrashy rock score likewise smokes . And then there's Kinkade's incredibly wild , sexy and uninhibited demon dance , a sizzling number accompanied by a flickering strobe light and startling jump cuts that Kinkade choreographed herself . Okay , so this overall doesn't amount to anything more than a completely mindless and pointless , albeit quite nicely mounted and enjoyably vulgar hunk of blithely sleazy fright flick junk , but if you're in the mood for entertainingly brain-dead lowbrow horror scuzziness this cheerfully crass and juvenile dross does the trick just fine .
An entertainingly trashy piece of 70's chopsocky blaxploitation schlock	Feisty Dianna Jackson ( a winningly spunky performance by gorgeous former " Playboy " Playmate Jeanne Bell ) goes to Hong Kong to take out the evil heroin ring that murdered her brother . Dianna's assisted by friendly karate master Joe ( amiable Chiquito ) , faces opposition from undercover narcotics agent Elaine ( lovely , buxom blonde babe Pat Anderson ) , and romances cocky , ruthlessly ambitious Charlie ( essayed with supremely arrogant aplomb by Stan Shaw ) while plotting her revenge against nefarious drug kingpin Sid ( an effectively slimy Ken Metcalfe ) . Director Cirio H . Santiago , working from a blithely trashy script co-written by none other than Dick Miller ( ! ) , crams the lively and eventful 72 minute running time with a plethora of gratuitous distaff nudity and loads of badly staged martial arts fight scenes ( Bell is clearly doubled by a squat guy wearing a giant Afro wig ! ) . The definite sleazy highlight occurs when a topless Bell singlehandedly beats up a bunch of thugs in her hotel room . Felipe Sacdalan's raw , grainy , scratched-up cinematography , the clumsy use of strenuous slow motion , the funky-groovin ' score , the laughably inept fight choreography , and the surprisingly gruesome conclusion add immensely to the overall scuzzy fun of this deliciously cheesy grindhouse exploitation hoot .
A nicely eerie and haunting giallo winner	Successful sculptor Franco Serpiere ( a solid performance by 007 oneshot George Lazenby , who looks gaunt and worn ) and his adorable daughter Roberta ( sweetly played by cute redhead Nicoletta Elmi of " Bay of Blood " and " Deep Red " ) are spending some quality time together in scenic Venice , Italy . Roberta gets brutally killed by a lethal vicious lunatic . Franco finds himself in considerable danger when he investigates her savage murder . Director Aldo ( " Night Train Murders " ) Lado , who also co-wrote the engrossingly dark and complex script , relates the intricate story at a slow , but steady pace , expertly creating a creepy , edgy , yet elegant tone and staging the murder set pieces with impressively grisly and stylish aplomb . Ennio Morricone's supremely eerie and unnerving score makes especially effective use of a ghostly angelic children's choir . Franco Di Giacomo's beautifully crisp and polished cinematography offers plenty of sumptuously smooth gliding tracking shots and evokes Venice in a strikingly misty , breathtaking and atmospheric way . The uniformly fine acting from a sturdy cast qualifies as another major asset , with especially praiseworthy work by Lazenby , Elmi , Adolfo Celi ( the Bond villain in " Thunderball " ) as friendly art gallery owner Serafian , Anita Strindberg as Franco's concerned estranged wife Elizabeth , and Rosemarie Lindt as Franco's lusty lover Gabriella . Excellent zinger of a shocking surprise twist ending , too .
A fun low-budget straight-to-video horror / action romp	A group of vampire hunters called the Nine get the various vampire clans to agree to an uneasy pact . All goes well for a spell until the evil Countess Elizabeth Bathorly ( a deliciously wicked portrayal by the gorgeous Christina Rosenberg ) breaks the pact . The rugged Rufus King ( nicely played with assured macho aplomb by Thomas Downey ) , assisted by the wise , leery Jacob Van Helsing ( the excellent Rhett Giles ) and the hard-nosed Gracie Johannsen ( a very strong and impressive performance by ravishing redhead spitfire Eliza Swenson ) , brings the Nine back together for a major showdown with Bathorly and her vicious female minions . Writer / director Leigh Scott relates the convoluted , but compelling story at a steady pace , stages the occasional stirring action set pieces with considerable brio and skill , offers a few fresh and inventive twists on standard vampire lore , and sprinkles a reasonable amount of grisly gore . Moreover , Scott does an especially solid job of creating and sustaining some interesting conflicts amongst the well-drawn and engaging main characters . Further kudos are in order for the sound and spirited acting from a game cast , with particularly stand-out work from Jeff Denton as fearsome , haughty bloodsucker Rafe , Amanda Barton as Bathorly's fierce , aggressive right-hand gal Darvulia , Rebekah Kochan as the brassy , hot-tempered Trixie McFly , Sarah Lieving as helpful , sympathetic vampire ally Alex Devereaux , Tom Nagel as naive , eager rookie vampire killer Tattinger , Justin Jones as grotesque ghoul Maximillian , and Scott as enigmatic bloodsucker leader the Old One . Both Swenson's funky , spooky score and Steven Parker's sharp cinematography are up to snuff . A hugely enjoyable flick .
A choice cheesy chunk of vintage 70's soft-core drive-in exploitation camp trash	The film that got the whole 70's drive-in exploitation soft-core cheerleader comedy genre ball rolling - - and boy what an endearingly dippy start ! The plot , such as it is , revolves around the five highly active and naughty cheerleader squad members of Amorosa High School in California who help a sweet virginal sixth new member get her cherry popped . ( Interestingly enough , a majority of 70's cheerleader pictures take place in California , thereby suggesting that the Golden State was a veritable hotbed of blithely brash'n'brazen anything-goes hedonistic activity . ) As usual , it's not the story that really counts ; what makes this blissfully braindead affair so worthwhile are the following things : A ) a nonstop barrage of eye-popping gratuitous nudity , B ) an incessantly lewd'n'crude sense of humor ( I loved the toe sucking gag ) , C ) tirelessly moronic dialogue ( " You look like a hag from the rag bag " ) , and D ) an upbeat , spirited , lighthearted air that ensures that this inane beaut is a quick , peppy and most satisfying diversion . Stephanie Fondue , Denise Dillaway , Jovita Bush , Sandy Evans , Brandy Woods and Kim Stanton are all quite cute , shapely , sexy and appealing as our titular hot young honeys - - and they happily doff their duds a lot , too . The sex scenes happen at regular intervals of roughly ten minutes and take place in an amusing assortment of unlikely places : a car wash , a fast food joint , the driver's seat of a moving school bus ( ! ) , even on somebody's front lawn . The technical credits are strictly so-so : the acting is generally flat and dreadful ( top thespic honors go to Patrick Wright for his deliciously hammy turn as the lecherous macho dude football coach ) , plus both Paul Glicker's adequate direction and Richard Lerner's basic , scratchy cinematography ( the constant use of wipes and freeze frames is lovably primitive ) are merely passable at best . However , David Herman comes through loud and clear with an infectiously zippy score which alternates between eardrum-splitting fuzztone-drenched acid rock and zesty bubblegum pop slop ( the too-goofy-for-words catchy theme song " I Like What You're Doing to Me " won't get out of your head for a week ) . Too cheerfully dopey to hate , " The Cheerleaders " rates as a very agreeable and enjoyable beginning for the admittedly slight , but always entertaining 70's cheerleader movie sub-genre .
Crazy psychotic 60's stripper chick a-go-go , baby !	Sweet stripper Lila ( adorable redhead Susan Stewart , who has a really cute funny foreign accent ) gets turned on to LSD by a creepy hippie guy . The bad acid causes Lila to go lethally bonkers . She takes various lecherous men to her grotty warehouse love nest , kills them , and hacks up their bodies with a meat cleaver . Director William Rotsler gleefully pours on the abundant gratuitous nudity and tacky gory violence ( the blood looks just like red paint - - and probably was exactly that ) . Laszlo ( " Easy Rider " ) Kovac's garish , kinetic cinematography , a couple of lengthy simulated sex scenes , the wonderfully wiggy psychedelic freak-out sequences ( poor Lila has horrific visions of a laughing fat jerk holding bananas and dollar bills ! ) , some pot smoking , the hypnotically funky theme song , and the hilariously dated hip slang ( " Groovy pad you got here ; it's a little kinky , but it's out of sight " ) are all completely far-out , man ! Busty'n'lusty 60's skinpic starlet Pat Barrington of " Orgy of the Dead " fame performs two sizzling hot bump'n'grind numbers on stage to a rowdy crowd . Russ Meyer film regular Stuart Lancaster has a nice part as a wannabe helpful psychologist . An enjoyably sleazy soft-core psycho sexploitation hoot .
A nifty made-for-TV supernatural chiller	Affable , but broke Stu ( winningly played by Luke Perry ) , his easygoing friend Tommy ( the equally solid Dan Cortese ) , Stu's fetching fiancé Julia Lee ( lovely Polly Shannon ) , and their nerdy pal Gus ( an amusingly geeky David Hewlett ) go on vacation in Bermuda . They rent a rusty old junker of a boat crewed by scruffy Captain Louis Morgan ( excellently played by Dorian Harewood ) and spunky first mate Charlie ( the delectable Olivia d'Abo ) for a fishing expedition . Problems arise when the boat breaks down in the middle of the ocean . Things get worse when our motley bunch stumble across the legendary missing ocean liner the Queen of Scots , board her , and discover much to their dismay that the ship is haunted . Director Lewis Teague maintains a steady pace throughout , stages the shock scenes with reasonable aplomb , and really pulls out the creepy stops in the hair-raising second half of the film . Ric Waite's sharp , agile cinematography , Lawrence Shragge's spooky'n'shuddery score , and the genuinely engaging characters are all likewise up to speed . As an added bonus , both Shannon and d'Abo spend a fair share of their screen time wearing skimpy bikinis . A fun and effective made-for-TV fright feature .
A fun and affectionate homage to 80's horror slasher cinema	This highly entertaining short feature begins with nifty trailers for " Creepshow 2 , " " A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 : The Dream Master , " and this particular movie . Then the simple , but effective and engrossing plot proper kicks in : Cute teenager Tracy Donahue ( a nice performance by pretty brunette Vikki Hallauer ) gets terrorized in her suburban home by a crazed and dangerous maniac ( hulking behemoth Christian Chavira ) who's escaped from a mental hospital . Writer / director Dakota A . Thomas wrings a reasonable amount of tension from the story , delivers a few cool moments of gory violence ( I especially dug the dead pet on the bed gag ) , and displays a winningly sincere passion and enthusiasm for 80's fright fare ( for example , the lunatic wears a hockey mask ala Jason in the " Friday the 13th " pictures ) . The cool 80's rock soundtrack , vintage radio spots , and vinyl albums all neatly evoke the era . Hallauer does a solid job in the lead role ; she receives fine support from Alice Atkin as her paranoid mother . Moreover , the polished cinematography and snappy editing are both quite sound and impressive ( Thomas also shot and co-edited this film ) . In addition , this movie deserves bonus points for its pleasingly grim and nasty bummer ending . All in all , it's a most enjoyable and promising debut effort .
A choice trashy chunk of 70's Crown International drive-in junk	Shy , awkward , virginal 18-year-old Sean Roberts ( an engaging performance by Jay North of TV's " Dennis the Menace " fame ) becomes involved with sexy , enticing , aggressive 28-year-old teacher Diane Marshall ( gorgeous blonde babe Angel Tompkins ) . The couple are relentlessly terrorized by deranged Vietnam veteran psycho stalker Ralph ( a typically creepy and intense portrayal by perennial bad guy thespian Anthony James ) , who blames Sean for the accidental death of his brother Lou . Writer / director / producer Hikmet Avedis offers an enjoyably tawdry brew of sizzling soft-core sex , grimy violence and scrumptious gratuitous nudity in this mostly lightweight and playful drive-in diversion . Nice supporting turns by Ned Flory as Sean's cranky dad Joe , Marlene Schmidt as Sean's sweet mom Alice , and Barry Atwater ( the ferocious rampaging vampire in the classic made-for-TV horror gem " The Night Stalker " ) as the amiable Sheriff Murphy . John Cassavetes ' mother Katherine and Gena Rowlands ' mother Lady make an amusing appearance as a pair of snippy old gossiping biddies at a posh restaurant . Alfred Taylor's competent cinematography , the hilariously mawkish cocktail lounge ballad theme song , Tompkins ' pleasingly frequent mouth-watering nude scenes , Shorty Rogers ' funky , syncopated score , and the startlingly downbeat conclusion add substantially to the overall trashy fun .
An excellent , exciting and underrated 80's action thriller sleeper	Amy Madigan is one of my all-time favorite unsung actresses : She's pretty in a modest , corn-fed sort of way , has one of those dry , throaty , worn-out alto voices which I personally find to be very sultry , and her often short , faded blonde hair ain't nothing to sneeze about , either . Furthermore , Amy also possesses a forceful , dynamic , wholly arresting screen presence , a goodly amount of fortitude , and has flair to spare . In short , Amy's my kind of girl , a gutsy , brassy and even sexy little spitfire who rarely ( if ever ) is given the full credit and attention she deserves . Fortunately , this bang-up action thriller features the terrific Ms . Madigan in peak plucky'n'punchy form as Barbara Cutter , the tough , but tender wife of marine helicopter pilot Rob ( winningly played by Daniel Hugh Kelly ) . Rob discovers that faulty helicopter parts have caused two fatal chopper " accidents . " Rob gets rubbed out by a pair of deadly thugs ( one is nicely essayed by great , prolific , underrated fat guy character actor Maury Chaykin ) who are in the employ of a ruthless , penny-pinching , cornering-cutting evil general ( a perfectly detestable John Colicos ; Balter on " Battlestar Galactica " ) who in turn is in cahoots with a bunch of illegal black market whirlybird thieves . Barbara and her son Johnny ( a surprisingly strong and tolerable turn by child actor Robin MacEachern ) , the latter of whom has some incriminating evidence of the below-par helicopters hidden in his toy robot ( ! ) , survive the hit and hightail it into the woods , seeking refuge and protection from Rob's reclusive , tight-lipped Vietnam veteran survivalist buddy Ben ( the always outstanding Michael Ironside ) . This surprisingly involving and exciting action thriller pip benefits substantially from Mario Azzopardi's proficient and energetic direction , a constant snappy pace , exceptionally stirring and well-staged action sequences ( Barbara's climactic showdown with Colicos is especially rousing ) , top-notch acting from a sound cast , and a zesty , hard-driving score by the tireless Brad ( " Just Before Dawn , " " Fright Night " ) Fiedel . However , the glorious Amy Madigan clearly dominates - - scratch that , completely owns - - this film : Her gritty , explosive and thoroughly sympathetic portrayal of a courageous , take-charge , no-nonsense action heroine really hits the socko spot and makes this movie worth seeing for her superlative performance alone .
A strikingly novel , strange and ambitious , if slightly muddled and overblown horror-fantasy stunner	Now , here's a truly offbeat , startling and incredibly thrilling genre-blending oddity : a dark , serious and surreal horror / fantasy / action / end-of-the-world apocalyptic work of astonishing visionary cinematic sweep and imagination that's at heart an oddball allegory on Flawed Good Vs . Alluring Evil . Two rival factions of supernatural beings which include witches , vampires and shapeshifters known collectively as the Others after years of nonstop fighting call a truce which lasts for several centuries . The good Others are called the Light and are members of the Night Watch . The bad Others are called the Darkness and are members of the Day Watch . Both police forces keep the other group in line . In the early 21st century the truce gets violently disrupted by the arrival of a special other who could possibly change the fate of the world . It's up to Night Watch cop Anton and his shapeshifting owl partner Olga to protect this special other from the nefarious clutches of Darkness . You got that ? Well , I'm not so sure I completely understand the story as it's told by director / co-screenwriter Timur Bekmambetov in a bracingly flashy and hyper-kinetic style . While the furious pace , stirring action set pieces , roaring rock score , gorgeous mind-blowing visuals , remarkably effective CGI effects , and rapid-fire editing ensure that this film's quite engrossing and exciting on a purely visceral level , both the pretty murky plot and the rather thin characters get a little lost amidst all the wild and frantic fireworks . Still , there's more than enough sheer headlong energy , eyeblistering bizarre imagery , insanely creative weirdness ( people walking through walls , two opposing generals freezing their armies in time in mid-battle , a dangerous alternate dimension referred to as the Gloom , and so on ) , and go-for-it incendiary bravura style to make this baby a real blast to watch .
A tense , tough-minded & truly terrifying backwoods indie horror item	Now , this is exactly the way a horror film should be done : tense , gritty and grimly serious , with a strong sense of conviction , a winning paucity of pretense , and no silly and unnecessary humor to either detract from or take the edge off of the raw , rattling , kick-you-in-the-gut pure terror and shocking brutality that's richly evident in the film itself . A motley quartet of desperate crooks - - craven Julian ( Brandon Johnson ) , gutsy Marylin ( Heather Magee ) , callous Kurt ( Richard Glover ) and abusive Max ( Keith Chambers ) - - almost bungle a bank robbery . Max gets wounded and Kurt is forced to commandeer the car of mother Samantha ( Samantha Dark ) and her daughter Courtney ( Courtney Bertolone ) at gunpoint in order to get away . The hoodlums and their hostages all hole up at an old abandoned house located in a remote rural woodland region . Said rundown abode turns out to be the home of a murderous hooded maniac who most definitely doesn't take kindly to any unwanted trespassers on his property . Naturally , things go from already pretty bad to much , much worse from here on in . Writer / director / producer Stevan Mena does an ingenious job of blending elements of a rough crime thriller with a creepy backwoods horror flick with truly frightening and unnerving results , carefully setting things up in the leisurely opening act before hitting the viewers hard with jolting outbursts of extremely abrupt , brutal and horrifying violence which are presented in a nerve-wrackingly stark , graphic and disturbing manner . Moreover , the pleasingly tight'n'trim 85 minute running time ensures that the movie bangs along at a suitably snappy pace , the tone is bleakly no-nonsense throughout , the spooky and unsettling atmosphere builds to a devastatingly nightmarish fever pitch in the gut-wrenching third act , and the solid no-name cast all give uniformly excellent and convincing performances . Kudos are also in order for both Tsuyoshi Kimoto's sharp , shadowy cinematography and Mena's nicely spare'n'shivery synthesizer score . While it unfortunately falls apart quite a bit in the rather flat conclusion , this commendably harsh and hard-hitting low-budget fright feature overall still packs one hell of a ferociously nasty and lingering knock - the - air - out - of - your - lungs wallop .
A hilariously horrendous hoot	Obviously made to cash-on on the popularity of such vigilante action pictures as " Death Wish " and " The Exterminator , " this uproariously awful crud looks like it was shot on a paltry budget of roughly fifty bucks . After beginning with some badly staged Vietnam war combat footage , the story proper kicks in : Crazed traumatized ' Nam vet automobile mechanic Mike ( a simply terrible performance by Antoine John Mottet ) can't stand all the rampant crime in his strife-ridden urban neighborhood , so he starts violently rubbing out assorted low-life scum like rapists , drug pushers , pimps , street gang members , and mobsters . Mike's fellow ' Nam vet best buddy Lt . Roger O'Malley ( a sleepwalking Christopher Mitchum , who sports a bushy mustache ) naturally turns out to be the cop determined to nab Mike . Boy , does this gloriously ghastly garbage possess all the right wrong stuff to qualify as a real four-star stinkeroonie ; we've got slapdash ( mis ) direction by James Bryan ( who also blessed us with the similarly shabby splatter slasher schlockfest " Don't Go in the Woods " ) , uneven stop'n'go pacing , ragged editing , laughable tin-eared dialogue ( " I'm the king , " a nasty would-be rapist sneers to a whimpering female victim ) , ratty cinematography , lots of clunky Vietnam flashbacks , pathetic acting ( Aldo Ray hams it up to a dreadful extreme as a corrupt police commissioner while Renee Harmon as a pesky journalist renders all her dialogue borderline incomprehensible with her heavy foreign accent ) , a cheesy generic synthesizer score , ineptly handled action scenes , and an annoyingly abrupt ending . Moreover , this marvelously maladroit mess offers several sidesplitting moments of inspired camp : Mike likes to stuff live grenades down people's pants and two teenage junkie babes get a serious case of the pot giggles while smoking grass together . A total gut-busting riot .
An enjoyably schlocky 80's low-budget horror exploitation hoot	Lovely and sweet young Susan Farrell ( a respectable performance by deliciously voluptuous blonde bombshell Bobbie Bresee ) suffers from an especially nasty family curse : she gets possessed by the spirit of an evil and lethal , yet enticing distaff demonic spirit that takes over the first born daughters of every line in her family . Pretty soon Susan just ain't acting like herself anymore ; she starts seducing and murdering various guys . It's up to concerned psychiatrist Dr . Simon Andrews ( nicely played by Norman Burton ) to save Susan's soul before it's too late . Director Michael Dugan does a sound job of creating and maintaining a flesh-crawling ooga-booga atmosphere , pours on a handy helping of juicy gore ( the definite splatter highlight occurs when Susan levitates a guy and sends the man falling to his death from a three story balcony onto a glass table ) , tosses in several moments of hilariously campy humor , and has the luscious Ms . Bresee bare her insanely hot body at pleasingly regular intervals . The game cast do their best with the rather silly material : the ever-cool Marjoe Gortner as Susan's loving , but busy husband Oliver , Laura Hippe as Susan's worried Aunt Cora Nomed , and Sheri Mann as helpful demonic possession expert Dr . Roni Logan . LaWanda Page ( Aunt Esther on " Sanford and Son " ) provides gut-busting lowbrow comic relief as superstitious black maid Elsie . Maurice Sherbanee likewise amuses as creepy , lecherous Mexican gardener Ben . Robert Barich's polished cinematography makes occasional inspired use of a fluid gliding Steadicam . Jaime Mendoza-Nava's spooky'n'moody score does the shuddery trick . John Carl Buechler comes through with a marvelously grotesque make-up design for the hideously ugly female demon ; the foul beast's drooling , fanged , snarling breasts are particularly funky and memorable . Granted , this flick certainly isn't a subtle and sophisticated work of cinematic art , but it does overall pass muster as a highly entertaining piece of cheerfully cheesy trash .
A very enjoyable Bigfoot documentary	The meteoric success of " The Legend of Boggy Creek " not only led to two sequels , but also beget a flood of like-minded documentaries all striving to both provide photographic evidence of the ever-evasive creature's existence and bilk bucks from the wallets of innumerable drive-in theater patrons . " The Legend of Bigfoot " is such a cash-in , right down to its title which suspiciously echoes " Boggy Creek " ' s moniker . Actually , this appealingly earnest and engrossing effort manages to be highly enjoyable thanks mostly to the delightfully rough , tough and oh-so-gruff rugged outdoorsman presence of Ivan Marx . Marx , a hunter , trapper , tracker and all-around man's man in excelsis , embarks on a vigorous , determined , unflagging cross country pilgrimage to track down and confirm the veracity of that much beloved sylvan beastman of longstanding myth . Marx travels all over America from the Oregon coast to the Colorado Rocky Mountains to Sasquatch's mating grounds in the Artic Circle . It's Marx's clearly honest and unfeigned commitment to finding Bigfoot which gives this feature a significant lift out of the rut . It's especially a pleasure to hear Marx's crusty say-it-like-you-see it musings on mankind's intrusion on nature , his disdain towards shyster businessmen's crass commercial exploiting of Bigfoot , occasional self-deprecating remarks ( " Here I am a grown man runnin ' around the woods chasin ' after some fairytale " ) , cynicism concerning the so-called experts ' offensive arrogance , and brilliant deductive observations about Bigfoot's migratory nature based on the behavior of other animals . Moreover , Marx's delving into Native American folklore concerning Mr . Over-sized Pawprints is interesting and informative ( other Indian names for ol ' big'n'hairy include the Oh-Man , Bushman and Stickman ) . The excellent cinematography captures the breathtaking beauty of the North American wilderness with stunning clarity and precision . Harry Stuart Winer's brisk direction , a script which supplies a winningly sincere blend of skepticism and speculation , and Don Peake's liltingly melodic country score round off the goodies to be relished in this infectiously full-blooded cinematic ode to a faded , rapidly disappearing , adventurous all-American frontier spirit .
A hugely enjoyable early 60's Mexican horror flick	Four archaeologists take a sacred idol from a holy temple . Evil and powerful voodoo priest Zandor ( robustly played by Quintin Bulnes ) puts a curse on the four men and their loved ones . The guys are stalked and killed by lethal dolls armed with sharp poison needles . Director Benito Alazraki maintains a brisk pace throughout , elicits spirited acting from a fine cast ( the lovely Elvira Quintana is especially good as occult expert Karina ) , and expertly creates a supremely spooky atmosphere . Enrique Wallace's stark , grainy cinematography and the brooding score further enhance the overall creepy mood . But it's the film's ruthless open season on everybody grimly serious tone that gives this picture an additional eerie and unnerving edge ( the doll autopsy scene in particular is a definite ghoulish highlight ) . The doll people , portrayed by midgets in macabre masks with their victims ' faces on them , are truly freaky and unsettling creatures . Zandor's hulking rot-faced zombie servant is likewise really cool and grotesque . The sequences in Zandor's underground lair totally smoke . A fun and worthwhile fright feature .
An enjoyably dreadful piece of sci-fi schlock	An evil lethal bright orange yellow fireball comes to earth and goes on a rampage in a remote lakeside area ; the flaming thing rolls over various hapless folks and reduces them to ashes . It's up to nerdy scientist Dr . Iane Thorne ( blandly played by Marvin Howard ) to figure out a way to stop it before it's too late . Writer / director Harry Essex , who also wrote the scripts for the classic 50's fright features " It Came from Outer Space " and " The Creature from the Black Lagoon , " pukes forth a 50's style micro-budget clunker that boasts all the necessary bad movie vices to qualify as a real four-star stinker : the flat acting from a lame no-name cast ( flash-in-the-pan 70's drive-in flick starlet Maria De Aragon in particular just takes up space as fetching love interest heroine Jeanne ) , sluggish pacing , ragged editing , rough , grainy cinematography by Robert Caramico , meandering narrative , a roaring , overwrought score by Robert Freeman , several ludicrous touches ( the fireball stalks people before it kills them ! ) , and a hackneyed " it ain't over yet ! " ending all combine together to create one laughably lousy and leaden lump of a total stiff . Only Doug Deswick's surprisingly nifty special effects manage to impress . A shamefully unsung crud anti-classic .
Gloriously ludicrous trash	An evil , clawed , cackling witch woman unleashes a savage humanoid snake monster that embarks on a brutal killing spree in a major city . The ever-suave Richard Harrison has to fend off several assassins who want his magic ring and must find the witch in order to stop her . Meanwhile , fetching lady reporter Helen fears that she might be the snake monster . Once again singularly all-thumbs writer / director Godfrey Ho does his customary slipshod cut'n'paste hackjob of haphazardly combining two separate films together with a flagrant disregard for both cinematic artistry and narrative coherence . For example , take the totally nonsensical sequence with Harrison picking up an attractive American hitch-hiker ( she naturally flashes her breasts in order to get a ride from Richard ) . Harrison takes the lass to a movie theater , she performs a striptease for Richard , they proceed to make love , and the chick even attempts to kill him while they're in the middle of doing just what you think . Moreover , we've also got a constant swift pace , lots of graphic , yet cheesy gore , a few pulsating disco tunes blaring away on the soundtrack ( one gal gets attacked by the monster while dancing in her living room to a pounding disco tune ! ) , gaudy cinematography , sleazy soft-core sex , ineptly staged martial arts fights , laughably lousy dubbing ( an Asian police officer sports an utterly incongruous plummy British accent ! ) , tasty gratuitous female nudity , plenty of slithery snakes , a mysterious blind flute player , a riotously pathetic rubbery beast , and a fiery over-the-top conclusion . All these choice cruddy ingredients add up to produce one hilariously awful , but still hugely entertaining mess of a gut-busting schlock howler .
An enjoyable period martial arts action romp	Three brave and noble warriors form a group called the Dream Sword who travel across the countryside to vanquish all kinds of evildoers . The Dream Sword eventually create their own dynasty . Rival wicked clans join forces in order to defeat the Dream Sword . Director Chao-Yung Li , working from a complex and lively script by Hsiang Kin Chu , crafts an exciting , engrossing and opulent period martial arts action / adventure treat about betrayal and the thirst for power . Li stages the stirring and plentiful fight scenes with considerable rip-snorting brio and skill ; the guy who wields a mean and deadly axe puts on an especially impressive display of furious bloodspilling carnage throughout . Moreover , our motley trio of protagonists are a genuinely colorful and likable bunch while the villains are suitably nasty and hateful ( the cunning and deceitful beautiful lady with the bouquet of killer projectile flowers is a total pip ! ) . The lavish set and costume designs give this picture a breathtakingly epic look . Ching Piao Yeh's handsome widescreen cinematography , the sound acting from a capable cast , and the lush , rich , thrilling orchestral score are all likewise excellent and effective . A fun flick .
An odd , intriguing and strikingly original horror black comedy winner	The cosy suburbs in the blandly conventional 50's . Awkward and introspective little boy Michaal ( a nicely subtle and low-key performance by the extremely scrawny and tiny Brian Madorsky ) suspects that something is seriously amiss with both his square , stern dad ( a supremely creepy Randy Quaid ) and cheery mom ( a delightfully chipper Mary Beth Hurt ) . They seem so average and respectable on the surface , but underneath their giddy ordinariness they might be hiding a very dark and disturbing secret . Directed with great style and assurance by character actor Bob Balaban ( it's his most impressive directorial debut ) , written with considerable wit , insight and ingenuity by Christopher Hawthorne , further enhanced by stunning virtuoso cinematography by Ernest Day and Robert Vidgeon and graced by a superbly shuddery score by Jonathan Elias and Angelo Badalamenti ( the use of blithely bouncy mambo music on the soundtrack is an especially nifty touch ) , this genuinely spooky and unnerving horror black comedy treat works exceptionally well as both a frighteningly accurate and surrealistic depiction of the grim nightmarishness of childhood and a wickedly spot-on satire of the placid 50's emphasis on stuffy normality and repressive conformity ( " We have to fit in " ) . Balaban does a stellar job creating an appropriately icky , upsetting and mysterious atmosphere , wisely allowing the deliberate pace to build towards a rather predictable , but still shocking and shattering conclusion . The uniformly terrific performances are a substantial asset , with particularly praiseworthy work by the great Sandy Dennis as a daffy concerned social worker and Juno Mills-Cockell as a weird , mischievous nonconformist girl Michael befriends . Offbeat , intriguing and above all strikingly original , " Parents " gets my highest possible recommendation .
A very neat and enjoyable sci-fi / action / Western hybrid winner	The time : The bleak near future . The place : The desolate town of Hartford City . Noble lawman Jack Holt ( the solid Frank Stewart ) gets killed by several goons who work for Hawk ( a perfectly sinister Loren Blackwell ) , an evil insurance company mogul who governs over the burg with an iron fist . Jack's easygoing musician brother Wade ( excellently played by the amiable Daniel Chapman ) tries to avenge his death , but gets arrested and spends five years in jail . After he gets sprung from prison , Wade returns to Hardford City to settle the score with Hawk . He's assisted by gutsy gal pal Annie Northbride ( a nice'n'sexy turn by fetching blonde looker Ruth Collins ) and loyal former cellmate Bunky ( a wonderfully engaging portrayal by John Scott ) . Director Tom Garrett , working from a clever and inspired script by John McLaughlin ( said script mixes elements from the action , Western , and science fiction genres into a pretty tasty and imaginative synthesis ) , makes the most out of a limited budget : he stages the thrilling action set pieces with considerable flair , maintains a steady pace throughout , and , most of all , does an expert job of crafting a funky , hazy , impressively hip style which oozes 50's type rockabilly cool from every snazzy frame . This film further benefits from fine acting by an appealing cast : Chapman does well as the supremely likable reluctant hero , British novelist and former " Fangoria " magazine film journalist Philip Nutman almost steals the whole show with his spot-on performance as Hawk's mean , gum-chewing right-hand man Tough , and Karen Rizzo makes a favorable impression as friendly bar owner Star . Adam Goldfine's crisp cinematography gives the picture an attractively polished look . Chapman's twangy , harmonic countryish score also hits the tuneful spot ( Chapman even wrote and sings a few tuneful songs that are featured on the soundtrack ) . 80's splatterpunk horror writers John Skipp and Craig Spector briefly pop up as a couple of - - what else ? - - splatterpunks . Offbeat and original , this quirky little number sizes up as a highly worthwhile and unjustly neglected sleeper .
A nifty 60's witchcraft horror feature	Vengeful witch Vanessa Whitlock ( strikingly played by the slim , sharp-featured Yvette Rees , who looks like Barbara Steele ) gets resurrected in the present day after her grave is desecrated by land developers . Vanessa , assisted by angry warlock Morgan Whitlock ( a fine , forceful performance by Lon Chaney , Jr . ) , exacts a harsh revenge on the Lanier family , whose ancestors buried her alive 300 years ago . Director Don Sharp , working from a compact script by Harry Spalding , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace . Moreover , Sharp does an expert job of creating an eerie , misty , midnight-in-the-cemetery gloom-doom atmosphere , stages the shock scenes with commendable gusto , and delivers a few nice murder set pieces . The sturdy acting from a solid cast qualifies as another significant asset : Jack Hadley as the smart , rationale Bill Lanier , Jill Dixon as Bill's charming wife Tracy , David Weston as Bill's likable son Todd , Diane Clare as the fetching Amy Whitlock , Marie Ney as the fragile , elderly Malvina Lanier , Viola Keats as the scared , superstitious Helen Lanier , and Victor Brooks as the puzzled Inspector Baldwin . Arthur Lewis ' crisp , agile black and white cinematography , the grimly serious tone , Carlo Martelli's spooky'n'shuddery score and the thrilling fiery conclusion are all likewise up to speed . A worthy and rewarding fright flick .
A hugely enjoyable fantasy adventure romp	One of a handful of modestly budgeted , but enthusiastically pulpy fantasy action-adventure features based on Edgar Rice Burrough's hugely enjoyable boys ' own novels ( other entries in this particular cycle include " The Land That Time Forgot " and " At the Earth's Core " ) , this characteristically cheap'n'cheerful romp gets by on the basis of its game , go-for-it , a - thrilling - cliffhanger - every - five - minutes 30's serial-style dynamic momentum alone . The strictly serviceable plot centers on a gallant motley quartet who venture to a remote , mysterious , untouched by time Artic island populated by rampaging dinosaurs and warring tribes of primitive cavemen . Aided by a lone foxy , friendly cave babe ( David Bowie's luscious onetime girlfriend Dana Gillispie in tight , skimpy , clingy leather Frederick's of the Stone Age apparel that shows off a lot of her fine , fabulously full-figured physique ) , our brave foursome travel the perilous countryside in search of a missing explorer ( beefy series regular Doug McClure sporting a bushy beard ) . Patrick ( Son of John ) Wayne does a pretty fair Clint Eastwood impersonation as our intrepid mighty macho man main hero , although he's clearly upstaged by the beauteous Sarah Douglas ( Ursa in the first two " Superman " movies ) as a feisty lady photographer , Thorley Walters as a hearty anthropologist , and Shane Rimmer as a crusty alcoholic airplane pilot . Kevin Connor's spirited direction keeps things moving along at a brisk , unflagging tempo , ably abetted by John Scott's rousing full-orchestral score and Alan Hume's picturesque cinematography . Furthermore , the bargain basement special effects are lovably shoddy , veteran villains Milton Reid and David " Darth Vador " Prowse make perfectly pernicious last reel appearances as two evil primordial baddies , and with the exception of some mild violence and equally tame profanity the film overall sweetly captures a certain good-natured innocence that's actually quite endearing in its undisguised naiveté . In short , this one's loads of nice , zippy , never-a-dull-moment lively and eventful fun .
An excellent , very entertaining and even quite frightening 70's made-for-TV horror anthology treat	The always arresting and outstanding Karen Black displays impressive and exceptional range and skill in this hugely enjoyable three story made-for-TV horror omnibus outing . In the first pretty good tale Black essays the role of a shy college professor who gets seduced and blackmailed by a scheming male student ( nicely portrayed by Black's then real-life husband Robert Burton ) . Black deliciously sinks her teeth into a juicy duel part in the really blah second yarn as both a severely repressed spinster and her shamelessly slutty twin sister , respectively . However , it's in the third , final and most justifiably famous vignette that Black truly shines as a frustrated young woman who's at constant loggerheads with her domineering mother . Said young lady winds up being terrorized in her apartment by a savage and unrelenting Zuni fetish doll which comes murderously to life . This latter segment qualifies as an absolute tour-de-force of raw , ferocious and positively harrowing tension ; it's a tightly wound and fiercely effective twenty minute assault on one's nerves with an especially creepy and downright chilling conclusion . Moreover , the Zuni fetish doll's hideously guttural grunting'n'groaning is profoundly unsettling stuff ( said freaky noises were made by prolific bit player and voice actor Walker Edmiston , who was strangely uncredited for his fantastic vocal contribution ) . Director Dan Curtis , working from a smart script by William F . Nolan and Richard Matheson , further aided by Bob Cubert's supremely spooky score and Paul Lohmann's polished cinematography , expertly maintains a snappy pace , elicits fine performances from a bang-up cast , and supplies plenty of hair-raising suspense throughout , reaching a stupendously scary zenith in the third and most frightening story . Despite the frankly tepid quality of the first two stories , this picture still deserves its classic status for the tremendously terrifying potency of the third and most unforgettable segment .
A splendidly sleazy 80's teen revenge thriller exploitation pip	Linda Blair was at the height of her 80's trash exploitation fame when she starred in this delectably down and dirty grindhouse sleaze howler as Brenda , an over-aged high school " bad girl " senior who's the leader of the tough all-girl gang the Satins . Trouble rears its ugly head when the Satins run afoul of a brutish all-guy street gang called the Scars ( led by pockmarked sneering Neanderthal Robert Dryer ) . These detestable no-count hoodlums not only viciously rape Brenda's innocent deaf mute sister Heather ( a very cute and endearing Linnea Quigley ) , but also toss Brenda's pregnant best gal pal off a bridge to her death . Man , are these guys real nasty customers . But have no fear . After sitting in a bath tub topless and dragging on a cigarette while lost in deep thought , the spunky and resourceful Brenda decks herself out in a clingy skintight leather jumpsuit and breaks out both a crossbow and some bear traps with the specific intent of hunting down and killing the vile subhuman scum . Director Danny Steinmann , who also blessed us with the criminally underrated early 80's psycho slasher gem " The Unseen " and the fifth " Friday the 13th " picture , really pours on the scorching sleaze with this choice chunk of 80's low-grade dreck . All the correct sensationally scuzzy elements are ripely abundant here : polished production values , a roaring rock score , plentiful graphic violence , profanity-ridden dialogue , a catfight , the expected gratuitous high school girls ' gym locker room shower sequence , a harshly drawn-out , explicit and unflinching rape scene , and a generous sprinkling of bare female flesh ( besides the luscious Linda and the adorable Linnea , the equally hot Rebecca Perle and Suzee Slater also show us their stuff ) . Moreover , we also get gleefully hammy overacting from a game cast ( John Vernon in particular has himself a rip-snorting ball as the cranky , foul-mouthed high school principal ) . Overall , " Savage Streets " sizes up as a hugely enjoyable and satisfying serving of topflight tacky and raunchy 80's exploitation action revenge thriller junk .
A gritty , thrilling and shamefully overlooked ahead-of-its time 70's end-of-the-world sci-fi knock-out	2012 A . D . : Plague epidemics have wiped out a fair share of the populace and reduced society to a hellish , feral , survival of the fittest kill or be killed barbaric shambles with lethal hordes of Cro-Magnon thugs running amuck on the streets of every major city . In New York a peaceful , barricaded compound led by the wise , kindly Baron ( a beautifully understated Max Von Sydow ) , assisted by the resourceful Cal the Gardener ( a marvelously mellow Richard Kelton ) and his feisty pregnant daughter Melinda ( excellently played by Joanna Miles ) , try to rebuild civilization by creating seeds that are resistant to the various diseases that have ravaged the planet and turned it into a barren wasteland . However , the compound's fragile security is steadily eroding to the point were it can be overrun by the calculatingly malevolent Carrot ( the always fantastic William Smith at his tremendously terrifying , hard-hearted best ) and his gang of grimy , vicious brutes . Enlisting the aid of laconic , resilient , stoical , but essentially humane mercenary and street fighter supreme Carson ( a terrific Yul Brynner in a very ideal piece of casting ) , the Baron has Carson with the seeds and Melinda in tow make a desperate effort to escape by traveling through the dusty , cobwebby , rat-infested subway tunnels to safety . Unarguably the unjustly overlooked and undervalued prototype for the many 80's post-apocalyptic sci-fi / action features that followed in its influential wake ( " Escape from New York " in particular immediately springs to mind ; ditto the " Mad Max " films ) , " The Ultimate Warrior " ranks as a potently grungy , gut-kickingly savage and visceral dilly . Directed in blunt , unflashy , right-to-the-point fashion by Robert ( " Enter the Dragon " ) Clouse ( who also wrote the gritty , tough-minded script ) , expertly pushed along by Gerald Hirshfeld's active , agile , polished cinematography and Gil Melle's earthy , primal , slightly dissonant and highly percussive score , this strong poke - your - eyes - out - with - a - rusty - nail fierce flick really delivers the rousing back-against-the-wall hand-to-hand combat action : brawny , fast on his feet , fluidly whipping hither and tither supersharp knife wielder Brynner makes bloody hash out of the scumbags with his deadly blade in a series of first-rate ferocious confrontations , concluding with a tense , harrowing and extremely exciting subterranean face-off with Smith and his greasy flunkies which finally comes down to an incredible white knuckle anything-goes fight between Smith and Brynner . Moreover , Brynner makes the most of his part , adding some surprising sensitivity to his rugged character while Smith hits an all-time nasty peak as the mean , but bright and charismatic villain . The sober , uncompromisingly harsh tone , done with no traces whatsoever of silly camp humor , but several welcome moments of genuine warmth and compassion and Clouse's stark , unflinchingly grim depiction of the ugly , upsetting savagery which permeates the post-holocaust milieu ( for instance , Smith's gang captures a baby from Sydow's compound and use it as bait to lure Brynner outside ) , give the film an extra stinging edge . These two significant factors furthermore bring a certain bleak conviction to the frighteningly violent and totally amoral world shown herein , thereby elevating " The Ultimate Warrior " to the respectable status of a truly outstanding and unheralded winner .
A fascinating and informative making of documentary	This neat little vintage documentary offers an intriguing glimpse into the making of John Boorman's landmark 1972 classic " Deliverance . " Among the subjects addressed are the arduous and exacting shooting of the picture on location in Georgia ( the film equipment had to be brought up into the mountains with jeeps ! ) , the four principal cast members ' remarkable physical commitment to their roles ( they all put themselves in constant danger for the sake of making the movie as realistic as possible ) , Jon Voight insisting on performing his own stunt for the famous cliff climbing set piece , Burt Reynolds learning archery for his part , author James Dickey's experience playing the sheriff in the film , and the turbulent relationship between Dickey and director Boorman . Moreover , both Dickey and Boorman make some interesting and insightful comments about the project . My sole complaint is that this documentary is way too short at a mere ten minutes along . That criticism aside , this nifty featurette is still essential viewing for fans of " Deliverance . "
A worthy Hammer adaptation of the classic tale	Something is very amiss at a London opera house . Tragedy occurs at the grand opening night of a major production . The leading lady quits the program . But mean , lecherous , overbearing owner Lord Ambrose d'Arcy ( superbly played to the haughty'n'hateful hilt by Michael Gough ) insists that the show go on . He hires charming ingénue Christine ( the enchanting Heather Sears ) as the new lead . But the Phantom of the Opera ( a splendid performance by Herbert Lom ) has other plans . Directed with fluid assurance by Terence Fisher and written with praiseworthy intelligence by Anthony Hinds , this lavishly mounted picture has class and style to spare : Arthur Grant's handsome , vibrant cinematography , the remarkable set design ( the Phantom's subterranean sewer lair is particularly impressive ) , Edwin Astley's robust , spooky score , the strikingly vivid and meticulous attention to period detail , and the beautiful opera music are all uniformly outstanding . Lom brings a winning blend of touching pathos and tremendous dignity to the role of the Phantom . Gough excels as a truly vile and revolting villain . Moreover , there are excellent supporting turns by Edward de Souza as engaging gentleman play producer Harry Hunter , Thorley Walters as browbeaten manager Lattimer , Ian Wilson as the Phantom's mute loyal dwarf friend , and Patrick Troughton as the grotesque the Rat Catcher . A bloody fine yarn .
A fabulously raw , gritty and admirably unsentimental teen coming-of-age knockout	This earthy , unromanticized and fiercely unmawkish coming-of-age adolescent angst sleeper centers on awkward , gangly , sexually frustrated virginal blue collar klutz Mike ( exceptionally played to moody , ungainly , temperamental perfection by " Vampire Circus " ' s John Moulder-Brown ) , who gets a job as an attendant at a seedy bathhouse . Mike falls madly ( and badly ) in obsessive love / lust with loose , worldly and assured co-worker Susan ( an excellent portrayal by enticing redhead looker Jane Asher ) , a wild and uninhibited sort whom the other employees hold in disregard . Alas , Mike's crush on Susan isn't shared by the flattered , but disinterested object of his increasingly batty desire . Set in a very seamy , downcast and markedly unswingin ' early 70's slum district of London ( one wonderfully delirious sequence takes place in a garishly trashy Times Square-like urban cesspool area ) , this remarkably fine film is more notable not for what it does , but for what it refreshingly doesn't do : there's no crude sophomoric humor or cheap goopy sentiment , the picture doesn't cop-out with a phony baloney everything - works - out - quite - nicely happy ending , the characters are extremely complex and not always appealing ( e . g . , the initially endearing Mike becomes less likable and more obnoxious as the story unfolds ) , and a firmly droll and wry , albeit still fairly sympathetic tone is deftly maintained throughout . Director / co-screenwriter Jerry Skolimowski expertly creates a richly textured and utterly plausible lived-in dreariness and tawdriness , punctuating the basically sober mood and grimy authenticity with occasional moments of hilariously bawdy humor ( former 50's blonde bombshell Diana Dors has a sidesplitting cameo as an overweight , aggressively libidinous middle-aged frump who brings herself to an intense orgasm by talking excitedly to Mike about soccer ) . The bathhouse regulars are especially well-drawn : they're lonely , crotchety , down on their luck everyday folks who are desperate for attention and affection . Charly Steinberger's polished , yet naturalistic cinematography masterfully uses the color red to convoy a wealth of emotions : rage , anger , passion , confusion and ultimately despair . Terrific pounding proto-heavy metal score by Cat Stevens and the Can , too . A sadly forgotten and undervalued gem .
An excellent and exciting bikers go to ' Nam 70's trash exploitation classic	Rough and tumble hog-riding Hell's Angels hellions Link ( the almighty William Smith ) , Duke ( the equally awesome Adam Roarke ) , Dirty Denny ( former real-life Green Beret Houston Savage ) , Speed ( Gene Cournelius ) and Limpy ( a fine Paul Koslo ) are recruited by the CIA to rescue an arrogant presidential adviser ( expertly played to the hateful hilt by director Jack Starrett ) from the vile clutches of the Red Chinese in Cambodia . Directed with his customary rip-snorting brio by the extremely underrated and always dependable Starrett ( whose other credits include the Jim Brown blaxploitation vehicle " Slaughter , " the hugely enjoyable " Cleopatra Jones , " and the Satan worship car chase knockout " Race With the Devil " ) , this bang-up gutsy and thrilling little pip works like gangbusters . The pace storms along at a steady , speedy clip . The performances from the top-rate cast are all uniformly excellent ( it's a real treat to see biker pic perennials Smith and Rourke on screen together , plus longtime favorite Filipino fat guy thesp Vic Diaz has a funny supporting part as a friendly mechanic ) . The incredibly explosive action sequences are staged with considerable incendiary aplomb ( the big climactic raid on an enemy prison camp is a definite highlight ) . Moreover , the bikers themselves aren't glamorized or sanitized in the least . These dingy dirtball dudes are pure bad news . They are a scruffy bunch of mangy nonconformist malcontents who are as likely to brawl with each other as well as anyone else who crosses their bitter antagonistic path . Better still , this remarkably bold picture fiercely ridicules America's involvement in the Vietnam war , clearly stating that we hurt these people more than helped them ( the subplot about the Vietnamese prostitute with a mulatto baby is especially poignant and provocative ) . The fact that this defiant movie was made while the Vietnam war was still going on makes it that much more pertinent and resonant . And the crushingly downbeat bummer ending is likewise very powerful with both its unflinchingly cynical anti-government stance and unsparingly grim statement about the wasteful futility of war . In addition , this film was also influential in that it established the basic let's - bring - the - boys - back - home premise which was later reused in such 80's action features as " Uncommon Valor , " " Missing in Action , " and " Rambo : First Blood , Part II . " The Dark Sky DVD offers a beautiful widescreen presentation along with the following tasty extras : two radio spots , the theatrical trailer , a still and poster gallery , and , perhaps the single most savory bonus , a highly amiable , entertaining and informative commentary by stars Paul Koslo and William Smith .
Much better than the negative reviews would have you think	Boy , am I in the minority on this one . I thoroughly enjoyed this film and consider it to a very fine throwback to the gloriously down'n'dirty European exploitation horror films of the 70's . First off , I appreciated Terry West's moody and visceral approach to banging out a horror film . There's very little CGI ( one quick morphing scene ) , the editing wasn't done in that hateful rapid-fire MTV music video style , and the digital photography was a tad rough , but overall quite spooky and effective . Moreover , the gore was plentiful and suitably sickening ( splatter highlights include one guy vomiting forth his entire intestinal tract and another dude being literally drenched with a bucket of grue ) . The fact that the story was told with utmost seriousness and an increasingly all-too-rare sense of conviction ( thankfully there's no dreadful " Scream " - like " " it's-only-just-a-movie-folks " self-consciousness to be found here ) was a substantial plus . Okay , I'll admit that the acting was strictly hit-or-miss and the dialogue tended to be clunky . Furthermore , I personally found the much-derided sex scenes to be quite steamy and the much-maligned actresses to be very attractive ( it's nice to see a recent horror film with equally ample amounts of both sex and violence that are prominently presented throughout with extremely graphic and unwavering explicitness ) . The key aspect of this movie which for me makes it a true winner is the fact that not a single woman gets killed in it ( with the notable exception of Caroline Munro , who gets offed in a flashback by Aldo Sambrell ) . For once it's only the guys who get gruesomely bagged left and right . On in interesting note , almost every last man gets offed after having sex with one of the succubi , thereby illustrating how sex can be used to manipulate men into a vulnerable position . It's this gender role reversal that makes " Flesh for the Beast " so refreshing . Usually just woman are killed for being openly sexual ; here the tables are turned on the men for a change . ( This is probably why a lot of folks don't like this movie . ) And this pic even comes complete with a profound statement about how such fundamental human weaknesses as lust and greed feed evil and keep it thriving for perpetuity . It's articulated in a throwaway line at the very end , but it's a spot-on astute statement that I give the movie additional props for saying .
A very potent and supremely disturbing shocker	The lovely , slender , gap-toothed blonde beauty Mimsy ( " More , " " Autopsy " ) Famer gives a splendid , shattering , heart-breaking performance as Sylvia , a shy , passive and very reserved lass who suddenly starts to lose her marbles . Sylvia experiences troubling childhood flashbacks entailing a time she caught her mother doing just what you think with some other guy ( she killed her mom and cut the dude up with a knife ) , sees and talks to an impish , ghostly manifestation of herself as a little girl , sees mommy's reflection in a mirror , and gruesomely offs several folks living in the apartment building she resides in ( one woman is boiled alive in her bath tub , a kindly old man gets hacked up with a hatchet , Sylvia later plants said hatchet in her useless boyfriend's back , and so on ) . Is Sylvia really going murderously around the bend ? Or is something more sinister and mysterious afoot here ? As one might surmise from the above synopsis , " The Perfume of A Lady in Black " sure ain't your average , straight-down-the-line safe , conventional and predictable humdrum terror-tinged mystery thriller ; instead it's an extremely surreal , disorienting , surprise-laden inside out edge-of-your-seat " Repulsion " - style psychological mind-twister flick that in its own deceptively bent and low-key way proves to be one exceptionally powerful and disturbing scarefest . Francesco Barilli's steady , subdued direction potently evokes a pungent , nerve-rattling sense of genuine menace from every objects and places ( a mirror , a vase , a gorgeously verdant open field , a music box ) , upsetting the viewer's equilibrium by showing how the serenity of plain old everyday life can be easily disrupted and completed ripped asunder . Nicola Piovani's eerie , elegant , atmospheric score and Mario Masini's beautifully graceful cinematography ( the fluid , stately tracking shots are simply breathtaking ) significantly contribute to the film's spooky , strange , nothing - is - what - it - appears - to - be enigmatic and ultra-paranoid mood . The jolting and unexpected stinger of a brutal ending packs one hell of a ferocious punch . Offbeat , oblique and often unsettling , this first-rate shocker gets my highest possible recommendation .
The greatest horror-Western ever made	Arkansas , circa 1865 : After losing the final battle of the Civil War , sexist , sadistic Conferate commander Wishbone Cutter ( a gruff , intimidating , but fairly restrained turn by the often overly hammy Joe Don Baker , here giving one of his better , less blustery and bombastic performances ) , faithful half-Irish , half-Native American companion Moon ( beautifully essayed by Joy Houck , Jr . , a good , engaging actor who usually toiled away in forgettable junk unworthy of his talent ) , and laid-back geologist Amos " Teach " Raymond ( affable Ted Neeley , who played God's only son in " Jesus Christ , Superstar " ) venture into the dense , remote , uninviting Arkansas wilderness to unearth a diamond stash located on a sacred Indian mountain that's rumored to be guarded by territorial demons . Along the way the motley threesome pick up the comely , beguiling Drucilla Wilcox ( the mesmerizingly winsome'n'willowy Sondra Locke , whose pale , haunted , crystal-clear blue eyes are vaguely redolent of Meg Foster's otherworldly orbs ) , the lone shell-shocked survivor of a brutal Indian attack . Pretty soon the quartet is being terrorized by some mysterious assailant ( s ) . Could they be a strange tribe of inhospitable Apaches ? Or is it the lethal woodland spirit Chikara , who rules over hawks and doesn't take kindly to interlopers trespassing on its terrain ? Writer / director Earl E . Smith , who wrote both " The Legend of Boggy Creek " and " The Town That Dreaded Sundown " for Charles B . Pierce , does a superlative job of keeping the viewer on edge , adeptly creating a spooky , yet somehow oddly plausible and flavorful period tone which slowly , but surely grows on the viewer as the film gradually , carefully , and skillfully reaches its genuinely chilling and startling conclusion . The top-notch acting greatly contributes to the film's overall gritty credibility , with particularly nifty bits by the ever-scummy and unnerving unsung Western supporting villain John Davis Chandler as a repulsive backwoods psycho , Dennis Fimple as a grizzled , cloddish fur trapper who refers to the forest spirits as " haints , " and the magnificent Slim Pickens in a lovely , touching cameo as Virgil Cane , a sweet old-timer who's fatally wounded early in the picture and tells Cutter about the cache of diamonds right before he dies . The rousing , ferociously rough and pulverizing opening battle sequence starts the film on a stirring and striking note , with excellent , poignant use being made of the Band's terrific , tearful ballad " The Night They Drove Ol ' Dixie Down . " There's also some surprisingly vicious violence that one doesn't always see in a PG rated flick ( e . g . , the scene where Cutter removes an arrow from Raymond's arm is especially painful ) and plenty of supremely creepy skin-crawling enigmatic " what's really going on here ? " atmosphere . Quirky , low-key , and above all refreshingly different and original , " The Shadow of Chikara " is undoubtedly the finest , scariest and most exceptionally well-crafted horror-Western to ever grace celluloid . It's an unjustly forgotten little jewel of a sleeper that's well worth the extra effort to dig up and check out .
Lives up to its classic reputation and then some	Scruffy maverick police detective Jack Cates ( a marvelously gritty portrayal by Nick Nolte ) springs smartaleck convict Reggie Hammond ( a bravura star-making performance by Eddie Murphy ) from jail so he can catch dangerous criminal Ganz ( a frightfully intense James Remar ) and his equally lethal partner Billy Bear ( the always imposing Sonny Landham ) within a single frantic 48 hour time period . Walter Hill's masterfully lean , mean , tautly streamlined and economical direction keeps the pace roaring along at a nonstop breakneck clip and stages the frequent stirring shoot-outs with electrifying brio . The raw , nervy , rat-a-tat-tat volatile and explosive chemistry between the gruff Nolte and the smooth Murphy delivers plenty of incendiary fireworks which are often peppered with harsh full-bore profanity and culminate in one hell of a knock-down , drag-out back alley fist fight . The now legendary sequence with Murphy terrorizing the hick patrons of a rowdy redneck honkytonk bar with his fiercely cocky and aggressive in-your-face attitude rates as another undeniable highlight . The excellent supporting cast includes Annette O'Toole as Nolte's fed-up bar maid girlfriend , David Patrick Kelly as a sniveling weasel , Denise Crosby and Greta Blackburn as hookers , Jonathan Banks as a doomed cop , Frank McRae as Nolte's huffy disapproving superior , Brion James as a fellow flatfoot , Peter Jason as a racist bartender , and Luis Contreras as a gang member . Both Ric Waite's sharp , slick , glittery cinematography and James Horner's robust , rousing score hit the spot . The great , thrilling song " The Boys Are Back in Town " by the Busboys likewise scores a bull's eye . Essential viewing .
An edgy and intense 80's " danger on the road " nail-biter	Sweet , naive , wet behind the ears young guy Jim Halsey ( an unexpectedly strong C . Thomas Howell , whose callow boyishness and soft passivity for once work in his favor ) is driving a friend's car from Chicago , Illinois to San Diego , California through a lonely stretch of dusty and desolate Texas backroads . Jim makes the grave mistake of giving a ride to mysterious psychotic hitchhiker John Ryder ( an impeccably icy performance by a frightfully remote and intense Rutger Hauer , who's never been more serenely chilling than he is here ) , a calmly malevolent itinerant serial killer whose attempt at adding Halsey to his ever-growing number of victims gets foiled when Halsey forcefully ejects him from his speeding car . But Ryder hasn't finished with the hapless , cowering lad . Pretty soon poor Jim has been incriminated in a series of gruesome murders that were committed by Ryder , who obviously wants the boy to overcome his wimpiness and work up the necessary guts to take him out for reasons which are hinted at , but never completely explained ( subconcious guilt ? seething repressed homosexual lust ? a desire to call it quits and have someone else assume the role you played in life ? The possibilities are endless ) . Naturally , the cops are useless and only token nice gal waitress Jennifer Jason Leigh tries to help out , but winds up meeting an especially nasty end . Director Robert Harmon milks the harsh , upsetting and nihilistic implications of Eric Red's slyly open-ended and allegorical script for all they're worth , creating a potently tense , brooding , oddly surreal nightmarish atmosphere that's both engrossingly twisted and deliciously oblique , staging several breathtaking car chases with consummate skill ( extra props are in order here for John Seale's stunning cinematography and Mark Isham's moody , low-key score ) , never holding back on the unsparingly gruesome violence ( watch out for the infamous severed-fingers-in - - the-French-fries scene ! ) , and slowly , but surely erasing the fine line between good and evil , right and wrong , decency and indecency , even purity and wickedness as the film races towards its shatteringly vague conclusion which refuses to firmly state whether Halsey has either been irredeemably corrupted or considerably strengthened by his hair-raising , soul-crushing , will-testing brush with death . An absolute powerhouse .
A marvelously smart and suspenseful thriller knockout	Quiet , timid , but shrewd Miles Cullen ( an outstanding performance by the always affable and reliable Elliott Gould ) works as a teller at a bank in a shopping center . One day Miles gets held up by vicious psychotic criminal Harry Reikle ( a superbly chilling portrayal by Christopher Plummer ) . However , Miles only gives Harry a small percentage of the money he asked for . Miles pockets the rest of the bread himself . Pretty soon Miles finds himself playing a dangerous cat and mouse battle of wills with the lethal Harry . Moreover , Miles aggressively pursues sweet , fetching coworker Julie Carver ( a wonderfully radiant and ravishing Susannah York ) and becomes involved with Harry's lusty girlfriend Elaine ( a charming turn by the lovely Celine Lomez ) . Director Daryl Duke , who also helmed the terrific " Payday , " ably wrings plenty of nerve-wracking tension from Curtis Hanson's supremely twisty , gripping , intelligent script , astutely creates a vivid atmosphere , and elicits uniformly first-rate acting from a stellar cast . Billy Williams ' handsome , polished cinematography and Oscar Peterson's rousing , jazzy , elegant orchestral score are likewise strong and impressive . A pre-stardom John Candy has a small part as one of Miles ' goofy fellow tellers . The occasional outbursts of brutal violence are genuinely shocking and upsetting . A real bang-up little thriller winner .
An excellent and unjustly overlooked deadpan black comedy gem	" Beverly Hills 90210 " star hunk Jason Priestley gives a startlingly able and engaging performance as Cosmo , a quiet , passive , thoroughly nebbishy and unassuming recluse who works as a bookie for a mob syndicate . When new capo Gordon ( a perfectly pernicious Robert Loggia ) becomes gang leader after the previous crime boss croaks , Cosmo gets promoted to hit-man . Under the sage , expert tutelage of laid-back , but weary , boozy and guilt-wracked rub-out artist par excellence Steve ( a terrifically low-key portrayal by the always ingratiating Peter Riegert ) , Cosmo proves to be an amazingly quick study and soon surpasses his wise older mentor when it comes to casually bumping off folks for major league dollars . Things become dicey when Cosmo befriends and immediately falls in love with nice gal yoga instructor Jasmine ( a winningly perky turn by the eminently adorable Kimberly Williams ) , who's understandably less than thrilled with Cosmo's deadly profession . Writer / director Wallace Wolodarsky deftly accomplishes the tricky task of blending a gently whimsical romantic comedy with a savagely twisted droll black farce , skillfully creating and maintaining a deliciously dry and deadpan out-of-whack sensibility that's often uproariously screwy , constantly engrossing and occasionally even quite jarringly grotesque . The mixture of brutal violence and playful quirkiness works remarkably well because of Wolodarsky's commendably firm control of a marvelously unpredictable anything-can-happen oddball tone : the characters are a splendidly colorful bunch of delightfully kooky , likable and somehow strangely plausible eccentrics , the story never slips into a straight-down-the-line conventional trajectory , and the assorted unexpected plot complications keep the viewer totally off-guard throughout . Additional kudos are in order for the uniformly on-the-money cast : Priestley , Williams , Loggia and especially Riegert are all outstanding , with spot-on supporting work by the ever-charming Jeneane Garofalo as a sweet-hearted hooker and Michael J . Fox as a weaselly accountant . Idiosyncratic and original , " Coldblooded " qualifies as one of the most undeservedly neglected and unheralded off-center indie sleepers from the 90's .
A potent and uncompromisingly harsh World War II action drama knockout	A platoon of American soldiers lead by the rugged , but humane Captain MacDonald ( superbly played by Cornel Wilde ) and the mean , bloodthirsty Gunnery Sergeant Honeywell ( a chilling performance by the always excellent Rip Torn ) embark on a dangerous mission to find a Japanese base on a remote island in the Pacific . Wilde's steady , assured , if rather ragged direction and the gritty , incisive script by Wilde , Don Peters and Clint Johnston astutely nails the chaos , horror and brutality of war : the movie opens on a gripping note with a fierce and harrowing protracted battle sequence , the violence is shockingly gory and graphic ( arms are blown off , severed limbs litter the ground , mangled bodies are strewn about , and so on ) , the characters ' thoughts serve as philosophical narration , the tone remains stark , frank and unflinching throughout , and there are poignant flashbacks for both the American and Japanese soldiers alike in order to show how everyone is basically the same . This picture further benefits from strong and convincing acting by a tip-top cast , with especially praiseworthy work by Burr DeBenning as hearty country boy Private Egan , Patrick Wayne as the naive , amiable Private Joseph Joshua Cliff , Jean Wallace as McDonald's sweet , bubbly wife Julie ( Wallace also sings the hauntingly melancholy theme song ) , and Jaime Sanchez as easygoing smartaleck Private Columbo . Cecil R . Clooney's plain , no-frills cinematography really throws the viewer into the thick of the bloody combat and frightening carnage . Moreover , this movie earns extra points for its even treatment of the Japanese , who are shown as being just as scared and human as the American soldiers . It's this latter admirable component of compassion for all humanity which in turn makes this film so incredibly powerful and provocative .
You have the right to enjoy this excellent and hugely entertaining 80's B-horror gem	Bitter , hulking , vengeful cop Matt Cordell ( the enormous Robert Z'Dar in his best-ever role ) embarks on a brutal and frightening killing spree in New York City , viciously slaughtering folks left and right . Rugged detective Lieutenant McCrae ( the always fine and personable Tom Atkins ) , honest framed patrolman Jack Forrest ( a marvelously engaging Bruce Campbell ) , and his feisty fellow flatfoot Theresa Malloy ( a delightfully spunky and sassy Laurene Landon ) investigate the case and discover a major league conspiracy pertaining to Cordell that goes straight to the top of city hall government . Ably directed with tremendous rip-snorting style and gusto by William Lustig , with a very clever and witty script by the great Larry Cohen , slick cinematography by Vincent J . Rabe , several nifty murder set pieces , a nicely gritty and seedy Big Apple atmosphere , amusingly macabre dollops of pitch-black humor , a spooky , stirring score by Jay Chattaway ( the eerie main whistled theme is especially haunting and effective ) , a constant snappy pace , and a rousing last reel car chase , " Maniac Cop " delivers a great deal of lively , exciting and straightforward rough'n'ready low-budget horror / action thriller exploitation fun . The stand-out supporting cast of wonderfully familiar and dependable B-flick faces in particular is a substantial asset : Richard Roundtree as a corrupt commissioner , William Smith as an equally crooked police chief , Sheree North as Cordell's weary , crippled , protective police lady girlfriend , boxer Jake " Raging Bull " LeMotta as a detective , John Goff as a sleazy lawyer , " Evil Dead " director Sam Raimi as a TV reporter , George " Buck " Flower as a guy on television talking about how nowadays cops have to kill people in order to get respect , and Patrick Wright as a prison guard . Better still , the characters are exceptionally well-drawn with surprising depth and substance . For example , Cordell was originally a good , but overzealous police officer who got betrayed by the very system he believed in and has thus become a lethal ball of homicidal rage who will kill anyone luckless enough to cross his deadly path . Moreover , Forrest isn't your standard true blue pure streak of white heroic protagonist as well ; he's a decent , but flawed guy who's unfaithful to his wife and is forced to go into action to clear his unfairly besmirched name . It's this welcome and commendable element of refreshing complexity which in turn makes " Maniac Cop " a superior fright feature that's wholly worthy of its cult status .
A very cool vintage 70's skateboard documentary	This cool documentary centers on funky , blonde-maned , up and coming hot shot skateboarder par excellence Stacy Peralta , his cute , loving , twinkle-eyed groupie girlfriend Camille Darrin , Stacy's equally gnarly , in the zone buds Tom Sims and Ken Means , and friendly rival board rats Guy Grundy , Mike Weed and Russell Wayne Howell as they rip through Los Angeles and San Francisco performing all the latest tricks and stunts for awestruck crowds , exchange pointers and advice , test their mettle in storm drains , sewer tunnels and empty swimming pools , participate in local contests , and generally bum around the Sunshine State having a real fun , blithesome , groovy time of it . Scott Dittrich's sharp-eyed , unobtrusive , appealingly nonjudgmental you-are-there intimate direction sucks the viewer right into the skateboard phenomenon , offering an intriguing evocation of an interesting and underexplored sports subculture . Dittrich illustrates that skateboarding is a natural offshoot of surfing ( most skateboarders are also surfers ) , a skateboarder's unique riding style is directly keyed to his distinctive personality , and how skateboarding provides a welcome relief from the drab blandness of boring old everyday routine life while depicting assorted amazingly graceful and agile skateboard feats in all their breathtaking glory . Crisply shot in a snazzy , but never overly flashy or self-conscious manner by Pat Darrin , further buoyed by a wonderful soundtrack of sweetly mellow pop songs and glowingly radiating a sunny , happy , carefree , infectiously upbeat and spirit-lifting peculiarly Californian positive vibe , this great , engrossing , unjustly forgotten and unheralded winner about making your dreams come true , realizing your full potential and living your life the way you want to live it sans compromise crackles with an irresistibly ultra-kinetic buzz throughout .
A pretty crude and rough , but undeniably effective little 80's splatter horror shocker	Okay , we all know the plot to this one backwards and forwards , so I'm not going to bother with an unnecessary synopsis here . Instead , I'll just give this endearingly ragged early 80's splatter horror indie landmark all the props that it deserves . Granted , Bruce Campbell's acting leaves a bit too be desired ( he's much better in the second one ) , the make-up f / x are pretty primitive , and the production values are a tad chintzy and cheesy , but there's no denying the sheer infectious abundance of pure brio , passion , energy and enthusiasm which permeates every last gloriously gonzo frame . Sure , money can buy slicker production values and fancier special effects , but all the money in the world can't and won't compensate for a severe dearth of heart and soul . This is the secret to this admittedly scrappy movie's remarkably enduring cult appeal and grungy charm ; you can tell everyone involved in this deliciously demented delight put their proverbial all into the film . Moreover , the roughness of the film itself gives the movie a substantial raw , rattling , unrelenting power and intensity that a bigger budget and slicker execution would have only detracted from . Yeah , it's got its faults , but said flaws aside it still does the kick-you-in-the-gut jolting and startling trick to this very day .
A wonderfully crass and vulgar laugh riot	Man , reading all the ferociously harsh reviews of this one is depressing . I can't believe so many people mercilessly slag this blissfully stupid , witless and tasteless chunk of choice 80's comedy cheese . I personally think this delightfully raucous and rambunctious movie is funny as all hell . Sure , it's dumb , gross and unsubtle , plus very politically incorrect ( there are foul jokes made about rape , voyeurism , lesbianism , vertically challenged folks with problem flatulence , and much , much worse ) , so of course I love it . The best humor is no-holds-barred humor that dares to be possibly offensive and picks on every conceivable target without shame , fear or apology . " Night Patrol " is loaded with this kind of gleefully brazen and disgusting humor . We've got the alarmingly buxom Kitten Natavidad exclaiming " No , this is a bust ! " while baring her ample breasts . Billy Barty drives a bunch of hookers out of town in his car because he promised to . Sydney Lassick does an uproarious cameo as a leering peeping tom . Pat Morita has a truly bizarre bit part as a male rape victim who speaks in a whimpering woman's voice ( ! ) . Then there's the lesbian bar . . . well , I can't go into specifics on that one , but it's one of the most hilariously rude moments in a film that's just ripe to bursting with ' em . Moreover , the luscious Lori Sutton doffs her duds and gives us a nice , long , lingering look at her generous assets , Andrew " Dice " Clay tells a lot of groaningly awful jokes , Murray " the Unknown Comic " Langston performs his sidesplitting stand-up act several times , the ever-bubbly Linda Blair looks mighty cute , Pat Paulson lends fine support , and such folks as Jaye P . Morgan , Vic Dunlop , and Jack Riley pop up in suitably embarrassing secondary roles . Sure , it's no work of art , but " Night Patrol " overall is way too energetically inane and blatantly moronic to hate . Hell , I'm not the least bit ashamed to admit I enjoyed this terrifically tacky hoot tremendously . And , yes , I do indeed own the Anchor Bay DVD for this honey , which it goes without saying I watch all the time .
William Girdler's final and most gloriously outrageous horror film	Prolific 70's drive-in horror hack William ( " Grizzly , " " Day of the Animals " ) Girdler really outdoes himself with this delightfully berserk Native American variant on " The Exorcist , " which Girdler had previously done a lowdown funky blaxploitation spin on with " Abby . " Sweet young Karen Tandy ( the ever lovely and beguiling Susan Strasberg , the daughter of legendary acting teacher Lee Strasberg ) has a large mysterious tumor growing on her neck . Said tumor turns out to be the rapidly developing fetus of evil and all-powerful Indian medicine man Misquamacus , who's using Karen as an unwitting host so he can be reborn into our dimension after a 400 year dormancy . It's up to blithely bogus charlatan psychic Harry Erskine ( an admirably sincere Tony Curtis ) and good-hearted modern-day Native American medicine man John Singing Rock ( an engaging performance by Michael Ansara ) to stop the wicked otherworldly entity before it's too late . William Girdler directs this divinely absurd , energetic and slickly mounted mystical supernatural horror demonic possession mumbo jumbo with galvanizing panache and self-assurance , maintaining a constant brisk pace throughout , relating the wonderfully wacky story in a taut , involving manner , and staging the shock set pieces with considerable go-for-it gusto . Michael Hugo's glossy cinematography , Lalo Schifrin's stirring full-bore orchestral score , and the dazzling special effects by Tom Burman , Frank Van Der Veer and Dick Tate are all likewise excellent and impressive . Moreover , the cast seriously smokes in no uncertain terms : Burgess Meredith as a flaky old anthropologist , Stella Stevens and Ann Southern as helpful mediums , Jon Cedar and Paul Mantee as concerned doctors , Lurene Tuttle as a wizened old bag Misquamacus throws down a flight of stairs , and midget actor Felix Silla ( Cousin It on " The Adams Family " ) as the hideously ugly and malformed Misquamacus . WARNING : Possible SPOILERS ahead . And the crazed pull-out-all-the-stops shoot-the-fireworks over-the-top last third is an absolute corker : Misquamacus tears his way out of Karen's back , an enormous lethal lizard materializes in Karen's hospital room , Misquamacus turns an entire hospital floor into what looks like a giant meat locker , and for the boffo climactic confrontation with Erskine and Singing Rock the nasty little bugger sends Karen's hospital room into a remote corner of the universe complete with stars , lasers and asteroids ( ! ) . This fabulously flipped-out freaky flick unquestionably qualifies as William Girdler's schlock horror masterpiece and serves as a worthy closer for Girdler's sometimes erratic , but often immensely entertaining trash exploitation cinema career .
A really hip , charming and flat-out hilarious riot	Feckless , laid-back and amiable Robert ( the very likable Rafer Weigel ) and his sarcastic , more grouchy and irritable best buddy Mark ( the equally engaging Eric McCormack ) are a couple of hardcore " Star Trek " fans who are both facing their 30th birthdays and the subsequent sense of maturity and responsibility turning 30 entails . Robert and Mark meet their longtime idol William Shatner , who turns out to be a complete flaky and pompous windbag . Moreover , Robert encounters and falls in love with spunky and luscious fellow science fiction buff Claire ( the adorable Audie England ) . Director Robert Meyer Burnett , working from a bright , witty and inspired script he co-wrote with Mark A . Altman , whips up a highly charming , amusing and utterly delightful treat that's rife with knowing pop culture references ( the " Logan's Run " gag is especially funny ) , snappy dialogue , and a lively , carefree , uplifting tone . Weigel and McCormack share a loose and appealing chemistry which makes the friendship between Robert and Mark both touching and credible . Shatner is an absolute hoot as he sends himself up with lip-smacking aplomb : Bill is first seen in a book store checking out a dirty magazine , gets slabbed in the face when he drunkenly attempts to pick up the fetching Marlena ( Deborah Van Valkenburgh of " The Warriors " ) in a bar , and heartily belts out the funky rap tune " No Tears for Caesar " at Mark's gala 30th birthday bash . Nice supporting performances by Patrick Van Horn as the smooth , yet smarmy ladies ' man Sean , Phil LaMarr as the moody Eric , Jonathan Slavin as the hopelessly geeky Dan , and Lori Lively as ravishing redhead Leila . Scott Spock's bubbly , frothy , catchy lounge score hits the spot . Charles L . Barbee's polished , sparkling cinematography likewise does the trick . Some of the picture's best and most gut-busting jokes appear in the sidesplitting ending credits . A total blast .
Another yuletide TV special winner from Rankin / Bass	A mailman relates the story of how Santa Claus came to be . A small baby is left on the doorstep of the house where the Kringle family lives . They name him Kris . Kris ( excellently voiced by Mickey Rooney ) grows up to be a fine young man who decides to deliver toys to the children of the dreary small hamlet of Sombertown . But both the evil Winter Warlock ( given a splendidly deep , rumbling voice by Keenan Wynn ) and the mean Burgermeister Meisterburger ( legendary voice actor supreme Paul Frees in top grouchy form ) try to stop him . During the course of the tale we find out about the origins of Santa's red suit , his trademark heart laugh , stockings by the fireplace , why Santa goes down the chimney , presents under the Christmas , and the flying reindeer . The pleasant , good-natured tone , endearing characters ( Topper the Penguin is absolutely adorable ) , a jaunty , merry score by Maury Laws , sweetly innocuous humor , snazzy stop-motion animation , catchy , uplifting songs , cute black and white newsreel opening , and charmingly simple story all ensure that this vintage early 70's holiday TV special from the ever reliable Jules Bass and Arthur Rankin , Jr . is a hugely enjoyable affair from start to finish . Fred Astaire as the singing and dancing mailman makes for a wonderfully warm and amiable narrator . A lovely little jewel .
A really excellent , exciting and engrossing car racetrack drama corker	This surprisingly potent and involving low-budget 60's car racetrack drama centers on the heated rivalry between anxious , but adamant and determined ace driver Mickey Arnold ( splendidly played by Harry Millard ) and intense and surly aspiring champion Ticker Walsh ( the equally excellent Mike Bradford ) . You see , not only does Ticker resent Mickey for always finishing first and thus seeming second-rate in comparison , but also Ticker has a personal beef with Mickey concerning the accidental death of his girlfriend in a car wreck three months ago . This bitter feud reaches its harrowing all-or-nothing apex at a big race which serves as the thrilling climax for the film . Director William T . ( " Hot Rod Hullaboo " ) Naud , working from an exceptionally smart , compact and astute script by George Baxt , wrings plenty of arresting drama and sweat-inducing tension from compelling story . Moreover , the uniformly fine acting from a solid cast constitutes as a substantial asset : Besides the two terrific male leads , there are similarly strong performances by Judy Lewis as Mickey's loving , but fed-up wife and smoldering brunette Nancy Berg as an opportunistic hussy who falls hard for Ticker . Pat McAndrew has a memorably funny bit as a drunken barroom floozy Ticker hits on . Thomas E . Spalding's stark , gritty black and white photography , a fantastic sequence at a nightclub in which a slick smoothie singer heartily belts out the swooning ballad " Maybe Tomorrow " and stripper Sheri Benet performs a racy stage number , the tart dialogue ( " You can't kill ten years on a front porch " ) , Elliot Lawrence's groovy swinging bebop jazz score , the remarkably well-drawn and engaging characters , and the expected exciting pedal-to-the-metal tire-shrieking , rubber-burning , eat my dust reckless and dangerous automobile racetrack action further enhance the overall sterling quality of this bang-up little sleeper .
A scary , suspenseful and altogether superior early 70's British women-in-jeopardy thriller	Petite , adorable , doe-eyed early 70's brunette scream queen Pamela ( " The Legend of Hell House , " " The Food of the Gods " ) Franklin and buxom , voluptuous blonde Michele ( " Blood on Satan's Claw " ) Dotrice make for highly charming and appealing fair damsels in distress as a pair of spunky young nurses enjoying a merry bicycling jaunt across the lush , peaceful , ripely verdant French countryside who wind up being stalked and terrorized by a murderous sexual psychopath . Directed in unusually plain , spare , stripped-down fashion by the often quite stylish and baroque Robert Fuest ( who also helmed the wickedly enjoyable " Dr . Phibes " films and the gloriously ghastly all-star abortion " The Devil's Rain " ) , written in a briskly efficacious manner by esteemed " The Avengers " scribe Brian Clemens , and potently brooding with a clammy , spine-shivering , ultimately quite stifling and suffocatingly claustrophobic mood , " And Soon the Darkness " most certainly does the trick as an effectively creepy and gripping women-in-jeopardy thriller . The beauteous rustic setting , sparsely populated by gruff , unfriendly , intimidating local yokels and vaguely sinister cops , comes across as a very eerie and unsettling remote rural region , due largely to Fuest's cunning marked emphasis on tight close-ups , the ingenious decision to have the whole movie occur in bright daylight , and the notable absence of wide angle panoramic shots . In fact , said hinterland area evokes an unnervingly palpable sense of dread , isolation , vulnerability and , most frighteningly , utter helplessness throughout . The twist ending in particular is a real gut-ripping corker . Overall , this top-drawer chiller diller is scary and upsetting enough to turn even the hardiest fright film fan into a stay firmly locked behind closed doors paranoid agoraphobic shut-in .
A splendidly moody and spooky Southern Gothic-style 70's vampire horror treat	Late , great 70's drive-in movie goddess Cheryl " Rainbeax " Smith gives a smashing , touching performance as Lila Lee , a passive , ingenuous church choir girl who's lured into a remote and dangerous part of the Georgia wilderness by artful , poised vampire countess Lemora ( a strikingly hypnotic portrayal by Lesley Gilb ) under the pretense that she will be reunited with her errant mobster father . In all actuality , Lemora wants to turn the fragile , dewy-eyed innocent Lila into a vampire and induct the severely uptight lass into a darkly amoral , but liberating nocturnal netherworld of wine , sex , song and dance . Writer / director Richard Blackburn ( who later co-wrote " Eating Raoul " ) does an expert job with this extraordinary period horror film ( it takes place in the late 1920's ) , deftly creating and maintaining a creepy , oddly credible and most colorfully surreal alternate reality in which the fine line between right and wrong , good and bad , and purity and wickedness is chillingly blurred . Moreover , Blackburn acquits himself fairly well in a sizable supporting role as a hypocritical bible-bangin ' preacher who secretly harbors illicit carnal desires for the delectable , but underage Lila Lee . Tense , atmospheric and often genuinely frightening ( the giggling gaggle of little vampire kids is especially scary ) , with a perfectly pungent'n'potent brooding Southern Gothic-style ambiance , a bold and provocative subtext which bravely tackles head on such daring adult themes as incest , pedophilia , lesbianism , repression and the awakening of one's sexuality with the onset of puberty , and a wonderfully wigged-out bit by unsung fright film ham Hy ( " Nightmare in Blood , " " Vamp " ) Pyke as a fidgety , ill-fated wacko bus driver , this bang-up bloodsucker gem wholly deserves its substantial cult reputation .
A marvelously tough and stylish British mobster gem	1968 : A ruthless young mobster ( a sublimely chilling and mesmerizing performance by Paul Bettany ) desperately wants to emulate his mentor Freddie Mays ( the excellent David Thewlis ) , a suave crime kingpin who lords over London . The gangster literally murders his way to the top , betraying Freddie in the process and losing his soul in his fierce quest for power . 30 years later , the older and successful , yet lonely Gangster 55 ( an excellent portrayal by Malcom McDowell ) awaits the release of Freddie from prison . Director Paul McGuigan , working from a bold and sharp script by Johnny Ferguson , handles the dark and gritty material with tremendous bravura style , relates the arresting story at a snappy pace , laces the whole thing with plenty of wickedly funny black humor , and punctuates the gritty narrative with several jolting outbursts of raw , savage violence . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly fine acting from a first-rate cast : Bettany is genuinely riveting and terrifying as the severely driven and psychotic main character , Thewlis likewise impresses as one smooth operator , McDowell makes the most out of one of his best more recent roles , the ravishing Saffron Burrows exudes pure class as Freddie's brassy singer moll Karen , plus there are nice supporting contributions by Kenneth Cranham as the wise Tommy , Jamie Foreman as hot-headed rival hoodlum Lennie Taylor , Eddie Marsan as sniveling toad Eddie Miller , Andrew Lincoln as vicious hit-man Maxie King , and Doug Allen as the brutish Mad John . This film boasts several memorable set pieces as well : our young gangster questioning a whimpering Eddie about Lennie Taylor , the ferocious murder of Lennie Taylor , and the older gangster's searing big climactic confrontation with Freddie . Peter Sova's dazzling cinematography , the flavorsome evocation of the groovy swinging 60's , the often amazing profane dialogue , John Dankworth's supremely jazzy'n'moody score , the stark , harsh tone , the fantastic golden oldies soundtrack , and a potent central message about the bitter spiritual coast of blind ambition all further add to the sterling quality of this bang-up corker of a crime thriller .
A very hip , funny and on the money enjoyable sci-fi black comedy blast	Satire comes no darker , meaner or more malignantly funny than this strange , bold , brutally on-target end-of-the-world lampoon based on Michael Moorcock's corrosively sardonic cult novels about hipster anti-hero supreme Jerry Cornelius . Jon Finch ( the sullen , untrustworthy lead cat in Roman Polanski's magnificent " Macbeth " ) is stone cold aces as Cornelius , a brilliant , carefree , easygoing and dry-humored bon vivant rich dude who gets involved with ruthless corporate tigress Jenny Runacre . Runacre wants to mate with irresistible stud muffin Cornelius in order to produce a New Messiah who will save the planet , which has really gone to seed , from impending mass destruction . Assisting Jerry on his perilous mission are a striking trio of horridly grotesque caricatures of specific establishment types , each one expertly hammed to colorful perfection by a well-chosen character actor : Sterling Hayden doing a deft reprise of his batty army general from " Dr . Strangelove " as a salty warmonger general , Patrick Magee as a melancholy professor , and George Coulouris as a cold-hearted , unscrupulous scientist are every bit as deliciously wicked and enjoyably broad as they should be . Adeptly written , directed and designed in an appropriately baroque and garish style by Robert Fuest , " The Final Programme " savagely sends up pride , greed , apathy ( all the characters treat the world's unavoidable end like it was a minor , harmless inconvenience ! ) , religious hypocrisy and omnipotence , self-indulgence taken to an appalling hedonistic extreme ( y'know , partying your life away with an endless stream of sex , drugs and booze ) , and , most delightfully , even pretentious , self-important , overly solemn science fiction pictures ( the uproarious conclusion , with the New Messiah turning out to be a wisecracking , blue-fingernailed apeman who impersonates Humphrey Bogart , mercilessly mocks the beginning of Stanley Kubrick's " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " ) . The net result of all this acrimonious bile is a devilishly amusing and frequently black-as-coal pip . Appearing in nice bits are Derrick O'Connor as Jerry's estranged , out of it dope fiend brother , Ronald Lacey as an icy assassin , Julie Ege as an ill-fated tart , and Sarah Douglas ( Ursa in the first two " Superman " movies ) as one of Jerry's numerous squeezes . Acidic , incisive and unsparingly mordant , " The Final Programme " overall cuts it as a bracing , ferociously funny , uncompromisingly bleak , and bloody fine example of that rare odd bird : a genuinely successful sci-fi black comedy .
A very funny pre - " Airplane ' disaster movie parody	The 70's disaster movies were pretty ridiculous by design , what with their paint-by-the-numbers formula stories , credibility-defying plot contrivances , laughably cardboard characters , embarrassing acting by slumming celebrity thesps , and overwrought attempts at tension . So , this delectably deadpan pre - " Airplane " parody of the genre needn't try too hard to be funny . In fact both director James Frawley and especially screenwriters Fred Freeman and Lawrence J . Cohen make the wise move of merely exaggerating the absurdity and preposterousness inherent in all disaster movies just a little bit , presenting an appropriately ludicrous catalog of asinine stock situations and broadly drawn caricatures in an admirably dry , mock-serious manner . The story itself is wonderfully dumb : The historic first drive of a deluxe , ultra-large 75-ton , 32-wheel nuclear-powered bus from New York to Denver experiences numerous unexpected hitches , starting with shaky , disreputable driver Joseph Bologna ( a man who stands accused of cannibalism due to a past disastrous run ) , worsened by Bologna's jittery narcoleptic co-driver John Beck , and fatally clinched by a bomb planted in the bus ' rear by oil company saboteurs Jose Ferror and Stuart Margolin . The terrific all-star 70's name cast attack their goofy roles with rabid glee : Stockard Channing as bus designer ( and Bologna's former old flame ) Kitty , Rene Auberjonois as a faithless priest , the invaluable Ruth Gordon as one of her always amusing and on-target nutty , vulgar old bats , Sally Kellerman and Richard Mulligan as a bickering unhappy married couple , Ned Beatty as the grumpy project director , Howard Hesseman as Beatty's browbeaten assistant , Lynn Redgrave as a horny , pompous , vampy rich lady , Larry Hagman as a jerk doctor , Richard B . Schull as a bitter dying man , Bob Dishy as an equally angry discredited veterinarian , Harold Gould as a stuffy professor , Vic Tayback as a belligerent barroom bully , and , in a hilariously smarmy performance , Murphy Dunne as obnoxiously zealous dorkus cocktail lounge singer / pianist Tommy Joyce . David Shire's wittily ripe , lush , and hyper-incessant score , all busy strings , skittering wah-wah guitars , and urgently blurting horns , is the delicious icing on an already tasty and enjoyably silly fool's birthday cake - - it's every bit as tacky and overdone as your basic straightforward disaster movie score . A manic , madcap delight .
Excellent race car drama with a splendid Jeff Bridges performance	Jeff Bridges gives a typically splendid , boyishly affable and charming performance as Elroy " Bobcat " Jackson , Jr . , a cocky , rebellious , recalcitrant , trouble-making hot dog hillbilly moonshine runner who becomes a professional stock car racer and demolition derby driver in order to raise enough cash to get his dear ol ' crusty , mule-headed pappy ( a marvelously gruff Art Lund ) out of jail . Assisted by his loyal , but hot-tempered brother Wayne ( the always fine Gary Busey ) and against the wishes of his staunch , worrisome mother ( a wonderfully indomitable Geraldine Page ) , Elroy aspires to achieve champion driver status in the ferociously competitive world of professional stock car racing , thus having both his stubborn pride and homespun integrity put to the ultimate test in the process . Inspired by a Tom Wolfe " Esquire " article on flamboyant real life racing legend Junior Johnson ( who worked as a consultant and technical adviser on the film ) , this spunky little number offers both a glorious celebration and a compelling exploration of rugged individualism and that great quintessentially all-American desire to be somebody in life . Lamont Johnson's sharply perceptive direction , ably complimented by George Silano's lively , breathtaking cinematography and Charles Fox's twangy country score ( Jim Croce's blustery " I Got A Name " makes for a fantastic life-affirming theme song ) , astutely pegs the rowdy , boisterous , danger-ridden , and testosterone-soaked macho atmosphere of the racetrack milieu ( the race scenes are suitably wild and thrilling ) and delivers a rich , flavorsome evocation of humble , dirt poor , strongly family-oriented Southern backwoods America . William Roberts ' acidulous script affects a cynically barbed and askew point of view in its penetrating portrait of America's love for do your own thing outlaw nonconformists and how winning inevitably comes with substantial unavoidable attachments . The stand-out supporting cast includes Valerie Perrine as a sweetheart racetrack groupie , William Smith as a formidable rival driver , Ed Lauter as a sleazy corporate sponsor , Ned Beatty as an oily demolition derby manager , and Lane Smith as an antsy , burnt-out driver . A terrifically tart'n'smart slice of pure Americana story of the guts and stamina it takes to actively pursue making your dreams come true .
A potent and startling depiction of angry disaffected youth	A gang of savage skinheads led by the ruthless and charismatic Hando ( a mesmerizing portrayal by Russell Crowe in his star-making role ) battle Korean immigrants who are moving into their suburban Melbourne neighborhood . Things go sour when the Koreans outnumber the skinheads and kill off most of their number . Further complications are caused by troubled , spacey epileptic junkie Gabe ( superbly played by the fetching Jacqueline McKenzie ) , who comes between Hando and his loyal best mate Davey ( the excellent Daniel Pollock ) . Writer / director Geoffrey Wright's dazzling debut feature seethes with a ferocious and unrelenting ultra-kinetic buzz that works over the viewer like a severe jackboot beat-down : the frantic pace , in-your-face brutal and unflinching outbursts of hideous violence , stark nihilism , and uncompromisingly downbeat conclusion all add up to one profoundly unsettling , yet undeniably gripping and sometimes occasionally poignant viewing experience . Wright wisely doesn't preach ; instead he allows the grim story and no-hoper characters to make the pertinent point that hatred and violence are an end to themselves rather than a means to an end . Moreover , Wright exposes the fear , rage , paranoia , and stupidity that fuels racism with a hard , unblinking clarity that's disturbing and provocative in equal measure . In addition , the performances are uniformly outstanding : While Crowe clearly dominates the picture with his forceful turn as Hando , Pollock , McKenzie , Alex Scott as Gabe's incestuous rich father Martin , Leigh Russell as the bitter Sonny Jim , and James McKenna as scrappy little boy Bubs are all just as strong and impressive . Ron Hagen's striking , dynamic cinematography , the terrific thrashy punk soundtrack , and John Clifford White's jangly , rattling score are all fine and effective . An absolute powerhouse .
A lovely and touching seriocomic Western gem	1908 . Scraggly frontiersman Cable Hogue ( beautifully played by Jason Robards ) gets left in the fierce Arizona desert to die by his treacherous no-count partners Bowen ( the always excellent Strother Martin ) and Taggart ( a splendidly nasty L . Q . Jones ) . Hogue discovers water in the middle of nowhere and starts his own business running a rest stop located on a well-traveled road . Director Sam Peckinpah , working from a quirky and colorful script by John Crawford and Edmund Penney , expertly crafts a winning blend of earthy humor and gentle lyricism with this funny , moving and thoughtful fable on redemption , second chances , and the last dying days of the wild'n'woolly Old West . Stella Stevens shines in one of her best-ever roles as Hildy , the brassy and beautiful whore Hogue falls in love with . Moreover , there are equally terrific supporting performances by David Warner as friendly , but lecherous itinerant preacher Joshua , Slim Pickens as amiable coachman Ben Fairchild , R . G . Armstrong as irascible banker Quittner , Peter Whitney as helpful benefactor Cushing , and Gene Evans as surly brute Clete . The sequence with Stevens and Robards singing the sweet duet " Butterfly Morning " rates as a definite delightful highlight . Lucien Ballard's lush , picturesque cinematography makes inspired occasional use of artful fades , dissolves and split screen . Extra props are in order for Jerry Goldsmith's folksy , flavorsome score and the catchy soundtrack of tuneful'n'twangy songs . A real treat .
An excellent , gripping and suspenseful " danger on the road " thriller winner	During a lengthy cross country trek from Boulder , Colorado to Princeton , New Jersey amiably impudent chronic loser Fuller ( an engagingly feckless Steve Zahn and his more sensible , but gullible do-right brother Lewis ( an admirably sturdy and composed performance by Paul Walker of " The Fast and the Furious " ) decide to pull what they think is essentially a harmless prank on a colorfully lascivious trucker who goes under the faintly sinister handle of Rusty Nail . Alas , the actually quite cruel and nasty prank the boys play on the unsuspecting Rusty turns out to have have greater and more severe repercussions than they expected . Pretty soon the irate , vengeful and dangerously crafty Rusty is subjecting the hapless siblings to an extremely harrowing campaign of terror in which he teaches the reckless slacker duo a long , painful and often most brutal lesson that all actions , even allegedly silly and facetious ones , do indeed beget serious consequences for everyone involved in them . Sure , the highly reminiscent of " Breakdown " and especially " Duel " central premise seems hackneyed and sounds unpromising , but fortunately what we got here is one of those wondrous examples of how a pretty shopworn " danger on the road " thriller story can be substantially redeemed and made bracingly effective thanks to a brisk , taut , straight-down-the-line streamlined and efficient execution . Tightly wound B-picture noir specialist John ( " Red Rock West , " " The Last Seduction " ) Dahl's bang-up proficient direction deserves a lion's share of the credit : Dahl's persistently firm control of quick , steady pacing , a spookily uncertain atmosphere fraught with tension , several heart-in-your-throat nerve-ripping scenes of vehicular carnage , and fiercely concise and to the point pretense-free narrative economy all come through with excitingly crisp and on the money results . The smart , compact and neatly realized script by Clay Tarver and J . J . Adams likewise scores a bull's eye with razor-sharp succinctness , offering amid all the frights and scares a nicely thoughtful and incisive critique of reprehensibly immature and irresponsible Generation Xers whose flagrant disregard for other people's feelings is a fertile breeding ground for all kinds of grievous trouble . Better yet , Rusty Nail isn't some one-dimensional brutish creep ; instead he's the sole guy in an increasingly callous and inconsiderate society who still has a conscience and as a result this makes him nutty , touchy and not to be trifled with . The remarkably perky and attractive Leelee Sobieski as Lewis ' sweetly endearing college girlfriend makes for a winningly feisty and fetching damsel in distress . And special kudos are in order for psycho thesp supreme Ted Levine ( Buffalo Bill in " The Silence of the Lambs " ) , whose vocal only turn as Rusty Nail is nothing short of extraordinary : Levine's deep , phlegmy , gravelly croak - - a superbly throaty rumble that's all awkward pauses and guttural rasps - - forcefully projects a genuine sense of seething menace and a certain raw , devious cunning with striking vividness .
Kevin Bacon gives a remarkable performance in this powerful indie sleeper	Kevin Bacon gives a strong , fearless and riveting performance as Walter , a troubled , reserved and laconic convicted sex offender who gets released from prison and struggles to get on with his life . But can Walter resist his baser urges and subsequently overcome his personal demons ? Directed with praiseworthy tact and assurance by promising novice Nicole Kassell , who also co-wrote the tight , yet thoughtful and incisive script , this edgy , but still engrossing drama offers a potent , poignant and provocative tale of redemption and forgiveness . Kassell never allows the plot to become too sappy or melodramatic ; instead she maintains a stark and gritty tone throughout . Bacon , looking gaunt and haunted , doesn't play for cheap sentiment , but does allow a window of understanding into Walter's tormented soul that makes the man both interesting and three-dimensional , if not exactly sympathetic . The touchy subject of pedophilia is handled with great taste and subtlety . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly superb acting from the excellent cast : Kyra Sedgwick as Walter's fiery , sassy , hard-bitten girlfriend Vicki , Eve as pesky secretary Mary-Kay , Mos Def as the browbeating , relentless Sergeant Lucas , David Alan Grier as Walter's no-nonsense boss Bob , Benjamin Bratt as Walter's supportive brother-in-law Carlos , Michael Shannon as wannabe helpful therapist Dr . Rosen , Kevin Rice as the predatory Candy , and Hannah Pilkes as sweet little girl Robin . Nathan Larson's moody score and Xavier Perez Grobet's polished cinematography are both up to par . But what really makes this film work is it's painfully true central message about the many ways people hurt each other all the time and how even the worst individual has the potential to achieve some level of human decency . A very startling and quietly devastating little knockout .
Delightfully wild'n'wacky Asian horror lunacy	A crazed , gory , wonderfully absurd and furiously kinetic piece of Asian supernatural horror hokum ; it's a feverishly inventive , turbo-charged , hard-driving trash terror item that's deliriously overloaded with demented imagination , wild-eyed passion , devilishly frolicsome wit and rip-roaring flair to spare . In short , it's a real pip . A brutal , lethal , nearly unstoppable all-powerful otherworldly force wreaks plentiful grisly havoc in a remote rural school , decapitating students and transforming their severed noggins into swift , deadly creatures which are jet-propelled by speedy , ultra-sinewy spider legs . Two teenage guys bravely attempt to thwart the wildly out of this world supernatural mayhem , with the expected madly disastrous full-throttle four-sheets-to-the-wind insane nerve-jangling and life-threatening results . This baby's got it all : briskly efficient pull-out-all-the-stops virtuoso direction , handsome , hyperactive vertiginous cinematography ( the quick , super-smooth scuttling POV shots of the killer heads on the prowl are great ) , an intense , ominous , flesh-crawling mood that gradually escalates into all-out pandemonium , a few breathtaking moments of serenely surreal beauty , frenetically headlong pacing , gorgeously slick high-gloss production values , some pretty pastoral visuals , and a funny , appealing oddball nonconformist bespectacled dweeb protagonist - - he's a rogue , family-tradition-be-damned archaeologist named Hiruko , to be exact - - who's undoubtedly the best scrawny , weak-kneed , chicken-hearted limp dishrag unlikely savior of mankind since Zalman King's sweaty , constantly twitching dippy hippie dropout from " Blue Sunshine " ( Hiruko's shrill , girlish screaming is especially hilarious - - and the bulky suitcase full of ineffectual state-of-the-art technological hoodads is a nice touch , too ) . The splashy , excessively nasty and explicit splatter f / x really deliver the ghastly groceries : Heads are messily ripped off so blood can copiously spew forth like a bright red crimson geyser , gruesome eviscerated corpses are strewn about the school's hallways , one character develops a burning ( and smoking ! ) boil on his neck , a spider head tries to fatally French kiss one dude with its harmful elongated prehensile tongue , and other such gleefully grotesque stuff . The truly off the wall final , in which our bumbling , but stalwart heroes are attacked in a dark , dank cave by a murderous multitude of encroaching spider heads and do their best to fend off the vile beasts with cans of insect repellent ( ! ) , deftly walks a fine line between blackly comical bedlam and grimly apocalyptic horror ; it induces both nervous giggly laughs and genuine scared shudders in equal proportion . A delectably deranged and enjoyably over the top gem .
Love your monkey	The always lovely and captivating Charlotte Rampling gives one of her warmest and most appealing performances to date as the elegant , bored stiff wife of bland stuffed shirt diplomat Anthony Higgins . Rampling has an extramarital affair with Max ( Ailsa Berk in an amazingly convincing Rick Baker simian outfit ) , a moody , ill-tempered , but very adorable , affectionate and even amorous chimpanzee . Higgins discovers Rampling's infidelity and decides to allow Max to move into his posh Paris apartment with the frail hope that his wife will quickly become tired of the cuddly little bugger . Japanese director Nagisa Oshima , who co-wrote the wickedly clever and incisive script with frequent Luis Bunuel collaborator Jean-Claude Carriere , shows an engagingly light touch with this droll , frothy and mildly mocking comedy about staid'n'starchy steadfast bourgeois mores and attitudes which trenchantly satirizes the drabness , emptiness and superficiality of upper-class life , the absurdity of the rich's insistence on maintaining a respectable , well-mannered veneer in the most ridiculous of situations , male fear of impotence , and the hilariously desperate measures people will resort to in order to alleviate tedium and obtain some kind of emotional fulfillment with genuinely funny ( the radiant Victoria Abril is a stitch as the timid maid whose face breaks out due to a severe monkey fur allergy ) , charming , and ultimately quite touching results . The fact that this film doesn't coyly gloss over the touchy subject of bestiality clinches its status as a deliciously eccentric and subversive treat .
Quite simply one of the greatest pieces of blithely sleazy junk to ever ooze its way onto celluloid	Low-rent private eye Jack Chandler ( nicely played to the scuzzy hilt by Jay Richardson ) runs afoul of a deadly cult of crazed chainsaw-worshiping hookers while searching around Los Angeles for runaway teen Samantha ( the ever-adorable Linnea Quigley in peak perky form ) . Director Fred Olen Ray , who also co-wrote the witty tongue-in-cheek script with frequent collaborator T . L . Lankford , whips up one doozy of a hilariously campy horror splatter trash hoot that pokes merry fun at both vintage 40's film noir detective yarns and choice cheerfully cheap'n'cruddy drive-in fare alike . Gunnar Hansen makes for a suitably mysterious and menacing villain as the evil cult leader . Better still , this flick sure doesn't skimp on the tasty plentiful female nudity : the luscious Michelle Bauer performs a sizzling full frontal striptease prior to carving some hapless guy up with a chainsaw , Quigley dances topless in a seedy dive bar ( Linnea's legendary scorching Virgin Dance of the Double Chainsaws likewise seriously smokes ) , Esther Elise poses nude for some racy photos , and Tricia Burns bares her breasts . Scott Andrew Ressler's rough , grainy cinematography further enhances the movie's considerable grungy charm . The groovy retro 50's-style rock soundtrack , Michael Perilsten's cool rollicking score , and the endearingly tacky gore effects all hit the funky spot . Popping up in neat bit parts are Ray's onetime wife Dawn Wildsmith as brassy deranged prostitute Lori , Michael Shoyne as cynical bartender Jake , and Fox Harris as slimy voyeur baseball bat salesman Hermie . A sensationally schlocky treat .
Worthy of its cult status	Naive and idealistic music teacher Andy Norris ( a fine and likable performance by Perry King ) gets a job at Lincoln High School in a crime-infested neighborhood . Andy locks horns with the shrewd and sadistic Peter Stegman ( an outstanding portrayal of magnetic evil by Timothy Van Patten ) , a brilliant , yet psychotic student who leads a gang of especially nasty and dangerous punks . When conventional methods of dealing with Stegman and his flunkies prove fruitless , Norris resorts to more drastic measures to take care of these no-count hoodlums . Director Mark L . Lester , who also co-wrote the bleak , gripping and hard-hitting script with John Saxton and Tom Holland , expertly crafts a potent and compelling blend of stinging social commentary and entertaining exploitation trash : the snappy pace rarely lets up for a minute , the nerve-wracking tension gradually builds to a harrowing fever pitch in the bloody , exciting and highly satisfying last third , the grim , harsh and uncompromising tone stays true to itself to the literal bitter end , and the film's dire prediction of urban high schools as a virtual war zone proved to be scarily prophetic . The teen gang members are a memorably vile and hateful bunch : While Van Patten clearly dominates the proceedings with his bravura turn as the gifted and cunning Stegman ( the scene where he performs a virtuoso piano piece in front of a stunned Norris is particularly startling and impressive ) , he nonetheless receives strong support from Stefan Arngrin as slimy junkie Drugstore , Keith Knight as hulking brute Barnyard , Lisa Langlois as vicious moll Patsy , and Neil Clifford as sneering thug Fallon . Roddy McDowall likewise shines as Terry Corrigan , an alcoholic and disillusioned biology teacher who eventually cracks under the pressure ( the gang kill his beloved bunny rabbits ! ) and attempts to force the kids to learn at gunpoint . Moreover , we've also got praiseworthy work from a pudgy pre-fame Michael J . Fox as amiable smartaleck Arthur , Erin Noble as the mousy Deneen , Merrie Lynn Ross as Andy's worried pregnant wife Diane , and Al Waxman as well-meaning , but ineffectual Detective Stewiski . Lalo Schifrin supplies a supremely effective rousing and pulsating score , Albert Dunk's slick cinematography does the trick , and Alice Cooper sings the groovy theme song " I Am the Future . " Essential viewing for 80's B-movie fans .
An absolutely astonishing piece of gleefully demented & degenerate filth	Any film which toplines a teenage bulimic drug addict prostitute criminal sociopath who when she isn't indulging in scarf'n'barf eating binges habitually robs her johns so she can eke out a sordidly meager existence as its anti-heroine is unarguably pushing the limits of good taste and restraint to the breaking point . Well , this shockingly base and savage exploitation stunner not only graphically depicts various acts of all-out depravity in unsparingly explicit detail , but also wallows in a festering sinkhole of unremittingly foul no-holds-barred cinematic scuzziness with a certain lip-smacking fiendish glee . When underage hooker White Girl ( the luscious Natasha Lyonne ) meets deranged lesbian sexual psychopath serial killer Cyclona ( galvanizing spitfire Maria Celedonio ) in a brutal juvenile detention center , it's clear right from the start that they are a match made in bad girl hell . Pretty soon the dangerously nutso twosome escape and go on the lam , embarking on a mondo berserko crime spree as they travel cross country to Tijuana , Mexico , where they believe both sanctuary and possible redemption awaits them in the form of demented pedophile cannibal transvestite kiddie-porn making nun ( ! ) Sister Gomez ( an amazingly wacked portrayal by " Buffalo ' 66 " auteur Vincent Gallo ) . Powered along by a pair of laudably fearless , anything-goes , let-it-all-hang-out dynamic and uninhibited performances by Lyonne and Celedonio , loaded to the grimy gills with nonstop seedy thrills , strikingly ferocious violence , and carnal perversions of every conceivable stripe , and rounding things off with a gruesomely over-the-top nasty conclusion that's sure to knock the air out of your lungs , this thoroughly warped and electrifying crime / chase / chicks-in-chains sleaze film take on the classic Grimm Brothers fairytale " Hansel and Gretel " will either delight you with its impressively shameless and aggressive assault-on-your-senses agenda or offend you to the ninth degree for the very same reason . Before you ask precisely which side of the fence I'm on with this particular flick , let me state for the record that any picture which features nifty cameos by John Landis as a hard-nosed judge , David Alan Grier as a scummy sex-crazed shyster lawyer , and " Drugstore Cowboy " ' s Max Perlich as a slacker drunk , numerous acts of vicious murder , masturbation , full-frontal shower room nudity , projectile puking by the literal gallon , necrophilia , spray paint-huffing , and a funky , rollicking trashy score that's in equal parts digging rap and ripping surf-rock will always get my vote .
An excellent and absorbing semi-sequel to the outstanding " Village of the Damned "	This surprisingly strong semi-sequel to the outstanding " Village of the Damned " centers on six highly advanced mutant kids with remarkably sophisticated intellects and acute psychic abilities from all over the globe . They all band together in London at an old rundown and abandoned church seeking refuge from a scared and uncomprehending adult world that wants to destroy them . A very tense and compelling stand-off ensues , with both the kids and the adults alike trying to figure out the proper course of action for this highly unusual and potentially dangerous situation . This film benefits from the same substantial strengths that graced the original : low-key , unflashy direction that wisely downplays special effects in favor of focusing more on the absorbing story and exceptionally well-drawn characters , uniformly fine acting from an excellent cast ( the kid actors in particular are all terrific while Ian Hendry and Alan Badel are superb as the gay couple protagonists ; this latter element is handled with refreshing taste and subtlety ) , a smart and thoughtful script , beautifully crisp black and white photography , a pleasingly eerie and ambiguous tone , and a stimulating subtext about how people automatically feel threatened by and hence want to kill anything they can't easily understand . The uncompromisingly bleak and tragic ending is genuinely heartbreaking . Moreover , the political aspects of the story give the movie an extra stinging edge and the theme of prejudice is effectively addressed with genuinely poignant and provocative results . Overall , this picture is one of those rare glorious instances where a follow-up is every bit as comparable in top-notch quality to the sterling original .
A funny and spot-on seriocomic short film about the hapless plight of the working class	I had the pleasure of catching a screening of this wryly funny and sharply observant seriocomic 28 minute gem of a short at a film festival held in my hometown of Metuchen , New Jersey and thoroughly enjoyed it . The story centers on an antsy and worn-out struggling working class mother ( a charming performance by Tiffany Anne Carrin ) who thanklessly toils away as a cashier at a supermarket . Our endearingly harried protagonist's life gets thrown out of whack by both an obtrusive film documentary crew who are making a movie about her drab everyday existence and the feared arrival of a bunch of corporate executives who are visiting the store to see that everything's running well . I've worked in a grocery store , so I can say with absolute authority that this spot-on little jewel totally nails the petty absurdities and sense of complete irrelevance that's part and parcel to such places with remarkable accuracy . For example , when our main character gets an Employee of the Month Award , we all know just how silly and meaningless this minor honor seems in the grand scheme of life . This movie knows this as well , but to its credit never seems either smug or condescending in its tone . Instead , there's a genuine wit and warmth about the amusing and ridiculous , yet sad and touching plight of your average minimum wage slave which in turn gives this feature a great deal of true heart and appeal . A real treat .
A cross country 70's road race drive-in smash in more ways than one	Following hot on the scorching asphalt skid-marks of the impish " The Gumball Rally , " Paul Bartel's characteristically deadpan , quirky , slyly subversive cross country road race car picture presents a blithely apocalyptic vision that's akin to the anarchic world views shown in the equally madcap " Freebie and the Bean , " the truly twisted " The Mad Bomber , " and the totally gaga " The Candy Snatchers " : All those noisy , tire-yelping , rubber-shredding , metal-bending automobile mishaps featured herein play a crucial role in Bartel's merrily askew and jaundiced presentation of a world in constant uproar , where any sense of balance , tranquility and equilibrium gets messily disrupted on a frequent nerve-frying basis ( a savage gas station fisticuffs scuffle and the wildly chaotic mondo destructo Jersey Turnpike massive car pile-up sequence in particular really hammer this point home ) . Among the race's contestants are David Carradine as stolid , tight-lipped , nerves-of-pure-brass ex-con champ Coy " Cannonball " Buckman , future " Hill Street Blues " regular Veronica Hammel as Buckman's loyal , fretful , karate-chopping police lady gal pal , Archie Hahn as Buckman's trustworthy , but feeble-minded mechanic Zippo , a gloriously crazed Bill McKinney as Buckman's chortling , maniacal , pistol-packing nutso rival Cade Redman ( note the disconcertingly similar first and last names , a chilling blurring of the fine line between good and evil ) , Robert Carradine and the beauteous Belinda Balaski as a sweet , starry-eyed California surfer couple , a hilariously goofy Gerrit Graham as a pathetic no-talent aspiring country-and-western singer / songwriter , Mary Woronov in customary venomous bchy and aggressive sexually ambiguous full-throttle nasty mode , Stanley Clay as a jive-talking hipster soul bro , and a repellently arrogant James Keach as a stuck-up , condescending German driver who meets a fiery untimely end . Among the folks watching the race from the sidelines are Dick Miller as Buckman's shady gambler brother , Bartel as a singing , piano-playing , Cole Porter-loving Mob capo , Martin Scorsese and Sylvestor Stallone as gangster flunkies , Joe Dante and Allen Arkush as geeky car buffs , Robert Altman film regular David Arkin as a timid grocery store counterman , Jonathan Kaplan as a gas station attendant , the eternally vacuous Louisa Moritz in one of her standard bubble-brained blonde bimbo parts , Patrick Wright as the rich guy who sponsors the race , and even legendary B-movie pioneer Roger Corman as an uptight district attorney ( ! ) . The strangely dark , fatalistic tone , rampant amorality , intensely ugly dialogue ( " What the godmn hell are you trying to to do , you fgot moron ! ? " ) , assorted foul play tactics the race's participants gleefully engage in , the useless , ineffective cops , opportunistic ahole media , Tak Fujimoto's madly darting , hyperactive , vertigo-inducing cinematography , the crooked , string-pulling , game-rigging dirty double deals perpetuated by the mob-backed race officials , the general unpleasantness of the mostly mean and despicable characters ( even Carradine's morally ambivalent " hero " isn't very likable or appealing ) , the loose , ramshackle narrative structure , a creepy opening credits nightmare sequence , and especially the murderously ferocious pandemonium on the open freeways cars getting trashed and blowing up real good smash ' em up vehicular carnage create a sense of deliriously out-of-control non-stop bedlam that's as profoundly discomfiting as it is utterly exhilarating . The disgustingly safe and sanitized " Cannonball Run " junkers ain't got nothing on this delightfully diabolical and severely bent gearhead treat .
A real delight	This very funny , lively and engaging comedy hoot offers a slice-of-life seriocomic cinematic snapshot of a single frantic day at an inner city Los Angeles car wash . Michael Schultz directs with great galvanizing zeal and panache , stringing together a wacky and enjoyable series of freewheeling vignettes with a positively breathtaking sense of smoothness and assurance . Joel Schumacher's witty and colorful script offers plenty of warmth and humanity along with the often uproariously raucous humor . The varied and personable cast have a field day with their vivid characters : Bill Duke as an angry Muslim , Ivan Dixon as a wise , hard-working parolee , Sully Boyar as the harried owner , Franklyn Ajaye as an amiable dreamer , Tracy Reed as a sweet waitress , Antonio Fargas as a flamboyant homosexual , Lorraine Gary as a stuck-up upper class white lady , Jack Kehoe as an affable cowboy , Pepe Serna as a jovial Hispanic , George Carlin as a flaky cab driver , Lauren Jones as a sad hooker , Professor Irwin Corey as a middle-aged guy who's mistaken for a pot bottle bomber , Garrett Morris as a jivey hipster , Melanie Mayron as the sexy cashier , Tim Thomerson as a handsome hunk , Richard Pryor as slick hustler reverend Daddy Rich , and the Pointer Sisters as Daddy Rich's gospel singers . Frank Stanley's polished , sparkling cinematography , Norman Whitfield's funky , dynamic , syncopated soul score , Christopher Holmes ' snappy rhythmic editing , and Rose Royce's fabulously groovy classic hit theme song add further bounce and energy to the infectiously frothy , playful and sprightly proceedings . Best of all , there's a constant joy and vibrancy evident throughout which makes this movie an absolute uplifting treat to watch .
A superbly eerie and unsettling supernatural shocker from the ever-reliable Mario Bava	The vengeful ghost of dead little girl Melissa Graps ( portrayed by some genuinely creepy boy in drag ! ) bumps off various folks in a remote rural hamlet in Transylvania . Stalwart Dr . Paul Eswai ( a solid performance by Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ) and feisty Monica Schuftan ( well played by the fetching Erika Blanc ) try to figure out what's going on , but get no help from the scared superstitious villagers . Director Mario Bava does his customary sterling job of creating and maintaining a strong and brooding Gothic gloom-doom atmosphere that seethes with a potent sense of flesh-crawling dread and nightmarish terror . The isolated rustic location projects a frightening feeling of desolation and vulnerability ; the fog-shrouded empty streets and misty cemetery are both especially spooky . Moreover , Bava fills the screen with plenty of his characteristic strikingly unnerving visuals , with the occasional startling image of Melissa appearing at people's windows rating as a prime source of severe goose bumps . This picture further benefits from the uniformly sound acting by a bang-up cast : Fabienne Dali as helpful sorceress Ruth ( in a refreshing break from standard horror feature conventions Ruth is depicted as a sympathetic character rather than the usual evil villainess ) , Piero Lulli as the hard-nosed Inspector Kruger , Giovanna Galletti as the bitter , deranged Baroness Graps , Luciano Catenacci as the fearful Burgonmeister Karl , and Micaela Esdra as innocent teenager Nadienne . Antonio Rinaldi's polished cinematography makes terrific use of fluid tracking shots and rich , bright , vibrant colors while Carlo Rustichelli ' supremely shivery'n'shuddery score greatly adds to the considerable tension . Essential viewing for both Bava buffs and horror film fans alike .
A wonderfully wild'n'wacky retro 60's anti-Establishment satirical hoot	The time : a dystopian near future where right-wing reactionary conservatism reigns supreme . A creaky , just barely together , ready for the scrapyard rattletrap World War II B-52 bomber called Uncle Slam , which has been airborne since the Vietnam war , is still doing its nutty mind-melting " psy-ops " mission , jamming local boob tube airwaves with a jarringly disruptive and disrespectful pirate program named S & M TV ( " You're watching S & M TV whether you like it or not ! " ) that's specifically designed to shock stuffy Middle American folks out of their banal , impassive , unthinking conformist complacency . Commanded by an obsessive loony outlaw captain ( exuberantly played by that perennial anti-establishment fruitcake Dennis Hopper , still crazy and long-haired after all these years ) and crewed by a motley bunch of zany dippy hippie drop-out misfits - - screwy electronics whiz " Doc " Tesla ( merry , puckish imp Michael J . Pollard at his goony best ) , cranky cook / mechanic Ben ( Al Matthews ) , sickly , throaty-voiced cripple Ace ( Eugene Lipinski ) , rabbity co-pilot Jerry ( William Armstrong ) , smooth womanizing reporter Sam ( Derek Homby ) and libidinous French lecher Claude ( James Aubrey ) - - the seriously burnt-out , but loyal and dedicated boys can't land until they do their patriotic duty by successfully foiling the presidential campaign of the insipidly insidious Willa Westinghouse , an uptight lady upholder of oppressive religious right beliefs who'll start World War III if she gets voted into the Whitehouse . Directed in loopy , ramshackle , to - heck - with - subtlety - and - sophistication sledgehammer style by Maurice Phillips , given an additional invigorating shot of sugar rush-like adrenaline and vitality by the jivey , profane slang-slinging dialogue ( " Honk if you're heavy ! " ) , manic pacing , John Metcalfe's sprinting , careening , madly darting hyperactive cinematography , a spectacular blaring rock score ( Jimi Hendrix , Joan Jett and the Blackhearts , Derek and the Dominoes , the Kinks , Gene Pitney , Alice Cooper ) , an infectiously giddy and rambunctious sense of joyfully irreverent humor , a very radical left-wing revolutionary down - with - the - crummy - normal - system mentality , and vibrant performances from an enthusiastic cast , this wildly idiosyncratic sci-fi farce coasts on such a deliriously wired and cooking wave of pure anarchic energy that its retro-60's satiric crudity and sloppy cinematic technique take on an irresistibly deranged and weirdly enrapturing luster . Scott Roberts ' rude , loosely structured all-over-the-sardonic map script takes hilariously broad comedic volleys at such deserving targets as phony smiley greedy televangelists , venal gung-ho army warmongers , repressive right-wing conservative political killjoys , rigidly set in their ways toe-the-line straight-arrow stiffs , smug born-again Christian drips , basically anything square and conventional in general . Sure , this film is a clunky , disjointed , frequently silly and out of control mess of a movie , but there's a wonderfully brash , nose-thumbing , middle-digit-firmly-upraised raspberry to the Man attitude presented here in full freaky force which makes this beautifully berserk baby one pleasurably far-out funky'n'funny gas to watch .
A splendidly wicked satirical treat	Popular , but frustrated high school civics teacher Jim McAllister ( an excellent performance by Matthew Broderick ) locks horns with ruthlessly driven and ambitious overachiever Tracy Flick ( Reese Witherspoon in peak aggressively obnoxious form ) , who's determined to become president of Carver High's student body . McAllister convinces amiable dumb jock Paul Metzler ( played with endearingly goofy charm by Chris Klein ) to run for class president . Complications ensue when Paul's sassy lesbian sister Tammy ( the adorable Jessica Campbell ) decides to join the presidential race . Plus McAllister's personal life is starting to unravel . Director / co-writer Alexander Payne and co-writer Jim Taylor concoct a hilariously savage , cynical and unsentimental no-holds-barred satire on American society as a general whole which ingeniously uses high school as an apt microcosm of the world at large : we've got fiercely barbed commentary on such worthy topics as morals , politics , teen sexuality , marital infidelity , the lonely price of success , how all actions beget consequences that can change the rest of your life , jealousy , and blind ambition run totally amok . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly fine acting from a sound cast : Broderick and Witherspoon spar with each other beautifully well ; they receive top-notch support from Klein , Campbell , Phil Reeves as ramrod principal Walt Hendricks , Molly Hagan as Jim's loving wife Diane , Delaney Driscoll as Jim's sweet and attractive lady best friend Linda Novotny , Mark Harelik as disgraced ex-teacher Dave Novotny , Colleen Camp as Tracy's supportive mother Judith R . Flick , and Frankie Ingrassia as the saucy Lisa Flannagan . James Glennon's slick , agile cinematography makes neat occasional use of freeze frames and superimpositions . Rolfe Kent's jaunty full-bore orchestral score likewise does the trick . An absolute hoot .
An excellent and on the money effective 80's low-budget indie horror sleeper	A motley quintet of thieves and their two hostages are forced to land their plane in a remote rural cornfield when one of their number bails out with the three and a half million in hot loot they just stole from an army payroll . Unfortunately for our five hoods and two hostages said cornfield is the dangerous domain of a ferocious trio of malevolent living scarecrows . Director / editor / co-writer / co-producer William Wesley expertly crafts one dandy doozy of a first-rate flesh-crawling fearfest : the constant headlong snappy pace , nicely drawn characters , Terry Plumeri's ominous shuddery score , enthusiastic , if rather erratic acting from a game no-name cast ( Ted Vernon is especially good as the most humane and likable of the criminals ) , the brilliantly spare and oblique script ( having no thorough explanation ever provided about the exact origins of the scarecrows is an inspired stroke of pure genius ) , Peter Deming's stark , shadowy cinematography , a generous amount of grisly gore , a potent theme about the perils of greed , the tight narrative told in real time ( the film is only 83 taut minutes long ) , the scary murderous monster scarecrows , and the profoundly creepy mood are all smack dead on-target . However , this movie's single most strong and spine-tingling asset is the masterful way Wesley captures and conveys the genuinely eerie , unnerving , frightening and surrealistic anything-can-happen common-logic-be-damned hair-raising ooga booga atmosphere of a particularly vivid and hellish nightmare . A splendidly spooky little zombie horror variant .
A sobering and fascinating short documentary about a department store Santa Claus	This brief , yet compelling and illuminating documentary short offers an intimate behind-the-scenes glimpse of Art Baldwin , who worked for over twenty years as the night shift Santa Claus during the Christmas holiday season at Chicago's Marshall Field and Company department store . Baldwin was deemed the only authentic Kris Kringle on State Street by the local newspaper " The Chicago Tribune . " The endearingly sour and grouchy elderly retiree Baldwin openly admits that he only does the gig for the money ( he was paid $1 , 300 dollars a month , which was more than his yearly pension ! ) and reveals in the film's most poignant and startling moment that he doesn't have any immediate family members to spend the yuletide season with . We also see Art putting on his beard and Santa suit in his dressing room , dealing with numerous customers during his long and grueling shift , and admitting how relieved he is when it's all over . Shot in raw , grainy black and white with a hand-held video camera by director Scott Jacobs , this movie thankfully eschews the usual sappy sentimentality of the Noel season and instead gives the viewer a stark and gritty depiction of how sad , stressful and heartbreaking Christmas can be for those lonely souls who have no one to celebrate the supposedly joyful festive occasion with . An excellent little gem .
A fascinatingly mysterious documentary	This wonderfully strange , sad and haunting documentary relates the chilling and heart-breakingly tragic tale of Otto Rahn , a restless and sensitive visionary soul whose need for acceptance and obsessive interest in finding the Holy Grail led him down a dark and complex road which ultimately culminates with Rahn becoming an SS officer with the Nazi party in the 1930's . Rahn's time with the Nazi party proved to be fleeting because he simply wasn't tough enough to hack it as an SS officer . Director Richard Stanley tells Rahn's amazing story with tremendous clarity and absorbing urgency , covering everything from Rahn's unhappy school days to his uneasy involvement with the Nazi party to his untimely death from exposure to the cold on one fateful bitter winter night ( Rahn apparently committed suicide due to the fact that he was accused of being a homosexual , but there's some speculation that his death might have been faked ) . Stanley interviews a nicely diverse array of folks about Rahn . Rahn's loyal sister Ingebor Roehmer-Rahn and equally faithful old friend Paul A . Ladame share several especially poignant insights and anecdotes concerning Rahn . Immo Horn's stunningly gorgeous cinematography and Simon Boswell's striking , beautifully eerie score further enhance the overall hypnotic power of this remarkably offbeat and intriguing one-of-a-kind documentary .
A lovely , charming and wonderfully radiant gem of a movie	The dream collaboration between esteemed director Robert Altman and wry humorist Garrison Keillor proves to be every bit as lovely , charming and wonderfully radiant as I had hoped it would be . Altman relates with his trademark unerring acuity , facility and humanity the hectic and eventual last broadcast of a long-running popular radio program that's coming to a close . With his deep , amicable twangy voice , droopy bullfrog face and tall , shambling , gangling build , Keillor makes for a marvelously languorous host who effortlessly exudes a considerable amount of infectiously folksy and whimsical downhome charm . Meryl Streep and Lily Tomlin are positively fabulous as a singing sister due , belting out a bunch of terrifically tuneful country songs with irresistibly hale'n'hearty aplomb ( and they both sing beautifully , too ! ) . Kevin Kline gives a delightfully droll portrayal of a dapper security guard with delusions of being a suave 40's film noir-style private detective . Viginia Madsen , looking absolutely smashing in a bright white trench coat , qualifies as the single most attractive and seductive angel of death since Jessica Lange in " All That Jazz . " John C . Reilly and Woody Harrelson are hilarious as a couple of joking singing cowboys with a fine , funny line in uproarious wacky'n'raunchy humor ( their " Bad Jokes " routine is truly sidesplitting ) . Veteran character actor L . Q . Jones , sporting white-silver hair , a sweet Southern drawl , and an amazingly rumpled rough-hewn face , has a nice , moving role as an elderly country singer who bows out with touching grace and style . Why , even Lindsay Lohan acquits herself remarkably well as Streep's troubled and neglected daughter . Rarely has a film about the inevitability of aging and death been done with such stupendously entertaining joy and vigor ; Altman's light , easy touch keeps the film hoppin ' along with magnificently exuberant verve and wit . My sole complaints are that the always welcome and splendid Tommy Lee Jones isn't given nearly enough to do as a heartless corporate bigwig who's pulling the plug on the show and the fact that this movie ends period . But then again that's exactly the film's point : Everything and everyone comes to an end , nothing lasts forever , but as long as you relish life and are happy throughout for the most part it's all good just the same . A real treat .
Almost a great movie	Shrewd , resourceful Vietnam veteran Llewelyn Moss ( the excellent Josh Brolin ) stumbles across a bunch of dead bodies , a pick-up full of heroin , and a bag with two million bucks worth of drug money in it . Moss decides to take the bag . This in turn makes Moss the target of vicious and remorseless psychopath Anton Chigurh ( a splendidly chilling performance by Javier Bardem ) , who engages in a lethal game of cat and mouse with Moss . Meanwhile , cagey , weary Sheriff Ed Tom Bell ( the always fine Tommy Lee Jones ) investigates and tries to find Moss before it's too late . Joel and Ethan Coen have expertly crafted a tense , gripping and understated crime thriller that for the most part works like gangbusters : the sterling performances from a sturdy cast , the bleak , fatalistic tone , Roger Deakins ' crisp , striking cinematography , the startling outbursts of shockingly brutal violence , several inspired moments of pitch black humor ( the scene between Chigurh and a befuddled gas station proprietor is an amusingly edgy little gem ) , Carter Burwell's spare , moody score , the vivid evocation of the dusty , desolate rural terrain and the everyday folks who inhabit the region , the provocative central theme about a dying code of honor and decency , and a few well-staged action set pieces ( a protracted shoot-out between Moss and Chugurh in the empty dark streets of a small town rates as a definite exciting highlight ) are all uniformly spot-on . Brolin , Bardem , and Jones all shine in their meaty parts , with Barden especially memorable as one seriously scary and nasty villain . Moreover , there are nice supporting turns by Woody Harrelson as cocky , amiable hoodlum Carson Wells , Kelly McDonald as Moss ' sweet , concerned wife Carla Jean , Garret Dillahunt as the eager Deputy Wendell , Tess Harper as Bell's sassy wife Loretta , and Barry Corbin as crusty , crippled old coot Ellis . WARNING : Possible SPOILERS ahead . However , the film really falters in the annoyingly vague and meandering last third . Moreover , Moss gets abruptly bumped off in a most frustrating and dissatisfying way . That criticism aside , this is still a highly impressive and engrossing winner .
Francis Ford Coppola's superbly creepy & atmospheric horror gem	After helming a few thoroughly fluffy and disposable nudie cuties in the early 60's Francis Ford Coppola made his legitimate commercial feature debut by writing and directing this moodily Gothic horror mystery thriller under the sage aegis of irrefutable legendary exploitation movie ace Roger Corman , with Jack Hill handling second unit production chores . After her husband suddenly dies of a heart attack , greedy , scheming , venomous femme fatale Luana Anders goes to hubby's moldy old isolated lakeside castle family estate in Ireland to convince her batty , domineering mother-in-law to give her a huge chunk of the inheritance . Unfortunately , a murderous member of the wacko dysfunctional and superstitious clan starts to bump folks off with an axe . Late , great , arrestingly off-beat and unconventionally beautiful cult actress Anders shines in a rare substantial lead role while the always excellent Patrick Magee contributes a lively performance as an astute , sharp-tongued doctor . Handsomely photographed in crisp black and white by Charles Hanawalt , scored to exquisitely lush and brooding orchestral perfection by prolific AIP in-house composer Ronald Stein , further graced by a genuinely flesh-crawling spooky atmosphere and highlighted by several deftly executed murder set pieces ( the scene where an underwear-clad Anders gets her brutal just desserts after taking a midnight swim is both truly sexy and shockingly nasty ) , this marvelously eerie and effective little low-budget beaut stands tall as a sterling early testament to Coppola's significant cinematic prowess .
An excellent , absorbing and totally up to par early 80's Australian " danger on the road " thriller winner	While driving a load of freight across the godforsaken Australian outback from Melbourne to Perth spacey loner American truck driver Pat Quid ( an endearingly eccentric portrayal by Stacy Keach ) begins to suspect that the man ( scruffy top Aussie stuntman Grant Page ) in a van he keeps seeing on the highway might very well be the vicious Jack the Ripper-style psycho who's been murdering attractive lady hitchhikers and leaving their chopped up bodies on the side of the road . The only problem is that Quid can't convince anyone else that this could be the case . Pretty soon Quid finds his own life in considerable jeopardy . Early 80's horror scream queen Jamie Lee Curtis pops up as a brassy runaway rich heiress who's along for the ride . Cunningly combining elements of " Duel , " vintage Alfred Hitchcock pictures ( chiefly " Rear Window " ) , 70's existential road movies and early 80's slasher fare , this spiffy , absorbing and suspenseful mystery thriller works like gangbusters . Richard Franklin ( who next did the surprisingly acceptable " Psycho II " and later faltered with the abysmal killer monkey dud " Link " ) directs with tremendous skill and assurance while both Brian ( " The Road Warrior " ) May's flavorful , harmonica-tinged score and Vincent ( " Thirst " ) Morton's exquisitely expansive cinematography are definitely up to speed . Moreover , the dingy desert locations evoke a frightfully palpable feeling of all-encompassing dread , isolation and vulnerability , the tension steadily escalates to a nerve-wracking fever pitch , there are amusing touches of offbeat humor featured throughout and the final confrontation between Quid and the killer in a cramped back alley delivers one hell of a potent gut punch . The nifty tweaking of your standard average guy in danger scenario in particular is a nice inspired touch ; this scenario is given a fresh and engaging workover by making Quid a likeably quirky oddball . An eerie , understated and above all intelligent stand-out scary sleeper .
Jack Hill's excellent & unjustly overlooked race car drama	Surly , thuggishly handsome Dick Davalos superbly carries the day with plenty of rugged , growly , super-slick hipster punk attitude as Rick , a brash , hustling , opportunistic amateur drag racing young turk who willingly compromises what few teensy , faintly held on values he has in order to make it big in the harshly competitive world of professional stock car racing . Backed by pitiless rich sponsor Brian Donlevy ( who's pure icy perfection as a ruthlessly avaricious jerk who strictly cares about money and winning ) , Rick cuts loose his savage , animalistic instincts on the track , taking " dingy , " lunatic rival driver Hawk Sidney ( a typically wired turn by the ever-manic Sid Haig , who appears here sans beard , but with a near complete head of hair ) down a few pegs , romancing sweet , bubbly , gum-chewing wild cat groupie Jolene ( an exuberant performance by the adorable Beverly Washburn , the most catty and spiteful of the Meryl family sisters in Hill's wonderfully warped " Spider Baby " ) , striving to best composed , always in control reigning champion Ed McCleod ( the excellent George Washburn ) , and flirting with McCleod's forlorn , neglected wife Ellen ( movingly played by Ellen McRea in her film debut , who later changed her name to Ellen Burstyn and received a Best Actress Oscar for her remarkable work in Martin Scorcese's " Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore " ) . More of a moody , incisive , stingingly critical and flatly unsentimental film noirish character study centering on the horrible spirit-crushing price fiercely aggressive macho males pay for engaging in a taxingly brutal dog-eat-dog sport like stock car racing than your usual mindless smash ' em up car racing action romp , " Pit Stop " might very well be Jack Hill's most sharply atmospheric and tautly self-contained picture to date , a starkly dramatized stunner that casually oozes a certain pungently thick , heavy , oppressively brooding no-kidding grayish and uncompromising sense of overweening moral blackness . The metal-mangling , tire-yelping , dust and dirt flying everywhere race car sequences possess a tense , kinetic , dangerously loose and truly harrowing quality , depicting the ultra-masculine confrontational world of professional stock car racing as totally crazed mondo destructo demolition derby-style pandemonium . Moreover , the burning male desire to win at any cost and be the greatest at something is boldly shown as a kind of severe , seething , deep-seated psychosis . Sumptuously shot in stark , shadowy , steely black and white by Austin McKinney , with a superlative finger-snapping , kicked-back cool hopping blistering fuzztone guitar-driven beatnik rock score by John Fridge and the Daily Flash , uniformly tops acting from a first-rate cast , and a bracingly caustic , penetrating , rough-edged script by Hill , " Pit Stop " makes many startling insights into the grim , ugly barbarism and cold-heartedness at work in male aggression and competitiveness , courageously stating that winning can come at the cost of one's soul and body . Hard , gritty and flinty , done with real guts and style by Hill , " Pit Stop " rates as a raw , nervy , very daring and unjustly overlooked winner that's well worth seeking out and deserving of substantial cult film status .
A splendidly scuzzy 70's slasher sleaze classic	Cameron " I'll act in any piece of junk for the money " Mitchell's already patchy schlock picture career hits its wonderfully lurid and repugnant all-time skankiest gutter-crawling nadir here with his joltingly frantic , bug-eyed portrayal of a crazed , puritanical superintendent who gruesomely dispatches several " sinful " promiscuous harlot young women residing in a grimy Los Angeles apartment complex . This shockingly gross and disgusting scuzzball 70's grindhouse slasher gem reaches its sensationally sleazy apex in a protracted sequence showing gorgeous porn starlet Kelly Nichols joyfully masturbating in her bathtub prior to Cameron brutally butchering her with a nail gun ! Tireless ace exploitation photographer Gary Graver did the sharp , polished photography . The incredible down and out cast greatly intensifies the film's singularly discomfiting slimy edge : onetime child actress Pamelyn Ferdin ( most famous for doing the voice of Lucy in a few Charlie Brown cartoon TV specials ) , " Land of the Lost " ' s Wesley Eure as Cam's equally demented nephew ( ! ) , and the original " The Blob " heroine Aneta Corseaut . To top it all off , we even got a pertinent and provocative subtext about the fragility of innocence ( as represented by Ferdin's sweet , " pure " character ) , the impossibility of preserving said innocence on a permanent basis ( Cam abducts Pam so she can serve as a surrogate for the daughter he lost in a car crash ) , and how innocence is inevitably corrupted and / or destroyed by the evil outside world ( as personified by the " impure " women Mitchell on his self-appointed murderous moral crusade deems worthy of punishment through savage and untimely death ) . This vile , gritty , resolutely ugly and sordid classic wholly deserves its killer trash legend reputation .
An excellent , exciting and above all intelligent bleakly futuristic science fiction winner	2027 : Society has collapsed into total violent anarchy and no children have been born in the last eighteen years . Glumly indifferent Theodore Faron ( a superb Clive Owen ) gets shocked out of his morose apathy when his underground revolutionary ex-wife Julian Taylor ( the always fine Julianne Moore ) enlists his aid to get the miraculously pregnant Kee ( beautifully played by radiant newcomer Claire-Hope Ashitey ) out of the country before the authoritarian government finds out about her . Director / co-writer Alfonso Cuaron brilliantly creates a plausibly bleak and depressing future where chaos is the dismal norm and mankind has lost its ability for hope . Cuaron wisely downplays needless flashy special effects in favor of emphasizing both the intriguing plot and equally interesting complex characters ; he brings a sense of true heartfelt emotion and heartbreaking tragedy to the picture that's both poignant and powerful . The sparingly used special effects are seamless and convincing . The action sequences are fast , brutal , thrilling and harrowing as all hell . The uniformly terrific acting from a top-rate cast rates as another substantial asset : Owen delivers a very strong and touching portrayal of a man who regains his capacity to care and feel , Moore shines in her regrettably brief role , Ashitey brings a terrifically brassy'n'sassy strength and humor to her part , and Michael Caine is simply wonderful as Jasper , a blithely irreverent dippy hippie pothead who helps Theodore out when he's on the lam from the police . But what truly makes this movie so special , resonant and remarkable is its thoughtful and affecting central message about the immeasurable value of human life . A real lovely and extraordinary gem .
A terrifically trashy tribute to cheerfully low-grade 70's exploitation cinema	Ladies and gentlemen , welcome to the show . Tonight for your viewing pleasure we have two blithely low-rent Grade B items on a single hugely entertaining double bill . " Planet Terror " - A zombie epidemic breaks out in a dusty backroads Texas armpit community . A motley assortment of folks have to fight their way through a teeming mass of lethal hideous ghouls to safety . Writer / director Robert Rodriguez deftly maintains a constant breakneck pace throughout , gleefully pours on the revolting gross-out gore , and stages the nonstop explosive action with exhilarating aplomb . Rodriguez also perfectly nails the lovably shoddy quality of your standard two-cent schlocky horror splatter romp : the hilariously hokey dialogue , cheesy pulsating synthesizer score , raw , grainy , scratched-up cheap film stock , and in-your-face unflinching graphic violence are a total tacky treat to behold . The lovely Rose McGowan has a ball as Cherry , a down-in-the-dumps stripper ( oops . . I mean go-go dancer ) who has a leg she loses to the zombies replaced with a handy combo machine gun and grenade launcher . The rest of the uniformly excellent cast play their engagingly cardboard characters to the juicy hilt : Freddy Rodriguez as ace two-fisted survivalist Wray , Micheal Biehn as a hard-nosed sheriff , Bruce Willis as a mysterious general , Jeff Fahey as a grizzled diner owner , Stacy Ferguson as an ill-fated motorist , Tom Savini as a bumbling deputy , Josh Brolin as an evil doctor , Quentin Tarantino as an odious would-be rapist , Michael Parks as a rugged Texas ranger , and Marley Shelton as Brolin's faithless wife . This one gets an " Deathproof " - Murderous misogynistic maniac Stuntman Mike ( deliciously played with demented relish by Kurt Russell ) gets his depraved jollies out of killing beautiful young women with his souped-up black muscle car ( both the adorable Jordan Ladd and McGowan pop up as two of Mike's victims ) . Mike more than meets his match when he chooses luscious Rosario Dawson , fiery Tracie Thoms , and the incredible Zoe Bell as his next targets . Writer / director Quentin Tarantino starts the film out slow , ably developing the female characters so we honestly care about what happens to them . The opening third is a might dull and talky , but it culminates with a simply spectacular tire-screeching , metal-mangling , rubber-shredding lump-in-your-throat wild and exciting protracted car chase that rates alongside " Vanishing Point " ( an obvious acknowledged influence ) and " Dirty Mary , Crazy Larry " as some of the best vehicular carnage to ever roar its stirring way onto celluloid . This baby earns an The wraparound stuff : The faux drive-in trailers are mighty tasty indeed . The revenge opus " Machete " starring Danny Trejo as the titular bad hombre comes across like the greatest 70's Charles Bronson flick Bronson alas never did . Eli Roth's so-sick-it's-sidesplitting early 80's seasonal slasher spoof " Thanksgiving " really hits the gut-busting spot . Edgar Wright's equally uproarious " Don't " will have you howling as well . Rob Zombie's " Werewolf Women of the SS " qualifies as a complete outrageous riot , with nifty appearances by Udo Kier , Sybil Danning , Bill Mosely , Sheri Moon , Tom Towles and Nicholas Cage as Fu Mancho ( ! ) . My sole criticism is the unfortunate dearth of gratuitous nudity in the two main features . Gratuitous nudity was a principal base ingredient of 70's grindhouse swill , so its glaring absence in both pictures is a tad disappointing . That minor quibble aside , Rodriguez and Tarantino alike still overall deliver a delightfully down'n'dirty cinematic ode to the gloriously sleazy thrills'n'spills joy and vigor of vintage 70's exploitation fare .
A hilariously bawdy hoot	A hilariously wild'n'raunchy handy dandy combo of both " let's put on a show " 30's vaudeville musical comedy revues and then fashionable cheesy , one note , tongue-in-cheek silly gimmick porno movies ( anyone else remember the porno musical version of " Alice in Wonderland " ? ) . Barely released in theaters by Paramount , this delightfully lowbrow low-budget howler has deservedly acquired a sizable cult following . Struggling studio head Stephen Nathan needs a new hook to snag audiences for the asinine porno flicks he makes his fortune off of . So he comes up with the bright idea to do the first hardcore feature with singing and dancing . Of course , there are several glitches : the cheapskate financiers want the entire picture shoot in a mere two weeks or they will take the studio away from Nathan , director John Smithee ( an obvious pun on legendary pseudonymous director Allen Smithee ) turns out to be a childish , immature , totally wet-behind-the-ears nitwit , and catty , venomous , egocentric prima donna porn star Mary La Rue keeps trying to seduce Nathan and makes life a living hell for everyone else on the set . Gleefully dirty-minded without ever becoming too sordid , " The First Nudie Musical " manages to be quite likable , expectedly uproarious , and strangely endearing despite the nonstop onslaught of often profane dialogue , simulated sex and full-frontal nudity . The direction by Mark Haggard and Bruce Kimmel nicely maintains a light , airy and playfully good-natured tone throughout . The performances hit just the right note of cutesy burlesque hamminess , with especially winning turns from Nathan , Cindy Williams ( a short step away from hitting the big time on the popular long-running sitcom " Laverne and Shirley " ) as Nathan's loyal , but sarcastic secretary , an almost unbearably funny Kimmel ( who not only co-directed and co-wrote the witty script , but also penned all the songs and lyrics ) as the feckless Smithee , the adorable Leslie Ackerman as a naive , virginal ingénue , the beauteous Alexandra Morgan as La Rue , " Soap ' ' s Diana Canova as a lusty , vavavoomish Latin singer , Frank Doubleday ( the scary dude who shoots the little girl in " Assault on Precinct 13 " ) as Canova's insecure , switchblade-wielding leather-clad punk biker boyfriend , " Mantis in Lace " ' s Susan Stewart as no-talent bleach blonde starlet Joy Ful , Alan Abelew as a stuck-up would-be lady's man , and Hy Pyke ( the unforgettably creepy bus driver in " Lemora - A Child's Tale of the Supernatural " ) as a greedy , cigar-puffing sleazebag producer . The wonderfully ribald'n'ridiculous songs smoke in no uncertain terms ( the incredible " Dancing Dildos " number in particular is absolutely sidesplitting ) . Ron Howard makes a quick cameo during the audition sequence and Annette O'Toole supplied Ackerman's singing voice . A tremendously amusing and totally off-the-wall wacky hoot that's not to be missed .
A strong , scary and above all suspenseful Aussie " danger on the road " knockout	The set-up is deceptively familiar and unpromising : Three attractive young people - - one hunky guy and two hottie girls - - go driving cross country through the dry , dusty and desolate Australian outback . Their car breaks down in the middle of nowhere . A seemingly friendly motorist stops by and offers them a tow . Unbeknownst to the kids , said guy turns out to be a crazed , albeit disturbingly robust and jovial lunatic with an unsavory penchant for sadistically preying on stray motorists . Sure , the basic story in and of itself is admittedly trite and obvious , but what we got here is a sterling example of how a deft and steady execution can make even the most shopworn premise both gripping and brutally effective . Writer / director Greg McLean starts the film out slowly , carefully setting up the characters and situation before thrusting you into a truly jolting and ferocious nightmarish ordeal that's guaranteed to shred your nerves . The initially spooky tone eventually gives way to full-bore all-out savage violence and barbarism . The abrupt shift in tone captures the viewer off guard and thus is all the more shocking for this very reason . Moreover , the stunning cinematography vividly conveys a harrowing sense of isolation and vulnerability , making the Australian outback seem like a very eerie and foreign landscape akin to the surface of Mars . Frank Tetaz's sparingly used score likewise does the trick quite nicely ; there are several particularly nerve-wracking sequences in which music isn't used at all , which gives said moments an added bloodcurdling element of scary credibility . The dearth of both irony and especially that always annoying " Scream " - style self-conscious " it's just a movie folks " self-referential nonsense qualify as substantial additional assets ; it's both heartening and refreshing to see a recent horror film made by people who honestly believe in what they're doing . The fact that the movie gets more progressively bleak and despairing as it unfolds was another tremendous plus . The performances are uniformly excellent as well . Nathan Phillps , Kestie Morassi and Cassandra Magrath are all genuinely likable as the luckless imperiled trio ; you really care about these kids and are concerned about what happens to them . Best of all is the terrific and positively terrifying performance by John Jarratt as the back-roads psycho who hides his true lethal and heinous nature behind a disarmingly hale'n'hearty " just a regular scruffy Aussie outback bloke " facade . What makes Jarratt so absolutely chilling is the way he continues to project this perverse jollity even while committing these horrible acts of unsettling brutality . He's without a doubt a splendidly sick piece of murderously messed-up work and one severely frightening customer . My sole criticism is the rather dubious claim that it's based on a true story . I frankly just don't buy it , but that minor quibble aside overall I must say that " Wolf Creek " in my book rates as one of the best damn fright films of 2005 .
A very cool , clever and hugely enjoyable 80's horror comedy hoot	Mild-mannered college student Keith ( affable Chris Makepeace ) , his more brash smooth-talking best buddy A . J . ( the equally engaging Robert Rusler ) and hopelessly geeky wannabe hip nerd Duncan ( a hilariously dweeby Gedde Watanabe ) venture into a dark , remote and dangerous Los Angeles neighborhood in search of a stripper for an upcoming fraternity party . The trio discover the seedy and sinister nocturnal establishment the After Dark Club , where our protagonists find out much to their dismay that the diabolically enticing and exotic main attraction Katrina ( a mute , but stunningly effective and alluring portrayal of pure animalistic evil and raw sensuality by Grace Jones ) and the rest of the club's staff are all vampires who are eager to take a lethal bite out of the boys . Writer / director Richard Wenk offers a winningly quirky and clever blend of offbeat black humor and straightforward gruesome horror , ably creating and sustaining a properly seamy and spooky oddball nighttime atmosphere , keeping the pace snappy and steady throughout , and staging the shock scenes with a considerable amount of grisly aplomb ( the moment where Katrina calmly tears a bumbling minion's heart out and her fatal seduction of A . J . are especially startling sequences ) . Popping up in nifty supporting parts are Dedee Pfeiffer as an endearingly ditsy waitress , Sandy Baron as the sleazy club emcee , the ever-reptilian Billy Drago as a creepy albino street gang leader , and Hy Pyke ( the unforgettably nutzoid bus driver in " Lemora : A Child's Tale of the Supernatural " ) as a vampire hotel clerk . Elliot Davis ' stylishly garish cinematography , Jonathan Elias ' funky score , and Greg Cannom's excellent make-up f / x further enhance the deliciously macabre merriment of this extremely cool and enjoyable fright flick .
A hugely enjoyable & original 70's distaff drive-in movie variant on " Spartacus "	Roger Corman's tough , engrossing , skillfully executed proto-feminist $1 . 98 drive-in version of " Spartacus , " an early New World Pictures production reuniting the dynamic distaff duo of Pam Grier and Margaret Markov , who previously formed a sparky , highly charged rat-a-tat-tat chemistry together in Eddie Romero's excellent Filipino " The Defiant Ones " variant " Black Mama , White Mama . " Ancient Rome , Italty : Desperate for a little variety and bored with your standard mano a mano gladiatorial combat , the gross , idle , decadent rich captors of a culturally diverse assortment of slaves decide to let their much abused female servants engage in vicious one winner per battle to the death gladiator fights . The female fighters , who include the gutsy Mamawi ( the one and only Pam Grier , in typically ferocious fit'n'physical fighting mode ) , the compassionate Bodicia ( beauteous , blue-eyed unsung favorite firebrand blonde Margaret Markov ) , and the flighty Diedre ( lovely redhead cupcake Lucretia Love ) , understandably disgusted with the foul , ignoble , dehumanizing treatment they receive from their odious oppressors , stage a violent , rousing climactic revolt in which men and women alike savagely fight for their freedom . Ably directed by Steve Carver ( who also helmed the bang-up Depression-era corker " Big Bad Mama " for Corman ) , with quick pacing , snappy editing , a pungent , convincing period atmosphere , a tightly constructed narrative that thunders along with tremendous drive , and a fine , brooding score by Francesco De Masi , " The Arena " really makes the cut as top-of-the-line high concept 70's exploitation cinema at its most quirky and inspired . The solid , unusually intelligent script by John William and Joyce Carol Corrington ( who previously wrote the funky end-of-the-world sci-fi / action hoot " The Omega Man " ) poses an extremely challenging and provocative moral question : Would you willingly kill another person in order to stay alive ? And how much abuse would you endure before finally deciding that enough's enough ? Furthermore , the truly terrific B-movie twosome of Pam and Margaret make for strong , smart and sympathetic heroines whose desire for independence is both genuinely admirable and even inspirational . Sara Bey , a striking brunette actress who's most fondly remembered as the titular perverted character in " Lady Frankenstein , " makes for an eminently hateful villainess as the bitchy , overbearing , cold-hearted wealthy wench Cordelia . The gladiatorial combat scenes seriously cook : they're brutal , sweaty and bloody , the kind of splendidly staged down'n'dirty swords and battle axes a swinging fights that are quite exciting in a fiercely visceral , kick-you-in-the-guts sort of way ( Pam in particular wields a mean trident ) . A genuine oddity from the Glorious Golden Era of the Grindhouse , " The Arena " partially succeeds on the basis of its sheer strangeness alone and largely because it's simply a very well-done consummate pro job all around .
A beautifully chilling Spanish horror winner	Something is seriously amiss at a fancy French boarding school that's run with the proverbial iron fist by strict head mistress Madame Fourneau ( splendidly played to the steely hilt by Lili Palmer ) . Several of the catty , bitchy , backbiting , high-strung problem girl students have mysteriously disappeared . Did they run away ? Or have they been killed by some crazed psycho ? Writer / director Narciso Ibanez Serrador does an outstanding job of creating and sustaining a potently eerie and brooding atmosphere that practically seethes with pent-up carnal longings and deadly menace . Moreover , Serrador stages the stunningly stylized murder set pieces with remarkable breathtaking skill and flair . Kudos are in order for the first-rate acting from a uniformly tip-top cast : Palmer excels as a most austere and formidable battle ax , the adorable Cristina Galbo makes for a highly charming and fetching heroine as the sweet innocent Theresa , John Moulder-Brown likewise impresses as Fourneau's neurotic peeping tom son Luis , and ubiquitous character actor Victor Israel has a nice , yet small part as creepy handyman Brechard . Manuel Berenguer's fluid , polished widescreen cinematography gives the picture a gorgeously glossy look . Waldo de los Rios ' exquisitely lush'n'lovely orchestral score hits the bull's eye as well . Better still , there's a severely warped undercurrent of startling sexual perversity that runs the gamut from lesbianism to voyeurism to even incest . The socko sicko surprise ending packs a very strong and lingering gut punch . This spooky and intriguing precursor to both Bob Clark's " Black Christmas " and Dario Argento's " Suspiria " rates as absolutely essential viewing for hardcore aficionados of supremely skin-crawling fright fare .
A very cute , charming and even touching cartoon	Adorable and intrepid little redhead girl Dot bravely ventures into the Australian outback in search of a missing baby kangaroo . Assisting Dot on her perilous quest is a comically mischievous rabbit called " funny bunny , " who constantly makes amusingly ill-advised and unsuccessful attempts at passing himself off as the missing kangaroo ( " funny bunny " also supplies the lion's share of the engagingly quirky and deadpan humor ) . During her lengthy and eventful odyssey Dot encounters a colorful array of off-beat and interesting local wildlife which includes lazy koalas who only want to eat and sleep , a busy platypus who doesn't have any time to talk , a cranky possum who hates noise , slithery snakes , cunning and unctuously sinister crocodiles , a kindly flying fox , a chatty and gregarious crab , a helpful turtle , a weary wombat and speedy emus . This is a very sweet and good-natured cartoon kid's feature which blends animation with live action quite well ; it's technically a bit rough and crude by today's more sophisticated standards , but the animation possesses a certain irresistible plain'n'pretty appeal all the same . Moreover , the film itself is refreshingly bereft of any cynicism or irony ; it's got a purity and innocence to it that's genuinely endearing . There's a real warmth evident as well which makes this lovely little gem extremely touching ( the plot revelation that " funny bunny " is only trying to find a surrogate mother to love and take care of him because both of his parents were killed by hunters is quite moving ) . The lively and catchy songs ( my favorite is the hilarious " Termites " ditty ) , the beautiful nature photography , the gorgeous scenery and especially the overall pleasant and upbeat tone further add to the movie's considerable charm .
A sweet little seriocomic indie sleeper	12-year-old Kenny ( an engaging portrayal by Dan McCann ) hangs out with mischievous best buddy Doug ( the very likable Michael Baldwin ) , tries to figure out girls , musters up the courage to face mean , fearsome bully Johnny Hoffman ( an effectively hateful Willy Masterson ) , learns about death and mortality ( Doug's sickly dog has to be put to sleep ) , and prepares for Halloween night . Writer / director Don Coscarelli delivers a charming and warm-hearted little gem about 70's suburbanite adolescence that's remarkably bereft of both sour cynicism and cloying sentimentality ; instead the rambling episodic narrative ambles along in a most delightfully breezy'n'easy manner and offers plenty of spot-on moving and / or amusing moments . Better still , the cute cast of personable kid thespians all come through with appealingly naturalistic performances : McCann and Baldwin positively shine in the leads , receiving fine support from Jeff Roth as pesky , yet lovable little squirt Sherman , Terrie Kalbus as fetching blonde babe Marcy , and Eswin Cajas as foreign exchange student Paco . Plus there are nice turns by Reggie Bannister as friendly , understanding teacher Mr . Donovan , Ralph Richmond as Doug's jolly government agent father Big Doug , Kenneth J . Jones as hot-tempered football coach Mr . Soupy , and Clay Foster as amiable old timer Mr . Brink . Fred Myrow's mellow and melodic score totally hits the groovy spot . Coscarelli's sunny cinematography gives the picture an attractive bright look . A lovely and poignant treat .
Tim Thomerson is outstanding as a shameless hack stand-up comedian	I've been a huge fan of Tim Thomerson every since he portrayed tough-as-nails detective Jack Deth in " Trancers . " He's one of my all-time favorite character actors who's appeared in such excellent movies as " Uncommon Valor , " " Near Dark , " " Nemesis , " and " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas . " He usually plays laconic rough'n'tumble macho guys or goofy tongue-in-cheek parts , but Tim really shows his substantial dramatic range here as shameless hack stand-up comedian Billy Diamond , who steals whole bits and pieces of his act from other comics ' routines . One fateful day Diamond gets fatally shot by a struggling comic he stole a gag from . He winds up in a particularly ironic kind of hell in which he's forced to talk about the worst things that happened in his life while an audience laughs uproariously at his abject pain and misery . Thomerson was a stand-up comedian prior to embarking on his acting career . He brings a real pathos and conviction to the role of the smarmy Diamond that's both surprising and impressive . His acting in this terrific episode rates highly as some of the best he's ever done and offers proof positive that Tim Thomerson is one tremendously talented and versatile actor who doesn't get the attention and accolades he deserves as often as he should .
An excellent and exciting action adventure treat	Hard-nosed mercenary Colonel Allen Faulker ( a superbly steely Richard Burton ) gets an assignment to rescue African president Julius Limbani ( well played Winston Ntshona ) from a prison camp . Faulker rounds up his best men for the tough and demanding job : flippant dandy Lieutenant Shawn Flynn ( the ever-suave Roger Moore ) , crusty Captain Rafer Janders ( a splendid Richard Harris ) , and cynical racist Lieutenant Pieter Coetze ( a fine performance by Hardy Kruger ) . Faulkner and his troops manage to spring Limbani without a hitch , but are double-crossed by their employers and subsequently find themselves stuck in Africa with a vicious army of angry Simbas after them . Expertly directed with utmost brisk and tight efficiency by Andrew V . McLagen , with a sharp , witty script by Reginald Rose , a hard , gritty , no-nonsense tone ( Flynn makes a snotty young drug dealer eat a whole bag of bad smack ! ) , several stirring and well-mounted action sequences , a rousing score by Roy Budd , a wickedly sardonic sense of dry humor , handsome , polished cinematography by Jack Hilyard , and shocking outbursts of raw'n'bloody violence , this rip-roaring affair makes for hugely enjoyable all-star epic entertainment . The uniformly stellar acting from a tip-top cast rates as another major asset : Burton , Moore , Harris , and Kruger are all outstanding in the leads ; they receive sterling support from Stewart Granger as smarmy , stuffy banker Sir Edward Matherson , Jack Watson as hearty , but ruthless drill instructor Sandy Young , Kenneth Griffith as fey medical officer Arthur Witty , Frank Finlay as the feisty Father Geoghagen , Ronald Fraser as the scrappy Jack McTaggart , and Barry Foster as diplomatic liaison Thomas Balfour . Moreover , the characters are very complex and engaging ; you really learn to care about this rough'n'ready misfit band of professional soldiers for hire , which in turn makes all the combat and carnage that much more potent and gripping . An absolute corker .
A hilariously horrendous and thus quite entertaining early 80's " wackos in the woods " slasher hoot	Wacko in the woods body count splatter slaughterfests became all the rage in the early 80's after " Friday the 13th " hit it big at the almighty box office . This staggeringly sloppy'n'slipshod shot-in-Utah no-budget atrocity could very well be the most unbelievably inept and unintentionally sidesplitting entry in this frequently pretty pathetic horror sub-genre . A grimy , husky , deranged , murderously misanthropic survivalist mountain man maniac nastily butchers assorted hideously obnoxious and unappealing chowderheads who unwisely venture into his lethal section of the forest . A nerdy ornithologist has his arm yanked out of its socket ; hilariously fake-looking blood squirts out of the even more hilariously phony stump . A fat jerk gets tossed off a cliff so he can be turned into a mushy pulp when he lands on the jagged rocks below . The fat jerk's equally rotund whiny mom likewise buys it in a similarly gruesome fashion . A jarringly ugly middle-aged couple who are trying to do just what you think in their RV have their would-be sexual encounter rudely disrupted by Mr . Nutso . A painter erupts with a virtual geyser of the red sauce when she's repeatedly stabbed by our sanguinary sicko . A backwoodsman accidentally impales a luckless hick on a tree branch and tries to make amends by blubbering " I'm sorry ! " three times in a row . Four insufferably irritating backpackers gripe , moan , bicker and generally get on each other's nerves while aimlessly ambling through the woods . A girl who stumbles into the killer's lair eats some machete . Two folks dozing in their sleeping bags are savagely offed . In arguably the most mean-spirited scene a helpless cripple in a wheelchair gets decapitated ! Meanwhile a plodding , obscenely oafish and obese hillbilly sheriff investigates various disappearances to no avail . The slackly plotted narrative meanders from gory kill scene to gory kill scene sans reason or rhythm . The unlistenably abominable score alternates between eardrum-rupturing high-pitched synthesizer blaring and st-kickin ' , banjo-pluckin ' , dung-a-dung-dung hayseed bluegrass music . The shaky 16 mm cinematography features lots of nauseating whiplash pans and unsteady hand-held camera-work . The dreadful post-sync sound makes the whole shoddy shebang seem like a poorly dubbed foreign flick . The rambling direction suffers from a crucial lack of both focus and finesse . The acting by the no-name rank amateur cast is absolutely abysmal . None of the astonishingly irksome characters are even remotely likable . The gore effects are uproariously cheesy and unconvincing . And the incredibly asinine ending credits theme song concludes the marvelously messed-up merriment on a properly pitiful note .
One of the great unsung sleeper gems of the 70's	Disaffected journalist John Converse ( superbly played by Michael Moriarty ) enlists the aid of his gruff , weary and unsociable ex-Marine friend Ray Hicks ( a fine and commanding performance by Nick Nolte ) to smuggle a stash of heroin from Vietnam into the United States . When the drug drop goes sour , Hicks and John's sad , neurotic pillhead wife Marge ( an excellent Tuesday Weld ) go on the lam . Director Karel Reisz , working from a gritty and incisive script by Judith Rascoe and Robert Stone , astutely nails the pervasive cynicism , bitterness , moral erosion , paranoia , and disillusionment of the Vietnam-era early 70's while maintaining a steady pace throughout and expertly building a considerable amount of gut-wrenching tension . This film further benefits from the uniformly exceptional acting from a top-drawer cast : Nolte , Weld and Moriarty are all outstanding in the leads ; they receive sterling support from Anthony Zerbe as ruthless corrupt federal narcotics agent Antheil , Richard Masur as ferocious psycho thug Danskin , Ray Sharkey as Danskin's jittery , sniveling partner Smitty , Gail Strickland as smooth connection Charmain , Charles Haid as slimy Hollywood dope dealer Eddie Peace , and David Opatoshu as helpful farmer Bender . Robert H . Kline's grainy , yet still polished cinematography , the bleak , harsh , depressing and unflinchingly nihilistic tone , Laurence Rosenthal's rousing score , a wickedly sardonic sense of pitch-black humor , the first-rate soundtrack , the profane , but poetic dialogue , an exciting and well-staged climactic shoot-out , and the devastating downbeat ending are all spot-on as well . An absolute powerhouse .
An excellent sequel to the terrific original	Mike ( likable James LeGros ) and Reggie ( the equally affable Reggie Bannister ) hit the road in search of the Tall Man ( superbly essayed with sinister aplomb by Angus Scrimm ) . During their travels they pick up sassy hitchhiker Alchemy ( sultry brunette knockout Samantha Phillips ) and rescue sweet Liz ( gorgeous blonde babe Paula Irvine ) from the Tall Man's evil clutches . Writer / director Don Coscarelli maintains a constant brisk pace throughout , stages the action scenes with lipsmacking gusto , and expertly creates a potently brooding macabre gloom-doom atmosphere . Moreover , Coscarelli gives this picture a dreamy , funky , surreal free-form flowing vibe that's both hypnotic and compelling . In addition , there's a wealth of stunning visuals : a cemetery full of empty graves and the desolate abandoned streets of a dead ghost town are especially eerie and striking . LeGros and Bannister make for hugely appealing and convincing everyday guy heroes , Scrimm scores as a marvelously creepy villain , Irvine and Phillips are both absolutely lovely , and Kenneth Tiger lends fine support as weak alcoholic priest Father Meyers . Daryn Okado's glossy cinematography , the rousing spooky full-bore orchestral score by Fred Myrow and Christopher L . Stone , and Mark Shostrom's splendidly gruesome make-up f / x are all on the money strong and effective . Notable highlights include a hilarious rodeo sex scene between Reggie and Alchemy , Reggie engaging in a wild to-the-death chainsaw duel with one of the Tall Man's minions , and Reggie blowing away four of those nasty little dwarfs with a quadruple-barreled shotgun . A superior sequel .
A superb and stirring unjustly overlooked car race knockout	Here's a quintessentially rough'n'tumble early 80's high testosterone macho-posturing men being men gruntfest that John Milius would have been proud to make . Overconfident garage mechanic Steve ( solid Harry Hamlin ) , engagingly impudent aspiring songwriter Buddy ( the ever-puckish Joseph Bottoms ) , and stuffy junior record company executive Roger ( essayed with utmost gravity by Richard Cox ) are three longtime buddies who regularly engage in car races on the steep , winding and highly perilous mountainside roads of L . A . ' s Mulholland Falls in order to alleviate the grim , unrewarding tedium of their everyday lives and inject some much-needed excitement into their otherwise second-rate existences . Steve's cockiness and unbeatable status as the current King of the Mountain raises the intense ire and fiery jealousy of scraggly , burnt-out , washed-up , pony-tailed hippie and former champ Cal ( a deliciously wacky Dennis Hopper in one of his patented moody loony parts ) . Cal challenges Steve to a big high stakes race so he can regain his title and status . Sultry go-getter would-be singer Tina ( a superbly sparky turn by the tantalizing Deborah Van Valkenburgh of " The Warriors " fame , who belts out a couple of songs in a terrifically tart'n'torchy blues wail ) gets caught in the middle of this fierce competition . H . R . Christian's rugged , no-kidding sinewy script , heavily suffused with manly man deep-think introspection and inspired by David Barry's " Thunder Road " article in " New West " magazine , trenchantly examines the many intriguing facets of male obsessiveness : the obdurate refusal to grow up , pushing yourself to the limit ( " Ya gotta ride the edge in order to win " ) , not compromising your values , succeeding in life on your own terms , the deep-seated desire to amount to something in life and achieve a certain lofty stature , hyper-masculine competitiveness , and even knowing when you're beat and just learning to accept your losses , especially when said losses may very well mean the possible untimely end of your life . Donald Peterman's garishly bright , glowing , neon-hued cinematography vividly captures the steamy and crackling California night life . The thrillingly quick and dangerous no-holds-barred car race scenes are handled cinema verite style : no music , short , snappy edits , and unfancy ground level camera-work . Nice bits by Seymour Cassel as an obnoxious hipster record company president , Dan Haggerty as a gruff mechanic , Cassandra " Elvira " Peterson as an annoying neighbor , and the late , great Steve James as a meddlesome cop . Director Noel Nosseck treats the potentially silly subject matter with laudable seriousness , injecting a strong sense of underlying despair , a feeling of going nowhere fast and wanting something more out of life which transcends the mundane and explicable , which makes this mighty fine and satisfying unsung sleeper one hell of an excellent car race drama .
David Cronenberg's excellent , exciting and engrossing racetrack drama	Almighty B-movie he-man William Smith calls his own shots , fights to keep his integrity and stubbornly refuses to knuckle under to the Man's rigid stay on the narrow path and just do what you're told nonsense as fiercely autonomous and uncompromising champion professional race car driver Lonny " Lucky Man " Johnson , a rugged individualist in excelsis who butts heads with venal crudbag big company greedy jerk Phil ( John Saxon in peak snaky , slimy , lizard charisma oozing from every scuzzy pore form ) and attempts to rekindle the flame with supportive , but long-suffering erstwhile old lady Sammy ( a lively , luminous performance by late , great , simply gorgeous 70's drive-in movie goddess Claudia Jennings in her final film role ) . David Cronenberg's typically precise , meticulous direction , ably abetted by Mark Irwin's sparkling , slicker-than-fresh-motor-oil cinematography , Fred Mollin's vivacious banjo-plucking and harmonica-wailing country and western score , rough-thrashing rock tunes by Michael Stanley , superlative acting , a firm , moving camaraderie between Smith and his pit crew , such always pleasing exploitation picture ingredients as a little nudity and soft-core sex , wild fisticuffs , gritty , ragged-around-the-edges iconoclastic characters , hard-hitting profane dialogue , and the expectedly thrilling pedal - pushed - to - the - near - breaking - point - medal neck-snappingly fast and dangerous racetrack action ( said racetrack action smokes more than the faulty exhaust fumes on a freaky souped-up funny car ) , offers a tantalizingly vivid and absorbing evocation of the racetrack milieu and its funky subculture ( fawning groupies , harshly competitive male rivalry , on the take race officials , grimy , incredibly loyal and courageous pit crews , faceless fascistic corporate sponsor scum ) that's so exact and credible that it will overpower the viewer's nostrils with the fetid stench of hot sweat , filthy petrol , stale beer and greasy engines . Better still , the gutsy , heartfelt script Cronenberg co-wrote with Phil Savoth and Courtney Smith tackles head-on the eternally winning and right-on theme of a " be your own self and to hell with anyone who tries to cramp my style " - type loner nonconformist daring to stand up to and willingly defy the staid , restrictive , it-don't-do-no-one-any-good sectarian code of conduct that anal retentive conformist bilge naturally epitomizes . A rowdy , rollicking and boisterously romping break-from-the-mold grindhouse feature departure for Cronenberg , this extremely entertaining and damn satisfying , but alas unjustly obscure and underrated motorhead outing deserves to be both better known and more widely seen . Fortunately , the outstanding Blue Underground DVD gives this honey the deluxe treatment : It's a beautiful widescreen presentation along with a fine and informative Cronenberg commentary , delightful interviews with William Smith , John Saxon , and Mark Irwin , the theatrical trailer , and a pretty extensive still and poster gallery .
A fine and informative documentary about the legendary 70's British punk band the Sex Pistols	Julien Temple's slick mock rock doc " The Great Rock'n'Roll Swindle " was a delightfully irreverent , but extremely embellished and thus less than accurate depiction of the Sex Pistols ' 26 legendary months of unmitigated excess , success , pandemonium and inevitable failure . This far more scruffy and honest down-to-earth documentary sets the record straight sans huckster impresario Malcom McLaren's gross self-serving distortions of the truth . The surviving band members - - angry , fiercely snide and abrasive working class anti-star front-man Johnny Rotten , fellow surly band members Steve Jones and Paul Cook , token happy average guy out Glen Matlock - - are all interviewed , saying in their own shockingly candid , open , often profane and hilariously spiky words their savagely upfront thoughts and feelings about the whole bloody two year fracas that was the band's abrupt and chaotic , yet still glorious and influential reign . We learn about the individual band members ' sad , crappy childhoods , the gray , decaying , trash-littered rot and social upheaval of mid 70's London , the group's musical influences ( glam rock and heavy metal ! ) , how the punk movement initially encouraged raw displays of individualism and equalized the sexes , the Sex Pistols ' primitively rattling three-chord sonic assault was purposefully ugly , sludgy , tuneless and egalitarian , the Pistols ' infamous ( and truly riotous ) foul-mouthed interview on an insipid morning TV chatshow , the band's disastrous record contract with EMI , the Thames River party , how the song " God Save the Queen " put Rotten's life in considerable jeopardy , Sid Vicious beating up punk journalist Nick Kent , punk's unfortunate downslide into trendy chic mainstream nullity , Nancy Spungen's fatal hold on Sid ( the other band members vehemently abhorred her ) , the abortive feature film " Who Killed Bambi ? " ( with Sting in his film debut ! ) , Sid's tragic untimely death from a heroin overdose , and the Sex Pistols ' horrendously unsuccessful final nail-in-the-coffin American tour ( the frightfully hostile yank audiences expected a freakshow ) . Moreover , we find out that Sid popularized pogoing at punk clubs , McLaren never paid the band a dime , and that a ' 77 Christmas benefit gig was probably the Sex Pistols ' best ever show . The grainy , gritty , usually ratty and washed-out mostly color , sometimes black and white unpolished archival footage of the band at its supremely rowdy and astonishingly outrageous peak possesses an irresistibly grungy and oddly intimate appeal while the crude blaring music - - such killer classic numbers as " Anarchy in the U . K . , " " God Save the Queen , " " Pretty Vacant , " and " Holidays in the Sun " among ' em - - roars away with a furiously brutal abandon . Johnny Rotten sagely comments at the very end that the Sex Pistols were probably too good for their own good to last very long , but luckily this first-rate picture vividly immortalizes their notorious exploits and substantial legacy for posterity's sake .
Jodie Foster shines in this exceptional psychological thriller	Feisty , fiercely self-reliant 13-year-old Rynn Jacobs ( a stand-out early lead performance by the remarkable Jodie Foster ) lives all by herself in a swanky house on the remote rural outskirts of a sleepy coastal village . Following the death of her father , Rynn has convinced everyone in town that dear dad's away on business , but will be returning soon . Rynn befriends and falls in love with nice , but gimpy teen magician Mario Podesta ( winningly played by Scott Jacobs of " Bad Ronald " fame ) . When her snoopy landlady Ms . Hallet ( a perfectly irritating Alexis Smith ) and her creepy pedophile son Frank ( a splendidly slimy portrayal by Martin Sheen ) threaten to ruin her adult-free self-contained existence , Rynn resorts to drastic violent measures in order to retain her independence . Tautly directed with laudable taste , restraint and aptitude by Nicholas Gessner , with a clever , witty script by Laird Koenig ( adapting his novel ) , an elegant score by Christian Gaubert , handsome cinematography by Rene Verzier , and first-rate acting from a top-drawer cast ( Mort Shuman is especially fine as a friendly sheriff ) , this exceptionally eerie and absorbing thriller covers all the bases with striking deftness . What truly makes this film special and noteworthy is the sweet , touching and sensitive romance at the heart of the story about unconditional love between two highly atypical and appealing adolescents . Moreover , the final confrontation between Rynn and Frank is both chilling and disturbing . An excellent picture that's absolutely essential viewing for both fans of well-done thrillers and aficionados of Jodie Foster alike .
A terrifically trashy and thrilling Italian punk kids on the rampage doozy	The awesome title " Young , Violent and Desprate " promises to really deliver the lowdown trashy exploitation teens-running-horribly-amok juvenile delinquent goods and boy does this wonderfully wild Italian crime action thriller treat ever do the trick with a splendidly sleazy and straightforward unapologetic aplomb . The central premise seriously smokes in no uncertain terms : a trio of bitter , disaffected and amoral rich teen snotnose nihilist guys who feel neglected and unloved by their inattentive wealthy parents embark on an abrupt and senseless handy dandy combo crime and killing spree ; they hold up a gas station ( they blow away four cops who bungle an ambush ) , rob a bank ( they blast the assistant manager into the next dimension ) , stick up a supermarket ( they waste the four other youths who help them out on this particular gig after the dirty deed is done ) , and blithely bump off folks as they tear across the country eluding the cops at every turn . It's up to a hard-nosed Dirty Harryesque police detective ( superbly played to the stern'n'steely nines by the redoubtable Tomas Milian ) to nab these no-good sociopathic hooligans before things get too out of hand . Eleanor ( tasty blonde looker Eleonora Giorgi ) , the girlfriend of one of the kids , helps the police out as best she can . Director Romolo Guarieri ( who also gave us the brutal futuristic sci-fi " The Most Dangerous Game " variant " The Final Executioner " ) keeps the breakneck pace hurtling along at a breathless clip and stages the copious action sequences with rip-snorting brio and skill ( a frantic extended car chase between the kids and the cops is especially exciting ) . Better yet , Guarieri even tosses in a penchant and provocative heavy duty message about how the kids are toxic products of poor parenting , slamming the point home in a simply stupendous scene where Milian ruthlessly rakes the various negligent dads and moms through the coals for not talking and listening to their kids enough and thus making them feel loved and wanted . Wow , now that's some truly profound food for thought to chew on and digest .
One of Brian De Palma's most engrossing , enjoyable and ingenious thrillers	Amiable down on his luck actor Jake Scully ( a solid and likable performance by Craig Wasson ) gets a job taking care of a posh Hollywood high-rise home by fellow thespian Sam Bouchard ( splendidly played to smarmy perfection by Gregg Henry ) . Jake watches gorgeous rich neighbor Gloria Revelle ( a sympathetic turn by ravishing brunette beauty Deborah Shelton ) do a nightly striptease and becomes obsessed with her . After he witness Gloria's brutal murder at the hands of a mysterious Native American prowler , Jake decides to investigate said killing and soon discovers that there's more going on than meets the eye . Director Brian De Palma and screenwriter Robert J . Avrech concoct a dandy 80's thriller variant on Hitchcock's " Vertigo " and " Rear Window " that not only delivers the expected suspense and excitement promised by the clever and riveting premise , but also works as a smart and highly cinematic meditation on illusion , reality , voyeurism , and perception . De Palma shows tremendous skill relating various plot points through music and visuals alone . Moreover , he stages individual set pieces with tremendous panache : the grisly butchering of Gloria with a giant drill , a delightfully bawdy large scale musical production of Frankie Goes to Hollywood's gnarly hit song " Relax , " and a tour-de-force climax involving an open grave and a roaring river . Better still , this picture pokes sly self-mocking fun at both schlocky low-budget fright flicks and raunchy adult hardcore fare alike . The acting is uniformly tops : Wasson makes for an appealingly flawed and vulnerable protagonist , Henry oozes scuzzy charm , Melanie Griffith impresses with a superbly brash and winning portrayal of jaded porno starlet Holly Body , Guy Boyd steals the few scenes he's in as sardonic homicide detective Jim McLean , and Dennis Franz is his usual excellent self as slimy director Rubin . Popping up in nifty bits are Barbara Crampton as Jake's unfaithful girlfriend Carol , Brinke Stevens as an extra in a porn film , and Slavitza Jovan ( Gozer in " Ghostbusters " ) as a clothing store saleslady . Stephen H . Burum's slick , fluid , glittery cinematography pulls out the gloriously outrageous stylistic stops : tilted camera angles , gliding Steadicam tracking shots , and dazzling 360 degree circular tracking shots . Pino Donaggio's lush , rousing , pulsating score likewise hits the spot . Essential viewing for both De Palma fans and thriller buffs alike .
A total riot	Everyone's favorite myopic solipsist Mr . Magoo ( wonderfully voiced with tremendous hearty aplomb by the great Jim Backus ) gets a surprise visit from the camera crew of a local TV show that want to shoot a feature about his home . Trouble occurs when a cat burglar and his hulking trained gorilla Wilfred also show up to steal all the valuables in Magoo's abode . This delightful cartoon offers plenty of great laughs without ever becoming cynical or mean-spirited ; the good-natured sense of gleefully nutty humor goes a long way in making this animated short both amusing and endearing in equal measure . Moreover , Muzzy Marcellino's infectiously bouncy score and the vibrant , colorful animation greatly enhance the superior quality of this often hilariously wacky romp . Single funniest moment : Magoo opens up the blinds to his living room window and thinks that everything he sees outside are various different TV programs on his television screen . A real hoot .
A lovely and touching seriocomic gem	Feisty Joe ( a marvelously sprightly performance by George Burns ) , jolly Al ( a terrific Art Carney ) , and mopey Willie ( the excellent Lee Strasberg ) are three old retirees who share an apartment in Queens , New York . The guys decide to pull off a daring and outrageous bank robbery in order to alleviate the stultifying tedium of their dreary and uneventful twilight years . Writer / director Martin Brest , who was only 28 when he did this picture , offers a moving and amusing seriocomic delight about the plight of the elderly and the need to go out with a bang instead of a whimper . Among the notable highlights in this often funny and sometimes surprisingly poignant winner are Al's impromptu street dance , the hilarious heist sequence ( our heroes all wear Groucho Marx glasses ! ) , Joe crying while looking at an old black and white photo of his deceased wife , and Joe and Al living it up in Las Vegas . Burns , Carney and Strasberg all shine in their roles ; Burns in particular is simply superb . Charles Hallahan lends nice support as Al's amiable nephew Pete . Billy Williams ' bright , polished cinematography , Michael Small's catchy , jaunty score , and the warm , gentle , upbeat tone all further enhance the overall sterling quality of this sweet little treat .
A really happening late 60's drive-in exploitation blast	Frustrated middle-aged Deputy District Attorney George Maxwell ( a fine performance by George E . Carey , who also produced this picture ) can't stand his naggy , frigid wife Edith ( a perfectly bitchy Anne Bellamy ) anymore . Worse yet , poor George is further saddled with a newborn baby sun and a lascivious lesbian teenage daughter ( dishy brunette Sheri Jackson ) . George has an adulterous fling with lovely , enticing and free-spirited swinging hippie babysitter Candy Wilson ( delightfully played with sexy aplomb by yummy blonde knockout Patricia Wymer ) . Complications ensue when George finds himself being blackmailed by the bitter Julia Freeman ( a nicely venomous turn by Kathy Williams ) , who wants George to spring her psychotic biker boyfriend Laurence Mackey ( a frightening Robert Tessier , who sports a head full of hair here ) from jail . Director Tom Laughlin ( yep , the same dude who portrayed Billy Jack ! ) and screenwriter James McLarty cram the splendidly seamy story with a winning and highly entertaining surplus of delicious female nudity , sizzling soft-core sex , and raw violence . Moreover , they accurately peg the whole wild'n'easy uninhibited sensibility of the 60's youth culture and relate the plot in a tight 75 minute running time , thus ensuring that this movie doesn't overstay its welcome . One definite highlight occurs when Candy invites her groovy friends over the Maxwells house for an impromptu basement bash complete with pot smoking , wailing rock music , and , of course , hot naked dancing chicks . Robert O . Ragland's funky score hits the gnarly spot . Stanton Fox's stark black and white cinematography adds an extra gritty edge to the deliriously sleazy goings-on . Best of all , this flick rates as a marvelous showcase for the utterly charming and fresh-faced pixie Patricia Wymer , who positively lights up the screen with her sweet , bubbly personality and captivating beauty . A total trashy treat .
A great deal of wildly tongue-in-cheek fun	Easygoing surfer Sean Jones ( a likable portrayal by Nathan Phillips ) witnesses a mob hit and agrees to testify in court against the gangster who committed said hit . The mob tries to bump off Sean prior to the trial by unleashing a plethora of lethal poisonous snakes on board the plane Sean's on . It's to up super smooth FBI agent Neville Flynn ( splendidly played with cool self-assurance by Samuel L . Jackson ) to protect Sean and all the other passengers on board the plane . Director David R . Ellis and screenwriters John Heffernan and Sebastian Gutierrez fortunately don't take the gloriously ludicrous premise with total seriousness ; instead they treat the story with a deliciously knowing sense of self-parodic humor that keeps things appropriately swift , funny , and exciting throughout . The snake attack sequences are every bit as brutal and gruesome as they ought to be ; nasty highlights include an amorous young couple being killed while doing just what you think and one poor guy getting bitten right where it hurts most ( ouch ! ) . Moreover , Ellis adeptly develops a tremendous amount of gripping suspense and maintains a furiously brisk pace throughout . The passengers are an engagingly colorful bunch : Julianna Phlllips as the plucky Claire Miller , Sunny Mabrey as the perky Tiffany , Bruce James as the affable Ken , and Lin Shayne as the brave Grace are the flight attendants , plus there's high strung rap star Three G's ( an amusingly neurotic Flex Alexander ) and his bodyguards Troy ( lovable lug Kenan Thompson ) and Big Leroy ( burly Keith Dallas ) , two little boys , cheery rich bimbo Mercedes ( lovely blonde sprite Rachel Blanchard ) , a newlywed couple , and arrogant British snob Paul ( a perfectly hateful'n'haughty Gerald Plunkett ) . Adding to the already infectiously crazed merriment is the highly lively and inspired mix of elements from the action , horror , comedy , and disaster genres . Granted , the animated CGI snakes are pretty hokey , but that only adds to the considerable wacky charm . Okay , we're not talking Oscar-worthy cinematic masterpiece here , but this much-hyped flick certainly delivers the promised hugely enjoyable over-the-top goods with a heady blast of sheer galvanizing go-for-it joy and energy that's impossible to either dislike or resist . A real rip-roaring pip .
A superb & thoughtful horror sleeper about the plight of the elderly	Six feisty old folks - - blind Peter Brocco , hard-working superintendent Ian Wolfe and his nagging wife Ruth McDermott , kindly writer William Hansen , agoraphobic eccentric Frances Fuller and fierce , formidable old battle ax Paula Trueman - - refuse to leave their crumbling tenement building despite the fact that it's going to be demolished to make way for expensive high-rise apartment complexes . The extremely loyal , hidebound and resourceful over-the-hill group resort to murder so they can remain in their beloved brownstone , bumping off a condescending young woman social worker , a greedy jerk land developer and various hapless construction workers who are victims of random fatal " accidents . " Director / co-writer Larry Yust , who also helmed the bang-up funky blaxploitation blast " Trick Baby , " fashions this absorbingly off-kilter plot into a delightfully quirky and deadpan black comic horror oddity , skillfully alternating between shocking moments of brutal violence and inspired bits of uproarious wackiness in a deft , screwy , throwaway style which proves to be both amusingly nutty and occasionally quite unnerving in comparable measure . The murder set pieces are truly jolting and the climactic poky last reel paddle boat chase sequence is nothing short of brilliant . Better still , Yust shows a genuine warmth and compassion for the elderly , scoring points for his incisive critique of our society's gross disregard for senior citizens and how said elderly are among those luckless and powerless people who often don't benefit a bit from progress and urban renewal . Brocco , Wolfe , McDermott , Hansen , Fuller and especially the marvelously sassy and sprightly Trueman ( who was also great as Sondra Locke's redoubtable granny in " The Outlaw Josey Wales " ) all give lively , colorful , thoroughly engaging and touchingly dignified performances as the shrewd , lethal , lovably stubborn and indomitable geriatric protagonists . Beautifully photographed in the rundown Cincinnati slums by Isidore Mankofsky , this splendidly singular and whimsical fright film tale of inner city blight and the resilience of the elderly rates as a definite fabulously off-beat and original must-see sleeper .
A fiendishly clever & wickedly amusing seriocomic thriller	Wimpy , weary , stressed-out workaholic research scientist Michio Hayasaki ( superbly played by Koji Yakusho ) ain't having a good time of it : he's totally fried and exhausted by his job because he can't make that necessary breakthrough to perfect a spiffy new automated wheelchair he's designing for some big company . Worse yet , if Michio doesn't produce some solid results pronto his overbearing greedy jerk of a boss is going to cut his funds . Things get even more complicated when Michio's exact double suddenly materializes in the flesh . Whereas Michio is seriously meek , responsible and unassertive , his doppelganger is pure bad news : brash , crude , aggressive and blithely irresponsible , a toxic product of Michio's repressed id who cheerfully proceeds to further mess up Michio's already wildly unstable life . Director / co-screenwriter Kiyoshi Kurosawa offers up a deliciously clever and incisive seriocomic thriller which works beautifully as a marvelously off-beat and original meditation on the duality of human nature , keenly exploring how all of us have both positive and negative traits existent in our personalities which we must come to terms with or otherwise denial can ( and , most frightfully , inevitably will ) get the best of us . The film starts out on a deceptively dark and disturbing note , eventually giving way to a more playful and farcical sensibility that's always entertaining and often wickedly funny . Better yet , Michio's journey of self-discovery ultimately proves to be quite helpful and uplifting , concluding things with a very touching and heartening finale that's a joy to behold . Koji Yashuko delivers an outstanding performance in a most difficult and demanding role , endowing Michio with a certain hangdog appeal and even investing his ne'er-do-well double with an irresistibly rascally charm . The supporting cast likewise makes the grade , while the state-of-the-art digital effects which allow Michio and his double to interact on screen together are both splendid and seamless . A fiendishly sharp and smart delight that's well worth checking out .
A very funny & underrated seriocomic sleeper	Long before weary , burnt-out Nicholas Cage trolled around a crack-ravaged Hell's Kitchen in search of spiritual redemption in Martin Scorsese's hauntingly gloomy " Bringing Out the Dead " the choice happening trio of Billy Cosby , Raquel Welch and Harvey Keitel pounded an outrageously freaky , stressful and eventful Los Angeles beat as harried paramedics working for a low-rent ambulance service in this darkly humorous , often quirky and hugely underrated " M . A . S . H . " - style seriocomic sleeper . Bill Cosby , prior to his sad degeneration into terminally cutesy middle-of-the-road blandness in the 80's with the lamentable " The Cosby Show , " is in fine , funky form as hip , assured , sardonic crackerjack wheelman and smartaleck supreme Mother ( next to the super , hard-boiled , unjustly neglected private eye picture " Hickey and Boggs " this flick rates as the coolest feature the Cos ever acted in ) , the phenomenally gorgeous Raquel Welch excels in an all-too-rare substantial part as stand-offish , yet still desirable dispatcher Jugs , and Harvey Keitel contributes his usual solid performance as moody ex-cop Speed . The eclectic supporting cast is likewise smack dab on the money excellent : Allen Garfield as the antsy , frazzle-nerved ambulance service owner , Larry Hagman as a smarmy , desperate libidinous loser , Bruce Davison as a naive rookie , L . Q . Jones as a laid-back local lawman , Toni Basil as a shotgun-wielding heroin addict , Dick Butkus as an amiable good ol ' boy cowboy , and the ever-divine Severn Darden doing a deft reprise of his shameless shyster lawyer role from " Cisco Pike . " Director Peter Yates , working from Tom Mankiewicz's sharp , brash , wildly episodic script , keeps the pace storming along at a furiously dynamic clip , staging car crashes with considerable aplomb and boldly veering the tone from hilariously raucous to alarmingly serious with frequently on-target , sometimes surprising and always genuinely eccentric results . Ralph Woolsey's glittering nighttime cinematography and the groovy , lively , pulsating soul score vividly capture the harrowing nonstop lunacy of both inner city blight and the intrinsic highly intensified pressure found in the paramedic profession . The loose , easy and funny camaraderie between Cosby , Welch and Keitel in particular really hits the spot something sweet . There's no denying that they make for a pretty unlikely threesome - - and it's the very oddballness of this engagingly flaky bunch which in turn gives the film its irresistibly off-center appeal .
A gloriously offbeat and inventive one-of-a-kind futuristic sci-fi musical marvel	In the bleak and hopeless near future a worldwide epidemic causes an alarming array of organ failures . The mighty and amoral biotech company GENECO rises to power by offering the desperate masses new organs . Folks who fail to keep up on their payments for their organs are targeted by the dreaded Repo Man . Bitter and ruthless GENECO founder Rotti Largo ( an excellent portrayal by Paul Sorvino ) is dying of a terminal disease . His grotesque kids - - vain , plastic surgery-obsessed daughter Amber Sweet ( a shockingly good Paris Hilton ) , deranged , bad-tempered son Luigi ( the always creepy Bill Moseley in his freaky element ) , and Luigi's infantile disfigured sibling Pavi ( the fine Ogre Nivek ) - - squabble amongst each other over who's going to inherent the family business . Meanwhile , frail and sickly teenage innocent Shilo Wallace ( an appealing turn by Alexa Vega ) is locked away in her house by her protective and overbearing doctor father Nathan ( a remarkable performance by Anthony Stewart Head ) . Unbeknownst to Shilo , Nathan works for Rotti as the Repo Man . Everything eventually comes to a full head at the incredible grandiose operatic conclusion . Director Darren Lynn Bousman , working from Darren Smith and Terrance Zdunich , expertly crafts a bold , wildly stylized and insanely imaginative brooding Gothic vision of a bleak and decaying future while relating a captivating story of love , betrayal , loyalty and dark family secrets . The cast sink their teeth into their juicy roles with tremendous go-for-it gusto and belt out the songs with comparable rip-snorting relish : Sorvino and Head shine as the two main adversaries , Hilton acquits herself well with her sizable supporting part , Zdunich has a total ball as the ghoulishly charming Graverobber , and Sarah Brightman is terrific as forlorn , yet glamorous GENECO spokeslady Blind Mag . Joseph White's dazzling cinematography gives the picture a stunning garish look ; the use of comic book panels for the flashbacks is an especially inspired touch . The songs are uniformly tasty and rousing , with the fiercely ripping " Testify " rating as the definite stirring stand-out tune . Moreover , we also get a handy helping of grisly gore to further spice up the already deliciously outrageous celluloid stew . A truly unique and impressive oddball cinematic achievement .
Worthy of its classic status	Ambitious American ambassador Robert Thorn ( an outstanding and dignified performance by the inestimable Gregory Peck ) begins to suspect that something is amiss with his adopted son Damien ( well played by gifted child thespian Harvey Stephens ) following a troubling series of odd and fatal " accidents . " Thorn and cynical photographer Keith Jennings ( the always excellent David Warner ) embark on an investigation which takes them all over Europe in order to uncover the truth about Damien's possibly satanic origins . Director Robert Donner and screenwriter David Seltzer give the fantastic supernatural premise a semblance of plausibility by firmly grounding said story in a believable everyday world . Moreover , Donner maintains a steady pace throughout , keeps the tone resolutely creepy and serious ( there's a welcome absence of any dumb and obtrusive humor ) , and stages a few elaborate murder set pieces with breathtaking go-for-it verve ( an impalement on a huge spike and a stunning decapitation by a large runaway pane of glass are especially effective while a cheery young nanny happily hanging herself at a birthday party proves to be genuinely shocking and disturbing ) . Better still , the special effects are used in an admirably judicious manner and the picture overall primarily relies on developing and sustaining a potently unsettling gloom-doom mood to get under the viewer's skin . The tension gradually builds to a nerve-wracking fever pitch and culminates in a truly harrowing last third . The uniformly sterling acting by a first-rate cast qualifies as another major asset : Peck and Lee Remick as Torn's sweet , yet frail wife Katherine bring a tremendous amount of class to the film , Billie Whitelaw gives a positively chilling portrayal of sinister governess Ms . Baylock , Patrick Troughton excels as intense priest Father Brennan , and Leo McKern contributes a neat cameo as occult expert Carl Bugenhagen . Kudos are also in order for Gilbert Taylor's glossy cinematography and Jerry Goldsmith's supremely shivery'n'spooky Oscar-winning score . A superior mainstream horror hit .
Dead bodies by Jake	Just what the world needs : a hilariously horrendous early 80's seasonal slasher fright flick about a brawny , berserk , bug-eyed chortling homicidal lunatic who escapes from an asylum and heads for the hills to bump off an extremely obnoxious dysfunctional family celebrating Thanksgiving in some remote woodland cabin ( said family members include a loutish drunken uncle with a severe gambling habit , one hot tamale of a sexy Mexican maid , and an especially irritating KISS-loving wannabe rock musician teenage spazz sporting pasty white mime make-up and a portable electric guitar ) . Wow , what a shockingly novel and original premise for a slice'n'dice film ! Can you say blatant " Halloween " rip-off ? Yeah , so can I . Anyway , what makes this terrifically tacky'n'terrible turkey ( a bad pun I know , but I just couldn't resist ) such a gut-busting unintentional laugh riot is the fact that the crazed killer is wildly overplayed with considerable unrestrained scenery-scarfing hambone relish by famous musclehead Jake " Bodybuilder to the Stars " Steinfeld . Yep , you got it : Dead bodies by Jake ! Big Brother Jake goes bonkers and gets bloodthirsty ! Jake's introduction scene alone is an absolute hoot : Jake strangles some guy drinking beer in his car , shoots PCP into the underside of his tongue with a needle ( gross ! ) and gleefully mows down a little old lady crossing the street while cutting loose with this unbearably annoying and high-pitched teeth-rattling demented cackle the whole time . Best-ever murder set piece : Jake fries the KISS kid with his own electric guitar . If only Anchor Bay would release a gorgeous widescreen digitally remastered Special Edition DVD - - preferably with an interview with and / or commentary by Big Jake - - then my life would be complete .
A gritty and hard-hitting 70's made-for-TV classic	Sullen and forlorn 14-year-old incorrigible runaway Chris Parker ( a touching and terrific performance by Linda Blair ) gets declared a ward of the state . She's placed in a juvenile reform school where she not only begins to feel even more dejected and alienated because of the cold bureaucratic system , but also runs afoul of nasty , disturbed Denny ( chillingly played by Janit Baldwin ) and dumpy , aggressive lesbian Moco ( the equally scary Nora Heflin ) . Director Donald Wrye , working from a gritty and uncompromisingly realistic script by Gerald Di Pego , relates the grimly plausible and compelling story in an admirably straightforward and nonexploitative manner . The uniformly fine acting from a top-notch cast qualifies as another substantial asset : Joanna Miles as concerned , caring counselor Barbara Clark , Allyn Ann McLerie as strict , but compassionate house mother Emma Lasko , Richard Jaeckel as Chris ' stern , volatile , overbearing father , Kim Hunter as Chris ' neurotic , ineffectual mother , Mitch Vogel as Chris ' supportive , but unhelpful brother Tom , Tina Andrews as the friendly , spunky Josie , and Sandra Ego as the depressed , suicidal , pregnant Janet . Fred Karlin's beautifully moody'n'melancholy score and David M . Walsh's plain , yet polished cinematography are likewise solid and impressive . But what truly gives this hard-hitting made-for-TV drama its considerable impact and poignancy is the welcome and commendable sense of restraint , conviction and raw honesty evident throughout . The potentially lurid plot stays on a steady and tasteful course ( although the infamous plunger rape scene is indeed quite shocking and disturbing , its thankfully more suggested than shown ) , sharply revealing plenty of bleak truths about troubled teens in the process and culminating in a hauntingly downbeat ending . A real powerhouse .
A superbly gritty and exciting science fiction action thriller	There's something sinister afoot on Jupitor's third moon of Io . The workers of a bleak mining colony are becoming crazy and killing themselves because they are being fed an amphetamine which not only increases their productivity , but also causes them to become psychotic . It's up to stalwart , morally sound and responsible Marshal William T . O'Niel ( a characteristically strong and personable performance by the always dependable Sean Connery ) to lay down the law and put a stop to things before they get any worse . Writer / director Peter Hyams creates a plausibly grim'n'grimy future where greed and profit take precedent over morality and human lives , expertly generates plenty of tension from the absorbing premise , maintains a steady quick pace throughout , and deftly stages one cracking corker of a rousing last third with two assassins arriving at Io with the specific intent of killing O'Niel . Connery effortlessly carries the picture with his considerable charismatic presence , receiving terrific support from Frances Sternhagen as a cranky , sarcastic doctor , Kila Markham as his fed-up , long-suffering wife , Peter Boyle as the blithely corrupt general manager , James B . Sikking as a cynical , wisecracking on the take deputy , and Steven Berkoff as a crazed miner who flips out . Jerry Goldsmith's beautifully moody and stirring score , the first-rate special effects ( the miniatures in particular are amazing ) , Stephen Goldblatt's rough , grainy cinematography , and the grungy set design are all likewise uniformly fantastic . Moreover , the film earns bonus accolades for neatly avoiding certain tiresome clichés . For example , the villains never threaten to either kidnap or murder Connery's wife and son . In addition , Sternhagen comes to Connery's aid instead of the other way around . Intelligent , engrossing and above all exciting , " Outland " sizes up as one of the best and most shamefully underrated adult science fiction movies made in the early 80's .
A splendidly sleazy slice of 70's drive-in slasher trash	If anyone was to ask me who's my all-time favorite delightfully dweebish 70's B-horror flick actor , my answer would have to be the ineffably gauche , yet still bizarrely riveting Andrew Prine . With his tall , lanky , ungainly build , gaunt hangdog face , quivering voice , and often antsy , uneasy disposition , Andy was basically a poor man's Anthony Perkins for the Me Decade . Prine established himself as the early 70's twitchy psycho pic performer par excellence with his spot-on spaced-out portrayals of an evil , world-weary warlock in the trippy " Simon , King of the Witches " and a disgusting , desert-dwelling , mother-hating bargain basement misogynist Norman Bates-like oedipal wreck lunatic in the sublimely skanky " Barn of the Naked Dead . " " The Centerfold Girls " finds our boy Andy in first-rate fidgety , fumbling , beeped-in-the-head freakazoid form as Clement Dunne , an awkward , bespectacled , sexually repressed and thoroughly nerdy nutjob sporting a ghastly Beatles shag haircut , equally ugly rumpled leisure suits and unsightly two-tone Buster Brown shoes . The only thing worse than Dunne's hideous coiffure and horrendous wardrobe is his nasty murderous propensity for brutally carving up the assorted sinful scarlet harlots who've posed in the buff for the sleazy skin mag " Bachelor . " Dunne's luscious lady victims are a veritable distaff who's who of 70's grindhouse cinema : the gorgeous Tiffany Bolling of " The Candy Snatchers " fame , " Bummer " ' s Connie Strickland , Jennifer Ashley ( who was previously terrorized by Prine in " Barn of the Naked Dead " ) , future " The Young and the Restless " daytime TV soap opera series regular Jaime Lyn Bauer , busty brunette Janet ( " The G . I . Executioner , " " Angels Hard As They Come " ) Wood , Talie ( " The Love-Thrill Murders , " " I Spit on Your Corpse " ) Cochrane , onetime " Penthouse " Pet Anneka di Lorenzo , and no-name lovelies Kitty Carl and Ruth Ross , most of whom do gratuitous nude scenes before Andy bags ' em . The male supporting cast coughs up a similar roll call of down and out exploitation hack perennials : the ubiquitous Aldo Ray as a repulsive would-be rapist , Jeremy Slate as a crusty homicide detective , Ray Danton as a droll adult magazine publisher , huge , hulking , granite-faced veteran tough guy Mike Mazurki as a grouchy mansion grounds keeper , and fat guy character actor Dan Seymour as a motel manager . John Peyser's tight direction , the almost constant avalanche of bared female flesh , and the harsh , bloody violence add immensely to the deliciously deviant junky fun , while the minimal music , crude cinematography and grainy film stock give this trashy treat the irresistibly seedy aura of a scuzzy no-budget porno feature . Perhaps the film's oddest , most startling and notable aspect is its shockingly blunt , in-your-face vile , sneering and hostile misanthropy and mean-spiritedness : Practically every last character , especially the largely creepy and unpleasant guys , comes across as really hateful , antisocial and unsympathetic aholes ; even Bolling's much-abused stewardess heroine is a snippy , stuck-up bitch . As a result , Prine's wonderfully warped wacko inadvertently seems like more of a semi-justified anti-hero instead of a full-fledged villain . It's this latter alarmingly off-kilter element which truly makes this depraved drive-in dreck one to relish .
A truly terrific Hammer horror / action / adventure hybrid winner	Evil elderly vampiress Lady Durward ( comely blonde Wanda Ventham ) preys upon numerous fair maidens in a small English village , draining the luscious damsels of their youthful lives and turning them into withered old crones . Concerned Dr . Marcus ( the fine John Carson ) calls upon handsome , dashing and courageous expert swordsman and vampire hunter supreme Captain Kronos ( a charming portrayal by Horst Janson ) , his loyal , friendly , erudite hunchbacked assistant Professor Grost ( an engaging performance by John Cater ) , and fiery gypsy girl Carla ( the stunningly beautiful Caroline Munro in splendidly spirited form ) to thwart the pernicious bloodsucker before it's too late . Writer / director Brian ( " And Soon the Darkness " ) Clemens has an infectiously grand time blending elements of horror , action , fantasy , Western , adventure and dryly witty humor into a truly fresh , inspired and imaginative cinematic brew , nicely sustaining a constant unflagging pace throughout , staging the action and shocks with considerable rip-roaring élan , offering a few marvelously eerie images ( I really dug the shadow of the cross wilting on a church wall as the vampiress approaches the place ) , and coaxing excellent acting from a game cast ( Ian Hendry in particular has an absolute ball as a mean , browbeating no-count thug hired by the Durwards to kill Kronos ) . Moreover , the film's lively and incessant go-for-it sense of pure vigor and boundless creativity add immensely to its entertainment value . Clemens ' clever tweaking of standard vampire lore is quite tasty and spot-on innovative : the foul undead fiends can be killed in a plethora of different ways ( hanging , immolation , the usual stake through the heart bit ) , bring dead toads back to life , feed on people's lifeforce instead of their blood , and can walk around in broad daylight . Kudos are also in order for Ian Wilson's bright , vibrant , dynamic cinematography and Laurie Johnson's jaunty , rousing , robust score . A total treat .
A terrifically trashy compilation of choice cheesy drive-in exploitation film trailers	The wonderfully lurid lay it all out on the table outrageous title does not lie ! This resolutely seamy pip does indeed spew forth 28 of the most spectacularly loopy , torrid and trashy 70's and 80's exploitation trailers to ever ooze their slimy way across the big screen . In fact , this blithely brazen schlockfest is often downright mesmerizing in all its marvelously meretricious magnificence . There's plenty of sexy , shapely and positively succulent unclad distaff skin on gloriously abundant display throughout : Among the luscious ladies who doff their duds and bare their beautiful bodies are the adorable Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith ( the soft-core musical version of " Cinderella " ) , vampy Russ Meyer starlet Edy Williams ( " Dr . Minx " with William Smith ) , superb six foot drink of dirty blonde water Dixie Lee Peabody ( " Bury Me An Angel " ) , the perpetually naked Laura Gemser ( " Emmanuelle Around the World " ) , a pre-Prince Vanity ( " Tanya's Island " ) , and a double dose of the delectable Claudia Jennings ( " The Singles Girls " and the rowdy redneck romp " Truck Stop Women ; " the latter also features Uschi Digard ) . Fans of the awesomely bountiful Phyllis Davis get to see a lot of this under-appreciated actress ' substantial assets in the memorably sleazy trailers for " Sweet Suger " and " Terminal Island . " Even better still , the ravishing Cassandra " Elvira " Peterson shows off her considerable smoking hot stuff in the fantastic promo for " The Working Girls . " Other transcendently tacky trailers include the eerie " Tourist Trap , " the enjoyably dippy " Beyond Atlantis , " the simply daft " Fairytales " ( one of Linnea Quigley's first-ever flicks ) , the still quite disgusting after all these years immortal jewel " I Spit On Your Grave , " the histrionic " Zombie " ( " If you loved ' Dawn of the Dead , ' you'll just eat ' Zombie ' ! " ) , and much more . The biggest laughs stem from the uproariously insane " Dr . Black and Mr . Hyde " spot , thanks to said plug's inspired use of profane free-form proto-rap phrasing ( " Don't give him no sass / Or he'll kick yo a ! " ) . However , the arrogant Rudy Ray Moore's mighty troika of over-the-top ridiculous ads for " Dolemite , " " The Human Tornado , " and the especially gut-busting " Disco Godfather " ( " We're flying high on a disco trip ! " ) are likewise totally sidesplitting . Hosted by an obnoxiously supercilious and seriously under the weather John Carradine ( sons David and Keith briefly pop up at the very end ) , directed by Ken Dixon of " Filmgore " infamy , produced by the tireless Charles Band , scripted with a wince-worthy emphasis on dreadful puns by Frank Ray Perilli ( who also wrote " Laserblast , " " Parasite , " and " Mansion of the Doomed " for Band ) , and topped off with a hard-thrashing Richard Band rock score , this cheerfully degenerate cavalcade of pure rancid cinematic swill qualifies as essential viewing for hardcore fans of celluloid depravity .
A terrifically tense , tough & thrilling 50's crime noir classic	Bitter ex-cop Tim Foster ( expertly played with consummate steely resolve by Preston Foster ) is still fuming about his forced early retirement , so he decides to get his revenge by devising a fiendishly clever perfect caper . Foster forces three despicable low-life hoodlums - - jittery compulsive gambler Pete Harris ( lanky Jack Elam ) , sleazy womanizing heel Tony Romano ( snaky Lee Van Cleef ) and surly gum-chewing brute Boyd Kane ( burly Neville Brand ) - - to pull off a bold $1 , 200 , 000 bank heist . Foster cruelly sets up rugged , resourceful and resilient innocent ex-con Joe Rolfe ( a strong and sympathetic performance by John Payne ) as a fall guy in a wicked ploy to buy time to successfully escape the country with the hot loot . After he gets sprung from jail due to lack of evidence , Joe puts himself in considerable jeopardy by obsessively tracking down Foster and his pernicious flunkies in order to clear his name . Phil Karlson's sharp , assured and stylish direction , working from a smart , complex and absorbing script by George Bruce and Harry Essex , further aided by George E . Diskant's stark , shadowy black and white photography and Paul Santell's brooding , moody , rousing score , skillfully crafts a diabolically arresting and hard-boiled little nugget of a gritty crime noir thriller : the brisk pace never lets up for a minute , the nerve-wracking suspense is well-maintained from start to finish , the tone is suitably grim and serious , and the tense , bleak , seedy and sinister atmosphere seethes with danger and corruption . The film's principal winning hand is the truly inspired and on the money casting of resolutely scrappy and unglamorous character actors Elam , Brand and Van Cleef as three of the foulest , meanest , ugliest and most menacing no-account criminal scum to ever scowl , growl and glower their way across the screen ; Brand and Van Cleef in particular make for a fabulously nasty and odious pair of scary customers . Colleen Gray adds substantial spunky charm and vigor as a feisty aspiring lady lawyer who befriends Joe . Slightly marred by a rather sappy conclusion , " Kansas City Confidential " overall still rates highly as the authentic gnarly noir article .
Johnny Cash gives a superb performance in this poignant and powerful made-for-TV feature	Late , great country singer Johnny Cash gives a sturdy and strikingly effective performance as Jesse Hallam , a poor and illiterate , but proud and willful Kentucky coal miner who's forced to sell his house and move to Cincinatti so his ailing daughter can get a spinal operation . Hallam has difficulty both finding a job and adjusting to the hectic pace of big city life due to his inability to read and write . Hallam soon realizes that he's going to have to become literate in order to succeed in the city . Capably directed with praiseworthy tact and sensitivity by Gary Nelson , with a thoughtful script by Suzanne Clauser , sharp , pretty cinematography by Gayne Rescher , and a lulling , folksy , harmonic country score by Cash and Alan Shapiro ( Cash also sings a few catchy , lively songs on the soundtrack ) , this fine film addresses the serious and troubling issue of illiteracy in a moving and compelling way . Cash's terrific portrayal of Hallam effortlessly carries the picture ; he brings a craggy grace and stubborn dignity to the role that's credible , commanding and even quite affecting ( the scene where Hallam haltingly reads to his daughter in the hospital is extremely touching ) . The strong supporting turns by Eli Wallach as a fiery , excitable warehouse owner who hires Hallam to work for him , Brenda Vaccaro as a compassionate high school vice principal who becomes Hallam's mentor , Ben Marley as Hallam's surly , estranged , equally unlettered teenage son , Chrystal Smith as Hallam's sickly daughter , and Guy Boyd as an unsympathetic cop are all on the money as well . An excellent , engrossing and ultimately uplifting movie .
A very sweet and charming slice-of-life seriocomic delight	Dennis Christopher of " Breaking Away " fame delivers a solid , engaging performance as T . T . , a gawky , disenchanted , fresh out of high school adolescent hick from Chicago who comes to the cool California beaches to find women , contentment and excitement by becoming actively involved in the allegedly thrilling surfing lifestyle . Unfortunately , T . T . only discovers that the anomie and dissatisfaction he's trying to avoid in life are an intrinsic , albeit often ignored and unspoken part of the actually nothing terribly stirring surfing lifestyle . An appealingly off-beat seriocomic youthful rites of passage outing from - - and radical departure for - - American International Pictures , " California Dreaming " makes for a neat , incisive , slyly revisionist beach movie feature which refuses to mindlessly glorify the sport's empty hedonistic mentality ; instead the film offers an illuminating expose of the drab , shallow , aimless workaday reality behind the great American myth of surfing while also tossing in some fine insights into love , growing up , responsibility , unfulfilled desires and unattainable , but still persistent dreams . Moreover , it's marvelously acted by a stand-out cast : the always delightful Seymour Cassel as Duke , the amiable , garrulous , aging volleyball playing beach bum bar owner who takes T . T . under his wing ; the comely , golden-haired , very under-appreciated Glynnis O'Connor as Duke's somewhat snobby , but generally sweet daughter Corky , who wants T . T . to shuck surfing and dedicate himself to a more mature , useful occupation in life ; Dorothy Tristan as Duke's still ardent and interested old flame Fay , the adorable Stacey ( " Get Crazy , " " Halloween III : Season of the Witch " ) Nelkin as vacuous , promiscuous beach bunny Marsha , and even a pre - " Charlie's Angels " Tanya Roberts as Stephanie , a stuck-up rich princess who can't get her unfaithful tube-blowing boyfriend to seriously commit to their relationship . Directed with trademark acuity , facility and sensitivity by the ever observant and eternally underrated John ( " Bang the Drum Slowly , " " Weeds " ) Hancock , with a sound , absorbing , fairly intricate and highly accurate script by Ned Wynn ( who also co-stars as shiftless surfer dude Earl ) , lovely , sunny cinematography by Bobby Byrne , and a fun , breezy soundtrack ( the folk-rock group America sing a few nice , catchy songs ) , this shamefully neglected and radiant gem qualifies as a charming , leisurely placed , often wryly amusing , sometimes dreamily ( and genuinely ) erotic , quite honest and cogent exploration of boredom and restlessness that benefits substantially from its funny , delicate , warm-hearted handling of its endearing assortment of everyday oddball characters . An utterly winsome and well-done little sleeper .
My all-time favorite outrageously wild'n'raunchy 70's cheerleader flick	When a greedy jerk land developer threatens to raze Aloha High School to make room for a shopping center and force the affluent California-based educational institution to merge with a nearby vocational school the five members of the Aloha High cheerleader squad resort to various drastic tactics ( e . g . , spiking the cafeteria spaghetti with booze and grass ) in order to thwart the guy . That's about it for the admittedly flimsy plot - - and frankly who honestly cares about some stinking useless no-good story ? What truly matters is if this darling delivers the expected blithely lowbrow drive-in exploitation trash goods . I'm happy to say that it does . Jerii Woods ( one of the black revolutionaries in Jack Hill's immortal " Switchblade Sisters " ) , a pregnant , pot-bellied Rainbeaux Smith ( Rainbeaux at one point does a truly startling pre-Demi Moore bun-in-the-oven nude scene ! ) , Susie Elene , July ' 76 " Penthouse " Pet Helen Lang , and especially the gorgeous , slender , apple-cheeked blonde cutie pie Patrice Rohmer all disrobe quite often so they can show off their sexy , sensuous , sizzling smoking hot stuff . A pre-stardom David Hasselhoff makes an enormous fool of himself as " Boner , " a totally sex-crazed cretin who earns his name from his perpetually raging insatiable libido . Hardcore Hasselhoff haters will find his constant embarrassingly imbecilic antics hugely amusing , but I must warn everyone : lanky and ungainly Dave actually shows a lot more of his then scrawny stringbean body here then he ever displayed in a single episode of " Baywatch " ( yuck ! ) . Neither Richard Lerner's merely competent direction nor Nathaniel Dorsky's rather static cinematography are particularly impressive , but overall this one makes the grade with flying freaky day-glo colors : the gratuitous nudity and soft-core sex is pleasingly abundant ( one sequence with an Asian girl burying her nose in a dippy blonde dude's butt is genuinely shocking ) , the gleefully witless humor shows not a slight iota of sophistication ( meaning it's frequently funny in a wonderfully raunchy and ridiculous sort of way ) , there's no less than four uproariously pathetic'n'protracted disco dance sequences ( Dorky Dave's jerky , spasmodic , highly arrhythmic sub-John Travolta boogie woogie moves are an absolute gut-busting riot to behold ) , John Sterling's catchy , poppy , slow-grinding oh-so-70's synthesizer and wah-wah guitar heavy score really hits the funky spot , and magician / actor Carl Ballantine of " McHale's Navy " fame has a nice bit as the doddery old principal . Patrick Wright , the lecherous macho man football coach in " The Cheerleaders , " has a nifty cameo as a stuffy cop and served as the assistant director . Okay , we're not talking work of cinematic art here . But I still totally dug this outrageously awful picture just the same . Besides , there's no way I'm going to be too hard on a flick that uses elaborately gaudy wipes and dissolves in order to cut from one scene to another and boasts one of the greatest glaring continuity errors in dimestore cinema history : two mysterious brunette girls who are never clearly established as secondary characters magically appear out of nowhere to cut the rug with the rest of the gang in those previously cited absurdly atrocious disco dance sequences !
You'll go to " pieces " watching this hilariously horrible slasher schlock hoot	Juan Piper Simon , the same sweet , subtle , sophisticated gent who blessed us with " Slugs , " delivers an astoundingly crass and repulsive slasher opus which might very well be the grossest , goriest , most sexist and objectionable entry in the kill the collegians academia-set body count slice'n'dice sub-genre that was highly fashionable throughout the early to mid 80's . A depraved , heavy-breathing , chainsaw-wielding misogynistic psycho lunatic viciously murders and dismembers assorted pretty young harlot coeds at a Boston university , gathering up their body parts so he can make a grisly composite of the perfect woman ! It's up to a ramrod jerk detective ( gruffly played with mucho macho muscle by the incomparable Chris George ) and a gutsy undercover lady cop ( George's hot real-life wife Lynda Day ) to nab the twisted sicko . Probable suspects include stuffy dean Edmund Purdom , dweeby gay professor Jack Taylor , and hulking creep handyman Paul Smith . This marvelously rank scuzzfest really delivers the greasy'n'grungy goods : a hefty plenitude of sleazy sex , gratuitous nudity and hideously explicit splatter , a token Oriental martial arts expert , Jane Fonda-style workout aerobics , a vacuous dancing disco bunny on roller-skates getting turned into a bloody pulp after she crashes into a large pane of glass , a throbbing Goblinesque prog-rock score , the truly tasteless moment where a foxy topless young woman wets her pants as she's about to be carved-up by the killer , and a simply stupendous surprise ending in which the composite corpse inexplicably comes to life so it can castrate libidinous womanizing heel Ian Sera . And remember everyone : it's exactly what you think it is . In this case this means a prime putrid piece of pure unabashed and unadulterated trash .
A very charming , funny and refreshingly offbeat Bigfoot documentary hoot	Without a doubt one of the best refreshingly atypical Bigfoot documentaries to ever grace celluloid , this winningly whimsical , but still respectful and illuminating made-for-Canadian TV 70 minute feature breaks from the standard mold by not focusing solely on Sasquatch . Instead , director / co-screenwriter Peter von Puttkamer offers a wryly amusing and highly entertaining profile on four fellows who've dedicated their lives to the study , capture and documentation of the legendary apeman's existence . Affectionately dubbed " The Four Horsemen of Sasquatchery , " the motley quartet of elderly gents are : Studiously academic physical anthropologist Grover Krantz , suave Irish adventurer Peter Byrne , shy , soft-spoken outdoorsman Peter Green , and crotchety Swiss writer Rene Dahinden . Puttkamer's colorful portraits of these reigning Sasquatch experts offers a telling and enjoyable glimpse at the uniquely obsessive mindset of the dyed-in-the-wool Bigfoot fanatic . Krantz , who was initially a skeptic when he first became seriously involved with investigating Sasquatch and has been fiercely ridiculed for his firm belief in Bigfoot and deemed a pariah within the snobby scientific community which in turn has made him extremely hidebound , hardened and tenacious with the passage of time , qualifies as the most scholarly and professorial of Bigfoot buffs thanks to his strong theories concerning Mr . Over-sized Pawprint's prehistoric origins . The immaculately cultured , composed and extroverted bon vivant Byrne rates as the Errol Flynn of the bunch , while the quiet and reserved Green comes across as the average garden variety everyman who somehow got tangled up in some incredibly nutty business-type of affable guy of the group . And then there's the lovably cantankerous Dahinden , whose salty tongue , easily set off temper , and zero tolerance for snot-nosed amateurs and stuffy bookworm facts single him out as the king crabby curmudgeon of Sasquatch trackers ( Dahinden is further blessed with an impish sense of humor , as proved by a TV commercial he did for Kokanee beer featuring Bigfoot . Kokanee did several other ads with Bigfoot in ' em . And , yes Virginia , there's indeed a brew called Bigfoot Beer ! ) . Of course , these geriatric men are all former close friends turned bitter adversaries who constantly argue over such pressing issues as whether Bigfoot is a man or an ape , Bigfoot's debatable status as the possible missing link , and whether it's preferable to capture a Sasquatch dead or alive . Graced with the terrific country-and-western novelty theme song " Bigfoot Lives " and choice clips from trashy two-bit Sasquatch exploitation pictures ( which include Bill Rebane's delectably cheesy " The Capture of Bigfoot " ! ) , this wonderful picture rates as a pleasingly quirky and frivolous addition to the usually gravely sober Bigfoot documentary branch of the Sasquatch cinema tree .
An eerie , excellent & unnerving " danger on the road " thriller knockout	Antsy , dumpy , high-strung , secretive and deeply repressed traveling salesman Jack ( Lance Henrikson ) runs afoul of mean , scuzzy , foul-mouthed , overbearing and antagonistic ex-con junkie drifter Adrian ( Eric Roberts ) while trekking across the dusty , lonely , remote and forbidding California desert . Meanwhile , a savage killer called " the Hatchet Man " commits gruesome dismemberment murders and one million dollars has been recently stolen from a Las Vegas , Nevada casino . Is it Jack or Adrian who's behind one or possibly both of these heinous crimes ? Writer / director Victor Salva , who also gave us the creepy psycho item " Clownhouse " and both socko sicko " Jeepers Creepers " monsterfests , here deftly crafts a tense , edgy , nerve-jangling and fiercely confrontational peril-on-the-open-backroads psychological mystery thriller . Salva relates the eerily spellbinding narrative at a leisurely pace , wisely allowing the precisely etched characters and spooky , discomfiting atmosphere to carry the day with casual , effortless assurance . Salva's sharp , astute , neatly tricky and in-your-face abrasive script offers a starkly chilling and incisive meditation on the darker side of human nature , chiefly addressing man's shocking capacity for extreme evil , the misery of basic everyday existence , and how almost everyone has a dirty little skeleton in their closet that they wish to hide from the world . The always terrific Lance Henrikson portrays Jack with his customary top-drawer terse , tightly coiled spring intensity . The equally excellent Eric Roberts lands himself a sleazy , juicy , spiky part and deliciously sinks his teeth into it with lip-licking glee . Late , great villainous character actor Brion James has a welcome change-of-pace good guy role as a gregarious sheriff . Levie Isaacks ' slick , crisply evocative cinematography vividly captures a harrowing sense of isolation and vulnerability . Bennett Salvay's brooding , shuddery score further enhances the quietly unsettling suspense . Grim , despairing and uncompromisingly upsetting , " The Nature of the Beast " rates highly as one of the true unjustly neglected skin-crawling sleepers from the 90's .
A splendidly sick and surreal early 80's sci-fi / horror stunner	One of the more arrestingly off-beat " ALIEN " sci-fi / horror variants to materialize in the early to mid 80's , this compellingly uneasy combination of drearily conventional domestic drama and totally off-the-wall sci-fi / horror weirdness starts out fairly mundane , but eventually erupts into all-out credibility-be-damned jaw-dropping surrealism as its oddball plot unfolds . A man who was abducted by aliens returns home after a long absence and makes a faltering attempt at regaining his previous ordinary life with horrifically disastrous consequences for both himself and his family . Acting , direction and narrative coherence take a back seat to an alarming succession of increasingly daft , shocking and gloriously grotesque graphic set pieces : a luckless lady who's been brutally raped by a hideous extraterrestrial crab-like beast gives painful , life-taking birth to a fully grown man ( nasty ! ) in a truly gag-inducing scene , a half-human , half-alien guy causes a pay phone to melt after he touches it , comely French au pair girl and future James Bond movie starlet Maryam ( " The Living Daylights " ) d'Abo gets wrapped up in a cocoon that's located directly above the bathroom shower so she can be used as an incubator for alien eggs ( luckily the luscious Maryam gets to do two eye-popping and much-appreciated gratuitous nude scenes prior to meeting this ghastly fate ) , d'Abo's libidinous boyfriend winds up being mauled by a panther after being chased around the house by a dangerous animated toy tank ( yes , you read that correctly ) , and , in perhaps the film's single most stupendously strange sequence , a GI Joe doll gets blown up to normal man size so it can come to life and take out a snoopy old lady neighbor ( I'm honestly not making this crazy stuff up ) . Amid all this magnificently messed-up lunacy the movie's " you can't go back home " subtext somehow manages to acquire a certain cock-eyed poignancy that's in equal degrees oddly affecting and genuinely unnerving . Alas , this terrifically twisted and authentically outré treat was followed by a couple of dire , scarcely related by-the-numbers sequels which sadly lack the original's startlingly unpredictable free-form approach to telling a story .
A hysterically funny , quirky and original oddball sci-fi comedy riot	Homesick , alcoholic , shape-shifting , telekinetic nervous humanoid alien Phil just wants to go back to his own planet after crashlanding his spaceship on our strange and hostile world . While stranded on Earth Phil has many bizarre adventures which include befriending an astute , sympathetic talking beaver ( delightfully voiced by " SCTV " series vet Joe Flaherty ) , forming a Christian rock band ( Phil levitates while singing on stage ) , and eluding several nefarious government agents wearing plush fur coats who want to use Phil for evil means . As the above plot synopsis implies , what we got here is one marvelously funny , eccentric and wholly original one-of-a-kind sci-fi comic oddity . Writer / director / star Rob Stefaniuk displays a singularly engaging and idiosyncratic tongue-in-cheek sensibility that's a true wacky treat to behold . The humor is extremely flaky and off-center , but totally inspired and often sidesplitting . Moreover , Phil makes for a peculiarly endearing fish-out-of-water protagonist who has a certain sweet innocence and clumsiness to him that's impossible to dislike . The uniformly excellent performances from the terrific cast qualifies as another substantial plus , with especially winning turns by Boyd Banks as a macho redneck hunter , Nicole de Boer as an icy , but alluring freelance hit lady , Graham Greene as a gruff , unfriendly bartender , and Bruce Hunter as a boozy , burnt-out bumbling special agent . The nifty special effects , John Kastner's funky score , D . Gregor Hagey's bright , crisp cinematography , and the groovy jammin ' rock soundtrack further enhance the infectiously zany merriment of this fabulously flipped-out gem .
An excellent & imaginatively grotesque 70's killer animal winner	This exceptional killer worm flick marked the auspicious and impressive debut of great , shamefully unsung B-horror picture writer / director Jeff Lieberman , who followed up this slimy winner with the outstanding homicidal hippie acidhead landmark " Blue Sunshine " and the wickedly subversive , gender role reversal wackos-in-the-woods " Deliverance " variant " Just Before Dawn , " plus also blessed us with the nifty 80's direct-to-video item " Remote Control " and the recent funky hoot " Satan's Little Helper . " This skin-crawling delight rates highly as the best , creepiest and most deftly executed of the many revolt-of-nature fright films that were hugely popular and fashionable throughout the 70's . A whole lot of wriggling worms , juiced into a lethal , carnivorous , mankind-devouring frenzied mass by an electric cable downed in a fierce rain storm , nosh on the sleazy , boorish , hideously unfriendly local yokels which populate a drab little Georgia backwoods armpit hamlet . The premise sounds pretty awful , but Lieberman's hardy , adroit direction , wittily well-observed script , occasional dollops of wry black humor that sardonically poke fun at the plot's inherent absurdity ( skeptical good-for-nothing sheriff Peter MacLean first hears about the vicious invertebrates while ravenously eating a teeming plate of spaghetti , a truly inspired spoof of the famous " Psycho " shower sequence has worms instead of water seeping out of the shower head ) , and a welcome dearth of pompous , heavy-handed moralizing which tends to mar several similar nature-runs-amuck eco-scare tales ( e . g . , the horrendously portentous " Frogs " ) make a world of difference , thereby converting the unpromising plot into a most pleasant surprise indeed . Moreover , the worm attack set pieces are disgustingly convincing and thus quite jolting ( the horrific highlight occurs when vile redneck degenerate R . A . Dow has his face feasted on by the grody flesh-eating buggers ) , the refreshingly unmacho , but still resourceful Don ( " He Knows You're Alone " ) Scardino as the bright , bookish , hopelessly out-of-his-element college educated New York city boy hero and ravishing redhead Patricia ( " Cockfighter " ) Pearcy as Scardino's sweet , smart , fetching Southern belle girlfriend give nicely appealing performances , Joseph Mangine's crisp , evocative cinematography vividly captures a tangibly grungy and uninviting shabby small stickville town gone to seed atmosphere , Rick Baker's stand-out , often startling special make-up effects are typically first-rate ( a post chewed-up Dow , dubbed " Wormface , " makes for a notably ghastly sight to behold ) , there's a beautifully eerie opening credits sequence ( the odd , austere children's song played during the credits is positively haunting ) , and the all-around sound acting is up to snuff . All in all , this honey really makes the grade as a genuinely frightening and very satisfying terror treat .
Worthy of its cult status	Shy and mousy mute garment district worker Thana ( a remarkably assured and nuanced performance by the lovely Zoe Tamerlis ) gets raped twice in one day . After killing her second assailant with an iron , Thana takes possession of the man's . 45 caliber gun and starts hitting the mean streets of New York on a mission to blow away every last sleazy no-count guy who crosses her lethal path . Director Abel Ferrara ( who also has a chilling cameo as the first rapist ) and screenwriter Nicholas St . John take the familiar vigilante premise and completely turn it on its ear by cleverly undermining basic exploitation audience expectations : the rape scenes aren't that graphic , there's no nudity to speak of , and all the men featured in this film are hateful and disgusting jerks who regularly prey on women in one way or another ( Thana's victims include a street gang , a slimy fashion photographer , an abusive pimp , and even a rich Arab who cruises for babes to pick up in his limo ) . Moreover , this inspired cross between " Repulsion " and " Death Wish " reaches a stunning bloodbath climax at a Halloween costume party which Thana attends dressed as a nun . Tamerlis as Thana makes for a fascinatingly complex figure : While she nonchalantly offs numerous predatory dudes , she can't bring herself to kill her landlady's pesky dog . In an interesting touch , the initially plain and passive Thana becomes more increasingly alluring and aggressive throughout the course of the narrative . Edith Sherman as Thana's annoying and eccentric landlady Ms . Sherman gives one of the single most gloriously oddball performances ever committed to celluloid . Albert Sinkys contributes a deliciously smarmy turn as Thana's odious creep boss Albert and Jack Thibeau has a startling bit as a dejected fellow Thana picks up in a bar . James Lemmo's slick , gleaming cinematography gives the picture an attractive glossy look . Joe Delia's moody , jazzy score likewise does the funky trick ( the piercing saxophone is especially gnarly ) . Done with tremendous crackling verve and an arresting sense of dazzling style , this highly impressive piece of ultra-kinetic low-budget indie film-making certainly lives up to its sizable cult reputation .
An excellent and exciting late 90's rock drama about the funky 70's glam-rock scene	A dazzlingly brash and spunky work of fiction that has an engagingly loose basis in fact , this terrifically dynamic rock drama centers on the sparkling , glittery , outrageously camp and hedonistic anything-goes uninhibited lunacy of the 70's glam-rock phenomenon . It's chiefly about legendary mercurial David Bowie-like glam-rock god Brain Slade ( the strikingly charismatic Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) , who at the peak of his popularity notoriously faked his own audacious on-stage assassination death and subsequently vanished altogether from public view . Ten years later former glam-rock fan turned successful British investigative journalist Arthur Stuart ( excellently played by Christian Bale ) is assigned by his editors to write a story on Slade , so Stuart tracks down Slade's old pals and associates to find out the exact reasons for his sudden disappearance . Todd Haynes ' spirited direction and smart , witty , precisely etched script relate the compelling story in tricky flashback fashion , tracing Slade's humble beginnings and upward ascent to glam-rock superstardom with provocative insights into how glam-rock rode the crest of the swingin ' 70's sexual revolution , glam-rock's deliberate attempt at erasing gender lines that separate men and women , the wanton bisexuality , gleeful decadence , bold androgyny , and flamboyant excesses that were fundamental components of glam-rock , and how being famous blurs the distinction between private life and public life . Gorgeously shot in loud , splashy , yet still elegant bright colors by Maryse Alberti , with a moody score by Carter Burwell and a marvelously ornate and melodic glam-rock soundtrack , the film lavishly evokes glam-rock's gloriously gaudy and theatrical over-the-top style in deliciously thorough and baroque detail . Although Rhys Meyers ' spellbinding portrayal of Slade clearly dominates the picture , there are equally impressive turns by Toni Collette as Slade's bawdy , sassy American wife , Ewan McGregor as crazed , grungy Iggy Poppish garage hard rock maniac Curt Wild , and Eddie Izzard as an aggressively brazen record company executive . Intelligent and animated , " Velvet Goldmine " works wonderfully well as a highly exciting and incisive cinematic ode to an especially thrilling and colorful 70's rock movement .
A superior 60's suspense thriller	Cunning and vengeful sexual psychopath convict Max Cady ( the impeccable Robert Mitchum in peak frightening form ) gets released from prison and vows to get revenge on both respectable , upstanding lawyer Sam Bowden ( the always strong and dignified Gregory Peck ) and his family . J . Lee Thompson's taut , capable direction deftly wrings plenty of gripping and gut-wrenching tension from the absorbingly cruel and chilling story . The superb acting from a first-rate cast qualifies as a significant plus : Polly Bergen as Bowden's loving , concerned wife Peggy , the adorable Lori Martin as Bowden's sweet , tiny teenage daughter Nancy , Martin Balsam as a helpful police chief , Telly Savalas as a thorough , tenacious private investigator , Jack Kruschen as a shrewd , aggressive defense attorney , and dancer Barrie Chase as a sexy bar girl floozy Cady brutally beats up . Sam Leavitt's stark , polished black and white cinematography makes artful use of fades and dissolves . The great Bernard Herrmann delivers a beautifully brooding and moody full-bore orchestral score . Better yet , there's a welcome and laudable element of restraint present throughout which adds substantially to the overall nerve-wracking suspense ; Thompson implies more violence than he shows , thus making a refreshing concession to the viewer's imagination and ensuring that the frankly unpleasant central premise never becomes too vile or repellent . Mitchum's supremely low-key and quietly menacing portrayal of Cady clinches the whole deal : Whether he's calmly strangling a police officer in the murky swamp or breaking an egg over Bergen's chest at the picture's harrowing conclusion , Cady registers strongly as one genuinely scary and intimidating piece of nasty work . An excellent and extremely effective thriller classic .
An extremely potent and uncompromising celluloid descent into the adolescent abyss	Feverishly stylized Aussie tyro director Geoffrey Wright's second feature after the harrowing skinhead nerve-frier " Romper Stomper " offers another similarly bleak and depressing portrait of bitter , disaffected , barely hanging onto the dirt-poor last rung of the social ladder working class Melbourne youths who turn to illegal hot rod street car racing to inject some desperately needed excitement and fulfillment into their otherwise severely gloomy and dispiriting no-hoper lives . A peculiar and increasingly self-combustive triangle relationship develops between four messed-up kids - - antsy grocery store stockboy Joe , who lives in wretched squalor with his nutso dad ; freaky aspiring witch / Satanist Savina , who's saddled with a shrill , pathetic religious kook mother ; surly , cocksure , self-absorbed ace stock car driver Dazey and his fed-up , long-suffering girlfriend Roslyn - - which leads to much angst , death , suffering , emotional turmoil and a harshly damaging betrayal of love and loyalty for all concerned . The basic subject matter seems deceptively banal and pedestrian , but thankfully Wright's raw , fiercely manic and visceral shoot-the-fireworks flashy style , combined with first-rate edgy and intense performances , swift , lively , constantly on the move vertiginous cinematography , an unflinchingly grim and nihilistic tone , an extraordinarily wired , dangerous and go-for-broke exciting last reel chase between a stock car and a muscle car , and a furiously well-sustained , aggressively pumped-up and adrenalized forward-ho narrative momentum that's ironically contrasted with the lead characters ' dead-end flight towards premature self-destruction transcend the relative mundaneness of the material and elevate this exhilarating white-knuckler to the status of the genuinely awesome . Celluloid descents into the nightmarishly confusing and frightfully uncertain dark-as-pitch amorality of the adolescent abyss don't come any more unsettling or engrossing than this savagely unsentimental , but often painfully heart-wrenching winner .
A really nice and enjoyable early 80's creature feature	Back in the early 80's horror films largely consisted of generic slice'n'dice body count pics which became exceedingly tiresome and hackneyed as the decade wore on . This nifty little creature feature , a nicely done fright flick which satisfyingly blends a 50's-like monster movie plot with 80's style gore , nudity and profanity , stands out as a refreshing break from the by-the-numbers knifekill norm which was fashionable at the time . A nasty bunch of toothy , tentacled , people-noshing subterranean beasties are unleashed after an old abandoned Colorado mine gets reopened , brutally slaying anyone unfortunate enough to cross their deadly path . Okay , so the story ain't much and the pacing tends to be a bit sluggish , but James L . Conway's capable direction , the tight script , spooky cinematography , several good jump-out-at-you startling jolts , a rousing conclusion , and the especially gnarly-looking squish-bodied , frog-faced , sharp-fanged titular ugly buggers make this a solid scarefest all the same . Moreover , the underground scenes have a truly creepy , clammy , and claustrophobic feel to them , grizzled character thesps John Crawford and Med Flory portray a couple of seasoned old pro mining hands with pleasingly crusty aplomb , and craggy-faced fuddy dud Jon Lormer has a colorful secondary role as a nutty old coot whose grave warnings about the mines are naturally ignored . Better still , the younger characters are surprisingly well-developed and genuinely likable . The winsomely perky'n'pretty Rebecca Balding , who also starred in the superior slasher item " Silent Scream " and was briefly touted as an apparent heir to the crown of then reigning scream queen Jamie Lee Curtis , in particular is most appealing as the spunky heroine ( and she takes her clothes off as well , which is an additional plus ) . Given all these strengths , it's no wonder that this funky favorite has acquired a small , yet loyal cult following .
An intense , excellent and absorbing crime drama	March 9th , 1963 : Cheery Detective Karl Hettinger ( marvelously played by John Savage ) and his amiable laid-back partner Ian Campbell ( an engaging Ted Danson in his film debut ) run afoul of two dangerous criminals - - shrewd , vicious , domineering Gregory Powell ( a remarkably reptilian James Woods in his breakthrough role ) and meek , passive , insecure Jimmy Smith ( a terrific portrayal by Franklyn Seales ) - - while making their usual rounds one fateful night . The hoodlums kidnap the two police officers and take them out into a remote onion field . Ian gets killed while Karl manages to get away . Karl suffers guilt over surviving the terrible incident while both Gregory and Jimmy use the legal system to their cruel advantage to avoid the death penalty . Firmly directed with laudable tact and assurance by Harold Becker , with a gritty script by Joseph Wambaugh , meticulously detailed period atmosphere , slick , vivid cinematography by Charles Rosher , rough , profane dialogue , a chilling , moody score by Emuir Deodato , and a raw , edgy and grimly plausible sense of compellingly sordid realism , this potent and poignant knockout packs a very strong and lingering emotional gut punch . The whole sequence in the onion field is positively nerve-rattling ( the scene where Jimmy starts screaming hysterically after Greg shoots Ian right in the mouth is especially harrowing ) . Savage , Danson , Woods and Seales are all outstanding in the lead parts ; they receive top-notch support from Ronny Cox as hard-nosed Sargent Pierce Brooks , Diane Hull as Karl's loyal wife Helen , Priscilla Pointer as Ian's caring mother Chrissie , David Huffman as fed-up , disillusioned District Attorney Phil Halpin , Christopher Lloyd as a cunning jailhouse lawyer , and Richard Herd as a cynical veteran beat cop . An absolute powerhouse .
One of Brian Pe Palma's best , most gripping and underrated thrillers	Likable audio technician Jack Terri ( splendidly played by John Travolta ) does sound effects for cheesy low-grade slasher horror flicks . One fateful night while recording natural sounds on a bridge Jack records and witnesses a car crash which kills the state governor who was an aspiring presidential candidate . Jack also rescues and befriends the governor's rather dumb , but really sweet mistress Sally ( a beautifully endearing performance by the adorable Nancy Allen ) . When Jack begins to investigate the circumstances behind the crash , he finds out that someone shot out one of the tires on the car and thus caused the accident to happen . Pretty soon both Jack and Sally are put in considerable danger . Directed with tight , stylish , assured aplomb by Brian De Palma , who also wrote the ingenious script which cleverly blends elements of " Blow-Up " and " The Conversation " into an absorbing and inspired synthesis , with exquisitely fluid , slick , sparkling cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond ( the occasional use of split screen is especially tasty and impressive ) , plenty of nerve-wracking suspense , an intricate conspiracy thriller plot , a charming and touching love story between Jack and Sally , and a rousing , pulsating , elegant orchestral score by Pino Donaggio , this crackling ripper comes on like total gangbusters from start to finish . Travolta and Allen are outstanding in the leads ; they receive terrific support from John Lithgow as vicious , coldly pragmatic assassin Burke and Dennis Franz as sleazeball blackmailer Manny Karp . From its bravura dead-on opening hilarious send-up of tacky slice'n'dice schlock to its exciting climax and bitterly ironic conclusion , " Blow Out " overall rates as an absolute powerhouse that comes highly recommended .
A very fine and informative retrospective documentary	This fascinating and illuminating 52 minute retrospective documentary offers a wealth of tasty trivia about the making of Dario Argento's terrific horror cult classic " Suspiria . " The people interviewed in the doc are Argento , co-writer Daria Nicolodi , cinematographer Luciano Tovoli , Goblin band members Claudio Simonetti ( he sings all the creepy verses in the incredible score ) , Massimo Morante , Fabio Pignatelli , and Agostino Marangolo , and cast members Jessica Harper , Stefania Casini ( who readily acknowledges that she was thrilled to work with Argento ) , and the ever-quirky Udo Kier . Topics discussed herein are the origins of the story ( Nicolodi based the dance academy on an actual prestigious school that teaches the black arts ! ) , the elegant star presence of Joan Bennett , Goblin's fantastic freaky score , Argento's highly distinctive style , Tovoli's use of the soon-to-be obsolete Technicolor process to obtain the incredibly bold and vibrant color scheme that's featured in the film , Harper and Casini hitting it off on the set , that the movie is basically a dark fairy tale ( Argento cites the Walt Disney animated picture " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " as a major influence on " Suspiria " ) , and the ongoing legacy of the film . Moreover , Casini admits that her unforgettably brutal death scene was a nightmare to shoot and Kier confesses that someone read all his dialogue to him off screen for his sole scene in the movie . Essential viewing for fans of the film .
I really dig this groovy 70's drive-in hoot	I am proud to say I own an uncut copy of this choice chunk of 70's Crown International drive-in sexploitation comedy cheese on DVD . It's a really goofy and enjoyably inconsequential flick with a nicely breezy'n'easy 70's vibe to it . It does attempt to make a sincere point about true love and friendship being more important in life than a cool set of wheels and a quick piece of tail . Sure , it's essentially a blatant adolescent male fantasy pic - - the main teen goofus character Bobby Hamilton gets the girls , the respect of his friends , and a chance to show-up a local van-racing bully - - but it's way too dopey and good-natured to hate . Stuart Getz as our gawky protagonist makes for an endearingly dorky lead , Deborah White as the main object of Getz's affection is a definite cutie , Connie Lisa Marie is likewise quite luscious as a beauteous blonde babe , and sneering beefcake Neanderthal Stephan Oliver ( a 60's biker movie perennial ) is wonderfully hateful as the brutish Dugan Hicks . A pre-stardom Danny DeVito in particular is an absolute riot as Getz's cranky carwash owner boss Andy , a lovably cantankerous ne'er-do-well slob who wears very ugly loud Hawaiian shirts and suffers from a severe gambling habit . I especially love the scene where two thugs brutally beat Danny up - - one holds his arms behind his back while the other guy works over Danny's torso ! And Sammy Johns ' insidiously catchy fluke hit theme song will be bouncing around your skull for at least a week . In short , it's great groovy retro-70's fun !
A very funny , delightful and affectionate treat	The funky , yet strictly second-tier British glam-rock band Strange Fruit breaks up at the end of the wild'n'wacky excess-ridden 70's . The individual band members go their separate ways and uncomfortably settle into lackluster middle age in the dull and uneventful 90's : morose keyboardist Stephen Rea winds up penniless and down on his luck , vain , neurotic , pretentious lead singer Bill Nighy tries ( and fails ) to pursue a floundering solo career , paranoid drummer Timothy Spall resides in obscurity on a remote farm so he can avoid paying a hefty back taxes debt , and surly bass player Jimmy Nail installs roofs for a living . Former loving groupie turned patient , understanding , long-suffering manager Juliet Aubrey gets the group back together for an ill-advised , largely ineffectual and hilariously disastrous twenty years later nostalgic reunion tour of Europe . Our lovably ragged bunch try gamely , but fumblingly to reignite a flame that once burned quite brightly back in the day . Scraggly zonked-out roadie Billy Connelly and cocky eager beaver young guitarist Hans Matheson tag along for the delightfully bumpy , trouble-plagued , but still ultimately rewarding and enjoyable ride . Director Brian Gibson shows tremendously infectious respect and adoration for both his amiably screwy characters in particular and loud , ringing , flamboyantly overblown preening 70's rock in general , this imbuing this affectionate little pip with an utterly engaging sense of big-hearted charm and tireless verve . The astute , sharply written script by Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais likewise bristles with spot-on dry wit and finely observed moments of joyous on the road inanity , capturing a certain bittersweetly affecting and frequently uproarious vibe that gives the picture itself an irresistibly luminescent glow . Ashley Rowe's lovely , elegant cinematography ensures that the movie always looks quite visually sumptuous while the perfectly catchy and groovy music does the trick with right-on rockin ' flair and aplomb . Kudos also to the across-the-board terrific performances that vividly nail the burnt-out soul and tattered , but still fiercely beating heart of a past its prime has-been ragtag rock outfit desperate to regain its erstwhile evanescent glory in one final bid for big time success . All in all , this radiant and touching gem rates highly as one of the true seriocomic sleeper treats from the 90's .
A superior slice of early 80's slasher schlock	At Camp Blackfoot a bunch of kids play a cruel prank on mean caretaker Cropsy ( hulking behemoth Lou David ) . The prank badly backfires and Cropsy winds up being horribly burned over most of his body . Now both extremely mad and grotesquely disfigured , Cropsy leaves the hospital and goes bounding off to the nearest summercamp armed with a giant pair of lethal garden shears with the specific intent of killing a whole gaggle of luckless people who cross his bitter and deadly path . Director Tony Maylam creates a substantial amount of tension , keeps the pace moving along at a steady , speedy clip , and stages the gruesome kill scenes with considerable brio ( one bravura terrifying sequence shows Cropsy viciously butchering five kids on a raft in broad daylight ) . Moreover , the first-rate make-up f / x by the great Tom Savini really deliver the gory goods , Yes keyboardist Rick Wakeman supplies an effectively shivery'n'spooky synthesizer score , and the characters are surprisingly likable and well-developed . A further source of enjoyment can be derived from early appearances by future " Seinfeld " TV series regular Jason Alexander , Oscar-winning actress Holly Hunter , Fisher ( " The Brother from Another Planet , " " Short Circuit " ) Stevens , and even Brian Backer ( Mark Ratner in " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " ) as a pathetically geeky peeping tom misfit . Better still , this film certainly doesn't skimp on the gratuitous nudity : beautiful busty blonde babe Carrick Glenn takes a shower and attractive slender brunette Carolyn Houlihan goes skinny-dipping . Sure , " The Burning " is a very crude and sleazy " Friday the 13th " rip-off , but it's nonetheless still nasty and trashy enough to qualify as a superior slice of early 80's slasher horror schlock .
A very chilling , disturbing and powerful knockout	Shortly after graduating from high school , an aimless , alienated pair of scruffy blue collar California suburbanite misfit teens - - the moody , volatile , sexually repressed Roy and his more laid-back , passive partner Bo - - suddenly come to the grim realization that their post-high school lives hold precious little promise . Extremely upset about this glaring and undeniable bit of terrible truth , Bo and Roy decide to drive to Los Angeles for one last weekend of completely uninhibited partying . Things promptly turn sour when Bo and Roy beat a hapless gas station attendant within an inch of his life . The not so dynamic duo are just getting warmed up . They continue their blithely ferocious rampage with a vicious series of harsh random killings . Gut-wrenchingly tense and wholly believable , this gritty gem hits hard with its harrowing exploration of how adolescent angst and rage can easily erupt into terrifyingly destructive all-out brutality . Penelope Spheeris ' direction is 100 % on the money tight and effective : the brisk pacing , a fairly intricate and involving narrative , the often almost unbearably stomach-turning suspense , an unflinchingly downbeat ending , and a vivid rendering of the flashy-trashy L . A . milieu all lend credibility to the bleak premise . Glen Morgan and James Wong's script presents a chillingly convincing mosaic of negligent and sometimes even absentee parents , earnest , but ineffectual cops , mean , disapproving peers , and angry , frustrated outcasts which seethes with a startling mix of despair and nihilism ( Morgan and Wong went on to write many episodes of " The X-Files , " plus make the excellent and underrated " Willard " remake and the " Final Destination " pictures ) . Maxwell Caulfield and Charlie Sheen give superb performances as the apathetic leads . The equally stellar supporting cast includes Frank Zappa's daughter Moon Unit as a vapid Valley Girl Bo develops a crush on , Patti D'Arbanville as a flaky , lusty medium who picks up the pernicious pair in a bar , and Hank Garrett and Christopher McDonald as the diligent mismatched homicide detectives who are trying to find and arrest the boys . Tough , stark and exceedingly rough , this bitter sleeper rates as a nerve-rattling knockout with its still topical subject matter nowadays seeming even more timely and relevant in the wake of the atrocious Columbine incident . The first-rate Anchor Bay DVD offers a sterling widescreen presentation along with the theatrical trailer , bios on Spheeris , Sheen and Caulfield , and an enjoyably loose , informative and opinionated commentary by Spheeris and Caulfield .
My all-time favorite " Airport " film	I saw this delightfully hokey disaster treat after enduring a hellishly awful day at work and it sure as hell perked up my previously sagging spirits . I felt pretty damn secure and contented by the time the ending credits rolled , because by then I came to the realization that as bad as my cruddy job is ( and trust me it can be nightmarishly horrid at times ) , I've never , ever been subjected to a nerve-wracking ordeal half as harrowing as the grueling fix poor Karen Black finds herself in in this movie . I mean , Karen has got a really rough road to hoe : the co-pilot and radarman of the plane she's a stewardess on get creamed when a small private plane smacks into the cockpit , the captain gets blinded , the plane's leaking gasoline , and Black herself has to fly the bulky , creaking , floundering thing through hazardous mountainous terrain with only Mr . Steely Stalwart Iron Jaw himself Chuck Heston and lovably gruff " Airport " series perennial George Kennedy talking her through the trying endeavor over a faulty CB radio . Alright , so the whole story sounds hopelessly ridiculous - - and it is hopelessly ridiculous , to be brutally honest . Yet , it's the dead seriousness of the script , acting and direction , all done with that right-on clunky sincerity that gives 70's disaster features their cheesy greatness , which makes this endearingly earnest foolishness such top-rate tacky trash . Better still , the usual boring subplots that often clutter these pictures are pleasingly curtailed here ; the characters are neatly established with utmost briskness and the basic plot kicks in by the 30 minute mark , thereby keeping tedium at bay . Naturally , this darling boasts one hell of an all-star line-up : Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . , Roy Thinnes and Erik Estrada as the doomed flight crew , Sid Caeser , Norman Fell , Conrad Janis and Jerry Stiller as obnoxiously dorky middle-aged swingers , Nancy Olsen as a cute blonde stewardess , Dana Andrews , Linda Blair ( fresh from her smashing success in " The Exorcist " ) as a sickly , yet perky little girl who needs a new kidney or its Stiff City buddy , Larry Storch as a jerky scoop-chasing TV reporter , 50's AIP creature feature regulars Ed Nelson and Beverly Garland , Guy Stockwell , terminally insufferable pop singer Helen Reddy as an unbearably sweet nun , Gloria Swanson as herself , Myrna Loy , a pre - " Cagney and Lacey " Sharon Gless in a quick bit , Susan Clark , Martha Scott , and even " Assault on Precinct 13 " survivor Austin Stoker as an Air Force sergeant . All are tremendous fun to watch , but Karen Black clearly cops the top acting honors : permanently crossed saucer eyes wide with fright , a look of grim determination firmly fixed on her lovely face , and jaws tightly clenched , the extraordinary Ms . Black gives the kind of remarkably committed performance which inadvertently exposes this howler as the idiotic junk that it truly is . Swanson likewise maintains her composure throughout , displaying a poise and classiness that's jarringly at odds with everyone else's sweaty , gritty , panic-stricken histrionics . Veteran bungler Jack Smight , the same all-thumbs dude responsible for the incredibly atrocious post-nuke sci-fi dud " Damnation Alley , " directed this sucker with his customary artless rent-a-hack craftsmanship . Smight's totally straight-faced dimestore workmanlike efficiency works like gangbusters for this entertainingly dopey nonsense , thus clinching this honey's sterling status as a super schlocky slice of airborne 70's thrills'n'spills absurdity .
An excellent , inspired and supremely unsettling vampire horror knockout	A vicious clan of deadly vampires lead by the ferocious Marlow ( a positively terrifying portrayal by Danny Huston ) lay siege to the remote small town of Barrows , Alaska during a month long period of total darkness . Gallant Sheriff Eben Oleson ( a fine and likable performance by Josh Hartnett ) , his feisty estranged wife Stella ( well played by Melissa George ) , and a motley handful of others do their best to survive this nightmarish ordeal . Director David Slade makes the most out of the ingenious script by Steve Niles , Stuart Beattie , and Brian Nelson : the gripping story unfolds at a constant brisk pace , the suspense gradually builds to a harrowing fever pitch ( the protracted sequence with the vampires killing all the townspeople is absolutely bloodcurdling ) , the bleak wintry landscape evokes a strong sense of isolation and vulnerability , the outbursts of savage violence are truly jolting , and the human characters react in a plausible way to their impossible situation . Moreover , the stellar acting by the sturdy cast qualifies as another significant asset : Harnett and George both excel in their roles , Huston makes for a perfectly malevolent head ghoul , plus there are sound supporting turns by Mark Boone Junior as the gruff , bearish Beau Brewer , Ben Foster as the deranged the Stranger , Mark Rendall as Eben's sweet younger brother Jake , Amber Sainsbury as the spunky Denise , Manu Bennett as the amiable Deputy Billy Kitka , Megan Franich as lethal vampiress Iris , Nathaniel Lees as the easygoing Carter Davis , Joel Tobeck as the hotheaded Doug Hertz , Elizabeth Hawthorne as gutsy diner owner Lucy Ikos , and Abbey-May Wakefield as a nasty little girl vampire . The vampires themselves are wonderfully vile and grotesque : they're hideously malformed subhuman beasts with long nails , pasty complexions , super human strength and speed , and their own odd guttural language . The striking cinematography by Jo Willems offers a wealth of amazing visuals while Brian Reitzell's hypnotically chilling score hits the shivery spot . But what really makes this fright feature such a winner is its grim , harsh , no-nonsense tone : the central protagonists are forced to make some hard choices in order to stay alive , the merciless vampires spare no one from their bloodthirsty wrath , and the film stays fiercely true to itself to the literal bitter end . A splendidly tough and gritty treat .
A typically absorbing & erotic soft-core winner from the great Joe Sarno	The drab and uneventful tranquility of the sleepy affluent coastal community of Baypoint gets rudely ripped asunder when the notorious sexually voracious and insatiable bisexual harlot Abigail Leslie ( the smolderingly hot Sarah Nickolson ) unexpectedly returns to the dreary hamlet after a lengthy absence . Demure and uptight socialite Priscilla ( the luscious Rebecca Brooke ) is especially perturbed , although her smarmy and licentious husband Gordon ( legendary porn star Jamie Gillis ) is more than eager to have an adulterous fling with the wanton and willing Abigail . Pretty soon Abigail's infectiously sensuous presence causes everyone in town to toss aside their morals and inhibitions for the sheer sake of carnal pleasure , indulgence and debauchery . Among the folks who fall under Abigail's seductive and irresistible spell are feisty , friendly , but unfulfilled fisherwomen Alice Ann ( Chris Jordan ) , Alice Ann's shy , sweet , soft-spoken brother Chester ( Eric Edwards ) , Priscilla's snobby gal pals Tracey ( Anne Keel ) and Lila ( Julie Sorel ) , Priscilla's raunchy aunt Drucilla ( Jennifer Welles ) , and hunky resident stud Bo ( handsome , muscular Sonny Landham , who later went on to act in such 80's mainstream action features as " 48 Hours " and " Predator " ) . Acclaimed soft-core director / screenwriter Joe Sarno expertly crafts a highly absorbing and arousing soap opera-style small-town slice-of-life melodrama which not only delivers the expected sultry and alluring goods ( the sex scenes are fairly explicit and steamy , but never too graphic or sleazy ) , but also serves as a perfectly trenchant and provocative critique of very conservative and puritanical small town mores ( best represented by the frustrated Priscilla and the unhappy Alice Ann ) , hypocrisy ( Priscilla's friends Lila and Tracey blithely partake in Abigail's lascivious fun and games despite the fact that they are both married ) , and repressed passions and desires ( Priscilla pines for Chester , but is too timid to pursue her romantic interest in him ) . The uniformly excellent acting from the first-rate and attractive cast is a substantial plus : Brooke , Nicholson and Edwards in particular are outstanding , with sound support from Welles , Keel , Sorel , Jordan and Landham . Moreover , both Bill Godsey's pretty , polished cinematography and Jack Justis ' hauntingly sad , moody , tuneful acoustic guitar score further enhance the film's sterling quality , thereby lifting this movie well out of the rut of your standard mindless skin-flick . All in all , this picture rates as another involving , intelligent and impressive thinking man's soft-core outing from the always reliable Joe Sarno .
An oddly touching , thoughtful & underrated vampire horror gem	This strangely thoughtful and resonant nickel'n'dime late 80's fright film represents the rarest and oddest of low-budget bloodsucker sub-genres : the wistfully reflective existential vampire picture . Seriously , it's a beautifully affecting and poetic work of shamefully neglected art that's deserving of greater recognition and appraisal than it's thus far elicited . The extremely novel and compelling story centers on dejected , suicidal stripper Jodi ( the delicately pretty and winsome Starr Andreeff , a very capable and under-appreciated actress who was often wasted in such useless piffle as " The Terror Within " and " Ghoulies II " ) who one fateful night encounters and strikes up an uneasy rapport with a lonely , angst-ridden , but sympathetic vampire ( the handsome , sulky Cyril O'Reilly ) . The curious , misanthropic vampire wants the deeply troubled Jodi to engage in intimate conversation with him prior to putting the severely tormented woman out of her misery by killing her at dawn . Skillfully directed with remarkable grace and understatement by the always stylish and intriguing Katt Shea Ruben ( who also helmed the splendidly lurid " Stripped to Kill " and the harsh , gritty " Streets " before going upscale with the slicker , but less distinctive mainstream items " Poison Ivy " and " Carrie 2 : The Rage " ) , with a probing , audacious and insightful script by Katt and Tom Ruben ( the latter also cameos as a punk cab driver ) , a hauntingly regretful , melancholy and brooding nighttime gloom-doom mood , and sterling acting by the two exceptional leads ( Andreeff in particular gives an achingly vulnerable , strikingly vivid , and ultimately quite endearing performance ) , " Dance of the Damned " stands out as a real breath-of-fresh-air indie sleeper and a courageous , highly imaginative and unusually sensitive departure from standard , more visceral and traditional 80's cinematic takes on vampirism ( " Fright Night , " " The Lost Boys , " et al ) . The expected grisly shocks , fancy special effects and garden variety humans vs . monsters premise are nowhere to be found here ; instead this movie bravely offers a touching , absorbing and penetrating rumination on the numerous facets of the human condition , including the pain and anguish of being an ineffectual parent , the emotional scars wrought by child abuse , the awesome loneliness of leading a hermit-like existence , the duality of being a stripper ( they do have considerable power over the mostly male patrons they disrobe for , but unfortunately said dudes tend to see them strictly as vapid sex objects ) , and conventional society's awful inability to easily accept and tolerate those luckless individuals who deviate in one way or another from a rigid and repressive collective norm . Marred only by a somewhat annoyingly ambiguous conclusion , this otherwise flawless masterwork qualifies as essential viewing for adventurous horror movie buffs with a penchant for something off-beat , inspired and way out of the ordinary .
An excellent and supremely unnerving 80's feminist horror knockout	Barbara Hershey gives a fiery , outstanding and wholly sympathetic performance as Carla Moran , a willful and fiercely self-sufficient young single California mother of three kids who's brutally and relentlessly raped by an evil amorous apparition . Carla seeks the aid of earnest , but incredulous psychiatrist Phil Schneidermann ( nicely played by Ron Silver ) and several of his fellow disbelieving shrinks , who all try to convince Carla that the whole Stygian ordeal is self-inflicted . Carla balks at their supercilious , coldly pragmatic theories and enlists the help of a group of eager , open-minded parapsychologists in order to rid herself of the maleficent lascivious spirit's unwanted attention . Most film critics tend to gleefully trash " The Entity " as a particularly absurd piece of crudely sensationalistic fright flick foolishness , but I personally think it's a fine , engrossing , refreshingly off-beat and often genuinely frightening ( the frequent phantasmagoric sexual assaults are quite violent and upsetting , realistically capturing the true horror and demeaning nature of rape itself ) supernatural horror thriller . Sidney J . Furie's tight , proficient direction effectively creates and sustains a tense , menacing , claustrophobic mood ( Furie's constant use of taut close-ups which usually center on Hershey do a bang-up job of forcefully rendering Carla's profound sense of dread and alienation ) . Insanely prolific unsung B-movie composer Charles ( " Invasion of the Bee Girls , " " Cujo " ) Bernstein's wired , driving score ( I absolutely love the wickedly wailin ' guitar ! ) , Stephen H . ( " Something Wicked This Way Comes , " " Body Double " ) Burum's fluid , mobile cinematography , and Stan ( " Aliens , " " Pumpkinhead " ) Winston's typically stand-out make-up f / x contribute greatly to the picture's deeply unsettling potency . The themes of skeptics vs . true believers , science vs . psychology , and especially how difficult it is for a woman to be assertive and independent in a male-dominated society are keenly observed and neatly integrated into the compact , absorbing narrative ( " The Entity " at its extremely confrontational and provocative core is essentially a true feminist horror film about the many ways society tries to keep women in their place , with the ghost representing misogyny and male oppression at its most savage and unmerciful ) . Although not without its flaws ( at a rather bloated 125 minutes it's much too long and hence drags in spots ) , " The Entity " nonetheless overall makes the grade as a superior spectral spookshow .
An excellent retrospective documentary	This strong and engrossing retrospective documentary on the making of " Conan the Barbarian " covers the film from its genesis to its theatrical release , with a lot of especially interesting information about the rigorous shooting of the picture in Spain . Among the people interviewed are intelligent and articulate co-writer / director John Milius , charismatic star Arnold Schwarzenegger , lovely and athletic female lead Sandahl Bergman , the ever-affable James Earl Jones , champion surfer Gerry Lopez , Max von Sydow ( who agreed to do the role of King Osric because it gave him a chance to have fun and ham it up ! ) , genial production designer Ron Cobb , outspoken co-writer Oliver Stone , producer Dino de Laurentiis and his daughter Raffaella , stunt coordinator Terry Leonard , executive producer Edward R . Pressman , and ace composer Basil Poledouris ( whose amazing score is smartly retained for the doc ) . Among the anecdotes related are the casting of Arnold as Conan , the extensive training the leads had to do prior to making the film , the giant animatronic snake , Bergman almost having her index finger cut off during a sword fight scene , Milius striving to make the violence as brutal and realistic as possible ( the movie actually had to be resubmitted to the MPAA three times before it got an " R " rating ! ) , the tremendous box office success of the film , and how the picture was supposed to be the first in an ongoing series of movies . This fine and illuminating documentary is absolutely essential viewing for fans of the film .
William Castle's single most delightful fright feature	Suave , but eccentric millionaire Frederic Loren ( the great Vincent Price in peak smoothly ingratiating form ) invites five complete strangers to a creepy old house for a special birthday party he's holding for his faithless and treacherous wife Annabelle ( an exquisitely bitchy Carol Ohmart ) . If the motley quintet of folks survive the night , they will be paid $10 , 000 each for their troubles . Director William Castle , working from a clever and inspired script by Robb White , relates the absorbing story at a steady pace and does a sound job of creating a suitably eerie atmosphere . Moreover , Castle plays the material straight and keeps a serious tone throughout ; he also adds a welcome sense of wickedly sardonic humor and adds a downright infectious feeling of pure fun to the enjoyably uncanny proceedings ( you gotta love the freaky old lady on roller skates and the hokey , but cool walking skeleton ) . The sharp dialogue crackles with barbed wit ( favorite line : " Darling , the only ghoul in the house is you " ) and the double twist surprise ending is a doozy . This film further benefits from excellent acting from a tip-top cast : Although Price clearly dominates the picture with his commanding presence , he nonetheless receives fine support from Richard Long as gallant test pilot Lance Shroeder , Alan Marshal as skeptical psychiatrist Dr . David Trent , Carolyn Craig as the sweet , fetching Nora Manning , Julie Mitchum as washed-up newspaper columnist Ruth Bridgers , and , best of all , the always terrific Elisha Cook , Jr . as the house's timid'n'twitchy scaredy cat owner Watson Pritchard . Carl E . Guthrie's crisp black and white cinematography and Von Dextor's rousing ooga-booga shivery'n'shuddery score add immensely to the macabre merriment . A total treat .
A delightfully creepy , kinky and gruesome monsterfest	Brilliant , but deviant and depraved scientist Dr . Edward Pretorius ( a nicely batty Ted Sorel ) and his edgy assistant Crawford Tillinghast ( a superbly antsy Jeffrey Combs ) are experimenting with a machine called the Resonator , which opens the doorway to another dimension and allows creatures from that dimension to come into our world . Moreover , it also stimulates the pineal gland and causes a person's sex drive to go into orbit . Pretorius gets killed during an experiment and Tillinghast winds up in an asylum . Ambitious , but prim and repressed psychiatrist Dr . Katherine McMichaels ( an excellent performance by the lovely Barbara Crampton ) takes Tillinghast back to Pretorius ' house to cure his " insanity . " Jolly cop Buford " Bubba " Brownlee ( winningly played by Ken Foree ) tags along . Director Stuart Gordon , who co-wrote the inspired and original script with Dennis Paoli and Brian Yuzna , whips up one deliciously twisted doozy of a horror flick : Gordon maintains a steady pace throughout , stages the shock scenes with tremendous rip-roaring aplomb , does an aces job of creating an appropriately creepy and icky atmosphere , and adds a wickedly amusing sense of sickroom black humor to further spice up an already tasty cinematic stew . Better still , there's a strong and provocative subtext about the dangers of unleashing the human id ( watch out for the incredibly sexy scene where the heretofore buttoned-down McMichaels cuts loose and puts on a leather dominatrix outfit ! ) . The make-up f / x are impressively gory and grotesque ; Tillinghast's transformation into a hideous bald brain-eating mutant is especially striking and effective . Mac Ahlberg's polished cinematography , Richard Band's splendidly spooky'n'spirited ooga-booga score , and the uncompromisingly downbeat ending are all top-notch . A worthy follow-up to the terrific " Re-Animator . "
A really wild satire indeed	Shrewd , surly rock star Max Frost ( superbly played by the handsome , charismatic Christopher Jones ) convinces sleazy , opportunistic Senator Jimmy Fergus ( a terrific Hal Holbrook ) to lower the legal drinking age to 14 . After Max is elected president by a landslide victory , he makes the retirement age 30 and places anyone who's 35 and over in rehabilitation camps where they are regularly fed LSD to keep them docile . Director Barry Shear , working from a diabolically creative and wickedly witty script by Robert Thom , relates the outrageous , yet chilling and creepy satirical premise with tremendous rip-roaring brio and style ( Shear also helmed the harrowing " The Todd Killings " and the exciting crime caper yarn " Across 110th Street , " plus did the pilot for " Starsky and Hutch " ! ) . Richard Moore's bright , vibrant cinematography makes expert use of funky freeze frames and snazzy split screen . The rousing garage rock theme song , " The Shape of Things to Come , " peaked at # 22 on the pop charts ( and has been recently used as a jingle for Target department stores ) . The legendary Paul Frees tackles narrator chores with his trademark plummy aplomb . The remarkable cast qualifies as another significant asset : the ever-crazed Shelley Winters as Max's monstrous , overbearing mother , Diane Varsi as a former child star turned zonked-out hippie chick , Millie Perkins as Fergus ' sweet wife , AIP biker pic regular Larry Bishop as a trumpet player with a hook hand , Ed Begley as a crusty old senator , Kevin Coughlin as a cagey adolescent whiz kid lawyer , Richard Pryor as Max's groovy drummer , and Bert Freed as Max's weak , emasculated father . Dick Clark , Walter Winchell , Melvin Belli , Pamela Mason , Army Archerd and Jack Lathan pop up as themselves . The sequence with all of Congress wacked out on acid is positively gut-busting . The final hilarious line of dialogue makes for the perfect closing zinger for this gloriously insane movie . The MGM DVD offers an excellent widescreen transfer along with the theatrical trailer on an ideal doublebill with Roger Corman's equally nutty " Gas-s-s-s . "
The Big G and the Great Ape really mix it up in this immensely enjoyable beastbash	A submarine bumps into the iceberg Godzilla was sleeping in and wakes the ferocious behemoth up . Naturally , Godzilla is mighty cranky and makes an immediate beeline to Japan so he can level the countryside . Meanwhile , King Kong gets discovered on a remote tropical island by two goofy adventurers and likewise gets transported back to Japan as well . Our towering monster duo hook up in Tokyo for a wild , savage , no-holds-barred paw-to-claw thingo-a-thingo duel of the titans smackdown showdown where they proceed to really dance a brutal boogie . They throw boulders at each other . Godzilla burns King Kong with his lethal radioactive breath . They grapple and tumble like a pair of gigantic deranged wrestlers all hopped up on steroids . The undeniable highlight occurs when King Kong picks Godzilla up by his tail and whips him around the air like a huge ragdoll . Better still , King Kong also fights a big slimy octopus and both beasts trash trains . This immensely enjoyable creature feature item possesses all the delectably cheesy ingredients that I absolutely adore in these kinds of sublimely silly monster movies : hilariously horrible dubbing , lovably shoddy rinky-dink ( far from ) special effects , a booming , bombastic score , dopey dialogue ( " King Kong can't make a monkey out of us " ) , exquisitely expansive widescreen cinematography , engagingly dumb human characters , and our two colossal creatures are obviously played by a couple of guys in endearingly crummy and unconvincing rubber suits . The excitable and hyperactive five year old boy inside of me thoroughly digs this delightfully dunced-out doozy - - and always will no matter how old I get .
A very potent , unnerving and unjustly neglected indie drama gem	A very stark , sad and sobering drama about angry , surly , fatherless , alienated , stuttering and oppositional misogynistic 12-year-old Dan Love ( a frightfully credible and exceptional performance by Harley Cross ) , a malcontent adolescent who's ignored and unloved by his neurotic and equally unstable mother Candice ( excellently played by Karen Young ) . Dan gets sent to a mental institution so he can be cured of his violent , psychotic mood swings . Alas , he only becomes increasingly crazed and volatile due to the woefully impersonal , ineffective and uncompassionate psychiatric treatment he receives . Director Juan Jose Campanella pulls no punches and offers no easy answers in this deeply disturbing and ultimately quite tragic tale of teenage misery beget by severe parental neglect . Moreover , Campanella also illustrates in chillingly lucid terms just how miserably ill-equipped most professional institutions are in properly rehabilitating a borderline psychopath . Catherine May Levin's sharply observant , provocative and confrontational script likewise hits hard with its stinging social commentary , pointing out that Dan is the toxic product of a horribly lackluster upbringing and how his basic poignant need for love and affection gets continually overlooked by so-called " experts " who are supposed to help , but more often really make things much worse instead . A then unknown pre-stardom Adrien Brody impresses in an early substantial co-starring role . A genuinely unnerving and extremely powerful film .
An exceptionally eerie and unsettling early 70's British horror knockout	Horror movies dealing with either devil worship or Satanic possession were all the rage in the late 60's and early 70's . This extremely strong and upsetting period outing rates highly as one of the best pictures to emerge from this trend . 17th century England : A group of children led by the wickedly alluring Angel Blake ( superbly played with sexy aplomb by the ravishing Linda Hayden ) start a Satanic cult in a remote rustic town . A strict judge ( finely essayed to the steely hilt by Patrick Wymark ) becomes determined to stop this coven before things get too out of hand . Director Piers Haggard , who also co-wrote the dark and daring script with Robert Wynne-Simmons , offers a vivid and fascinating evocation of the repressive puritanical mores of the period , makes terrific use of the gloomy and grayish English countryside , chillingly blurs the distinction between good and evil ( the God-fearing villagers are every bit as brutal and frightening as the devil worshipers ) , and maintains a bleak , brooding atmosphere throughout . Moreover , Haggard does a remarkably excellent and effective job of creating a very palpable , harrowing , and pervasive feeling of genuine skin-crawling dread . It's this latter element which distinguishes this feature as a superior shocker . In addition , the bang-up cast really sink their teeth into their juicy roles : Hayden is positively bewitching as the supremely naughty Angel , Wymark makes for a fearsome upholder of the law , plus there's praiseworthy contributions from Barry Andrews as simple ploughboy Ralph Gower , Michele Dotrice as feverishly enthusiastic cult member Margaret , James Hayter as the hearty Squire Middleton , Anthony Ainley as the rigid Reverend Fallowfield , and Wendy Padbury as sweet , fragile innocent Cathy Vespers . This picture warrants extra kudos for delivering several potent and startling set pieces : Angel attempting to seduce Fallowfield in a church ( the clearly underage Hayden even does a pretty surprising , yet still erotic full frontal nude scene ! ) , Cathy being raped and sacrificed by the coven , Magaret having a painful operation done to her leg to remove a patch of furry skin , and the judge taking on the coven with a sword during the rousing conclusion . Both Dick Bush's lovely pastoral cinematography and Marc Wilkinson's shivery score further enhance the overall sterling quality of this highly recommended fright film .
Superbly gritty police drama with a first-rate Paul Newman performance	The inestimable Paul Newman gives one of his finest , most powerful and convincing performances to date in this shamefully neglected and under-appreciated police crime drama doozy as the weary and sardonic , but still honest , adamant and dedicated Officer Murphy , who works a tough and hellish beat in a down-trodden South Bronx neighborhood . Murphy's seamy and exacting routine includes trying to find the killer of two rookie cops , nabbing a purse snatcher , stopping suicidal transvestites from jumping off buildings , and delivering babies in rundown tenement projects . Daniel Petrie's taut , astute , unshowy direction , working from an episodic , but sharp , colorful and eventful script by Heywood Gould ( who also co-wrote " Rolling Thunder " ) , expertly creates a credibly bleak and sordid atmosphere while adeptly keeping the busy narrative on a steady and absorbing course from startling start to thrilling finish . The uniformly sterling acting from an exceptional cast qualifies as another considerable asset , with especially praiseworthy work by Ken Wahl of TV's " Wiseguy " fame as Newman's likable eager beaver partner , Ed Asner as the gruff , no-nonsense new police captain , Rachel Ticotin as Newman's younger heroin addict nurse girlfriend , Danny Aiello as a cynical racist patrolman , Miguel ( " Short Eyes " ) Pinero as a smooth drug dealer , Kathleen Beller as Wahl's sweet fiancé , Sully Buyar as the burnt-out , ineffectual old retiring captain , and , most impressive of all , an unforgettably scary and pathetic Pam Grier as a zonked-out murderous junkie whore . John Alcott's grainy , yet polished cinematography and Jonathan Tunick's earthy , funky score further enhance the overall rough , gritty and totally unglamorous urban realism . A very gripping and hard-hitting little gem that's wholly undeserving of its current sadly obscure status .
A real delight	Timid young Victor Van Dort ( the always fine and personable Johnny Depp ) is engaged to be married to the sweet and equally mousy Victoria Everglost ( Emily Watson in peak charming form ) . Complications ensue when Victor accidentally weds the nice , lovely and radiant , but very much deceased corpse bride Emily ( beautifully voiced with exquisite passion by Helena Bonham Carter ) . Directors Tim Burton and Mike Johnson , working from a bright and witty script by John August , Caroline Thompson and Pamela Pettler , concoct a deliciously quirky and inspired cinematic meditation on life , death , love , kindness , sacrifice , and mortality . Depp , Watson , and especially Carter all do sterling work as the appealing main characters ; they get excellent support from Albert Finney as the grouchy Finis Everglot , Joanna Lumley as his similarly sour spouse Maudeline , Tracy Ullman as overbearing shrew Nell Van Dort , Paul Whitehouse as her meek husband William , and Richard E . Grant as smarmy , wicked nobleman Barkis Bittern . It's an immense pleasure to hear legendary Hammer horror veterans Christopher Lee as the mean , fearsome Pastor Galswells and Michael Gough as the wise Elder Gutknecht . The film further benefits from several wonderfully macabre touches like the groovy skeleton jazz band and a lovably grotesque Peter Lorreish maggot ( a sublimely slimy Enn Reitel ) . The stop-motion animation is remarkably fluid and lifelike ; Emily in particular has a genuine touching grace and sadness to her . A nice bit of irony can be discerned from how the living take being alive for granted while the dead enjoy an extremely merry afterlife . Danny Elfman's lush , melodic score , the divinely rich and vivid 19th century Gothic atmosphere , the incredibly catchy and funny songs , and Pete Kozachik's often stunning cinematography are all terrific as well . Despite the ghoulish premise , this picture proves to be strangely moving and even life-affirming . A total one-of-a-kind offbeat and uplifting treat .
A potent and gripping horror film allegory on the fine line between man and beast	Smug , anal , successful and ambitious detail-oriented Wall Street yuppie businessman Bart Hughes ( exceptionally well played by Peter Weller in his first lead role ) has his cozy and comfortable life thrown out of whack when a large and crafty rat invades his fancy brownstone apartment . When conventional methods of extermination prove fruitless , the increasingly primal , obsessive and paranoid Bart resorts to more drastic vicious and barbarous measures in order to rid himself of this loathsome pest . Director George P . Cosmatos , who also helmed the Sly Stallone action vehicles " Rambo : First Blood Part II " and " Cobra , " wrings plenty of tension out of the creepy premise , expertly maintains a snappy pace throughout and stages the ample jolting shocks with a considerable amount of flair and skill . Moreover , the smart and trenchant script by Brian Taggert offers a potent , gripping and provocative allegory on " civilized " man's latent capacity for extreme violence and brutality needing the proper stimulus to be activated ( the incredible conclusion with Weller chasing the rodent around his posh abode while brandishing a spiked baseball bat is both disturbing and exciting in comparable measure ) . Weller's outstanding intense performance easily carries the picture , with fine supporting turns by Jennifer Dale as Weller's concerned secretary , Lawrence Dane as Weller's tough , but fair and equally worried boss , Louis Del Grande as the macho building superintendent , gorgeous " Playboy " Playmate Shannon Tweed as Weller's hot babe wife , and Maury Chaykin as a jerky co-worker . Rene Verzier's beautifully polished cinematography and Ken Wannberg's supremely spooky'n'shivery score are both on the money effective and impressive . The rat is one genuinely scary and nasty piece of repulsive work . A total powerhouse .
A poignant and powerful portrait of the gritty plight of homeless urban street kids	Dermott Mulroney gives a very commanding and outstanding performance as King , a tough , street smart , ask-for-no-favors recent parolee who lives on the mean streets in and around Hollywood Boulevard ; he relates his arduous everyday experiences to prison psychologist Lara San Giacomo and basically acts as a wise , protective father figure to a ragtag bunch of hapless , homeless , penniless runaway youths trying to eke out a meager existence in the City of Angels . An incisive , absorbing , down and dirty look at the unceasingly grim , tense , often distressfully uncertain day-to-day lifestyle of destitute , on their own abandoned derelict kids and the bleak drug and violence-infested hellhole they exist in , " Where the Day Takes You " manages for the most part to be appropriately harsh and hard-hitting , rarely pleasant or overly cloying . In fact , this occasionally potent and always enthralling film has a raw , squalid , rough-edged semi-verite feel to it , thanks to Mark Rocco's firm , keen , tough-minded direction and King Baggot's crisp , fluid , starkly lit cinematography ( a cruelly eagle-eyed Steadicam is put to sporadic and quite effective use ) . While Mulroney clearly dominates the picture with his sterling , supremely charismatic portrayal of King , the other cast members who play equally on the skids adolescents are just as fine : Lara Flynn Boyle as a guileless new runaway who bolted away from home because her brother was sexually abusing her , Sean Astin as a pathetic , doomed heroin addict ( the scene where Astin vomits all over himself is very powerful and his ultimate fate is unforgettably chilling and disturbing ) , Balthazar Getty as a sullen male hustler , Will Smith as a brash crippled smartaleck , James LeGros as King's loyal best friend , Peter Dobson as a brutal punk hood , and , yes , even tacky , tubby tabloid TV show host Rikki Lake as a peevish , abrasive fat chick are all superb . Other strong thespic contributions are turned in by Adam Baldwin and Rachel Ticotin as cops , a disgustingly on-target Kyle MacLachen as an odious , deceitfully " sympathetic " drug dealer , Leo Rossi as Astin's ineffectual father , Stephen Tobolowsky as a wimpy , shyly courteous gay client who uses Getty for titillation , Alyssa Milano as an underaged prostitute , Robert Knepper as a conceited rock singer , and an unbilled Christian Slater as an interviewer at a drug rehabilitation clinic . Downbeat and depressing for sure , but still a real poignant powerhouse movie just the same .
A splendidly sparky & provocative futuristic Aussie sci-fi winner	1990 : Following a second catastrophic Wall Street stock market crash and a horrendous bloodbath called " The Great White Massacre , " as well as a sudden drastic food shortage , inflation skyrocketing and unemployment hitting an all-time high , society has gone completely down the stinky toilet . The cops are ineffectual , savage hordes of uninhibited youths in souped-up hot rods ( " car boys " ) run amuck on the devastated streets , and the ratings hungry media ghoulishly document the general blood-spilling chaos for every last morbid thrill they can milk from all the anarchy ( gee , this bleak future sure seems a lot like the early 21st century , now doesn't it ? ) . Jimmy " Crabs " Rossinni ( winningly played by scrawny runt Roger Manning , who makes for a refreshingly unmacho brains over brawn hero ) , a cocky , blustery , but basically decent and resourceful bloke , and his newfound airhead gal pal Carmen ( brunette cutie Natalie McCurry ) go to the local outdoor passion pit Star Drive-In in Jimmy's gorgeous ' 56 Chevy to catch a flick . While Jimmy and Carmen are preoccupied doing just what you think , the cops steal two of Jimmy's wheels , therefor stranding him and Carmen at the drive-in . Jimmy finds out that the authoritarian police are rounding up wild-assed punk kids and dumping them into sprawling concentration camp-like drive-ins which pacify its inhabitants with a mentally stultifying diet of greasy diner food , cheap beer , raucous rock music , and cheesy low-grade exploitation movies ( any similarity between this plot synopsis and my real lifestyle is purely coincidental ) . Jimmy , not one for being submissive to any uptight restrictive establishment , plots to escape from the drive-in's repressive confines so he can live his life the way he wants to again . Smoothly directed by Aussie B-pic specialist Brian Trenchard-Smith ( who also did the grim futuristic " The Most Dangerous Game " variant " Turkey Shoot , " a clip of which can be glimpsed playing on a drive-in screen ) , this bang-up little beaut bubbles , burns and blazes brilliantly with a brash , cheeky , waggishly irreverent tone , handsome , dexterous , sun-bleached , neon-hazed cinematography by Paul Murphy , a fantastically catchy and thrashin ' New Wave rock'n'roll soundtrack , fresh , dynamic acting from an exuberant no-name cast , a top-drawer lowdown bluesy score by Frank Strangio , a very cool funky-punky look and feel , and several extremely visceral , muscular , gut-rippingly thrilling knock-you-flat-on-your-bum dazzling action sequences ( an appropriately brutal hand-to-hand fight scene , a few incendiary shoot-outs , and a couple of explosively frenzied sparks a flyin ' and autos going ' BOOM ! car chases which are topped off with a rousing do-or-die final victory jump ) . All that above cited stuff certainly smokes , but what really makes " Dead End Drive-In " such an absolute dilly is the surprisingly meaty and provocative thematic substance found in Peter Smalley's wittily right-on script , which ingenuously uses the familiar central premise of a lone stubborn individualist tenaciously refusing to kowtow to an oppressive square system to thoughtfully explore the stimulating topics of independence vs . conformity , assertiveness vs . passivity , racism ( when the cops discharge a gaggle of Asian immigrants into the drive-in the white majority immediately takes offense and feels threatened ) , fascism , and how the strongly felt need to act and think for yourself creates an indomitable iron will that won't buckle regardless of all the fearsome obstacles one has to surmount in order to achieve true freedom in life . The excellent Anchor Bay DVD offers a fine widescreen presentation along with a very enjoyable and informative Brian Trenchard-Smith commentary , the theatrical trailer , and a rather paltry still and poster gallery .
An impressive and effective little indie drama gem	I recently caught this nice little 27 minute indie college student thesis movie drama at a short film festival held in my hometown of Metuchen , New Jersey . It tells in a very stark and absorbing manner the simple story of an aging cutman ( exceptionally well played by Jack McCormack ) who gets fired from his job of tending to boxers who get severely roughed up in the ring . The cutman tries to reassert himself back into his estranged successful doctor son's life and attempts to get his old job back . Writer / director Yon Motskin uses a very strikingly polished and assured visual style in relating this poignant anecdote , offering a touching , arresting and admirably unsentimental portrait of a proud , stubborn and weary old man who's life and profession are coming to a close . Motskin's greatly assisted by the lovely and stunning cinematography by Andrij Parekh , the haunting music score , a tightly plotted narrative , gritty New York City locations , and uniformly fine naturalistic acting from a solid cast ( McCormack in particular is terrific , displaying a whole lifetime of pain , regret and anguish in a marvelously subtle and understated performance ) . An impressive debut effort .
A supremely eerie and excellent early 80's horror winner	For some inexplicable reason this splendid , compelling , atmospheric little zombie mystery thriller took a while to be rediscovered ( it received a spotty theatrical distribution when first released and got mixed reviews from critics ) , but thankfully with its being reissued on DVD it's been widely acknowledged and rightly heralded as an off-beat minor masterpiece of early 80's cinematic small town perversity ala " Blue Velvet " and " The Stepfather . " No question about it ; the plot's a real whopper : friendly , dependable sheriff James Farentino investigates a troubling rash of brutal murders which upsets the drab tranquility of the heretofore sleepy seaside hamlet Potter's Bluff . The premise may sound a little thin , but there are several socko surprises deftly delivered throughout the picture as it ambles along at a deceptively leisurely clip towards a great , jarring , truly unpredictable conclusion . Director Gary ( " Raw Meat , " " Vice Squad " ) Sherman keeps the ambiance wonderfully tense and creepy , expertly milking the rundown and uniquely unsettling coastal community setting for maximum skin-crawling eeriness ( in this respect " Dead & Buried " takes its honorable place alongside Curtis Harrington's fine " Night Tide , " the stand-out sexy Euro chiller " Daughters of Darkness , " Matt Cimber's deeply upsetting " The Witch Who Came From the Sea , " and John Carpenter's supremely spooky " The Fog " ) . The murders are shockingly graphic and sadistic , but never gratuitously so ( Stan Winston did the excellent grisly make-up f / x , which are highlighted by an especially nasty hypodermic needle in the eye gag ) . Joe Renzetti supplies a beautifully lilting , dolorous score . Steve Poster's misty , shadowy , all faded dingy colors cinematography greatly enhances the potently blood-chilling gloom-doom mood . The clever and original script by Dan O'Bannon and Ronald Shussett ( who previously collaborated on " ALIEN " ) stacks the deck with a few crackerjack plot twists and an agreeable amount of quietly hilarious black-as-midnight gallows humor ( e . g . , one crazed local yokel repeatedly exclaims " Welcome to Potter's Bluff ! " before killing someone ) . And the tip-top cast really hits the spot : " Flash Gordon " ' s Melody Anderson , underrated B-movie ingénue Lisa Blount , Barry Corbin , the ever-sleazy Michael Pataki , a pre-Freddy Krueger Robert Englund , Tim Burton's onetime main squeeze Lisa Marie in a bit part as a doomed hitchhiker , and Jack Albertson , who in his final film role gives a lovely , touching , gracefully understated performance as a sweet , doddering old mortician . A real dandy sleeper .
An absolutely cracking and exciting period costume melodrama treat	1776 : The stern Captain Collier ( excellently played by Patrick Allen ) and his sailors arrive at an English coastal community to investigate reports of " marsh phantoms " who terrorize the countryside at night . Collier suspects that the local reverend Dr . Blyss ( a splendidly lively and witty performance by the great Peter Cushing ) knows more than he's telling about both the " marsh phantoms " and the liquor smuggling that's been going on in the area . Ably directed by Peter Graham Scott , with a robust , rousing score by Don Banks , a snappy pace , handsome , vibrant color cinematography by Arthur Grant , a flavorsome evocation of the 18th century , a colorful script by Anthony Hinds and John Temple Smith , a few nice creepy touches ( those skeletal " marsh phantoms " are genuinely spooky ) , and a strong central theme about redemption , this radical change-of-pace picture from renowned horror outfit Hammer Films makes for tremendously fun and stirring grand entertainment . The top-notch acting from a first-rate supporting cast qualifies as another substantial plus : Yvonne Romain as ravishing bar maid Imogene Clegg , Oliver Reed as the dashing Harry Cobtree , Michael Ripper as wily , acid-tongued coffin maker Jeremiah Mipps , Martin Benson as craven , hot-headed saloon keeper Mr . Rash , Milton Reid as a hulking , brutish mulatto , and Derek Francis as the hearty Squire Anthony Cobtree . Offbeat and original , this fine feature overall rates as a real corker .
A fun and informative interview short	This fun and informative 8 minute interview short is featured as a funky extra on the excellent Blue Underground Region 1 DVD for the notoriously nasty ' 78 grindhouse sleaze slasher classic " The Toolbox Murders . " The still quite lovely and vibrant Marianne Walter ( a . k . a . erstwhile hardcore porn actress Kelly Nichols ) happily discusses her small , yet memorable role as the hot naked chick whom Cameron Mitchell brutally butchers with a nail gun : Ms . Walter openly admits that she thought the masturbation scene was " pretty " instead of " dirty , " recalls that Mitchell was a real trip to work with , reveals she was overjoyed that she wound up being prominently displayed on the original theatrical poster , and relates an especially choice anecdote about taking her brothers to see the film at a local hometown theater she once worked at as an usherette . Walter also briefly talks about her porn career and her current job as a make-up artist . A cool and enjoyable little item that's well worth seeing for both Kelly Nichols fans and " The Toolbox Murders " aficionados alike .
A fine , touching and absorbing dramatic short	Mature and disciplined rock guitarist Jay Styles ( superbly played by Jayce Bartok ) is on the verge of achieving the major stardom he's been working towards for a long time . Prior to performing his big breakthrough stage gig Styles does an interview with " Rolling Stone " reporter Henry Flesh ( the excellent Norman Reedus ) and talks about his childhood buddy Keith Waters ( a haunting portrayal by Greg Haberny ) , a gifted , but surly , troubled and self-destructive singer whose inability to surmount his demons prevents him from realizing his considerable potential . Writer / director Jack Roberts crams a stunningly substantial amount of intriguing information into this tight , moving and absorbing fifteen minute dramatic short film about friendship , failure and success . The finely naturalistic performances , Peter Konczal's striking , gorgeously golden-hued cinematography , the pungently gritty'n'smoky atmosphere , and the first-rate rockin ' soundtrack further enhance the overall sterling quality of this impressive and accomplished debut feature .
A wonderfully wacky and idiosyncratic one-of-a-kind seriocomic hoot	Brash , eager young turk Peter Fonda , the wayward scion of a wealthy family , comes back to his sleepy Key West , Florida home town and decides to become a river boat fishing guide , which ignites a bitter feud between Fonda and two fiercely independent , self-made working class fellow guides - - cantankerous , ferocious near crazy Warren Oates and his laid-back , but fretful buddy Harry Dean Stanton - - over some choice section of fish-infected water . An authentically wiggy , amiable , frothy , if somewhat erratic character-based study of the classic rivalry between the bratty , lazy new generation and the crusty , hidebound old guard who automatically feel threatened by any hotshot young competition with an incisive grounding in the rigid parameters separating the hoity-toity , overconfident upper class from scruffy , fidgety blue collar folks , " 92 in the Shade " makes for a disarmingly quirky seriocomic delight . Acclaimed novelist Tom McGuane's presentation of the nutty , enrapturing , intriguingly off-beat narrative tends to be pretty clumsy and unsteady , but there's a catchy , idiosyncratic , nicely relaxed rhythm to the eccentric proceedings which neatly ingratiates itself upon the viewer . Moreover , the sharply observed characters are an amusing , enjoyable , entertaining bunch of cranky , obstinate kooks , the dialogue is often riotous ( " Take your hat off , will ya ? Let your brains cool off - - you're thinking too hard ! " ) , Michael C . Butler's bright , eye-catching cinematography gives the movie an attractive sparkling look , Michael J . Lewis supplies a pleasingly bluesy'n'woozy score , and there are plenty of hilariously wacky moments featured throughout . The terrific cast includes Margot Kidder as Fonda's flaky , flighty school teacher girlfriend , Burgess Meredith as Fonda's crotchety , foul-mouthed rich grandfather , Elizabeth Ashley as Stanton's pregnant , terminally out to lunch wife ( she has this annoying tendency to dress up as a cheerleader and do baton twirls in front of total strangers ) , William Hickey as Fonda's sickly , gloomy failure of a dad , Sylvia Miles as Meredith's loopy , sardonic secretary , Louise Lathom as Fonda's bored mother , and , in an uncharacteristically goofy role , a surprisingly uproarious Joe Spinell as Ollie Slatt , an insufferably smug and seriously obtuse businessman who professes to be a devout sportsman , but knows positively nothing about fishing . Fonda , Stanton and especially Oates in particular give funny , engaging , top-drawer performances . Although a bit rough around the edges , " 92 in the Shade " generally succeeds with its keen depiction of everyday oddballs who are constantly at loggerheads with each other and overall rates as a leisurely paced , wryly humorous one-of-a-kind charmer .
An arrestingly off-beat & atmospheric mid 60's horror oddity	Do you speak Esperanto ? Well , I sure don't . But fortunately this intriguingly quirky and moody horror oddity - - the only motion picture ever made using the still active experimental universal language of Esperanto - - comes complete with subtitles . On a remote and mysterious magical island populated by dangerous demons and seductive spirits the beautiful and ambitious young sea siren Kia ( the lovely and enchanting Allyson Ames ) gets bored with sending wayward souls to hell , so she decides to go after bigger and more demanding game by leading the good and virtuous Marc ( the one and only William Shatner in a surprisingly sturdy and subdued performance ) astray with lust . When Marc instead corrupts Kia with the purity of his love , the enraged Kia summons a lethal demonic being ( effectively embodied by the handsome and muscular Milos Milos ) to rape Marc's equally upstanding younger sister Arndis ( the cute and appealing Ann Atmar ) and thus provoke Marc to kill the incubus out of revenge , thereby tainting his soul through violence . Deftly written and directed by " The Outer Limits " TV series creator Leslie Stevens , strikingly photographed in exquisitely sharp and stark black and white by the great Conrad Hall , rich in eerie otherworldly atmosphere and further graced by gorgeous misty forest locations , this compelling , intelligent and provocative fright film parable about faith , corruption , redemption and temptation makes for extremely fascinating and stimulating viewing . Fresh , original and highly recommended .
Excellent , trashy & pleasingly unpretentious direct-to-video action thriller fun	Erstwhile 80's Brat Pack thesp Andrew McCarthy is unexpectedly strong and engaging as a sweet , luckless Las Vegas cab driver who inadvertently takes possession of a million dollars worth of mob money and promptly hotfoots it out of town . Scott Glenn delivers a nastily dead-on turn as the cocksure , steely , unflappable underground hit-man troubleshooter assigned by a Sin City Mafia don ( Wayne Newton , the King of the Strip himself , in a surprisingly convincing cameo ) to retrieve the stolen loot ( don't miss the truly super scene where Glenn slices up a would-be mugger's eyes and gleefully snarls to the whining , freshly blinded man , " Get a dog ! " ) . Greatly enlivened by B-movie action maestro Mark ( " Truck Stop Women , " " Commando " ) Lester's briskly smooth , straightforward direction , further enhanced by a splendidly scuzzy appearance by the ever-slimy John Glover as Glenn's equally detestable and overconfident Los Angeles partner in crime , a genuinely beguiling performance by the cute , perky Janet Gunn as the kind , cuddly nurse who comes to the battered , beleaguered McCarthy's aid , a few fun , clever plot twists , a welcome and refreshing sense of neatly realized inner logic and rationality ( yes , this flick is actually very smart and doesn't actively insult the viewer's intelligence ) , an appropriately hard and gritty no-nonsense tone , a nonstop snappy pace , some good old fashioned ( pretty graphic ) sex and violence , and authentically tacky Las Vegas and Los Angeles locations , this rip-snorting little corker really makes the grade as a tense , tasty , and , most importantly , quite trashy chase action thriller .
I saw this made-for-TV shocker in my high school health class and it really freaked me out .	I first saw this truly startling mid-80's made-for-TV favorite in health class when I was in 17 in high school . It truly unnerved the hell out of me . The teacher would occasionally stop the film and make all the students discuss what they just saw with utmost seriousness . It's an experience I'll always treasure as a truly special and unique adolescent memory . Richard Crenna deservedly won an Emmy for his exceptionally brave performance . Nicholas Worth and M . C . Gainey are positively terrifying as the two brutish homosexual hooligans who sodomize Crenna . The single most scary moment occurs when Worth holds a knife to Crenna's throat and venomously snarls to Gainey , " You ever go pig-hunting Sonny - - they squeal when ya stab ' em ! " Yikes ! This was pretty heavy and hard-sitting stuff for me to take at the time . It still upsets me today and rates highly as my second all-time favorite 80's TV movie right after the equally awesome " Fallen Angel . "
An arrestingly off-beat & original Southern Gothic mystery thriller oddity	This singularly off-beat and original period mystery thriller drama curio set in the late 1800's plays like an arrestingly bizarre and inspired cross between " Tom Sawyer " and " Night of the Hunter . " Lonely , miserable orphan buy George ( a then 12-years-old Edward Albert in his excellent film debut ) runs away from his stern , sadistic , abusive foster parents . George meets and befriends a cranky , grubby , but amicable elderly hermit ( a sensationally spirited turn by Henry Hull of " The Werewolf of London " fame ) who tells him a scary story about a strange 8 foot tall ax-wielding mythical bogeyman figure known as " the fool killer . " Anthony Perkins has one of his best , most effectively creepy and compelling post - " Psycho " idiosyncratic wacko parts as Milo , a weird , quiet , disturbed , shell-shocked and enigmatic Civil War vet itinerant loner who suffers from amnesia and may or may not be the deranged murderous madman of local legend . Sumptuously photographed in crisp black and white by Alex Phillips , Jr . , with a fine harmonic folk music score , beautifully fluid editing ( the graceful wipes , fades and dissolves are especially sweet ) , and strong , flavorsome direction by Servando Gonzalez , this spell-bindingly moody and atmospheric oddity wins the viewer over with its intriguingly spooky story , leisurely pacing , engaging array of colorfully quirky characters , and vivid , pungent , powerfully brooding Southern Gothic ambiance . An unjustly overlooked and underrated one-of-a-kind sleeper .
A more appropriate title for this terrifically tacky trash would have been " Airport ' 97 "	The central premise for this so - outrageously - awful - that - it's - highly - entertaining airborne suspense thriller must have been devised in the third or fourth circle of " high concept " movie hell . To wit : a belated overblown " Airport " sequel about a wild-eyed sanguinary sickpup psycho terrorizing folks on board a Christmas Eve red-eye airplane flight some 35 , 000 feet up in the air . The fact that the murderously deranged and dangerous , yet still diabolically charming and cunning fruitcake in question is played by consummate celluloid creepo specialist Ray Liotta in full-tilt let it all hang out something freaky hambone histrionic mode firmly ensures that the viewer is in for one hell of a terrifically wacky'n'tacky schlock hoot ; Ray overacts with such hysterically maniacal and unrestrained cackling relish that it's an honest miracle his nose doesn't start profusely bleeding some fifteen-odd minutes into the picture . Robert Butler's shameless anything-for-a-cheap-jolt direction likewise eschews tact and subtlety with expectedly atrocious results , thereby maintaining a consistently crummy level of pure jaw-dropping trashiness from start to finish . In jarring contrast to Liotta's astonishingly out-of-control and over-the-top eye-rolling twitchy thesping is the comparably startling woodenness of Lauren Holly's stupendously stiff and stoical performance as a beleaguered stewardess ; Holly's grim-faced reserve in the context of this ridiculously wretched enterprise provides a particularly rich source of unintentional hilarity . The crassly exploited yuletide angle adds a substantial deliciously cheesy touch to the already delightfully dire proceedings , especially when the bloodied bodies of several slain passengers are propped up in their seats so they can watch an in-flight screening of " It's a Wonderful Life " ! Toss in a supporting cast which includes such down and out , desperately slumming for an easy paycheck faded luminaries as Catherine Hicks , Ben Cross , Hector Elizondo , Brendon Gleeson ( sporting a hilariously horrendous won't-fool-you-for-a-second overdone Southern accent ) , Rachel Ticotin and Jeffrey DeMunn , jazz it up with Shirley Walker's barnstorming score , have the punchy pace scoot along at a whiplash-inducing breakneck clip , crank the tension to the electrifyingly gaga ninth degree , and the net result of all this ill-advised go-for-broke berserk effort is a gloriously ghastly bad film treat that's eminently worthy of crap camp classic status .
A very funny , witty & on-target low-budget horror spoof	A genuine rarity , this one : a truly good , funny , even smart and respectful send-up of low-rent tacky'n'terrible cheesy backwoods-set teens-in-peril fright films that effectively pokes fun at assorted clichéd'n'contrived horror movie conventions without ever becoming the least bit cutesy or condescending towards its Grade B schlock picture subject matter . Writer / director Rolfe Kanefsky's droll , low-key , properly straight-faced and restrained style never devolves into the overly broad or excessive , instead nicely maintaining a dryly deadpan and ingratiatingly affectionate tone throughout . The slyly generic plot concerns three libidinous college student couples and token fear flick fanatic Mike ( winningly played by Craig Peck , who's really goofy , but thankfully none too annoying ) vacationing in a remote wilderness area . Said secluded forest proves to be the stalking grounds for a slimy , toothy , grody little lethal alien frog monster that sees the guys as yummy meals and the gals as ideal mates to reproduce its species with . Mike's comprehensive knowledge on and keen understanding of bromidic horror film banalities , which is initially a source of irritation to the other disbelieving chowder-head collegians , winds up saving the day , much to geeky Mike's own surprise and the viewer's slack-jawed astonishment . A very amusing , enjoyable and mercifully uninsulting spoof ( unlike the atrocious " Scream " stinkers , this film never seems either archly ironic or smugly patronizing in its pointed satiric potshots at corny stock characters and tried'n'true standard situations ) , blessed with witty dialog ( Mike has the feature's single most sidesplitting line , tersely commenting after seeing one victim's face melt : " Now , that's disgusting " ) , personable acting from a cast of deliberately overage thesps who trying unsuccessfully to palm themselves off as twentysomethish young adults ( one dude even has thinning hair ! ) , nifty on-target parodies of such groan-inducingly familiar trash horror film ingredients as gratuitous nudity ( " It's skinny-dipping time ! " ) , the ever-absurd false cat scare , an especially uproarious swipe at the making hot , passionate love in front of a roaring fire sequence ( the guy's zipper gets stuck ! ) , glaring blatant continuity errors , and a hilarious technical gaffe involving a conspicuously visible boom microphone dipping into the frame , crisp , sprightly cinematography by Ed Hershberger , an endearingly cruddy extraterrestrial beast , a rollicking bang-up score by Christopher Thomas , and some gut-busting joke-ridden ending credits , " There's Nothing Out There " overall sizes up as a brisk , frequently riotous , and highly pleasing low-budget ( it only cost $350 , 000 in total ) tongue-in-cheek horror film genre lampoon . The first-rate deluxe Special Edition DVD by Image Entertainment offers a fairly grainy , but generally solid and up to par widescreen presentation loaded with a wonderful wealth of awesomely abundant extras which include the theatrical trailer , a still and poster gallery , funky animated menus complete with songs and music from the picture , screen tests , bloopers and rehearsals ( the bloopers in particular are an absolute hoot ) , pre-production footage and storyboards , animation test footage and work print outtakes , and , most savory of all , a very funny , entertaining and informative commentary provided by Kanefsky along with various cast and crew members .
Positively terrifying	Successful , but lonely middle-aged businessman widower Shigeharu Aoyama ( a superb performance by Ryo Ishibashi ) lives with his loving son Shigehiko ( affable Tetsu Sawaki ) following the death of his wife . His loyal film producer friend Yasuhisa Yoshikawa ( nicely played by Jun Kunimura ) advices Shigeharu to remarry . The two guys hold an open audition for a nonexistent movie in order to find the ideal female candidate . Shigeharu becomes smitten with the lovely , polite and charming Asami Yamazaki ( the mesmerizing Eihi Shiina ) . Shigeharu plans to wed Asami , but she proves to be a lot more than he bargained for : she's a deeply troubled and lethal psychopath with a grim past history of horrible abuse . Director Takashi Miike does an expert job of firmly grounding the macabre and unnerving story in a thoroughly plausible pedestrian everyday reality . It's this meticulous evocation of a totally believable mundane world which in turn makes the startling conclusion so shocking and upsetting ; the characters and their lives ring true , so everything they do seems credible as well . Moreover , Miike handles the ghastly violence with admirable restraint and subtlety ; he suggests more than he shows - - and this proves to be highly effective . The gradual pacing takes a little getting used to , but culminates in a chilling and disturbing conclusion that packs one hell of a potent and lingering gut punch . Hideo Yamamoto's sharp cinematography and Koji Endo's classy orchestral score further enhance the overall sterling quality of this scary and unsettling knock-out .
A taut and gripping psychological drama	An American soldier ( Lee Marvin in typically strong and robust form ) and a Japanese officer ( superbly played by Toshiro Mifune ) find themselves stranded together on a remote Pacific island . Can they set aside their differences and learn to get along in order to survive in an unsparingly harsh environment ? Director John Boorman , working from a tight , intelligent and intriguing script by Alexander Jacobs and Eric Bercovici , wrings plenty of sweaty suspense from the absorbing premise and cogently captures a potent sense of isolation and desolation . Moreover , Boorman never lets the central allegory about how war divides men and forces them to become bitter enemies get bogged down in any heavy-handed pretension or gooey sentimentality . The top-notch performances by Marvin and Mifune help matters a lot ; their tense , edgy chemistry keeps the picture humming throughout . In addition , Marvin's volatile gruffness and Mifune's stoic resolve make for an excellent and hugely enjoyable contrast ; the way their initially adversarial relationship slowly , but surely develops into a grudging tolerance and eventual affinity for one another is both touching and convincing . Conrad L . Hall's sharp , breathtaking widescreen cinematography offers a wealth of striking visuals . Lalo Schifrin's nicely varied score constitutes as another significant asset ; it's alternately shivery and dissonant , lush and lovely , yet always rousing and melodic . Only the dissatisfyingly abrupt and jarring studio-imposed ending disappoints . ( The original conclusion is much more dramatically sound and hence more pleasing as well . ) Offbeat , inspired and well worth watching .
Marjoe Gortner's finest hour on film	1968 , New Mexico . Marjoe Gortner gives an incredibly intense , commanding and charismatic performance as Teddy , a bitter , crazed , disgruntled Vietnam veteran hippie drug dealer psycho who along with his loyal , but scared girlfriend Cheryl ( nicely played by the adorable Candy Clark ) terrorizes a motley assortment of people in a remote roadside diner at gunpoint . Teddy forces the folks to own up to ugly truths about Vietnam , America , and , most of all , themselves . Director Milton Katselas , working from a biting and incisive script by Mark Medoff , cranks up the seething tension to an almost unbearably nerve-wracking fever pitch and milks the protracted diner confrontation sequence for all its worth . The bang-up acting from a tip-top cast qualifies as a substantial sterling asset : Hal Linden as pathetic weakling Richard Ethridge , Lee Grant as Richard's fiery , fed-up wife Clarisse , Peter Firth as surly greaser short order cook Stephen Ryder , Stephanie Faracy as sweet , dumpy waitress Angel Childress , Pat Hingle as amiable , crippled diner owner Lyle Striker , Audra Lindley as Stephen's sad burn-out mother Ceil , Bill McKinney as macho local hot shot Tommy Clark , and Anne Ramsay as Angel's shrewish mom Rhea . However , this picture still rates as Marjoe's show all the way : Whether he's suffering a painful and humiliating rectal search from a border official or trying to get Stephen to act on his swaggering false bravado , Gortner's electrifying portrayal of a cruel and dangerous sociopath remains strong and riveting from start to finish . Jules Brenner's sharp , agile cinematography , Jack Nitzsche's rattling , throbbing score , and an excellent soundtrack of mournful country ballads and groovy 60's rock songs are all likewise smack dab on the money . Although a bit too stagy and overlong , this movie still packs one extremely powerful and lingering gut punch all the same .
A fabulously brooding , stylish and atypical biker mood piece	1959 : A gang of bikers en route to Daytona , Florida who include the surly , disaffected Vance ( a smoothly self-assured performance by Willem Dafoe in his film debut ) and restless hothead Davis ( nicely played by rockabilly icon Robert Gordon ) are forced to make an unwanted pit stop in a sleepy Southern hamlet when one biker has engine trouble with his chopper . Complications ensue when Vance becomes involved with tempting teen tramp Telena ( a splendidly brassy'n'sassy turn by the cute Marin Kanter ) , which doesn't go over well with the extremely uptight and intolerant square townspeople . Written and directed by Kathryn ( " Near Dark , " " Blue Steel " ) Bigelow and Monty Montgomery ( who later produced " Twin Peaks " and " Wild at Heart " ) , " The Loveless " sure ain't your average trashy B-biker exploitation action romp . Instead it's something much better and more ambitious : a beautifully brooding , stylish and intriguing existential mood piece that's rich in a pungently evocative atmosphere that exquisitely seethes with barely suppressed menace , violence , despair , ennui , malaise , sexuality and homo-eroticism . Doyle Smith's gorgeously glossy , gleaming cinematography , the uniformly excellent acting , the vivid and meticulous recreation of the 50's , Robert Gordon's fantastic rockabilly score , the cool hepcat slang ( " We got the scratch " ) , the deliberately slow pace , and the strikingly grim and tragic conclusion further strengthen the potent and intoxicating spell this film casts on the viewer , sucking you in with a masterful ease that's truly something to behold . This is the kind of supremely subtle and low-key picture which initially doesn't seem like much as you watch it , but has an uncanny way of sticking with you long after you see it .
An excellent and exciting crime action thriller corker	The almighty Sonny Chiba rules the day as Duke Togo ( a . k . a . Golgo 13 ) , a tough , ruthless and formidable consummate professional international assassin who's been hired to rub out a powerful Hong Kong drug lord . Of course , said assignment proves to be easier said than done , as Togo must contend with the drug lord's seemingly limitless legion of flunkies and one Detective Smith ( firmly played by Callan Leung ) , a relentless cop with a personal score to settle with Togo who's bound and determined to arrest him . Director Yukio Noda doesn't miss a trick with this bang-up exciting and absorbing action crime thriller flick : the nonstop lightning fast pace never lets up for a minute , the copious stirring action scenes are staged with considerable rip-snorting brio and finesse ( said action includes lots of wild , rousing shoot-outs and the expected brutal , blood-spilling , bone-breaking martial arts mayhem ) , there's a nice smattering of gratuitous sex and nudity , the exotic globe-trotting locations are colorful and eye-catching , the plot boasts plenty of nifty twists and turns , the tone is appropriately gritty and serious , and both Harumi Ibe's lively , groovy , funky-bumpin ' soulful score and Shigeru Akatsuka's agile , dynamic , sumptuously expansive cinematography are on the money slick and effective . A terrifically hard-boiled and ferocious little item that's essential viewing for Sonny Chiba fans .
A truly terrific & delightful slice of rock history drama gem	The chronically under-appreciated Illeana Douglas gives a characteristically glowing , winsome , totally spot-on performance as aspiring singer / songwriter Denise Waverly , who during a very turbulent and wildly eventful fifteen year time span goes from being a frustrated , creatively stifled behind-the-scenes magic maker to eventually acquiring the clout and courage to branch out on her own to sing her own material in a strong , assertive , independent female voice . Learning under the expert tutelage of cranky , eccentric , misanthropic Brill Building impresario Joel Millner ( a fabulously freaky John Turturro ) and enduring a steady succession of unsuccessful romantic relationships with footloose , insecure , insensitive bohemian songwriter Howard Castatt ( a perfectly jerky Eric Stoltz ) , conventional married disc jockey John Murray ( a typically fine Bruce Davison ) , and brilliantly innovative , but paranoid and temperamental surf-rock composer Jay Phillips ( a splendidly spaced-out Matt Dillon ) , the extremely intelligent and resilient Denise uses her bittersweet life experiences as prime fodder for her ever evolving and emotionally charged songs . Flavorfully documenting rock music's growth from effervescent girl group pop to trippy psychedelic experimentation to intensely personal singer / songwriter confessional tunes , Allison Anders ' simply sensational feature , loosely based on the real-life exploits of Carole King ( besides the obviously King-influenced Denise , most of the other characters are clearly composites of various actual rock people as well ) and executive produced by Martin Scorsesse , crackles with all the joyous vibrancy and infectious exuberance of the marvelously dynamic and exciting music scene its set in . Anders ' deft , assured direction and sharply perceptive script , both keenly tuned in to the mercurial zeitgeist of the 60's and the then burgeoning women's right movement , works as both invigorating rock music history and inspirational pro-feminist tract alike . The splendidly catchy and melodious Larry Klein-produced soundtrack , Jean Yves Escoffier's smooth , agile , gliding cinematography , a story which manages to be genuinely touching without ever lapsing into mawkishly contrived sentiment , an absorbing , minutely detailed backstage glimpse at the pop music songwriting and recording process , and the uniformly superlative acting - - Patsy Kensit as Denise's longtime songwriting partner and loyal gal pal Cheryl Steed , Bridget Fonda as awkward closeted lesbian pop singer Kelly Porter , and David Clennon as a flaky hippie shrink are especially terrific - - round out this positively radiant and utterly delightful gem .
An excellent & unjustly neglected Hitchcockian thriller gem	Forever under-acclaimed slender , green-eyed , button cute blonde actress Annn Dusenberry , who got terrorized by Bruce the mechanical shark in " Jaws 2 , " gives a typically animated , engaging and on the money performance as Robyn Wallace , a sweet , struggling , down on her luck actress who's having a tremendously hard time snagging that frustratingly elusive big breakthrough part . Robyn's heretofore rotten luck changes for the better when independent film producer Gail Strickland hires her to play an insane , institutionalized wealthy heiress in a movie . The flick abruptly folds after one day's worth of shooting . Robyn finds out from the wealthy heiress ' faithful , despondent husband ( marvelously portrayed by the always super Bruce Davison ) that the woman she played in the film is still alive ( Robyn was told she was dead ) and that she has inadvertently become seriously involved in an intricate and diabolical plot to acquire the heiress ' considerable inheritance . Cleverly written and sharply directed by the constantly up to snuff Jim and Ken Wheat ( the same brotherly film-making duo who later gave us the bang-up horror anthology winner " After Midnight , " plus co-wrote the scripts for both the superior slasher item " Silent Scream " and the terrific sci-fi / horror dilly " Pitch-Black " ) , further enhanced by Robert Erbinger's crisply proficient cinematography , Marc Donahue's effectively spooky'n'shuddery synthesizer score , and a bracingly bravura hanging an in elevator shaft murder set piece , this deliciously convoluted and thoroughly absorbing nerve-rattling corker really makes the grade as a smartly crafted and adroitly executed Hitchcockian suspense thriller . Dusenberry simply shines in an all-too-rare substantial lead , receiving excellent support from Clu Gulager as a sinister , manipulative psychiatrist , Terence Knox as Robyn's earnest , supportive screenwriter boyfriend , Bert Remsen as Robyn's nice , gregarious agent , and the ubiquitous Dick Miller as a sleazeball B-pic producer who fires Robyn on the set of his latest crassly exploitative schlocky zombie fright feature when she refuses to show some skin ( " Money honey , " Miller growls to Robyn after she asks him why she should disrobe on screen , " Ts sell tickets ! " ) . Compelling , exciting and briskly paced , this enormously entertaining and underrated overlooked little sleeper is well worth seeing and hugely worthy of rediscovery .
Mother Goose grows up and gets raunchy in this hilariously bawdy animated " adults only " hoot	Moother Goose's famous good , clean , wholesome " fun for the whole family " bedtime stories are given a sexually explicit and humorously perverted workover in this hilariously bawdy combo live action and animation adults only feature . Dotty , doddery , foul-mouthed dirty old lady Mother Goose ( played by none other than Hal Smith ; Otis the town drunk on " The Andy Griffith Show " ! ) gleefully reveals the sleazy , seedy and just plain sordid carnal underpinnings that have been previously ignored in her stories , spinning these sidesplitting saucy'n'sexy yarns to a court full of anxious listeners . Jack Beanstalk gets exposed ( pun intended ) as a peeping tom degenerate with an enormous penis and a crazed penchant for bestiality and doing the unthinkable with trees ( yuck ! ) , the giant's neglected , sexually frustrated wife uses Jack in a most unmentionable way , Cinderella really was a sweet young virgin who's eager to go all the way with the handsome , dashing prince , the troll under the bridge turns out to be a whiny homosexual , dainty , nubile , innocent honey Little Red Riding Hood gets repeatedly raped by lusty woodsmen while en route to a wedding , and we even learn about an eighth dwarf named Pimpy the Forest Flasher . This wonderfully rancid , raunchy and ridiculously tasteless tongue-in-cheek 70's schlock sexploitation artifact would make for an ideal triple bill with Charles Band's " Fairytales " and Bill Osco's X-rated porno version of " Alice in Wonderland . "
Extremely rough and shocking stuff	Sexy , slender brunette model Mara ( the extremely hot Marlene Willoughby ) answers an ad in " Screw " magazine for a high paying job at a New York whorehouse which specializes in turning all kinds of deviant sadomasochistic bondage and discipline sex tricks . The house's dumpy middle-aged madame ( curly-haired fortysomething lady Ultra Max ) shows our curious protagonist the ropes ( and chains ) of the B & D business in this splendidly seamy , frequently shocking and occasionally arousing slice of mondo kinko sickie roughie 70's porno sleaze . The sexual vignettes graphically enacted herein range from mildly perverse to genuinely unnerving . Shown in a swiftly paced juxtaposition of squalid sexual tableaux , set to an incessantly droning , discordant score and punctuated with often hideously profane dialogue , we not only get the standard cunnilingus , ejaculation , masturbation , sodomy and fellatio , but also an unsparingly nasty and disgusting barrage of utterly degrading rough stuff : voluptuous Cuban-American firecracker Vanessa Del Rio crams a banana in her vagina and then eats it , one poor dweeb spends most of the movie locked in a closet , an understandably frightened blonde babe gets bound to a chair and has her legs savagely beaten with a leather belt , and the madame urinates on a wimpy guy's face because he showed up twenty minutes late for an appointment ( the madame even mercilessly pokes fun at the guy's pitifully small and unimpressive penis ) . During the film's single most gut-churning sequence Iggy Pop lookalike Marc Stevens and some other guy cruelly demean , taunt , tie up and manipulate a horrified , pathetically submissive young lass ( the eminently adorable C . J . Laing ) who for a good thirty positively grueling minutes is made the helpless subject of these vile control freaks ' mean and selfish carnal whims . Several other male customers are played by legendary 70's hardcore movie studboys Jamie Gillis , John Leslie and Fred Lincoln of " The Last House on the Left " infamy . While not exactly a real turn-on , this pervasively seedy and seriously warped adult movie aberration definitely scores points for sheer audacity alone and more than delivers the lowdown ghastly B & D goods .
An amazingly thorough and informative retrospective documentary about the remarkable cult favorite " The Stuntman "	This lengthy and inexhaustible retrospective documentary about " The Stunt Man " sure ain't your run-of-the-mill affair . Written , directed and narrated with dazzling cinematic aplomb and delightful sardonic humor by original feature director / producer Richard Rush , this baby furiously bulldozes through the back-stabbing behind-the-scenes politics and pandemonium of film-making with a sharp eye and fierce wit that's truly something to behold . Alternately bitter and whimsical , smug and funny , self-satisfied and self-effacing , Rush covers all the essential bases from the genesis of the project to casting to marketing and distribution . Rush discusses how the film deals with such weighty themes as paranoia and illusion versus reality while noting how said themes apply just as much to real life as they do to the picture . Besides Rush , we also have intelligent and enjoyable interviews with the ever-charming Peter O'Toole , the radiant Barbara Hershey , amiable Steve Railsback , and the supremely easygoing and engaging Charles Bail . Among the topics addressed herein are how the whole movie is told from Railsback's point of view , a key deleted scene showing Railsback catching Hershey in bed with another man , the trouble of securing financing for the film , how the picture was an eclectic mixture of different genres and hence difficult to easily sell to a wide mainstream audience , finding the right locations , the groundbreaking use of rack focus , casting the principal roles , the tricky art of advance preview screenings , how at the end of the 70's the shift concerning cinema changed from greed to ego , and Dominic Frontiere's exceptional score . At nearly two hours this documentary proves to be occasionally rather excessive and indulgent , but overall sizes up as every bit as offbeat , original and wildly innovative as the gloriously oddball one-of-a-kind cinematic masterpiece that it's about . Essential viewing for fans of " The Stunt Man . "
A marvelously odd & eerie 70's drive-in horror favorite	One of the oddest , most strikingly eerie and creepy horror films to come out of the 70's , " Tourist Trap " even by the loose , free-wheeling , convention-defying " anything goes " standards of its time rates as a real weirdie . Yet , it's the picture's very strangeness - - a masterfully mounted uncanny atmosphere of pervasively off-kilter supernatural dread which from the get-go registers as powerfully spooky and becomes more increasingly opaque and frightening as the film progresses , offering up ample shocks amid a few scattered moments of surreally lovely dream-like elegance and ending on a bitterly ironic , crushingly nihilistic note with a haunting final image that's hard to shake - - which makes it such a unique and singularly unnerving experience . Five teenagers traveling through the desolate California desert by car get hopelessly lost . They stumble across " Slausen's Lost Oasis , " a seedy , rundown roadside dive that's one part gas station , three parts crummy wax museum , and all parts ratty and foreboding . The joint's lonely , seemingly friendless and harmless owner Slausen ( juicily overplayed with infectiously hammy brio by Chuck Conners ) turns out to be a deranged psychic killer with lethal telekinetic powers . Slausen brings his freaky assortment of uncomfortably human-like mannequins to life and picks off the kids one by one so he can add them to his ever-growing collection of victims . Director David ( " Puppermaster , " " The Arrival " ) Schmoeller adeptly wrings every last ounce of tension he can squeeze from the pleasingly ambiguous and open-ended script he co-wrote with J . Larry Carroll . ( Said script's stubborn refusal to provide some rational excuse for all the bizarre stuff which transpires throughout the movie , often wrongly criticized as one of the film's principal weaknesses , is actually the movie's key strength , giving the picture the scary , anything - and - everything - can - happen , common-logic-be-damned quality of a true nightmare come horrifically to life which never would have been achieved if there was some kind of credible explanation offered for what's happening . ) Pino Donaggio's beautifully chilling , understated score , Nicholas von Sternberg's shadowy cinematography , and Robert A . Burns ' grubby , cramped production design add immensely to the film's profoundly unsettling mood . Excellent performances are another significant plus , with the pretty , perky Jocelyn Jones ( Ellie-Jo Turner in " The Great Texas Dynamite Chase " ) particularly fine and personable as the most resilient and sympathetic of the endangered teens . Even Tanya Roberts fares well as a luckless lass who has a knife levitated into her head . Offbeat and unusual , " Tourist Trap " is well worth visiting .
A wonderfully witty and dynamic tongue-in-cheek delight	The evil Dracula ( a suavely sinister Duncan Regehr ) and his band of equally pernicious monsters - - Frankenstein's monster ( a very engaging Tom Noonan ) , the Wolfman , the Gillman and the Mummy - - need to gain possession of an ancient powerful amulet so they can rule the world . It's up to a gaggle of misfit horror movie buff teenage boys - - likable leader Sean Crenshaw ( Andre Gower ) , bumbling fat kid Horace ( the hilarious Brent Chalem ) , nervous Patrick ( Robby Kriger ) , spunky little squirt Eugene ( Michael Faustino ) , and token cool dude Randy ( Ryan Lambert ) - - to stop the foul fiends before it's too late . Ably directed by Fred Dekker ( who also gave us the terrific " Night of the Creeps " ) , with a really clever and inspired script by Dekker and Shane Black , a constant unflagging pace , excellent make-up f / x by the ever-reliable Stan Winston , beautifully sparkling and polished cinematography by Bruce Houghton , a rousing , majestic orchestral score by Bradford May , funky 80's slang ( favorite words include " wuss , " " jerkoid , " and the immortal " nards " ) , some mild gore ( the Wolfman gets blown in half in an especially grisly scene ) , and nifty 80's period touches ( there's a " Miami Vice " dialogue reference and keep your eyes peeled for the " Robotech " t-shirt ) , this sweetly affectionate tongue-in-cheek homage to vintage golden oldie creature features has plenty of charm and energy to spare . What truly makes this film such a treat is the positively infectious sense of pure go-for-it good-natured fun that permeates every last loving frame . The kid leads all give highly appealing performances ; they receive bang-up support from Stephen Macht as Sean's harried cop father Del , Mary Ellen Trainer as Sean's long-suffering mother Emily , Ashley Bank as Sean's adorable little sister Phoebe , Stan Shaw as Del's sarcastic partner Detective Sapir , Leonardo Cimino as the friendly Scary German Guy , and Jason Harvey as mean bully E . J . A total blast !
A superb , gripping and suspenseful 50's film noir thriller gem	Gilbert Bowen ( finely played by Frank Lovejoy ) and Roy Collins ( the equally excellent Edmund O'Brien ) are a couple of pleasant , personable working class family men who are out on a fishing trip driving across Mexico in a Plymouth Fury . The two good lifelong friends make the fatal mistake of picking up Emmett Myers ( a chillingly flinty and implacable performance by rangy , gaunt-faced character actor William Talman ; the DA who inevitably lost every case to Raymond Burr on " Perry Mason " ) , a mean , sadistic , cold-hearted on the lam psychopathic criminal who takes the pair hostage and makes them transport him across the border with the specific intent of killing both men after they prove to be no longer useful . Gilbert and Ray's friendship gets put to the ultimate test by Myers : they either will pull together to defeat him or both wind up dead . A truly tense and gripping low-budget vintage 50's stripped down to the scrappy bare essentials film noir thriller which delivers 71 minutes worth of sweat-inducing white-knuckle tension , this " danger on the road " classic greatly benefits from Ida Lupino's trim , focused , unflashy direction ( Lupino also co-wrote the compact script ) , the nervy interplay between the three outstanding leads , the lean , but richly textured characters , Leith Stevens ' marvelously booming'n'bombastic all urgent horns and fraught strings score , a starkly plotted narrative which stays on a steady , unwavering course throughout , Nicholas Musuraca's gorgeously crisp black and white cinematography , no needless pretense or sentiment to speak of , and a hard , grim , steely tone that's firmly rooted in a quietly unsettling evocation of a fragile , all too easily ripped asunder everyday tranquility and banality . The film's marrow-freezing plausibility no doubt derives from the fact that the story was inspired by a horrific real life incident : In the early 50's a hoodlum fugitive named William Cook posed as a hitch-hiker and killed several people who gave him a lift before the police caught him .
Hey there Little Red Riding Hood , you sure are looking good as Reese Witherspoon	A wickedly nasty and subversive contemporary road movie thriller spin on the classic fairytale " Little Red Riding Hood , " with a phenomenally brassy'n'sassy performance by Reese Witherspoon as a tough , scrappy , not-so-innocent California teenage runaway hitch-hiker who runs afoul of a pernicious roadside serial killer ( excellently played by Kiefer Sutherland ) who's on a self-appointed moralistic mission to rid the world of " garbage people . " Witherspoon narrowly avoids being killed by Sutherland , seriously hurting him in the process and winding up in jail on a trumped-up assault charge . However , Witherspoon manages to escape so she and Sutherland can have a ferocious climactic showdown at her grandmother's house , which in this brilliantly twisted picture turns out to be a grimy mobile home located in a seedy whitetrash trailer park . Writer / director Matthew Bright relates this blithely amoral and energetic exploitation trash pip with a gut-bustingly savage and unmerciful sense of no-holds-barred caustic black-as-midnight humor , thus giving this deliciously demented doozy a frantically hoppin ' electric charge and breezy irreverence that's impossible to either resist or dislike . Popping up in super supporting parts are Brooke Shields as Sutherland's snobby , unsuspecting wife , Amanda Plummer as Witherspoon's pathetic junkie hooker mom , Michael T . Weiss as Witherspoon's skeevy abusive stepdad , Brittany Murphy as a cheery lesbian , and Sydney Lassick as a jolly trailer park manager . Great barn-storming opening theme by Danny Elfman , too . And Witherspoon is a terrifically tart , brash and foul-mouthed revelation in what remains her best-ever starring role to date .
A delightfully clever and inspired time travel science fiction thriller pip	1893 . Victorian era London , England . Brilliant , but idealistic writer and scientist H . G . Wells ( a wonderfully warm and engaging performance by Malcolm McDowell ) invents a time machine . Notorious psychopath Jack the Ripper ( superbly played with subdued menace by David Warner ) uses the time machine to travel to San Francisco , California in 1979 . Wells follows after him . While searching for the Ripper Wells meets and falls in love with sunny and liberated bank worker Amy Robbins ( a fabulously sweet and endearing portrayal by Mary Steenburgen ) . Writer / director Nicholas Meyer deftly blends elements of comedy , romance , thriller , and science fiction into a fresh , witty and entertaining mix that moves along at a brisk pace , delivers a substantial amount of suspense and excitement , and radiates an utterly beguiling whimsical charm throughout . Moreover , Meyer offers plenty of pointed social commentary on the harsh violence and pervasive decadence of the modern age and milks the fish out of water premise for all its worth as Wells figures out how to order fast food at McDonald's and learns how to drive a car and operate an electric toothbrush . This movie further benefits from uniformly excellent acting from a top-drawer cast : McDowell and Steenburgen display a truly enchanting screen chemistry ( not surprisingly , they were married for a short spell after appearing together in this film ) , Warner makes for a positively chilling Jack the Ripper , Charles Cioffi acquits himself well in a sizable supporting role as the disbelieving Police Lieutenant Mitchell , and Patti D'Arbanville contributes a wonderfully lively bit as perky Jack the Ripper victim Shirley . Miklos Rozsa supplies a perfectly lush , robust and stirring score . Paul Lohmann's crisp cinematography likewise hits the bull's eye . A total treat .
My all-time favorite delectably cheesy Don Dohler flick	Maryland-based no-budget hack junk genre filmmaker par excellence Don Dohler hits an uproariously atrocious all-time low with this marvelously messed-up magnum opus of sheer awfulness , a relentlessly wretched $1 . 98 amateur-night-at-the-movies sci-fi / horror evil alien splatterfest that's downright mesmerizing and often almost unbearably funny in its pure , undistilled , unflinchingly shoddy woefulness . A hefty homicidal lizard who resembles a pudgy version of the titular hokey reptilian fiend in " Track of the Moonbeast " crash-lands his spaceship in the drab podunk burg of Perry Hill , Maryland after said spaceship gets struck by a meteor . The nasty , scaly , clawed lizard creature proceeds to rack up a substantial corpse tally ( 24 people in total ! ) by either zapping folks with its cruddy plastic toy raygun or graphically tearing ' em up with its sharp , taloned hands . It's up to geeky , curly-haired stringbean Sheriff Cinder ( the bland , ungainly Tom Griffith ) , pretty Deputy Lisa ( the extremely cute and sprite blonde looker Karin Kaisdan , who at one particularly ridiculous point in the middle of all the action finds time to bare her hot bod for a laughably gratuitous love scene with the sheriff ) , and selfless , stout-hearted good Samaritan Jamie ( the gratingly insipid Jamie Zemarel ) to kill the bloodthirsty intergalactic being before it decimates the entire populace of the town . Chockablock with all the essential oddly entertaining so - utterly - wrong - it's - paradoxically - right stuff - - rancid emoting from a non-star cast ( besides the three horrible leads , we also got the ubiquitous Grade Z film regular George Stover in one of his standard wimpy bespectacled dweeb roles and the beefy Don Leifert as an odious woman-beating local roughhouse baddie ) , ineptly staged shoot-outs , chintzy scratched onto the negative laser effects , a judicious smattering of cheesy soft-core sex and nudity , ham-fisted direction , a threadbare script which does little more than loosely string together a steady series of gruesome murder set pieces , eye-straining under-lit nighttime cinematography , and more luridly gory ultra-violence than you can shake a double-barreled shotgun at - - " Nightbeast " certainly earns its place in the hilariously horrendous down'n'dirty celluloid dreck epic Hall of Shame . It's an enjoyably idiotic , low-rent and resolutely tacky all-thumbs affair that's a great deal of first-rate fumbling el schlocko high camp fun .
A gloriously quirky & colorful slice of Americana delight	One of Jonathan Demme's earliest and best movies , this quirky , seriocomic , thoroughly amiable and disarming slice-of-Americana gem bombed at the box office , but was widely hailed by critics and has gone on to garner a much-deserved loyal fan following . Centering on a small rural community populated by assorted flaky eccentrics who gab over the CB radio under outrageous aliases and similar wildly exaggerated personalities to boot ( nowadays these folks can be found on countless internet chat-rooms and web boards , so the premise really hasn't dated at all ; it's just taken on a different manifestation in the new millennium ) , this honey stars the outstanding Paul LeMat as Spider , a fervent , obsessive , self-appointed vigilante who wants to get rid of all the nutcases chattering away on emergency channels . Among the targets of Spider's wrath are Ed Begley , Jr . as a zealous priest who sermonizes over the air ; the delightfully daffy Alix Elias as sweet hooker on wheels Hot Coffee , who advertises herself over the airwaves and turns tricks in the back of her camper ( ! ) ; a lewd adolescent male operating under the self-explanatory moniker the Hustler who tells dirty tales of his alleged spicy sexual misadventures over the radio , and a strident Aryan Nazi scumbag . Spider becomes so absorbed with his single-minded mission that loving , but frustrated girlfriend Candy Clark starts cheating on him with his hard-nosed competitive high school basketball coach brother Bruce McGill and even steams up the airwaves speaking raunchy talk over the CB radio to some dweeb who calls himself the Warlock ! The always great Charles Napier contributes a terrific performance as amicable , big-hearted bigamist trucker Chrome Angel ; Ann Wedgeworth and Marcia Rodd are likewise excellent as Chuck's flighty , blowzy wife and practical , more down-to-earth better half , respectively . Roberts Blossom ( the nutty middle-aged Ed Geinesque lunatic in the supremely chilling psycho knockout " Deranged " ) turns in a hilariously crotchety characterization as Spider's ornery , batty old coot father who only comes to life while talking over the CB radio . Chiefly addressing the lack of direct , intimate communication between people in contemporary society and the basic need to transcend the drab mundaneness of ordinary life through the assuming of another , altogether more colorful , outlandish and exciting made-up alternate identity ( substantial themes which are still quite timely and pertinent even today ) , Paul Brickman's bright , astute , truly whimsical and episodically structured script offers a wealth of precisely observed little moments and a generous helping of warmth and compassion which accumulate into a totally unique and engaging whole . Demme's peppy , sparkling , sympathetic direction displays an equally heartfelt and heartwarming affection for everyday oddball middle-class Americana , pacing and shaping the deliciously dense and winding narrative with utmost ease and consummate expertise . Jordan Cronenweth's flashy'n'splashy , richly saturated cinematography and Bill Conti's folksy , gently lulling and harmonic score further add to the frothy , gleefully off-center merriment . A fabulously idiosyncratic treat .
Another delightfully down'n'dirty Claudia Jennings 70's drive-in gem	Late , great 70's drive-in movie queen Claudia Jennings is at her brassy , sassy and smoking sexy best as Candy Morgan , a kittenishly irreverent prison escapee who teams up with saucy former bank teller Ellie-Jo Turner ( winningly played by the very pretty and appealing Jocelyn Jones of " Tourist Trap " fame ) and goes on an eventful crime spree , robbing banks and breaking hunky guys ' hearts with equally joyful abandon . Directed with considerable verve by Michael Pressman , buoyed by a zippy , banjo-happy score by Craig ( " Nightmares , " " Warning Sign " ) Safan , further sparked by a cheerfully lowbrow sensibility and featuring a sidesplitting cameo by the ever-haughty Stefan ( " Blue Sunshine , " " Blood Beach " ) Gierasch as a stuffy hotel clerk who tries to refuse Claudia and Jocelyn a room , this extremely brash , funny and spirited hoot rates as a whole lot of top-rate infectiously trashy fun . The copious gratuitous nudity by the tall , slender , breathtakingly beautiful blonde Claudia and the more diminutive , but still comely and enticing Jocelyn constitutes as another substantial plus . Overall , this baby is an absolute must-see for Claudia Jennings fans in particular and aficionados of blithely amoral cheapo 70's redneck crime epics in general , which hopefully doesn't rule out too many folks .
A brutal and chilling British horror gem	England in the 1640s . Civil war has torn the country apart and lawlessness reigns supreme throughout the land . Cruel , cunning , evil opportunist Matthew Hopkins ( a brilliantly restrained and convincing Vincent Price in his greatest horror film performance ) and his sadistic assistant John Stearne ( a perfectly vile Robert Russell ) collect handsome fees for severely persecuting folks who have been accused of witchcraft . Hopkins and Stearne put innocent priest John Lowes ( a fine Rupert Davies ) to death and have their wicked way with Lowes ' sweet niece Sarah ( the extremely charming and fetching Hilary Dwyer ) . Sarah's soldier fiancé Richard Marshall ( excellently played by Ian Ogilvy ) vows revenge on both Hopkins and Stearne . Director Michael Reeves , who co-wrote the bitter and caustic script with Tom Baker , delivers a potent and disturbing shocker about corruption , superstition , and the abuse of power . Reeves does an especially adept job of creating and sustaining a bleak , harsh , grimly serious and humorless tone which gives the horrific on-screen violence an additional hard and unnerving edge . Moreover , Reeves makes expert use of the beautifully verdant British countryside , which stands in stark contrast to the raw savagery depicted throughout the picture . Paul Ferris ' exquisitely lush'n'robust orchestral score and John Coquillon's gorgeously bright'n'crisp cinematography are both exceptional . Popping up in memorable cameos are Patrick Wymark as the hearty Cromwell , Wilfrid Brambell as the grotesquely effeminate Master Loach , and sexy British 60's pin-up girl Margaret Nolan as a bawdy wench . A strong and disturbing knockout that's wholly deserving of its sterling cult status .
Jack Hill's slyly subversive 70's cheerleader comedy treat	Special credit must go to the ever-surprising and enterprising Jack Hill for making the single most wickedly subversive film in the popular 70's cheerleader sub-genre . Sure , it certainly delivers the prerequisite ample doses of silly slapstick humor and tasty sex and gratuitous nudity , but along with that sleazy stuff we also have a remarkably astute critique of gender roles and sexual stereotypes as well as a deliciously sly and playful sense of anarchic humor . Sassy Mesa University underground newspaper reporter Kate ( winningly played by lovely brunette sprite Jo Johnston ) decides to pose as a cheerleader in order to get the straight dope for an article on " female exploitation in contemporary society . " Kate soon discovers that there's much more to being a cheerleader than just sexy short skirts and fluffy pom-poms . They're actually troubled individuals with serious issues : Sweet Rainbeaux Smith is a frustrated virgin who's eager to learn more about sex , Colleeen Camp is a snotty , stuck-up rich bitch who always gets what she wants , and Rosanne Katon ( " Playboy " ' s September ' 78 Playmate of the Month ) is having an affair with a married college professor . The seemingly cocky and sexist star football player turns out to be a nice , sensitive guy and the allegedly radical hippie college newspaper editor ultimately gets exposed as a hypocritical misogynistic phony . Moreover , both the shady campus dean and the duplicitous football coach are involved in a numbers racket . Wow , talk about campus unrest ! Besides the unusually sound plot and provocative political subtext ( both very rare and welcome qualities in the often schlocky and strictly superficial cheerleader sub-genre ) , " The Swinging Cheerleaders " further boasts a wonderfully lush'n'plush look , uniformly solid acting , nifty policeman bits by crusty character actor John Quade and veteran Hollywood stuntman Bob Minor ( who also popped up in " Coffy , " " Foxy Brown " and " Switchblade Sistors " for Jack Hill ) , and a hilariously wild'n'wacky slapstick finale . Clips from this gem are featured in the acclaimed Errol Morris documentary " The Thin Blue Line . "
A choice cheesy chunk of late 80's soft-core horror trash	This delightfully dumb and drecky no-budget piece of shamelessly pandering direct-to-video smut is nothing more than a feeble excuse to showcase the almighty 80's scream queen holy trinity of the exquisitely bountiful Michelle Bauer , the sumptuously slinky Brinke Stevens and the ever-luscious Linnea Quigley strutting their sexy , sensuous , sizzling stuff clad only in their birthday suits . And boy does it ever deliver the goods in this particular regard . Sure , you got to slog their 30-odd minutes of excruciating witless and labored sophomoric comedic antics prior to the gals dutifully doffing their duds in the name of lowbrow exploitation , but when they finally shed their clothes the film comes through with a gloriously lengthy and explicit three women having fun in the bath tub sequence that goes on for five marvelously drawn-out minutes . Oh yeah , I almost forgot to mention the so-called " plot . " Well , there really ain't one - - and frankly who cares about some lousy it-would-only-get-in-the-way story . The sole reason that this flick even exists at all is to display the three splendidly alluring starlets naked . Granted , the opening scenes with Brinke , Michelle and Linnea playing gawky and ungainly asexual nerdettes are quite amusing ; seeing Linnea with ungodly buck teeth singing off-key and a fat'n'frumpy Michelle pig out on junk food is admittedly funny , but the film really doesn't hit its stride until the geeky gals become possessed by evil spirits and turn into sexually insatiable and predatory hot babe succubi . Linnea in particular really cuts loose at this point , belting out a raucous punk song with deliciously unbridled abandon . Technically , this blatantly cheap picture is the absolute pits , with flat direction , slack pacing , blah editing , a very crude sense of dumb college fratboy humor , and infuriatingly static cinematography ( one insipid master shot of Brinke , Linnea and Michelle plays out for an agonizingly uninterrupted ten minutes ) , but it's still the rare cheerfully cheesy soft-core movie that completely fulfills the trashy promise of its sleazy premise and thus rates highly as a supreme slice of late 80's schlock for that reason alone .
A wonderfully wild and wired futuristic sci-fi / action blast	2035 . A lethal virus has decimated most of Glasgow , Scotland . The city has been closed off to protect London , England from the plague . When a new deadly strain of the virus threatens to infect Great Britain , the government officials send an elite team of top officers led by the extremely hard-nosed and resourceful Major Eden Sinclair ( a splendidly steely portrayal by Rhona Mitra ) into Glasgow to find a cure within 48 hours . The team runs afoul of both dangerous cannibal renegades and a bizarre retro Middle Ages medieval society . Writer / director Neil Marshall relates the lively and engrossing story at a constant brisk pace , maintains a properly bleak and violent tone throughout , stages the action set pieces with considerable rip-snorting gusto ( the savage swordfights , bloody gunplay , and go-for-broke frenzied vehicular carnage all seriously smoke in no uncertain terms ) , doesn't skimp on the grisly gore ( make sure to watch the unrated version ) , and further spices things up with a deliciously dry'n'droll sense of very British pitch-black humor . Of course , Marshall pays affectionate homage to such choice post-apocalyptic classics as " Escape from New York " ( Sinclair has a funky mechanical eye ) , " Damnation Alley , " and the " Mad Max " pictures . Better still , the narrative becomes more gleefully absurd and over the top as it unfolds , with the gloriously wacky zenith reached with a decidedly sick and unwholesome arena diner party held by a rowdy urban gang of deranged flesh-eating punk lunatics led by the unhinged Sol ( marvelously essayed with lip-smacking hammy aplomb by Craig Conway ) . The excellent cast qualifies as another substantial asset : Mitra excels as one exceptionally tough and formidable heroine , Conway lets it all hang out as Sol , Lee-Anne Liebenberg impresses as Sol's fierce warrior woman main squeeze Viper , plus there are sturdy supporting turns by Bob Hoskins as Sinclair's wise , no-nonsense superior Bill Nelson , Adrian Lester as rugged Sergeant Norton , David O'Hara as ruthless , slippery diplomat Michael Canaris , Malcom McDowell as crazed scientist Dr . Marcus Kane , MyAnna Buring as Kane's feisty wayward daughter Cally , and Alexander Siddig as pompous prime minister John Hatcher . Kudos are also in order for Sam McCurdy's slick , stunning cinematography , the first-rate special effects , Tyler Bates ' ominous , pulsating score , and the lavish production design . A real exciting , energetic , and above all hugely entertaining pip .
An unjustly overlooked slice of the 70's rock sleeper	In the late 90's and early 00's there was a rash of terrifically lively and affectionate rock films centering on a specific aspect of 70's rock'n'roll : Among these pictures are the wonderfully raucous teen romp " Detroit Rock City , " the marvelous glam rock epic " Velvet Goldmine , " Cameron Crowe's sweetly autobiographical " Almost Famous , " and this undeservedly overlooked low-key winner about six young hopefuls in lowdown funky , free'n'easy , anything-goes carefree hedonistic 70's Los Angeles who are desperately trying to make it in the music business on the glitzy Sunset Strip , the much-fabled boulevard of starry-eyed dreams and glittery glamour . In a highly busy and eventful single day the lives of cocky , strutting , long-haired singer Jared Leto , scrawny , scruffy , wide-eyed guitarist Nick Stahl , obnoxious coke-snorting hipster Adam Goldberg , moody songwriter Rory Cochrane , eager struggling costume designer Anna Friel , and mellow photographer Simon Baker are radically changed forever as they meet with either hard-earned success or dismal crashing failure during the course of a crucially important 24 hour period . Adam Collis ' assured , observant , naturalistic no-frills direction relates the hoppin ' narrative at a deliberately gradual pace , offering a totally convincing , lovingly detailed , and admirably unromanticized recreation of an especially raw and exciting era . Better still , the seedier aspects of the backstage rock world - - drugs , groupies , venereal diseases and so on - - are depicted with a certain fierce honesty and engaging matter-of-factness . The precisely written script by Randall Jahnson and Russell DeGrazier keeps the plot on track from start to finish , never letting the colorful series of episodic vignettes degenerate into a rambling and unfocused mess . The top-rate soundtrack of choice vintage tunes galvanizes the proceedings with tremendous crackling verve while the gaudy fashions and embarrassing hairstyles perfectly peg the gloriously tacky and outrageous excesses of the notoriously loose and libertine Me Decade . Kudos also to Ron Fortunato's handsome , sparkling cinematography and Stewart Copeland's right-on groovy score . And the fresh cast of immensely attractive and appealing young thespians all give excellent performances : Friel in particular invests her role with an irresistibly perky aplomb and Leto ( Ellen Burstyn's useless ineffectual junkie son in the gut-wrenching " Requiem for A Dream " ) projects an arrogant swagger that's completely smack dead on target . Veteran character actor John Randolph has a lovely part as a crusty , but kindly elderly landlord . An unjustly neglected sleeper that's eminently worthy of rediscovery and subsequent possible cult status .
A superbly creepy & potent 70's Vietnam era variant on " The Monkey's Paw "	A superlative and genuinely frightening 70's Vietnam era contemporary low-budget horror reworking of the classic short story parable " The Monkey's Paw . " Sweet small town dude Andy ( splendidly played by Richard Backus , who should have had a much bigger acting career ) and a buddy get fatally blasted while fighting in Vietnam . Andy's batty , chatty , grasping and overwrought mother Christine ( an excellent Lynn Carlin ) and his more relaxed , level-headed pop Charles ( an outstanding performance by John Marley ) receive a letter which informs them that Andy bought it in the heat of battle , dying valiantly while defending his country . Charles gravely accepts the boy's demise ; Christine refuses to admit that dear Andy is dead . Andy comes home that very night , but he isn't quite himself : he's dour , reticent , pallid and withdrawn . In fact , Andy has become a most inhuman zombie who needs to drink other people's blood in order to stay alive ( Andy utilizes a syringe in order to obtain the sauce , an obvious and very effective allusion to heroin addiction ) ; he's been brought back from the dead by his mother's unyielding , irrational will . A potent , disquieting and atmospheric scare flick allegory which trenchantly explores how war turns men into monsters ( usually in a strictly figurative sense ; in this case it takes on an unsettling literal manifestation ) , the disintegration of the alleged bedrock institution that is the average middle-class suburban family , how foolishly and unquestionably patriotic parents willingly sacrifice their own sons for an ugly , senseless war , the tremendous amount of denial which exists in all families ( Christine stubbornly persists on believing that nothing is wrong with darling little Andy ) , and the Vietnam war's severely traumatizing impact on Middle America . Bob Clark's strong , low-key , able direction deftly creates an eerie , brooding ambiance , elicits uniformly first-rate acting from the entire cast , and stages the startling socko cemetery set conclusion with admirable panache . Alan Ormsby's intelligent , incisive script adds a few dollops of welcome black-as-pitch gallows humor ( the scene where Andy nonchalantly throttles the family dog in front of some noisy kids is a real corker ! ) and several wickedly witty lines ( " I can't believe a soldier would do a thing like that , " remarks a skeptical waitress after she hears about a murder ) to the basically grimly straight proceedings . Jack McGowan's shadowy cinematography ( the horrifying opening scene with Andy getting bagged is powerfully filmed , with striking use of slow motion ) , Carl Zittrer's jittery , discordant , flesh-crawling score , and Tom Savini's fine , fairly grisly make-up f / x perfectly compliment this spooky , deeply disturbing and savagely confrontational bringing home the terror horror feature knockout .
A poignant and excellent indie drama gem	Sad , lonely , bitter and disillusioned crack addict Alix ( a remarkably brave , naked and electrifying performance by Ana Reeder ) resides on the mean streets of Manhattan's Lower Eastside and ekes out a bleak and thankless existence selling stolen goods so she can support her dope habit . One day Alix overdoes on bad junk , passes out and gets dumped in an apartment hallway . Friendly and compassionate successful photographer Digna ( a winningly sweet portrayal by Michael Hyatt ) gives Alix shelter and tries to get Alix to surmount her drug problem so she can get her life back on track . Writer / director Rosemary Rodriguez relates the grim and absorbing story in a riveting and convincing no-frills documentary style : Luke Geissbuhler's rough , grainy , hand-held cinematography , the occasionally jarring editing , the grungy , homely and unglamorous extras , Jim Coleman's spare , bluesy score , the heartbreaking tragic conclusion , and the gritty urban locations add immensely to this picture's overall sense of harsh realism . The central friendship between the two main characters is painfully honest , moving and insightful . Reeder and Hyatt truly shine in their tough and demanding roles ; they receive fine support from Nestor Rodriguez as Digna's apathetic , but basically decent boyfriend Anthony and Christopher Kadish as strung-out struggling musician Mark . Raw , credible and uncompromisingly hard around the edges , this strong and deeply touching indie sleeper rates as a total powerhouse .
An absolute powerhouse	Shortly following an unfortunate incident in Pennsylvania , naive young Tom ( the boyishly charming Jason London of " Dazed and Confused " ) moves to Los Angeles and gets a job working as a paramedic so he can put his past behind him . He's partnered with weary , burnt-out , sardonic veteran medic Jimmy ( a mesmerizing performance by Todd Field ) , a blithely blasé cynic who alleviates the stress of his unsparingly high pressure job by having sex with prostitutes , swilling booze , and smoking dope . Jimmy inducts the callow Tom into his manic , edgy , drug-fueled lifestyle and pretty soon both guys are spinning on a downward spiral to serious premature oblivion as the increasingly desperate pair resort to theft and dealing to support their ever-worsening habits . A strikingly amoral and keenly observed seriocomic feature about guilt , denial , redemption and drug addiction that scores strongly with its breathlessly quick pace , fractured editing , beautiful , sometimes hallucinatory visuals , dark , despairing tone , wickedly black sense of humor , and a dizzyingly constant , frenzied , hopped-up bustling vitality which deftly captures both the exciting highs and distressing lows of being wired on narcotics , director / co-screenwriter Scott Ziehl takes the viewer on an exhilaratingly frantic cinematic trip that's thrilling and harrowing in comparable measure . What's most impressive about this extraordinary film is its admirable refusal to offer any easy way out for its strung-out protagonists and refreshing lack of heavy-handed moralizing . Moreover , the performances are uniformly superb : London and Field are outstanding in the lead roles , with excellent secondary turns by Roxanna Zal as Tom's sweet , concerned nurse girlfriend , Susan Traylor as an annoyingly loquacious speed freak , James Hong as Tom and Jimmy's irascible , overbearing jerk boss , William Smith as a loud , antagonistic biker patient , and especially the late , great Patrick Cranshaw as Jimmy's rascally , regretful dope fiend grandfather . Nervy , intense , and ultimately quite powerful , this remarkable knock-out rates highly as one of the great indie sleepers of the 90's .
A strong and unsettling supernatural shocker	American film producer Marie Jones ( superbly played by Anastasia Hille ) was adopted as a little girl . Now in her early 40s , Marie goes back to her home country of Russia to find out more about herself . She learns that her mother was murdered a while back and that she was inherited the rundown family farm house . Marie returns to the house and encounters the mysterious Nicolai ( an excellent performance by Karel Roden ) , who claims to be her twin brother . Moreover , Marie starts to see ghostly visions of both herself and Nicolai as she uncovers dark secrets from her shadowy past . Director / co-writer Nacho Cerda adeptly crafts and maintains a compellingly spooky atmosphere which becomes more progressively creepy and unnerving as the grimly absorbing story gradually unfolds . The slow and careful build-up creates a tension that reaches a jarring fever pitch during the devastatingly bleak conclusion . The remote woodland location conveys a real sense of isolation and vulnerability . Hille and Roden are both outstanding in the leads . In addition , it's genuinely refreshing to see a current horror picture about mature , troubled adults instead of the usual carefree juvenile kids . Alfons Conde's eerie , moody score , the unremittingly gloomy tone , Xavi Gimenez's lush , polished cinematography , and the breathtakingly beautiful rural countryside scenery further add to the overall flesh-crawling power of this exceptional and highly recommended knockout .
A total gut buster	Brilliant prominent brain surgeon Dr . Michael Hfuhruhurr ( Steve Martin in peak zany form ) is stuck in a bad marriage with the beautiful , but evil and frosty gold digger Dolores Benedict ( Kathleen Turner at her most insanely hot and divinely wicked ) . Things perk up for Michael when he meets and falls in love with sharp and charming female brain Anne Uumellmehaye ( marvelously voiced with sweet aplomb by an uncredited Sissy Spacek ) . But now Michael has to find the perfect body for Anne before it's too late . Director Carl Reiner , who co-wrote the blithely nutty script with Martin and George Gage , keeps the pace hurtling along at a nonstop snappy rate and infuses the whole show with an infectiously screwball anything-for-a-laugh kooky sensibility that pokes witty and often hilarious affectionate fun at cheesy Grade B sci-fi fare . The consistently sidesplitting humor ranges from broad ( Michael as a human pinball ) to raunchy to flat-out brilliant ( Merv Griffin's inspired surprise cameo as the notorious Elevator Killer ) . Amidst all the sublime silliness we've got an utterly absurd , yet warm and touching love story between a man and a brain in a jar . The first-rate cast all give terrifically lively and enthusiastic performances : Martin certainly earns his early reputation as a wild and crazy guy with his frenzied portrayal of Michael , Turner plays the femme fatale to the deliciously nasty hilt , plus there are fine supporting contributions from David Warner as droll mad scientist Dr . Alfred Necessiter , Paul Benedicts as Necessiter's snooty butler , and Richard Prestoff as Michael's jolly superior Dr . Pasteur . Popping up in nifty bits are James Cromwell as a realtor , Earl Boen as a fellow brain surgeon Felix Conrad , Jeffrey Combs as assistant Dr . Jones , and George Furth as elderly millionaire Timon . The gorgeous Randi Brooks has a memorably sexy small part as Fran , an airhead hooker who has a fantastic body , but an extremely irritating squeaky voice . Michael Chapman's crisp cinematography gives the picture an attractive polished look . Joel Goldsmith's spirited , flavorsome score likewise does the trick . An absolute hoot .
A hilarious horror black comedy short	An evil and possessive little girl ( delightfully played with wicked aplomb by the adorable Elyse Plantico ) uses voodoo on a hapless guy ( the excellent Cory Rouse ) in order to ruin the man's date with her beautiful single mother ( ravishing brunette J . B . ) . Writer / director Gregg Bishop made this six minute horror comedy short in six days for under a $1 , 000 dollars as his student project for USC ; he expertly mines a fine line in playfully twisted dark humor and brings an energy and ingenuity to the simple , yet funny and effective premise that's a complete treat to watch . The cast tackle their roles with equally commendable gusto , with special kudos in order for Rouse's extraordinary physical prowess at pulling off an uproarious series of crazy pratfalls with remarkable skill and agility . Jonathan Ke Quan's stark and lively black and white cinematography offers some great atmospheric lighting and keeps the hand-held camera constantly moving . Mark Justin's alternately bouncy and shivery score also hits the spot . An absolute hoot .
Better straighten up and fly right , son !	Anyone who attended either junior high or high school in the late 70's up until the mid 80's has probably seen this legendary hard-hitting 50 minute shock doc about seventeen brash , cocky , insolent , " nothing - is - ever - gonna - happen - to - me " carefree juvenile delinquents from New York and New Jersey who are at the seriously precarious risk of becoming lifelong career criminals . These potential threats to the decent , tax-paying , law-abiding public at large are sent to a brutal maximum security prison in Rahway , New Jersey that harbors the worst substratum of vicious raping , thieving , murdering subhuman hoodlum scum to ever crawl across the face of the earth . The deliciously grotesque rogues ' gallery of no-account jailbirds include some dude with only one eye , a ferociously confrontational black guy , and a scraggly white cat who delivers this especially smoking spiel about how every day he wakes up in the morning wondering if he's gotta kill somebody . The hardened felons knock the recalcitrant arrogance out of these snotty punk-a kids by telling them all about the grim , seamy and hellishly barbaric reality of life behind bars in unsparingly harsh and profane terms ( " Look at me motherbeeper when I'm talking ! " ) . Watching these boastful little btards have their surly overinflated ego balloons popped by being subjected to foul homosexual taunts and coarse , unrelenting verbal harassment makes for very satisfying viewing . Shot in spare , gritty , no-frills hand-held verite style on grungy film stock , with no music and ragged editing , this powerhouse picture possesses a fierce , jolting , hair-raisingly in-your-face immediacy . This blistering documentary not only was televised uncut on PBS and soberly narrated by Peter " Columbo " Falk , but also won both Emmy and Academy Awards for Best Documentary ! An unarguable classic .
Sonny Chiba is the ultimate ferocious martial arts animal !	A seriously rough , brutal and unsparingly violent mid-70's chopsocky grindhouse classic starring the almighty Sonny Chiba , a ferocious feral grunting beast of a man who portrays a blithely amoral mercenary-for-hire who winds up taking on the local Yakuza when they refuse to pony up the money that's due to him . Chiba embarks on a shockingly harsh murderous spree , literally busting heads ( in one breath-taking shot we see an x-ray of a skull being broken by Chiba's death blow ! ) , gouging out eyes , knocking out teeth , ripping out throats and in one particularly nasty scene tearing a would-be rapist's penis off ( ouch ! ) with his bare hands . This is pure raw , graphic , unflinchingly savage and hideous in-your-face karate carnage all the way , complete with gorgeous widescreen photography , funky " wacka wacka " 70's rock guitar music , wall-to-wall no-holds-barred fight scenes , globe-trotting locations , lousy dubbing , hot Asian chicks , an annoying comic relief wimp sidekick , and a reasonably complex plot . It's also exciting as all hell , especially when Chiba takes on and subsequently takes out five or six dudes at a time . Compared to the extremely primal and lethal untamed martial arts animal that is Sonny Chiba , Bruce Lee seems like a very sweet , harmless and mild-mannered creampuff .
Reasons why this movie rocks	1 . ) This film perfectly nails the despair , bleakness and fierce dog-eat-dog amorality of the Reagan-era 80's . The rivalry between the two different groups of car repossessors , the gang of stick-up punk hoodlums who are always robbing various stores , and the overall mood of merry nihilism suggest a world that's gone totally topsy-turvy . 2 . ) The first-rate cast all give terrific performances . Harry Dean Stanton delivers a marvelously crusty portrayal as Bud , a weary and cynical veteran repo man who shows disaffected punk Otto ( superbly played by Emilio Estevez in his best-ever role ) the ropes . Olivia Barash as brassy love interest Leila , Tracey Walter as spacey philosophical mechanic Miller , Sy Richardson as the funky Lite , Vonetta McGee as sassy secretary Marlene , and Fox Harris as brain-fried lobotomized scientist J . Frank Parnell are all likewise outstanding . 3 . ) The amazing punk rock soundtrack : From Iggy Pop's awesome ending credits theme song to the nifty club appearance by the Circle Jerks , the soundtrack smokes in no uncertain terms . 4 . ) There are cool cameos by Luis Contreras as a supermarket security guard , Jimmy Buffett as a blond federal agent , Angelique Pettyjohn as a repo wife , and writer / director Alex Cox as a car wash attendant . 5 . ) The incredible quotable dialogue ( favorite line : " Beep this ; let's go do some crimes " ) . 6 . ) The hilarious running gag about the generic food labels . 7 . ) The positively gut-busting convenience store shoot-out . 8 . ) Cox concocts a wickedly fresh , funny and on the money delightful multi-genre pastiche which deftly combines elements of black comedy , science fiction , conspiracy thriller and even film noir into a singularly wired and original cinematic brew . 9 . ) Robby Muller's sharp , sparkling cinematography gives this picture a gorgeously polished look . 10 . ) There's an infectious raw energy and hilariously quirky sense of blithely anarchic dark humor to be relished in every last gloriously gonzo frame of this fabulously flipped-out one-of-a-kind idiosyncratic gem .
A first-rate early 60's end-of-the-world sci-fi classic	A harsh , gritty , rough-edged and hard-hitting low-budget early 60's post-nuke end-of-the-world survivalist classic from the always reliable exploitation movie outfit American International Pictures . It's one of the first and finest of its type . Close-knit Los Angeles suburbanite family the Baldwins - - rugged , quick-thinking take-charge dad Ray Milland , worried mother Mary Mitchell , equally resilient chip off the ol ' block son Frankie Avalon , and whiny , attractive jail-bait daughter Jean Hagen - - drive their car and trailer out of Angel City just before it gets creamed in an atomic bomb mushroom cloud blast . Society takes an immediate nosedive into every-man-for-himself anarchic barbarism . Milland takes his family up to the relatively safe mountains in order to better their chances of staying alive , fending off hostile gas station attendants , antsy small town locals , ruthless , increasingly desperate fellow survivors and a gang of vicious teenage hoodlums led by perennial juvenile delinquent baddie nonpareil Richard Bakalyan . Milland's terse , clearly focused direction , working from a gutsy , provocative , extremely intelligent , grimly serious and at times surprisingly witty script by Jay Simms and John Morton , further enhanced by strong , credible acting ( even the usually wanting Avalon holds his own , with an especially fine performance by the fetching Joan Freeman as a feisty young lass the Baldwins rescue from the thugs ) , barbed , tough-talking dialogue , Les Baxter's blaring , brassy , wildly swingin ' beatnik jazz score , a stark , no-frills , most convincing cut-to-the-bare-bones style , Gil Warrenton's crisp black and white cinematography , several shocking outbursts of raw violence , an aptly gloomy tone , and a highly unnerving , tension-packed sense of rapidly escalating fear , distress , unease and paranoia as civilization promptly falls apart at the seems ( the bustling , hopped-up speeding car sequences and deadly solemn infrequent radio broadcasts are positively harrowing ) , creates a frightfully plausible , hellishly absorbing and downright chilling portrait of the nerve-jangling shambles the world could possibly be reduced to following a devastating nuclear holocaust . A real powerhouse movie .
Superbly gritty 70's crime drama with a first-rate Dustin Hoffman performance	Dustin Hoffman gives one of his finest , scrappiest and least sappy performances as Max Dembo , a cagey , scuzzy , ferociously self-reliant sociopathic ex-con who gets sprung from the joint and makes a game , albeit futile attempt at going legit , only to wind up resorting to his old criminal ways after his browbeating , grossly unfair and overzealous parole officer ( a superbly slimy M . Emmet Walsh ) fouls up his chances at becoming a decent , law-abiding citizen with some trumped-up bullst drug charge . Under Ulu Grosbard's tight , no-frills , naturalistic direction , this marvelously gritty and hard-hitting semi-verite crime drama makes for a terrifically tough-minded adaptation of real-life reformed hoodlum Edward Bunker's exceptional semi-autobiographical novel " No Beast So Fierce " ( Bunker co-wrote the rough , resolutely unromantic no-nonsense script and has a funny bit part as one of Max's connected underworld pals ) as well as a savagely trenchant indictment of our society's cruelly ineffectual prison reformation system and a provocative meditation on the struggle for redemption . The supporting cast makes the grade with flying colors : the gorgeous Theresa Russell as a guileless , but headstrong welfare worker who gets more than she bargained for when she hooks up with Max ; Gary Busey as a deplorably craven , heroin-addicted wheelman with a backbone of jello , a then unknown Kathy Bates as Busey's loving wife , and , best of all , the ever-awesome Harry Dean Stanton as an uncomfortably mellowed-out erstwhile jailbird who gladly chucks away his hideously banal suburbanite existence in order to embark on an exciting robbing spree with Max . Further strengthened by David Shire's sprightly blues score , Owen Roizman's agile , but scruffy cinematography , a suitably harsh and unglamorous depiction of brutish low-life crooks and the grimy , seedy , and dangerous down'n'dirty milieu they inhibit , a lively , adrenaline-pumping jewelry store heist sequence , and a rigorously grim , downbeat , unsentimental tone that stays bleakly true to itself to the literal bitter end , this extremely powerful knock-out undeservedly tanked at the box office , but has rightfully amassed a sizable cult following which correctly proclaims it as one of the single most remarkable and shamefully underrated sleepers from the 70's .
A hilariously horrible blatant " ET " rip-off	A family of hideously homely aliens find themselves stuck on Earth . The family gets separated . One little boy alien named Mac ( an acronym for Mysterious Alien Creature ) befriends plucky crippled kid Eric ( winningly played by real-life disabled kid Jade Calegory ) . Eric helps Mac get reunited with his family . Co-written and directed with staggering ineptitude by Stewart Raffill , with a syrupy , swelling ersatz John Williams orchestral mush score by Alan Silvestri , plenty of shameless product plugs for the fast food chain McDonald's ( Ronald McDonald even makes a highly unwelcome cameo appearance ! ) , a soundtrack full of dreadful power pop ballads , cruddy ( far from ) special effects , and loads of unintentional belly laughs , this awesomely atrocious abomination rates as a total four-star so - stinky - it's - strangely - sublime schlocky hoot . The cast turn in astoundingly awful performances : Jonathan Ward as Eric's jerky , obnoxious tool of an older brother Michael , Christine Ebersole as Eric's harried mother Janet , Katrina Caspary as hot teenage brunette Courtney , Lauren Stanley as spunky little girl Debbie , and George " Buck " Flower as a bumbling supermarket security guard . The aliens are truly freaky-looking buggers : With their shriveled-up prune faces , big , wide , googly saucer eyes , spindly limbs , bony builds , pot bellies , and wobbly walks , they are more creepy and ugly than cute and cuddly . Gut-busting highlights include Mac being fried by an electric fence , Eric rolling down a cliff and crashing into a lake , Debbie getting strapped to the back of an out of control vacuum cleaner , Eric racing through a street and a shopping center with Mac on his lap , and the jaw-dropping protracted dance party sequence at a McDonald's restaurant with Mac in a teddy bear outfit cutting loose with these pathetic herky-jerky rug-tearin ' moves . A gloriously ghastly camp marvel of charmingly horrendous 80's kitsch .
A truly terrific 70's drive-in trucker classic	One of the earliest - - and hence best - - of a handful of 70's trucker movies , a once quite hot , but now hopelessly passé sub-genre which beget a mixed bag of films which includes the stellar Claudia Jennings vehicle " Truck Stop Women , " the not half bad Peter Fonda pic " High Ballin ' , " the great'n'gritty overlooked sleeper " Road Movie , " Sam Peckinpah's excruciatingly stupid " Convoy , " the alarmingly atrocious Chuck Norris chopsocky turkey " Breaker ! Breaker ! , " and the sturdy made-for-TV item " Steel Cowboy . " Jan-Michael Vincent , whose career in the Me Decade was all over the map , peaking with " The Mechanic " and " Big Wednesday " and hitting a wonderfully wretched all-time low with the gloriously godawful post-nuke sci-fi atrocity " Damnation Alley , " here gives one of his strongest , most convincing and engaging performances to date as Carrol Jo Hummer , an earnest , moral , youthful independent Diesel driver who finds out that his employers are crooked bastards who sell illegal contraband on the side . Greatly appalled by this discovery , Hummer decides to blow the whistle on the entire unlawful business , becoming a modern-day folk hero in the process and subsequently putting both himself and his plucky wife Jerri ( a stand-out portrayal by the always fine and assertive Kay Lenz ) in considerable jeopardy . Director Jonathan Kaplan , who was then on a real B-movie roll churning out such kick-ass exploitation flicks as " Night Call Nurses , " " The Student Teachers , " and " Truck Turner " on a regular basis , hits a brisk , solid groove at the very start of the film and masterfully sustains it to the thrilling end , expertly milking the forever effective and appealing " one lone little man against the big , bad system " populist hero subtext in Ken Friedman's tightly efficient script for maximum socko entertainment . Kudos also to the exceptional supporting cast ridden with familiar film faces : the late , great , ever-delightful Slim Pickens as corrupt truck stop manager Duane Haller , L . Q . Jones at his most sublimely slimy and serpentine as head heavy Buck Westle , Martin Kove as one of Westle's thuggish goons , R . G . Armstrong as a shifty , manipulative prosecuting attorney , veteran character actor Don Porter as the smug CEO who's running the whole no-count operation , frequent Kaplan pic co-star Johnny Ray McGhee as an angry black trucker , Sam Laws as McGhee's rascally lovable ol ' coot pop , and the irreplaceable Dick Miller as fidgety , peppery gear-jammer R . " Birdie " Corman . Further enhanced by Fred Koenekamp's crisp , inventive cinematography , David Nichtern's stirring score , and Valerie Carter tearfully warbling the marvelously mawkish country-and-western weeper " Drifting and Dreaming of You " all of three times on the soundtrack , " White Line Fever " gets a hearty ten-four from your good buddy film critic as quintessential 70's drive-in cinema at its most bluntly exciting and unpretentious best .
A wonderfully rude , wild and raucous 80's punk rock riot	Brassy lead singer Kitty ( the adorable Jennifer Schwartz ) , spunky bass player Bunny ( the equally cute Hilary Rubens ) and feisty drummer Patch ( the likewise attractive Janet Housden ) are the hottie 18-year-old girl members of the scrappy all-female punk band the Lovedolls . The Lovedolls prove to be a fleeting flash-in-the-pan success ; their fifteen minutes of fame are severely undermined by sleazy no-count heel manager Johnny Tremaine ( deliciously overplayed to the sensationally slimy hilt by Steve McDonald ) and the rival group the She Devils , a nasty bunch who are led by the spiteful and venomous Tania Heart ( the splendidly snarky Tracy Lea ) . Technically , this fabulously flipped-out micro-budget underground indie cult favorite is extremely rough around the edges , with the sloppy storytelling , ragged editing , gritty , washed-out photography , crummy acting , lousy sound , and terrible lip-syncing all adding immensely to the movie's infectiously raw'n'ratty schlocky camp charm . Moreover , the often sidesplitting dialogue ( " Thanks for killing my mom " ) , authentically grungy Los Angeles locations , the catchy , thrashy punk soundtrack ( the Red Kross theme song in particular seriously smokes ) , the insanely eventful narrative , an excitingly vibrant depiction of the gnarly 80's punk scene , the hilariously lowbrow humor , the expected terrifically trashy clichés involving the dangers of sex and drugs ( Johnny's nightmarish bad acid trip sequence is simply astonishing ) , colorfully wacky characters and an overall sense of gloriously gonzo go-for-it glee and gusto ensure that this beautifully berserk baby is a total rollicking blast of pure in-your-face impudent and irreverent 80's punk attitude and energy .
A terrifically trashy vampire horror treat	While driving a delivery car across desolate desert badlands backroads self-absorbed twentysomething slacker Sean ( amiable Kerr Smith ) winds up running into both scruffy vampire hunter Nick ( an excellent , charismatically ragtag turn by Brendan Fehr ) and a deadly bunch of age-old itinerant bloodsuckers led by the smoothly malevolent Kit ( the terrific Jonathan Schaech , who's wonderfully wicked in a juicy full-blown nasty villain part ) . Opening with the arresting image of beautiful blonde babe Izabella Miko washing blood off her bare breasts in the shower , culminating with an exciting explosive climax , with a handy helping of graphic gore , raucous roaring rock music and rousing vehicular action sandwiched in between , this delightfully down'n'dirty low-budget Grade B exploitation horror flick sizes up as a tasty trashy treat . Writer / director J . S . ( " The Slayer , " " Shadowzone " ) Cardone elicits sound performances from the entire cast ( veteran late , great character actress Carrie Snodgress in particular contributes a lively last reel cameo as a feisty old battle axe ) , keeps the unflagging pace fast'n'furious throughout , and , most importantly , delivers the unapologetically lowdown sleazy goods with a winning dearth of pretense and a hugely satisfying surplus of rip-snorting panache . Moreover , there's a marvelously positive and optimistic statement about the redemption of Generation X in this movie : Sean starts out as strictly interested in achieving his own immediate goals in life , but by meeting Nick and joining forces with him to fight the vampires he overcomes his initial selfishness and thus redeems himself in the process . Cardone persuasively makes the point that the allegedly " lost " and hopeless Generation X has a latent capacity to amount to something ; all they need is the right stimulus to spark them into action . Since I'm often perceived as a member of this " lost " generation , I found this message to be both very refreshing and extremely heartening . It's nice to know that there are a few filmmakers out there like Mr . Cardone who haven't totally written us off as a lost cause . A splendidly scuzzy and snappy dilly that's one of my favorite fright features of the early 21st century which even comes complete with some pertinent social commentary about modern youth .
A simply spectacular motion picture	Late , great crazy creepo character actor extraordinaire Timothy Carey really outdoes himself with this wonderfully warped crackpot classic . Carey wrote , produced , directed , distributed , plays the lead , and even sings and dances in this positively insane knockout about Clarence Hilliard , a fortyish insurance salesman who up and quits his dreary dead end job so he can start life afresh by denouncing God and preaching a blasphemous alternate religion where every person can not only have eternal life , but also become a god in their own right and live life however they please . Assisted by loyal Mexicon gardener Alonzo ( ripely played by Ray Dennis Steckler movie regular Titus Moode ) , Clarance , now calling himself God Hilliard , sporting a fake pasted on goatee , and clad in a gleaming gold lame suit , first wins over the masses by singing his unholy word while backed up by a hideously sludgy , tuneless and off-key band and doing these hilariously arrhythmic herky-jerky Elvis-style gyrating pelvis moves while performing on stage . Then Clarence goes an extra step further off the deep end by creating the Eternal Man's Party and running for president . Clarence incites riots ( " We are all gods ! , " the crowd exclaims as they demolish cars , buildings and park benches ) , beds countless female followers ( who include an elderly woman and a 14-year-old girl ! ) , advises weak , doubting nonbelievers to commit suicide , neglects his loving wife and kids , gets condemned in the press as an atheist , and dares the Supreme Being to produce some tangible , irrefutable evidence that confirms his very existence . Carey's raving , impassioned , amazingly manic'n'frantic fruitbag performance , ably supported by the frenetic whirlwind pace , crude , disjointed narrative , grainy , washed-out black and white photography , Frank Zappa's overwrought full orchestral score , nutty dialogue , hip opening credits rockabilly theme song set to a socking diddy bop beat , choppy editing , the plummy , dulcet baritone of Paul Frees as the voice of Satan ( personified here as a snake ) , and general air of gloriously gonzo abandon , sets this stupendously sordid and sacrilegious stunner right over the edge , boldly ( and gleefully ) defying any remote semblance of either good taste or proper social restraint . A simply astonishing picture .
It's the end of the world as we know it - - and it's like so totally rad , y'know ? !	Tough , smart Los Angeles resident Regina ( smoking hot brunette Catherine Mary Stewart of " The Last Starfighter " ) and her flighty younger sister Samantha ( adorably bubbly blonde sprite Kelli Maroney of " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " ) are amongst a small handful of folks left alive after the bulk of the planet's population are turned into red dust by a passing comet . Other survivors include " Eating Raoul " ' s Robert Beltran as a hunky nice guy truck driver , your standard assortment of hostile rot-faced , sunken-eyed zombies , a vicious gang of nihilistic punk psycho stock boys , and a team of evil mad scientists who include the ever-twitchy Geoffrey Lewis and ravishing femme fatale supreme Mary Woronov . Writer / director Thom Eberhardt takes an unpromisingly generic sci-fi / horror end-of-the-world premise and gives it a marvelously clever , witty and inspired tongue-in-cheek hip'n'flip 80's makeover : the characters are refreshingly humane and engaging , the witty dialogue frequently hits the sidesplitting snappy spot ( " Hey , I'm sorry if the end of the world makes me nervous " ) , the New Wave rock soundtrack seriously smokes , and in the film's single most delightful sequence Regina and Samantha joyfully ransack a swank department store for all the gnarly fashionable clothes they can get their eager little adolescent hands on ( appropriately enough , " Girls Just Wanna Have Fun " plays on the soundtrack during this simply spectacular sequence which speaks volumes about the shallow materialistic culture of the 80's . Instead of stockpiling essential things like food and water these girls amass a large array of trendy apparel ) . Better still , there's a wonderfully natural and appealing breezy'n'easy chemistry between Stewart and Maroney ; their sweet , lively and often amusing rapport keeps the picture fun and bouncy throughout . Furthermore , the eerie shots of the empty and abandoned desolate city streets are quite striking and the ferocious zombies deliver several truly creepy and startling moments . Popping up in cool cameos are Michael ( " Forbidden World , " " Valley Girl " ) Bowen as an early victim , Ivan E . Roth as the terrifying leader of the psycho stock boys , and Sharon Farrell as the girls ' bitchy stepmom . Arthur Albert's crisp , handsome cinematography ( the use of funky dusky red filters is especially impressive and effective ) , David Richard Campbell's nifty spacey synthesizer score , and David Miller's neat make-up f / x are all on the money excellent . A total blast .
An absolutely awesome and unjustly overlooked blithely amoral prison movie knockout	One of the most exquisitely trashy - - and hence best - - seriocomic crime / prison movies to ever ooze onto celluloid . James Woods , that splendidly spacey , spastic , spindly stringbean who's turned sleazily engaging pent-up intensity into something of a modern science , is very much in his usual mondo nutzoid element as Frank " Fast Walking " Miniver , a lazy , dissolute , laid-back , don't-give-a-st-about-nothing , weed-toking , on the take Texas jail-house guard who's got his fingers in several filthy pies : he runs dope for cunning , calculating , double-dealing control freak top con Wasco ( a magnificently lordly , mesmerizing , darkly charismatic characterization by the late , great Tim McIntire ) , helps Susan Tyrell run a south-of-the-border brothel , and has been hired by opposing racial factions to either protect or bump off powerful black civil rights leader Robert Hooks . The bang-up supporting cast smokes in no uncertain terms : a sensationally sassy'n'sexy Key Lenz as McIntire's fiery , fetching hot tramp main squeeze , M . Emmet Walsh , who scuzzes it up with his customary rip-snorting aplomb as the crooked chief of security ; and a beautifully battered Timothy Carey as a foolishly obdurate elderly felon with exclusive dibs on the behind bars drug trade ( McIntire's fabulously flamboyant spiel in which he explains to Carey how he's going to claim a monopoly on all the drug trafficking and bust it wide open by catering to the individual whims of each ethnic group serving time in the pokey is a real gem ) , plus colorful bits by such reliable thespians as Lance LeGault ( as the ramrod captain of the guard who's itching to fire Woods ) , K . Callan , Sandy Ward ( as the ineffectual warden ) and the chronically geeky Sydney Lassick . Writer / director James B . Harris never makes a single misstep , tossing in enough seedy subplots , assorted sordid antics , startling plot twists , and smack dead on the money exploitation movie ingredients ( wall-to-wall nudity , sex , illicit narcotics of every kind , seething racial tension , profanity-ridden dialog , lowbrow raunchy jokes - - y'know , the whole gnarly'n'nasty nine yards ) to keep this delectably decadent doozy constantly entertaining throughout . Moreover , we've got Lalo Schifrin's flavorful jump band blues score , smashingly clear-eyed cinematography by King Baggott , a uniquely twisted sense of black-as-midnight goof-ball humor , and , natch , even a pervasively cynical and nihilistic edifying moral : If you put a whole bunch of ethically lacking scumballs together under one roof they'll get worse instead of better because they can take full advantage of the opportunity to feed off one another's moral baseness like a pack of leeches . Now , how could any fervent , hardcore , dyed-in-the-wool B-movie aficionado possibly pass this baby up ? Well , the answer is you just can't , because this first-rate blithely amoral treat is quite simply the authentic funky article .
A truly terrific , nicely naughty and often uproarious 70's sci-fi / horror sexploitation hoot	This gloriously gaga piece of prime drive-in sci-fi / horror sexploitation junk could have only been made in the 70's . It's a wonderfully raunchy and raucous romp about a deadly strain of sexually insatiable and incredibly desirable mutant young woman who cause men to have fatal massive heart attacks while engaging in strenuous coitus with them ! It's up to stalwart FBI agent Neil Agar ( the almighty William Smith in peak rugged and charming form ) to thwart the luscious ladies . He's assisted by the prim , yet still attractive Julie Zorn ( delectable blonde bombshell and " Playboy " Playmate Victoria Vetri of " When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth " fame ) . Director Dennis Sanders has a ball with Nicholas Meyer's wicked witty and wacky tongue-in-cheek script ; he expertly maintains a constant snappy pace , elicits lively and appealing performances from a game cast , and keeps the humor suitably naughty and lowbrow throughout . Both Gary Graver's snazzy photography and Charles Bernstein's groovy score further add to the immensely outrageous fun . But it's the downright delicious cast of gorgeous gals who portray the titular lethal lovelies who make this film such a terrifically trashy treat : Sultry brunette knockout and original " The Price Is Right " game show model Anitra Ford seriously sizzles as the scientist who's behind the whole nutty nefarious plot while such similarly smoking hot soft-core starlets as Rene Bond , Sharon Kelly and Beverly Powers strut their scorching stuff as fellow beautiful bee babes . Plus there's fun supporting performances by Cliff Osmond as the puzzled police captain , Ben Hammer as a bored research scientist who's eager to cheat on his wife ( Ford's fireside seduction of Hammer is genuinely steamy ) , " The Worm Eaters " writer / director Herb Robbins as a local trouble-making redneck , and Cliff Emmich as a sarcastic coroner . Moreover , the gratuitous nudity is quite plentiful , the sex scenes are very arousing , and the blithely silly tone proves to be positively infectious . A fabulously flaky 70's cult classic that's essential viewing for devout aficionados of terminally offbeat low-budget schlock cinema .
It's a groovy blast , man !	Charles Band , one of the true masters of choice crappy nickel'n'dime cinematic crud , strikes again with this typically shoddy , but oddly appealing and immensely enjoyable sci-fi / action sex role reversal of " Carrie . " Kim Milford ( the cocky homosexual car thief in " Corvette Summer " ) cowers , snivels and whimpers his way into viewers ' hearts as Billy , a perpetually taunted small armpit desert town teen wimp who discovers a lethal ray gun and a strange medallion left behind by a blue-faced humanoid alien fugitive . Billy picks up the laser blaster and puts on the medallion , which causes him to mutate into a deadly , blue-skinned , hollow-eyed creature with pointy teeth , green hair and a high forehead . Pretty soon Billy declares open season on every last cruel , browbeating , overbearing dirt-bag ahole slime-ball who ever put a cramp in poor Billy's style ; said worthy targets for ventilation include two jerky police officers , several giggly stoners in a van , and , in a truly inspired , gut-rupturing moment of sheer brazen brilliance , even a hapless roadside " Star Wars " poster ! Moreover , a pair of wizened lizard-like extraterrestrials who resemble gimpy old turtles sans shells come back to reclaim the laser gun and medallion . Without question a very dumb , chintzy , totally bereft of artistic merit slice of absolute low-budget shlockoid cheese , " Laserblast " nevertheless possesses a certain rinky-dink el cheapo charm which makes its substantial cult status deserved and understandable . Director Michael Rae keeps things jumping by blowing something up real good every ten minutes or so , while the slight , just barely there script by Franne Schacht and Frank Ray Perrilli earnestly panders to adolescent male fantasies concerning potency and the need to be back at all those nasty folks who made your teenage growing years the proverbial living hell . The wonderfully off-beat and varied cast is another valid reason for the film's loyal fan following : the late , great , ever-angelic and eminently huggable 70's drive-in movie goddess Cheryl " Rainbeax " Smith portrays Billy's caring , concerned girlfriend with her usual disarming sweetness , Keenan Wynn grouches it up delightfully as Cheryl's crotchety crackpot World War II vet grandpa , Gianno Russo eschews his standard Mafiosa persona for a rare right-side-of-the-law change-of-pace part as a meddlesome FBI agent , Roddy McDowell puts on a fretful face for his minor role as a friendly physician who winds up at the receiving end of Billy's ray gun , and both Dennis Burkley as a hectoring hick cop and a hilariously miscast Eddie Deezen as an obnoxiously nerdy hot-rodder supply significant unintentional comic relief . A driving , pulsating score by Joel Goldsmith and Richard Band , Terry Bowen's clunky cinematography , Steve Neill's goofy make-up f / x , David Allen's endearingly herky-jerky stop motion animation effects ( the lizard guys are genuinely cool ) , and one of those unflinchingly grim and depressing vintage 70's bummer unhappy endings add considerably to " Laserblast " ' s irresistibly lousy allure . Hell , this baby even comes complete with a real heady , if crudely stated central theme : The further Billy embarks on his bloodthirsty , zap ' em all to st vengeance trip , the more increasingly ugly and monstrous he becomes , therefor shedding alarming and profound insight into how revenge causes men to degenerate into foul , unsightly , subhuman beasts . Heavy stuff , man !
One of the best , most moving and inspired horror films of the early 21st century	Brash hottie redhead Ginger ( a fabulously tart and ferocious performance by the stunningly gorgeous Katharine Isabelle ) and her more plain mousy brunette sister Brigitte ( superbly played by Emily Perkins ) are a couple of weird withdrawn death-infatuated misfit Goth outsider girls living in a stuffy suburban town . A mysterious wild animal has been killing dogs in the neighborhood . One fateful night Ginger gets attacked and bitten by the vicious animal . The animal turns out to be a genuine werewolf . Pretty soon Ginger begins to radically transform , becoming increasingly outgoing , aggressive and even dangerous . It's up to Brigitte and nice guy pot dealer Sam ( a winning portrayal by Kris Lemche ) to figure out a way to cure Ginger's curse before it's too late . Ably directed by John Fawcett , with a strikingly original , intelligent and insightful script by Karen Walton , a supremely eerie and melancholy tone , bright , sparkling , polished cinematography by Thom Best , plenty of truly jolting shocks ( the sequence where Ginger gets mauled is positively harrowing ; another bitterly ironic moment involving an unexpected accidental death in a kitchen is likewise quite jarring ) , a heart-breakingly tragic conclusion , a refreshingly honest and gritty depiction of how messed-up teenagers can be ( the kids in this flick swear a lot , have sex and do drugs , all of which are crucial components of adolescence ) , and a beautifully brooding and moody score by Michael Shields , " Ginger Snaps " turns the werewolf premise right on its ear , using the concept of the lycanthrope as an extremely potent , penetrating and provocative metaphor for the onset of puberty and the painful awkwardness of adolescent growing pains ( Ginger's metamorphosis into a werewolf corresponds with the beginning of her menstrual cycle and subsequent budding of her newfound empowering sexuality ) . Better still , there are even pointed references to such classic fairy tales as " Goldie Locks and the Three Bears , " " The Three Little Pigs , " and especially " Little Red Riding Hood . " The fact that Ginger is both scared and excited by her sudden abnormal dramatic changes qualifies as another smart and effective touch . But what really gives this picture its greatness is the wonderfully astute , moving and above all credible relationship between Ginger and Brigitte . Perkins and Isabelle are both outstanding in the leads , with equally excellent support from Lemche ( who not only serves as Brigitte's love interest , but also ultimately comes through as an engagingly unlikely hero ) , Mimi Rogers as the girls ' blithely clueless mother Pamela , Jesse Moss as thuggish jock Jason , and Danielle Hampton as stuck-up popular girl Trini . An absolute corker .
A wondrous and impressive fantasy adventure marvel	In an alternate world there exists two races : the evil , black-hearted , reptilian Skeksis and the wise , gentle , wizened Mystics . Naive , yet brave lone Gelfling Jen has to find the missing shard of the magical dark crystal and restore it prior to three suns converging . He's assisted on his quest by feisty female Gelfling Kira . If he fails , the vile Skeksis will take over the planet . Directors Jim Henson and Frank Oz relate the simple , yet gripping story with a tremendous sense of awe and splendor while maintaining a generally serious tone that's further spiced up with a fine line in morbidly amusing black humor . Moreover , the elaborately designed fantasy world presented herein is downright staggering in its massive scope and sweep of pure imagination . Better still , the incredibly lifelike and engaging creatures that populate this world possess remarkable conviction and personality : Among the colorful beings to be savored are the vicious crab-like soldiers the Garthim , cranky one-eyed hag oracle Aughra ( marvelously voiced with testy brio by Billie Whitelaw ) , the sweet and hearty Podlings , the tall , lanky , super-fast Landstriders , and cuddly fuzzball Fizzgig . The Skeksis are a gloriously grotesque bunch of cruel and hateful villains ; the sequence with these foul fiends ravenously devouring their diner with disgusting relish rates as a definite revolting highlight . Both Oswald Morris ' breathtaking , expansive cinematography and Trevor Jones ' soaring , stirring , majestic score are on the money terrific . But what really makes this picture so special and resonant is how at heart it's essentially a timeless and touching tale of great courage and heroic sacrifice . A real delight .
Shaft ain't got nothing on " The Guy from Harlem "	Tough private detective Al Connors ( the hopelessly wooden Loye Hawkins , who has all the screen presence and charisma of a stale bag of pretzels ) is assigned by the CIA to protect the beautiful African princess Ms . Ashanti ( the hot , but awful Patricia Fulton , who sports an American accent ! ) from no-count criminals . Moreover , Connors gets hired by flamboyant ill-tempered mobster Harry De Bauld ( the outrageously hammy Steve Gallon , who gives the liveliest performance in the film ) to rescue his daughter Wanda ( sassy spitfire Cathy Davis ) from a bunch of evil white kidnappers led by the nefarious Big Daddy ( brawny beefcake hulk Scott Lawrence ) . Man , does this gloriously ghastly no-budget blaxploitation atrocity give the viewer plenty of stupendously stinky cinematic blunders to relish and enjoy . Groan at Rene Martinez , Jr . ' s clueless and fumbling ( non ) direction . Get down with your funky self as you listen to the groovy sub - " Shaft " theme song and monotonously hard-grindin ' soul score . Wince over Gardenia Martinez's hideously dull , talky and uneventful script . Bust a gut at the infrequent and unimpressive poorly choreographed fight scenes . Gaze in total awe at Rafael Remy's horrendously primitive cinematography , which boasts lots of incredibly intense and exciting static medium master shots of people gabbing for what seems like an excruciating eternity . Agonize over the gruelingly slow pace that completely destroys all sense of both tension and momentum . Howl at the uproariously abominable dialogue ( " Tell Big Daddy that nobody fools with The Guy from Harlem , you dig ? " ) . Laugh even harder at the equally terrible acting from a lame no-name cast . A positively astounding monument to sheer mind-numbing celluloid crumminess .
My all-time favorite 70's Bigfoot fright flick	" Creature from Black Lake " gets my vote as the single most amiable and entertaining Bigfoot fright film to ever amble onto the big screen . John David Carson and the ever-daffy Dennis ( " Truck Stop Women , " " House of 1 , 000 Corpses " ) Fimple display a breezy , relaxed , wholly personable chemistry as two eager beaver college anthropology students who visit a Louisiana stick burg to find out if stories concerning Mr . Size 25 Shoes have any basis in fact . Zestfully directed by Do-It-Yourself regional indie filmmaker Joy Houck , Jr . and cleverly written by Jim McCollough , Jr . ( who co-stars as a wily country boy who befriends our heroes ) , this fine feature boasts an endearingly playful sense of good-natured humor , likable characters , a strong spooky atmosphere , and a tasty , picturesque evocation of the Creole State's lush , marshy bayou . Furthermore , the stellar , spot-on , spirited tearin'-apart-the-scenery performances by dependable seasoned hambones Jack Elam and Dub Taylor add a substantial energy boost to the proceedings . Taylor essays his standard role of a crusty , hot-tempered hillbilly grandpappy with his trademark testy aplomb ( " Dadgum it ! " ) , but Elam steals the the entire show with his growly , eye-rolling portrayal of ornery ol ' swamp cuss trapper Joe Canton ( Elam's " nothin ' " story in particular is an absolute corker ) . Stocky , stony-faced cracker character actor Bill Thurman brings his usual low-key charm and unaffected acting style to the role of a sheriff named after then First Brother Billy Carter . Morgan Fairchild's comely sister Catherine McClenny has a sassy small part as a feisty greasy spoon waitress . In a nifty homage to " The Legend of Boggy Creek " Fimple has the holy living hell scared out of him when a guy catches him off guard while he's urinating behind a bush . The unusually adroit and sporadically expansive widescreen cinematography was done by a fledging Dean Cundey , who eventually established himself as a top director of photography with his groundbreaking gliding camera-work for " Halloween . " Jamie Mendoza-Nava's score deftly alternates between moody , menacing scareshow music and sprightly , st-kickin ' country bluegrass . The film concludes with a genuinely harrowing sequence in which Sasquatch ( Roy Tatum in an up-to-snuff excess body hair outfit ) stalks and attacks our protagonists . All in all , this dandy's a complete winner .
A hilariously horrendous hunk of clunky low-budget sci-fi junk	The peace and serenity of the spaceship Southern Sun gets rudely disrupted by a nasty gang of mutineers led by the evil Flight Commander Elijah Kalgan ( an outrageously hammy portrayal by a constantly scowling John Phillip Law ) . It's up to mighty macho man supreme Dave Ryder ( beefy hunk Reb Brown , who displays all the charisma of a can of spoiled Spam ) to stop Kalgan before it's too late . Poorly directed with jaw-dropping ineptitude by David Winters , further blessed with dreadful acting , rusty tin-eared dialogue ( sample line : " Surrender or be blown into astro dust ! " ) , copious special effects footage lifted from " Battlestar Galactica , " badly staged action scenes ( a protracted chase sequence involving a couple of souped-up futuristic golf carts is especially sidesplitting ) , laughable costumes , tacky opening titles , cheesy ( markedly less than ) special effects , crummy sets ( the spaceship cargo bay looks just like a rundown old oil refinery - - and probably was exactly that ! ) , and the insanely cool-rockin ' ending credits theme song " The Edge of A Dream , " this gloriously ghastly marvel of all-out celluloid awfulness is an uproariously atrocious riot from stinky start to fumbling finish . The uniformly abysmal performances from the Hall of Shame Faded ( Semi ) Name cast provides a lion's share of the unintentional hilarity : Brown projects all the appeal of a smelly plastic bag full of fresh cow excrement , Law cuts loose with the same irritating psycho cackle with appalling regularity , Cameron Mitchell sports a ridiculously fake-looking Santa Claus-style snowy white beard as the wise , gentle Commander Alex Jansen , martial arts movie star James Ryan terribly overacts as the hateful and traitorous cripple MacPhearson , and Graham Clarke sleepwalks through his part as the stolid Captain Scott Devers . Moreover , Cisse Cameron as the spunky Dr . Lea Jansen sure looks cute and steams up the screen with her remarkably sexy hula hoop disco dance . Plus a bunch of yummy psychic alien babes help our heroes out . An absolute cruddy hoot .
An incredibly thorough , informative and intriguing documentary about the making of the landmark sci-fi / horror classic " Alien "	This amazingly compelling and comprehensive retrospective documentary about the making of the fantastic sci-fi / horror masterpiece " Alien " leaves no stone unturned . Among the many people interviewed are director Ridley Scott , writers Dan O'Bannon and Ronald Shussett ( O'Bannon admits that his earlier collaboration " Dark Star " with John Carpenter was a big influence on " Alien " ) , producer David Giler , composer Jerry Goldsmith , editor Terry Rawlings , conceptual designer Ron Cobb , creature designer H . R . Giger , monster head maker Carlo Rambaldi , cinematographer Derek Vanlint , visual effects supervisor Brian Johnson , and cast members Sigourney Weaver ( who had a trial by fire experience on the picture because " Alien " was her first substantial lead role ) , Tom Skerritt , Veronica Cartwright , Harry Dean Stanton , and John Hurt ( who replaced Jon Finch at the eleventh hour ) . Director Charles de Lauzirika covers all the necessary bases in fascinatingly minute detail : the genesis of the story , how the characters were devised as basically truckers in space , the casting process , choosing the right director , designing the sets and the monster , the arduous , demanding and difficult principal shooting of the picture , the filming of the infamous chestburster scene , the editing , Goldmith's beautifully chilling score , shortening the movie to a reasonable two hour length , the visual effects , the use of miniatures , the initial previews for the film , and the movie's tremendous box office success . Although this documentary runs nearly three hours , it's never dull and always engrossing . Absolutely essential viewing for fans of the film .
Alfred Hitchcock's undeniably outstanding killer animal horror masterpiece	I finally bought a copy of Alfred Hitchcock's undeniably outstanding killer animal fright film masterpiece on DVD and rewatched it . Although I've viewed it many times , " The Birds " still managed to creep me out and make my hair stand on end as I saw it yet again . I think this alone serves a sterling testament to just what a remarkably strong and scary movie " The Birds " truly is . Hitchcock's extremely meticulous and thus thoroughly believable evocation of a pedestrian everyday mundane world populated by ordinary , yet engaging and interesting true-to-life characters going about their usual business that's violently disrupted by the savage , shocking and inexplicable hostile attacks by every kind of bird qualifies as his major artistic triumph here . There's a conviction and plausibility evident in this film which makes it quite powerful and frightening in comparable measure . Moreover , the performances by the top-rate cast are uniformly outstanding ( Tippi Hedren in her delightful film debut , the ever-rugged and appealing Rod Taylor , Jessica Tandy and a very young Veronica Cartwright are all splendid ) , the inspired use of natural sound and conspicuous absence of a standard score is brilliantly effective , the bird attack sequences are stunningly harrowing and horrifying ( the climactic night long siege on the house is an absolute tour-de-force of nerve-wracking terror and tension ) , and the amazingly convincing special effects remain impressive to this very day ( Albert Whitlock's extraordinary matte paintings are simply spectacular ) . Fantastic chillingly ambiguous ending , too . If you haven't seen this one in some time I strongly advise that you watch it again . I'm absolutely certain it will still get under your skin as well .
An absolute riot !	Damon Packard , the mad maverick independent cinematic genius who blessed us with the alarmingly odd and original " Reflections of Evil , " strikes again with this uproariously irreverent and no-holds-barred brutal parody of the making of the atrocious " Attack of the Clones . " This 45 minute comedy short starts on a fiercely funny note with a redubbed Tony Curtis giving us a gut-busting snappy mock bio on Packard . The savage hilarity continues with a simply sidesplitting fake trailer for " Attack of the Clones " which comes complete with foul profane dialogue and choice clips from such superior low-budget sci-fi fare as " Inseminoid " and " Battle Beyond the Stars . " Packard stars as a hapless special effects artist who's forced to do CGI digital work for George Lucas on a tight budget and even tighter schedule . Throughout the course of this movie Packard paints a scathing portrait of Lucas as a pompous clueless artist who's lost touch with reality and thus makes only bland , sexless , antiseptic pictures devoid of any real merit or substance . Packard's barbed satiric potshots at the appallingly blatant artificiality of CGI ( " CGI rules ! Go , digital , go ! " ) are likewise quite vicious and hence totally on the money as well ( the special effects guys use footage of homeless psychotic black folks as templates for CGI characters ! ) . The humor is appropriately vicious , biting and politically incorrect , reaching a simply stupendous apex at the incredible conclusion in which a theater full of geeky toy lightsaber-brandishing " Star Wars " fans are made to seem like they are cheering for the infamous nude male wrestling sequence in Ken Russell's " Women in Love " ! An absolute take-no-prisoners ferociously amusing hoot .
An excellent and invaluable documentary on the making of a terrific landmark Western	Paul Seydor's Oscar-nominated 34 minute documentary offers a concise and compelling glimpse on the making of Sam Peckpah's remarkable gem " The Wild Bunch . " Seydor uses a combination of gritty black-and-white behind-the-scenes footage and crisp still photographs to shed plenty of light on the arduous shooting of this controversial masterpiece . Seydor focuses on the filming of several key sequences : the exit from Angel's village , the famous walk to destiny scene , the blowing up of the bridge , and , of course , the infamous climactic bloodbath . Seydor makes extremely artful use of fades , dissolves and freeze frames throughout the documentary , thus adding a little stylistic aplomb and energy to the proceedings . He also neatly avoids the standard " talking heads " format by having various folks involved with the picture speak over the footage and photos . There are wonderfully sharp and illuminating comments by Ernest Borgnine , composer Jerry Fielding , screenwriter Walon Green , wardrobe supervisor Gordon Dawson , William Holden , Edmond O'Brien , Sam's daughter Sharon , L . Q . Jones ( his remarks about playing his sleazy character as gay are absolutely priceless ! ) , and Bloody Sam himself . Ed Harris supplies the properly stern and gravelly voice of Peckinpah . Nick Redman's eloquent and informative narration likewise hits the spot . Essential viewing for fans of this film .
Why this landmark sci-fi / horror classic still works	There are several reasons why this remarkably taut , scary and effective science fiction / horror hybrid holds up so well to this very day . 1 . ) The premise ingeniously mixes elements from two separate , yet compatible genres into a strong and satisfying synthesis . The futuristic outer space setting is pure sci-fi , but the grotesque monster , ghastly gore and spooky mood are sheer gut-wrenching horror all the way . 2 . ) The plausibly drab and bleak depiction of a frightfully possible future . There's nothing slick or shiny about the future shown in this picture . It's truly grim and grimy , with the grungy set design , grubby costumes and rundown looking spaceship all contributing to one fascinatingly credible version of a future that seems just around the corner . The all-powerful company's cold assessment of the crew as expendable isn't too far removed from the world we currently live in - - a world in which greed and money take precedent over the basic worth ascribed to everyday human life . 3 . ) The gradual pace . While there are some folks who take issue with the methodically slow pace , said pace nonetheless is crucial to developing the almost unbearably substantial amount of suspense that really kicks into harrowing overdrive once the creature gets lose on the ship . It's the meticulous build-up of the first half which gives the second half of the film its considerable nerve-wracking impact and potency . 4 . ) The infamous " chest-burster " scene . It's so supremely well-timed and staged , with highly believable mixed reactions from everyone involved in the scene . 5 . ) The uniformly superlative acting from a top-notch cast . Sigourney Weaver positively shines in her break-out star-making role as tough sole survivor Ripley , with stellar support from Tom Skerritt , Yaphet Kotto , Ian Holm , John Hurt , Veronica Cartwright , and the always terrific Harry Dean Stanton . 6 . ) Jerry Goldsmith's exceptional score . Ace composer Goldsmith chimes in with one of his most brilliantly spare and chilling scores ever . 7 . ) The thoroughly convincing warts'n'all human characters . The way the well-drawn characters bicker and interact with each other rings completely true throughout . 8 . ) The strikingly gloomy cinematography by Derek Vanlint gives this feature a supremely powerful dark'n'shadowy atmospheric look . 9 . ) The still quite sound and cogent special effects . Done prior to CGI , those miniatures have an organic quality to them that's extremely persuasive . 10 . ) That hideously vile , nasty and downright creepy alien itself . Sure , it's just a guy in a suit , but wow does that suit seem incredibly genuine and lifelike . 11 . ) Ridley Scott's faultless direction never wavers from start to finish , keeping the absorbing story on track while delivering plenty of jolts and cranking up the clammy claustrophobic tension to the often exhilarating ninth degree . Add all these sterling factors together and the net result is a simply spectacular motion picture that's wholly deserving of its classic status .
A smart , scary and overall superb subterranean creature feature survivalist horror shocker	A motley sextet of spunky and adventurous young British women embark on an exciting spelunking expedition into a heretofore neglected and unexplored Appalachian cavern . Things turn sour when they get trapped deep down in the bowels of the earth by a sudden cave-in . Things go from already really bad to much , much horribly worse when the ladies find out they are not alone : there's a lethal and hungry gaggle of blind , agile and savage carnivorous albino humanoid mutant beasts who relentlessly stalk and attack the endangered group . Writer / director Neil ( " Dog Soldiers " ) Marshall wisely takes his time setting up the characters and the situation , carefully easing the viewer into the central narrative before hitting us with all he's got . And boy does he got loads to hit us with : Besides the intrinsically taut , arresting and unsettling premise , we also have plenty of shockingly raw , gruesome and visceral violence , truly spooky , ugly and grotesque monsters , a clammy , creepy and suffocatingly claustrophobic atmosphere which steadily intensifies as the film goes on , and one corker of a startling surprise ending . Moreover , Marshall is to be further commended for not making a thuddingly obvious and heavy-handed proto-feminist empowerment chick flick ; there's no sisters are doing it for themselves type preaching to be found in a single moment of this film . Instead the female characters have not only their survivalist skills pushed to the limit , but also their bonds of friendship and loyalty put to the ultimate test . Watching these women either stick by or abandon one another during their harrowing ordeal gives this movie a truly disturbing , substantial and provocative edge , clearly showing how these kinds of punishing life-threatening circumstances bring out the best and worst in human beings . Shauna Macdonald , Natalie Mendoza , Saskia Mulder , Alex Reid , MyAnna Buring and Nora-Jane No one all give excellent and engaging performances , deftly creating believable and likable characters who you genuinely care about ( Macdonald especially shines as the toughest and most fiercely self-reliant member of the group ) . Better still , the monsters in the film aren't done with that dreadfully phony and rarely convincing CGI ; the filmmakers thankfully opted for using folks in highly effective and persuasive suits . But what truly makes this a terrific fright film knock-out is the admirable and wonderful marked emphasis on the interplay between the characters , thus ensuring that there's a fabulous abundance of heart and humanity as well as the expected ( and wholly terrifying ) chills and thrills . A simply stupendous movie that's absolutely essential viewing for horror fans the world over .
A simply great horror action zombie comedy gore treat	This gloriously wild , crazy , funny and gory as all hell zombie splatter action extravaganza centers on three colorfully flaky and funny ordinary guys - - smart and resourceful medical student Bill Johnson , hopelessly geeky computer nerd Max Giggs , and rough'n'tumble cowboy ex-wrestler John West - - who have to fight their way through thousands of zombies when they find themselves trapped in a city that's overrun with the wickedly clever and hyperactive suckers . Man , is this just a truly great off-the-wall fright flick blast : brash , dynamic , fast-paced , often hilarious , frequently thrilling , briskly directed , and acted with lip-licking enthusiasm by an admirably committed cast , every last frame of this fabulous film oozes with a joy , passion and vitality that's a real treat to watch . Moreover , the picture is loaded with lots of over-the-top gore ( literally buckets of blood and guts are graphically spilled in this doozy ) , outrageous humor , a very wacky and unpredictable plot , and several incredibly nutty ( and undeniably exciting ) go-for-broke loony action set pieces . Better still , the three main characters are genuinely charming , amusing and above all engaging . My favorite character is John West , a big , hulking , lovable lug of a guy who's both a simple cowboy and a butt-stomping former professional wrestler who's fallen from grace . Berta Muniz brings a winningly good-natured sense of goof-ball humor and sweet humanity to John West which in turn makes the huge palooka a positively endearing fellow . The fact that the interaction between our three amiable protagonists is surprisingly rich and complex substantially adds to the film's sterling quality . The three main actors play their parts with tremendous appeal and conviction , thereby bringing a wonderful human element to the basically gonzo proceedings . The second entry in a possible trilogy and the rare instance of a sequel being an improvement on the original , this divinely demented and deliriously enjoyable jaw-dropping goony delight is eminently worthy of cult status and absolutely essential viewing for hardcore zombie film fans . It's without a doubt the best , most imaginative and flat-out immensely entertaining undead item to scurry across the screen thus far in the new millennium .
An incredibly strange and thus quite wonderful one-of-a-kind oddity	An incredibly strange and mixed-up movie indeed ! This divinely demented Ray Dennis Steckler doozy actually inspired legendary late , great gonzo madman rock critic Lester Bangs to make a rare foray into wild-eyed film journalism in which he wrote a hilariously lengthy and thorough essay praising this picture to the high heavens for " Cream " magazine . That amazing trivia tidbit alone is a sterling testament to this wacky marvel's stupendously screwball greatness . Sinister old gypsy fortune teller Madame Estrella ( a nicely fat and juicy slice of eye-rolling villainous ham by the bewitching Brett O'Hara ) who works in a seedy seaside carnival turns unfortunate guys into zombies by disfiguring their faces with acid and locks the groaning'n'moaning wretched skull-faced worms up in a closet . Meanwhile , mellow , hip-talking unemployed proto-slacker protagonist Jerry ( Steckler in a spectacularly stolid performance ) falls under the nasty old gypsy hag's evil spell , who along with her scrumptious stripper sister Carmelita ( Steckler's ravishing real-life onetime hottie redhead wife Carolyn Brandt ) hypnotizes our likeably deadbeat hero into becoming a crazed , knife-brandishing murderous maniac . Okay , so the messy ramshackle narrative aimlessly ( and amiably ) meanders all over the place in a hopelessly haphazard manner , but it's this very undisguised all-out ineptitude which is part and parcel to this loopy winner's mesmerizingly askew off-center appeal . Sure , the clumsily choreographed bump'n'grind dance numbers set to raunchy scratchy saxophone music certainly don't hurt matters any ; the fact that said burlesque dance routines are pretty racy and really quite sexy for their time only makes things even better . The astonishingly varied acting is another plus , encompassing both dismal flatness and hysterical histrionics in comparable measure ( the sublimely incomprehensible Atlas King in particular is weirdly endearing as our hero's loyal best friend ) . Handsomely shot in beautifully ripe , resplendent , richly saturated color by ace cinematographer Joseph V . Mascelli , with able assistance from future big deal directors of photography Laszlo Kovacs and Vilmos Zsigmond , the film has an attractive slick look to it and sporadic exhilarating moments of boldly imaginative experimental visual razzle-dazzle which totally transcend the otherwise highly conspicuous spare change budget . A truly astounding kitsch landmark .
A first-rate nifty 50's creature feature classic	Atomic bomb testing in the New Mexico desert creates a lethal giant mutant strain of ants which naturally pose a grave threat to mankind's status as the dominant species on the planet . It's up to stalwart police sergeant James Whitmore , no-nonsense FBI agent James Arness , sweet , cranky , dynamic old entomologist Edmund Gwenn , and Gwenn's equally feisty daughter Joan Weldon to stop the deadly gigantic insects before it's too late . Director Gordon Douglas , working from a smart , witty and literate script by Ted Sherdeman , expertly crafts one of the best , most creepy and effective of the many over-sized killer monster movies that were made in the 50's , starting things out on an arrestingly spooky and mysterious note with the marvelously atmospheric and enigmatic opening third before progressing with a fine bunch of potent set pieces ( the exploration of a corpse-littered underground ant colony is memorably eerie ) and culminating with a tense and thrilling climactic confrontation between the army and the ants in the Los Angeles sewer drains . Sid Hickox's exquisitely crisp black and white photography , Bronislau Kaper's perfectly ominous , brooding score , the excellent special effects , the grimly serious tone , the tightly streamlined narrative and the nicely low-key , naturalistic acting from a uniformly sound cast ( Gwenn especially is a rip-snorting delight ) further add to the picture's sterling quality . Popping up in cool small parts are Fess Barker as a twitchy airplane pilot , William Schallert as an ambulance attendant , Sandy Descher ( one of the titular kids in Jack Arnold's " The Space Children " ) as a frightened little mute girl , Leonard Nimoy as an Air Force sergeant , Dub Taylor as a peppery railroad night watchman , and Olin Howlin ( the first victim of the original " The Blob " ) as a funny boisterous drunk ( " Make me a sergeant ! Give me the booze ! " ) . A simply terrific gem that's wholly worthy of its classic status .
A hilariously sick and twisted cartoon short parody of those beloved Peanuts TV specials	After the Great Pumpkin places a huge bounty on the ever-hapless Charlie Brown's head , the Peanuts gang try to bump poor Charlie off : Schroeder drops a giant piano on him , Lucy tries to get Charlie to kick a bomb that's disguised as a football , Snoopy bites his hand off ( blood gushes everywhere from the grisly stump ) , and Linus even attempts to strangle Chuck with his beloved blanket . So Charlie , sporting a gnarly Travis Bickle-style Mohawk and packing an Uzi , opens up a king-sized barrel of marvelously gory and excessive over-the-top violent death and destruction on the whole nasty lot of ' em . Writer / director Jim Reardon , who went on to direct countless episodes of " The Simpsons , " pokes blithely wild and deranged anything-goes no-holds-barred wicked fun at everything from Sam Peckinpah to Richard Simmons to even Mickey Mouse and Godzilla . The animation is admittedly crude , but still effective and the adult voice actors ham it up with lip-smacking brio . Better still , the amusing novelty song " Charlie Brown " by the Coasters even plays during the gut-busting ending credits ( the disclaimer at the very conclusion is absolutely priceless ! ) . Favorite line : " Happiness is a warm Uzi . " A gloriously tasteless hoot and a half .
A hilariously horrendous camp splatter anti-drug , pro-Christian horror monster hoot	Brawny Vietnam veteran biker Herschell ( a remarkably terrible performance by the beefy Steve Hawkes , who also co-wrote and co-directed this amazing atrocity ) befriends conservative , responsible , morally upright good Christian girl Angel . Alas , Herschell gets led astray by Angel's naughty , flighty , immature party hearty sister Ann . Pretty soon Herschell finds himself hooked on bad grass . He also starts working at a turkey farm . Two scientists at the farm give Herschell a turkey stuffed with experimental drugs to eat . This causes Herschell to transform into a lethal and murderous turkey-headed monster that gobbles . Herschell starts picking off sleazy dope dealers and strung-out addicts ; he slits their throats open and drinks their blood . Man , does this gloriously ghastly celluloid abomination strike out something rotten in every conceivable way : The plodding ( mis ) direction , Ron N . Sill's grainy , shoddy cinematography , the cruddy sound , the laughably lousy dialogue , Gil Ward's droning , redundant score , the astonishingly awful acting from a lame no-name cast , the draggy pacing , the crude make-up f / x , and the hopelessly dated roaring groovy rock score are all wonderfully wretched . The scene with Herschell cutting a guy's leg off with a table saw rates as a definite unintentionally uproarious highlight . Another memorable moment happens when Herschell engages in a fight with a hideously homely fat person . Co-director and co-screenwriter Brad F . Grinter also appears on-screen as the preachy narrator who wears an ugly blue silk shirt ; at one totally gut-busting point the chain-smoking Ginter erupts into a sudden uncontrollable coughing fit ! Absolutely astounding .
A gloriously ghastly no-budget 70's alien invasion obscurity	Wow , I can't believe the fiercely negative reviews this marvelously messed-up two-cent amateur oddity has elicited . You see , I honestly really dig this flick . I personally think this gloriously godawful regional Utah " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " - stealing drive-in sci-fi doozy deserves a place on your home video library shelf alongside the seminal " all it takes is ambition and enthusiasm to crank out a feature " - type backyard works of Bill Rebane and Don Dohler . Any hardcore cinematic schlockoholic's prayers are immediately answered and appeased in the enticingly crummy pre-credits prologue , which shows an annoying comic relief hillbilly hooch-hound who bears an uncanny resemblance to a taller , skinnier George " Buck " Flower having his remote woodland shack buzzed by a hilariously hokey-looking spaceship . The flimsy plot , as far as it goes , depicts a tiny hick hamlet being terrorized by evil extraterrestrial beings on Halloween night ( boy , that's a novel premise . . . NOT ! ) , with the chief focus put on a goofy gaggle of funky " Phantasm " ish teenagers who discover the aliens ' secret base in the bowels of your proverbial creepy old rundown abandoned house located in the middle of nowhere . Peter Semelka's beautifully clueless direction dexterously covers all the so - hideously - wrong - it's - paradoxically - right bad film bases : an on-and-off meandering tempo , game , yet pathetic thesping from a conspicuously pumped community theater-style cast ( in fact , several of the atrocious adolescent actors won roles in this picture after participating in a local radio contest ! ) , dippy dialog ( " This ain't no airport - - god danged airplanes ! " ) , absolutely no intuitive grasp of style , pacing and carefully wrought narrative construction to speak of , terrifically primitive cinematography which makes exquisitely ugly use of scratched - all - to - unsightly - hell ratty 16mm film stock , incredibly vapid kid main characters ( one's a fat dolt in a gorilla suit ) , astonishingly stupid would-be surprising plot twists , a sweetly monotonous hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , hissy sound quality , lame attempts at dopey humor , slipshod editing , fabulously phony alien creatures ( complete with glowing red bug eyes , no less ! ) , similarly rinky-dink Tonka toy miniatures , an unbelievably putrid disco ending credits theme song , one of those irritatingly irresolute " they're still out there " ominous non-endings , and a story that's so basic , elementary and connect-the-dots predictable that its very obviousness acquires an inexplicably alluring , albeit askew numb-skull appeal . A wondrously wretched example of " let's amass a thousand bucks , gather up a bunch of friends who'll work for peanuts , and make ourselves a bona-fide motion picture in a couple of weeks " dime-store dreck that's eminently worth of both rediscovery and possible cult status . I myself think it's without a doubt the shamefully unsung and ignored " Plan 9 of Outer Space " of the 70's .
A delightfully idiosyncratic documentary gem	Acclaimed documentary filmmaker Errol Morris follows his remarkable debut feature " Gates of Heaven " with this equally astonishing little doozy about the eccentric residents of the remote backwater hamlet of Vernon , Florida . Among the folks interviewed are an endearingly zealous turkey hunter , an elderly fellow with an unusual collection of unlikely pets , another old dude who believes we all have multiple brains , a friendly worm farmer , and a couple with a jar of white sand that they claim grows on a daily basis . These colorful individuals discuss such weighty subjects as religion , the existence of God , and the meaning of life . Through these startling and compelling interviews Morris captures with bracing acuity and unflinching honesty a wholly charming and captivating sense of all-American strangeness that's both amusing and affecting in equal measure . Few movies reveal the basic absurdity of the human condition with the same stark power and poignancy as this film . Morris ' deliberately static and leisurely paced no-frills approach keeps cheap condescending humor and sordid sensationalism at bay throughout ; instead Morris in his own deliciously dry and deadpan way shows a genuine affection for these lovably loopy oddballs . Moreover , there's a vivid evocation of the sleepy small town region and the people that populate it which coupled along with the often breathtaking bucolic scenery and picturesque photography adds up to create one of the greatest portraits of everyday authentic downhome American surrealism ever committed to celluloid . A total offbeat treat which offers proof positive that ordinary life can be every bit as weird and outrageous as the best wildly imaginative fiction .
A superb 70's " don't go down to Dixie " Southern-fried drive-in exploitation gem	Eternally entrancing firebrand actress Yvette Mimieux scores her best , strongest , most commanding and effective role to date as a smart , classy , fiercely self-sufficient no bullst Los Angeles businesswoman who runs afoul of psycho hicks and rapist redneck cops when she goes down South during her cross country trek from California to New York . Poor Yvette has one of those days which justifies the age-old cliché " sometimes it's better to stay home in bed " : her car is stolen by a creepy backwoods hick nutjob ( an intense , jittery Robert Carradine , who's genuinely frightening in a rare full-blooded sicko fruitcake part ) , she's wrongly put in the hoosegow by the local yokel cops after loutish bartender Britt Leach tries to sexually assault her , kills one particularly unpleasant hillbilly fuzzball after he brutally rapes her ( the rape scene itself is quite graphic and upsetting ) , breaks out of jail and subsequently goes on the lam with tough , but tender-hearted career criminal Tommy Lee Jones . " Jackson County Jail " qualifies as one of those great legendary rarities : it's a 70's redneck drive-in exploitation movie that not only delivers the goods and then some , but also the kind of gritty , top-notch , fairly plausible flick that both wholly earns and completely lives up to its killer cult status . Mark Miller's remarkably artful and assured direction plays a key role in making the film the grind-house classic that it is : the quick , unrelenting pace never let's up for a minute , the action scenes are rousing and marvelously choreographed , and the solid , pretty complicated and arresting narrative hooks the viewer from the get-go . Moreover , the film's astute depiction of the relative differences and similarities between cops and criminals is wickedly subversive : The crooks for the most part are loyal , honorable and compassionate folks while a majority of the police are total aholes . This deliciously amoral masterstroke , a typically twisted piece of 70's B-movie nihilism which boldly bucks convention , lifts " Jackson County Jail " well above the rut of your standard-issue by-the-numbers formula drive-in fare . However , that's not to say that " Jackson County Jail " fails to hit the bull's eye in other departments ; it's an across-the-board winner in every conceivable way . The uniformly excellent cast alone testifies to this : Severn Darden as a prissy , kindly , quirky sheriff , Howard Hesseman as Yvette's faithless smarmy husband , Mary Woronov as a butch lesbian outlaw gal , " Revenge of the Cheerleaders " ' s adorable lead bimbo Patrice Rohmer as Jones ' jealous ex-girlfriend , Cliff Emmich as a loathsome male chauvinist CEO Yvette tells off at the start of the movie , and future " Hill Street Blues " TV series regular Betty Thomas as a saucy , outspoken greasy spoon waitress who tries to fleece bucks . Loren Newkirk's melancholy , harmonica-heavy , nicely down-home country score , the often razor-sharp dialogue ( when Yvette tells Jones to be careful when he faces off with the pigs at the film's thrilling conclusion , Jones responds with this choice fatalistic retort : " I was born dead anyway " ) , the unsparingly bleak and harsh downbeat nightmarish tone , and especially Bruce Logan's agile , polished cinematography ( the use of hand-held camera for Jones ' climactic face-off with the law really does the stirring trick ) are all also highly impressive . Gripping , suspenseful and exciting in comparable measure , " Jackson County Jail " stands tall as a sterling example of 70's hayseed exploitation cinema at its tense , tantalizing zenith .
A fascinating documentary	This remarkable documentary centers on a troop of American soldiers in Iraq who make their base of operation in the bombed-out remains of Saddam Hussein's pleasure palace . The soldiers interviewed herein candidly discuss killing enemy soldiers , the bitter possibility of being killed in combat , and how no one but themselves will ever fully understand what they're going through while fighting in the war . A majority of these soldiers are fresh-faced teenagers straight out of high school who hail from obscure small American towns ; their charming sense of naiveté and wide-eyed innocence puts a genuinely human face on war itself that's alternately funny , sad , shocking , and ultimately quite moving . The filmmakers follow the soldiers as they carry out their sometimes useless and often dangerous daily routine missions and goof around Hussein's palace in their spare time . Several soldiers perform incredible rap songs that are not only profane and amusing , but also very profound and touching . This movie thankfully eschews politics and preaching in favor of simply letting the soldiers tell their own story in their own words ; this gives the picture a strong sense of urgency and intimacy that's both powerful and impossible to shake . The chaos , boredom and frightening unpredictability of war is vividly captured by the compelling anecdotes related by the soldiers . An amazing achievement that's essential viewing for anyone interested in seeing the soldiers ' perspective on the war in Iraq .
A simply spectacular send-up of 70's drive-in schlock	A surprisingly sly and deliciously dead on-target parody of " to hell with substance and style , let's just get this sucker in the can and toss in every last crassly exploitative thing we can think of " quick'n'dirty no-budget Grade Z film-making , a true marvel of cut'n'paste cost-cutting ingenuity that was promptly shot in a scant ten days on a paltry $60 , 000 budget for Roger Corman's always dependably tacky New World Pictures . Naturally , the net product of this ultimate in-jokey drive-in flick pastiche is a wonderfully sloppy , screwy and raucous serving of anything-goes momentum propelled lunacy . Perky , lovely , blonde-tressed 70's trash movie favorite Candice Rialson gives an energetic , wholly engaging performance as Candy Wednesday , a sweet , wet-behind-the-ears ingénue fresh off the bus from Indiana who goes to Los Angeles to make it big in the movie biz ; the aspiring actress winds up scoring a gig as a stunt woman for prolific one feature a week schlock studio outfit Miracle Pictures ( their motto : " If it's a good picture , it's a Miracle ! " ) . Candy toils in one tawdry potboiler after another ( she barely manages to survive a particularly hellish one week shoot in the Phillippines , where she's gleefully gang-raped by a bunch of greasy , overenthusiastic libidinous male extras ! ) , eventually becoming Miracle Pictures ' latest junk movie queen . Alas , a vicious unknown killer has been randomly picking off actress on the film sets ( one murder is actually caught on film , thus becoming a grisly snuff reel ! ) . Soon only Candy is left . A showdown between Candy and the killer occurs directly underneath the legendary Hollywood sign . Directors Allen Arkush and Joe Dante , both making their directorial debuts after editing countless trailers for Corman and working from a hip , clever script by Patrick Hobby , don't miss a trick with this often wickedly witty send-up of " good taste and high production values be damned " nickel'n'dime film-making : the brisk pace , playfully tongue-in-cheek self-deprecating tone , overripe hambone acting , and constant onslaught of cheap , but amusing gags are nicely sustained throughout . The stand-out cast of B-flick perennials includes : Mary Woronov as a spitefully jealous aging exploitation pic starlet , Jeffrey Kramer as a harried hack screenwriter , " White Line Fever " director Jonathan Kaplan as leering , clumsy , voyeuristic propmaster Scotty , Tara Strohmeier as a struggling actress , an especially droll Paul Bartel as a pretentious , motivation-obsessed no-talent director who wears riding boots and strives to inject " meaningful artistic qualities " into his shoddy features , and the redoubtable Dick Miller as a sleazy , fast-talking agent named - - natch - - Walter Paisley . Charles B . Griffith , Forrest J . Ackerman and Robby the Robot make cameo appearances at a gala film premiere while directors Joseph McBride and Barbara Peeters pop up as an uptight couple at a drive-in . Why , even an unnamed extra in a Godzilla costume ambles through a few scenes . However , half the fun with this honey stems from identifying all the bits and pieces spliced in from previous movies : choice snippets from " The Big Doll House " and " The Big Bird Cage , " " Big Bad Mama , " " Crazy Mama , " " Death Race 2000 , " " The Hot Box , " " Unholy Rollers , " " The Terror " and " Battle Beyond the Sun " are all prominently showcased herein . Better yet , the first-rate country rock group Commander Cody and His Lost Planet Airmen materialize for an utterly insane rendition of the hilariously raunchy Texas swing tune " Everybody's Doin ' It . " Overall , this beautifully bent , batty and berserk baby rates highly as a total blast !
One of the greatest 70's drive-in movies ever made	I absolutely love " The Candy Snatchers . " It's a wickedly clever and dead-on nasty grind-house variant on the classic O . Henry short story " The Ransom of Red Chief . " It's got everything you can want in a 70's exploitation flick : solid production values , an unflinchingly grim and nihilistic tone , colorfully warped bad guys ( Brad David as the sickest of the three kidnappers is an especially depraved piece of hardcore human sickness ) , neat'n'gnarly plot twists aplenty , brutal violence , the beautiful Tiffany Bolling as a terrifically sexy and shifty femme fatale who would have fit in snugly in a vintage 40's film noir , gratuitous nudity , savage rape , a cute little mute boy as the unlikely hero , uniformly aces acting , strong direction , a truly startling knock-out bummer ending , a nifty cameo by James Whitworth ( Papa Jupitor in " The Hills Have Eyes " ) as a telephone repairman who gets the living stuffing beaten out of him , bubbly blonde cutie Susan Sennett absorbing more punishment than a punching bag , the ever-smarmy Ben Piazza oozing total black-heartedness with lip-smacking aplomb as Sennet's spectacularly odious stepdad , a wickedly funny sense of pitch-black humor , and , best of all , an amazingly crappy sappy folkie theme song . And the film quite powerfully shows how youthful innocence is either corrupted or destroyed when exposed to adult evil at its most ferociously base and unforgiving . And remember everyone : money is the root of all happiness .
A hilariously horrible hoot	1480 : Cruel , evil , haughty schizophrenic holy man Guru ( a deliciously over the top performance by Neil Flanagan ) resides on the remote island of Mortavia . Guru gets his sadistic jollies out of killing and maiming thieves , voyeurs , witches and various other sinners . Crazed lesbian vampire lady Olga ( the seriously strange Jaqueline Webb ) and meek , whimpering one-eyed hunchback Igor ( an uproariously geeky turn by Jack Spencer ) assist Guru with his heinous misdeeds . Meanwhile , kindly jailer Carl ( the extremely fey Paul Lieber ) tries to save condemned fair maiden Nadja ( pretty blonde Judith Israel ) from Guru's foul clutches . Legendary Do-It-Yourself dimestore indie Staten Island schlockmeister Andy Milligan really outdoes himself with this astonishingly awful , yet often amusing and oddly entertaining period Gothic horror atrocity . The drippy'n'droning stock film library score , ratty , ugly , scratched-up cinematography ( Andy gleefully indulges in his ghastly penchant for drab static master shots to an appalling degree ) , the outrageously tasteless plot , ripely hammy eye-rolling histrionic acting from a game no-name cast ( many of whom talk with heavy New York accents ) , cynical misanthropic sensibility , cheesy gore , the hysterical bloodbath conclusion , and the gut-busting abundant anachronisms ( one villager is clearly wearing corduroy pants ! ) all ensure that this spectacularly shoddy swill is absolutely sidesplitting from stinky start to fumbled finish . A positively jaw-dropping celluloid abomination .
A true work of beauty	Yes , this classic one and a half minute animated short still amuses and entertains even today . We start off with sweet little Bambi grazing in the woods to the lovely , lulling orchestral overture to " William Tell . " WARNING : Possible major SPOILER ahead . Then big , bad Godzilla stomps his massive foot down and squashes poor Bambi as if he was a minuscule bug . This is without a doubt one of the most shocking and brutal , yet appropriate and inevitable conclusions to a movie period . Yeah , it's grim and disturbing , but that's the point . I believe writer / director Marv Newland intended this infamous cartoon to be a poignant and provocative meditation on just how fleeting and fragile life really is . Dainty Bambi represents the frailty of existence itself , while the massive Godzilla symbolizes the harshness of dark death and cruel mortality . This picture starkly states in no uncertain terms that everything that's alive eventually dies . So , this just isn't some goofy little spoof . It's a profound artistic statement on life itself .
Mr . T's finest hour	Mr . T , that cocky , hulking , gold chain-wearing , Mohawk-sporting macho cretin from " The A-Team , " hits a hilariously horrible all-time career low with this incredibly asinine build up your self-esteem tape that's specifically targeted for an extremely insecure and angst-ridden adolescent audience . A majority of these well-meaning , but moronic life lessons are set to either sickeningly sappy pop slop tunes or hideously bad rap songs that are further enhanced by eager beaver teens cutting loose something stupid with all these cheesy , spastic , herky-jerky break dancing moves ! Mr . T himself barks choice rap music verses in a fierce , husky , guttural growl that's anything but melodious and comes across like an arrogant , egocentric , unbearably self-important and self-centered jerk ( highly revealing narcissistic verse : " If you want to be cool / Just like me / Ya gotta try real hard to be somebody " ) . Worse yet , Mr . T has trouble speaking in full , lucidly well-sustained sentences , talking with a sibilant slur and frequently mispronouncing polysyllabic words . This idiotic , mush-mouthed , overbearing behemoth is somehow supposed to be an ideal role model for kids to follow and emulate ? I don't think so , man . Broken up into various segments , Mr . T gives advice on assorted pertinent subjects by grunting lots of stale , obvious , hackneyed folksy platitudes ; said topics include roots ( " Ya can't know where ya going if ya don't know where ya from , " the all-wise Mr . T sagely remarks , explaining that all the gold chains he wears symbolize the shackles put on his slave ancestors when they first came to America ! ) , style ( " Clothes express your personality , so express yourself , not someone else , " Mr . " I'm your personal Yoda " T smartly comments , a point that's immediately negated by two tasty Asian harlots dressed in trampy Madonna-style exterior underwear apparel and a hot Hispanic honey clad in clingy gym duds ala Jennifer Beals in " Flashdance " ) , and anger ( " You should use your temper , not lose it , " Mr . T the exceptionally sagacious guru soundly opines , which for anyone who remembers his ferocious turn as Clubber Lang in " Rocky III " sounds more than a little spurious and insincere ) . Other hysterically dopey highlights are : a gust-busting " Just say no " evil dope section on peer pressure in which a bunch of stoners try to force a reluctant fat boy to partake in the debauched pleasures of swilling beer and smoking weed , Mr . T coming down real forceful on talking trash about anyone's mother ( " Mother , I'll always love her , " Mr . T tunelessly wails while an off-key chorus of dowdy moms supply crummy background harmonies ) , an especially mawkish passage concerning friendship ( deathless hokey aphorism : " Friendship is like a clear day ; you look forward to it " ) , and Mr . T making a gaggle of lazy kids engage in an impromptu curbside workout session by having ' em bench press a boom box and balance a bag of popcorn on their heads while bending their knees ! Why , this uproariously awful Greed Decade camp artifact even comes complete with a tantalizing musical skeleton in the closet trivia tidbit : None other than notorious gangsta rapper Ice T did the vocal arrangements for a handful of songs that Mr . T mumble-grumbles throughout in the film !
Got to get moving - - no time to tarry !	After pulling off a successful grocery store heist ( $170 , 000 bucks is stolen ) , hot-blooded , devil-may-care stock car racer Larry ( Peter Fonda in peek personable form ) , stoic , intense mechanic Deke ( the always excellent Adam Rourke ) and pert , bubbly small town strumpet Mary ( an incredibly sexy and vibrant Susan George , who does for the first time her hilariously overripe and erratic on-and-off Southern accent she later reused in " Mandingo " and " A Small Town in Texas " ) make a mad , hell-broke-for-leather wild and unceasing dash for freedom in Larry's souped-up late 60's Chevy , going all-out at full-tilt nerve-frying speed as the cops relentlessly pursue them every step of the way . The late , great , forever glowering Vic Morrow , sporting longish hair , an over-sized cowboy hat , and a permanent frown on his rough , craggy , puffy , yet handsome face , makes for a real happening heavy as Franklin , the shrewd , dogged , hard-nosed police captain who obsessively tracks the outlaw threesome via helicopter . Growling , scowling and cursing up a regular hurricane of harshly grumbled epithets ( " See if you can get the word ' son of a bch ' in print , " Morrow barks to a reporter over the phone ) , the almighty Mr . Morrow is a constant contemptuous and galvanizing demonic corker to behold . Popping up in solid supporting parts are Roddy McDowall in an uncredited bit role as the antsy grocery store manager , Kenneth Tobey as Morrow's unyielding , disapproving jerk of a superior , and especially the amazing Eugene Daniels as Hanks , an uproariously overzealous eager beaver deputy who spits out a lot of choice hateful dialogue ( Hank's " Eat you lunch line " in particular is absolutely priceless ! ) . John Hough , whose extremely varied and uneven cinematic track record includes the highly erotic Hammer vampire offering " Twins of Evil , " the nifty , garishly stylized mystery thriller " Eyewitness , " the eerie " The Legend of Hell House , " the hugely enjoyable Disney sci-fi children's movie favorites " Escape to Witch Mountain " and " Return from Witch Mountain , " and the 80's fright film duds " Incubus " and " American Gothic , " directs with tremendous rip-roaring gusto and dexterity : the picture thunders along at a rousing steady breakneck clip , the acting from the stand-out B-movie cast is uniformly commendable , the tautly plotted narrative keeps any needless draggy exposition to a pleasing bare minimum , the darkly ironic quintessentially 70's surprise bummer twist ending is genuinely startling , and the crackling , kick-a car chases really deliver the hair-raising , adrenaline-pumping , heart-in-your-throat harrowing and exciting action flick goods . Mike Marguiles ' expert cinematography is exceptional : sweeping aerial photography , fluid tracking shots and tight , sweaty close-ups are all put to powerful use during the superbly staged car chase sequences . Moreover , the salient absence of a music score actually heightens rather than detracts from the fiercely maintained suspense ; the film manages to acquire a semi-documentary feel which makes both the story and the action that much more convincing and involving . Why , we even have a profound and provocative subtext about the desperate measures down and out people with nothing to lose will resort to get out of a dismal rut they feel like they're trapped in . Fast , furious , and unrelievedly thrilling , this baby overall rates strongly as a truly classic rock ' em , sock ' em 70's drive-in car chase smasheroo .
The best and most exciting 70's drive-in car chase movie to ever roar its wild way across the big screen	Quite simply one of the best , leanest , fastest , most bluntly straightforward and unpretentious of the numerous fuel-burning , whiplash-inducing , tire-shrieking , rubber-shredding , neck-snappingly quick and spectacularly destructive crash ' em and smash ' em car chase action romps to tear hell broke for next week frenzied across drive-in theater screens back in the 70's . Granted , the plot centering on an underground stolen automobile ring ain't much , the acting is strictly hit or miss , and the film's technical aspects are rather ragged ( and frankly who honestly cares about that high-falutin ' nonsense ? ) , but what this gloriously gonzo humdinger lacks in depth , story and subtlety it more than compensates for in sheer relentless headlong narrative drive and no-holds-barred insane gas-guzzling motorhead action . The climactic 40 minute ( ! ) car chase across several states ( five cities in total ) , down major highways , over bridges , through building and parking garages , even ripping hither and tither down dirt trails and on bustling crowded sidewalks and parks stands tall as a masterfully well-sustained piece of butt-pulping , metal-bending , supremely testosterone-charged ultra-macho car chase action in excelsis . Jet-powered by snappy , stiletto-sharp editing , a nonstop pile-driving pace , a handful of sensationally spirited country and western tunes , a generous sprinkling of breezily irreverent humor ( I love the feisty old lady who angrily smacks the car with her umbrella ! ) , and lots of pure dynamite explosive action choreography , this adrenaline-pumping sequence will have you sucking exhaust fumes for at least a month . It's that incredibly great . And don't kid yourself about that stinky and unnecessary big budget mainstream blockbuster remake starring Nicholas Cage . The original is still the real way-gone stirring deal - - and always shall remain so .
A simply delightful yuletide TV special gem	Bitter , hateful , grouchy hermit the Grinch has no love or respect for the Christmas holiday season . The Grinch decides to rain on everybody's parade by dressing up like Santa Claus and stealing all the food , presents and decorations from the town of Whoville . Directed by the legendary Chuck Jones and Bob Washam , this truly magnificent Noel holiday TV special classic has a touching and wonderfully uplifting central message about the real meaning of Christmas . Boris Karloff's marvelously sonorous and whimsical narration rates as another substantial plus and his soothing velvet smooth voice is perfect as the Grinch . June Foray is absolutely adorable as the voice of Cindy Lou Who . Moreover , the lovely , jaunty score by Albert Hague ( the music teacher on the TV series " Fame " ) is a joy to listen to , with the rousing polka-inspired " Trim Up the Tree " making for an especially charming tune . Of course , the incredibly catchy and groovy number " You're A Mean One , Mr . Grinch , " with its witty oddball lyrics ( " You're brain is full of spiders / You've got garlic in your soul " ) and terrific deep growly booming vocal by Thurl Ravenscroft ( the voice of Tony the Tiger in countless Kellog's Frosted Frakes TV commercials ) , smokes in no uncertain terms . The quirky and imaginative animation boasts plenty of gorgeously vibrant colors and makes occasional nifty use of montage . But ultimately what qualifies this show as so special and endearing is that , unlike the nasty old Grinch , it has a very big and warm heart .
The adorable Monica Gayle shines as a low-rent Loretta Lynn in this choice chunk of 70's Southern-fried drive-in sleaze	You know you're in for a four-star 70's drive-in sleazy treat when barely two minutes into the picture the luscious and adorable Monica Gayle , a lovely sprite actress who appeared in trashy films for such B-movie luminaries as Jack Hill , Harry Novak , Gary Graver and Larry Buchanan , peels her clothes off to go skinny-dipping while the opening credits are still rolling . Of course , some vile , scummy degenerate hillbilly dude comes along and savagely rapes poor Monica , thus giving her a credible excuse to run away from home with acoustic guitar in tow and go to Nashville to make it as an honest-to-goodness country music star . The ever perky and appealing Gayle , as naive , but feisty and determined Loretta Lynn-like 16-year-old Kentucky hick chick Jamie Barker , receives a ride into town from gruff trucker Leo Gordon and promptly learns that the only way to really make it in Nashville is by making love with the right powerful music biz people . Pretty soon Jamie is gladly hopping in the sack with every lecherous older man who's got the hots for her . Alas , Jamie runs low on cash and is forced to work at a seedy massage parlor as a receptionist . And , wouldn't you know it , Jamie gets arrested and has to do hard time at a prison work farm where one of the predatory lesbian guards sexually assaults her in the shower ! Fortunately , Jamie gets paroled and befriends nice guy session musician Kelly ( amiably played by " Flash and the Firecat " ' s Roger Davis ) , who introduces her to country music superstar Jeb Hubbard ( burly Glen Corbett ) , an overbearing jerk of a control freak with a fatal weakness for young girls . Hubbard makes Jamie his protégé , renames her Melody Mason , and turns her into the major league star she always dreamed of being . But this overnight fame and fortune comes at a terrible price , with Jamie becoming increasingly lonely , cynical , arrogant and disillusioned as her innocence gets irrevocably shattered . Boy , talk about a wildly colorful and eventful never-a-dull-minute busy narrative ! Better still , along with the abundant Gayle nudity , Gus Trikonis ' brisk , get-right-to-the-point efficient direction , several astounding scenes featuring Gayle singing both in the recording studio and on stage with a ( dubbed ? ) strong , brassy contralto voice , a standard rags-to-riches story that becomes more delightfully lurid and melodramatic as the movie progresses forward ( in fact , this entire picture plays like a tightly streamlined $1 . 98 discount version of " Coal Miner's Daughter " ) , a cameo appearance by mid-level country-and-western singer Johnny Rodriguez as himself , and a funny performance by late , great character actor Jesse White as a greedy dirtbag music publisher , this fabulous grindhouse gem even comes complete with a sincere cautionary morale : Country music superstardom ain't exactly what it's cracked up to be . Now , that's precisely what prime 70's exploitation cinema is all about : sex , bare skin , scuzzy plot twists and , most importantly , a redeeming pertinent social message , too !
A wonderfully warped and wretched piece of pure rancid 70's drive-in psycho horror schlock	An odd , absorbing and even touching low-budget stalk'n'slash meditation on viciously enforced puritanical mores , obsession , psycho killers , sex , nudity , bold-faced cinematic ineptitude , paltry production values and , most importantly , the profound need to spend your life loving that oh so wonderful , but annoyingly elusive someone special . Irritable , homicidal , rigidly moralistic photographer Pierre Agostino angrily throttles every last gorgeous babe who fails to meet his strict ideal of the " perfect " woman . That's until he meets the wacko sicko " pure " gal of his dreams : Equally sanguinary and choleric bookstore owner Carolyn Brandt , who has a charming tendency to slice open the throats of any given filthy , uncouth bum who hits on her . The fact that Pierre has a passion for pigeons and Brandt has this thing for jogging only makes things better . Gee , ain't psychopathic misanthrope amour just grand ? Well , this exceptionally stinky , but strangely engaging and enthralling cheapjack trashy ragged-around-the-edges bargain basement poverty-row nickel'n'dime slice'n'dice sleazy junk sure hits the scuzzy spot something lurid . Under legendary Grade Z movie maestro Ray Dennis Steckler's typically slipshod ( mis ) direction , this choice cheesy chunk of celluloid crud hits all the essential schlock picture bases : we've got a forcefully delineated depiction of the dirty , grotty , thoroughly rundown and destitute Los Angeles milieu , the numerous murder set pieces pack a certain crudely ferocious wallop ( the scene where Pierre strangles a hot chick in a jacuzzi with her own bikini top is a real doozy ) , a hideously meandering pace , clunky , tattered , unsteady cinematography which will have your stomach doing flip-flops , a great woozy , dolorous , wretchedly tuneless droning jazz score , hilariously horrible dialogue ( Pierre to victim : " Die garbage ! " ) , a catchy , affecting , truly wondrous ending credits theme song called " You're My Love " that's belted out with lip-smacking gusto by Alberto Sarno , lots of sexy , slender , firm-breasted young honeys who blithely display their delectable bare bodies with splendidly saucy'n'sizzling abandon , a warped , penniless , discontent , brooding gloom-doom slimy mood which grows on the viewer like a bad rash , and - - WARNING : Major SPOILER ahead ! - - the final climactic meeting between the two titular loonies ( they both kill each other ) is both quite moving and simply glorious . This winner has almost everything going for it , with the notable exception of one tiny irrelevant thing : Quality . But hey , who needs quality when you can have an unceasingly ratty and repulsive teeming surplus of bottom-of-the-dumpster dwelling dimestore skankbag griminess instead ?
A truly timeless and terrific TV yuletide holiday special treat	I've seen this truly timeless and terrific late 60's TV yuletide holiday special classic more times than I can count and it never fails to make me feel totally elated . Jolly , lovable snowman Frosty ( exuberantly voiced with marvelously plummy gusto by Jackie Vernon ) miraculously comes to life when a discarded magic silk top hat falls atop his head . But Frosty can't stick around for long or he'll melt due to the rising temperature . Meanwhile , evil , yet inept magician Professor Hinkle ( voiced with winningly rascally snake oil élan by Billy De Wolfe ) chases after Frosty in order to get his hat back . The wonderfully catchy and merry theme song , the engagingly folksy Christmas postcard-style animation , Jimmy Durante's delightful narration ( Durante also heartily belts out the theme song ) , the endearing characters ( I love Hocus-Pocus the rabbit ! ) , and an irresistibly sweet-natured sensibility that's utterly bereft of any smug irony or sour cynicism make this lovely and radiant gem a complete joy to behold . Legendary voice actor Paul Frees lends his gloriously melodious golden pipes to the juicy supporting roles of both Santa Claus and a testy traffic cop . Essential annual seasonal viewing for kids of all ages , including crusty old adults like this humble reviewer .
An astonishingly awful , yet strangely charming and entertaining ultra-cheap horror splatter hoot	The gnarly 80's retro hell prologue deftly sets the tone for the considerable campiness to come : a luckless lady jogger wearing leotards , a tank top , leg warmers and a headband gets brutally bagged by a machete-wielding lunatic . The film gets worse / better after that dubious beginning . Four uniformly obnoxious and unlikable young folks venture into a remote desolate forest for a camping trip . The quartet run afoul of a trio of dirty , hairy , chortling , foul-mouthed and inhospitable greasy backwoods sleazeball cannibal degenerates who proceed to gleefully kill and eat them . This bargain basement bottom-of-the-barrel poor man's " The Hills Have Eyes " represents dimestore Do-It-Yourself indie fright feature schlock at its most deliciously dire and dismal . This perfectly putrid picture commits all the essential bad film mistakes to qualify as a wonderfully rancid piece of wretched dreck : ham-fisted ( mis ) direction , poky pacing , horrendously rank amateurish acting from a game no-name cast , cruddy sound , shaky , ugly , washed-out shot-on-video photography , a trite and totally predictable script , a meandering narrative , a gratingly droning and redundant synthesizer sludge score , a dab of gratuitous female nudity , lousy dialogue ( " I have a feeling this is going to be a weekend we're never going to forget " ) , a dreadful group singalong in a van , cheesy excessive gross-out gore ( fake blood sprays everywhere whenever someone gets gruesomely offed ) , and a simply jaw-dropping incredibly jaunty ending credits theme song . The undeniable tasteless highlight occurs when two of the flesh-eating fiends butcher a pregnant woman and joyfully devour her fetus ! A hilariously horrible horror howler that's not to be missed .
A simply spectacular 70's women-in-prison drive-in gem	Jonathan Demme's directorial debut for Roger Corman's legendary exploitation outfit New World Pictures rates highly as one of the finest chicks-in-chains 70's grindhouse classics to ever grace celluloid . Beauteous Russ Meyer starlet Eric ( " Vixen , " " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " ) Gavin gives a robust , winning performance as a brassy , resilient new fish who does her best to persevere in a grimy , hellish penitentiary . The always fabulous Barbara Steele offers a deliciously wicked portrayal as the mean , crippled , sexually frustrated warden ( her erotic dream about doing a slow , steamy striptease in front of the lady inmates is a real dilly ) . Longtime favorite 70's B-movie actress Roberta ( " The Arousers , " " Unholy Rollers " ) Collins delivers a hilariously raunchy and endearing turn as a cheerfully forward , foul-mouthed kleptomaniac felon who tells a gut-busting dirty joke about Pinnochio . Lynda Gold ( a . k . a . Crystin Sinclaire of Tobe Hooper's " Eaten Alive " and Curtis Harrington's " Ruby " ) makes her lively film debut as uninhibited wildcat Crazy Alice . And the ever-cuddly Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith does a lovely , touching reprise of her fragile frightened innocent role from " Lemora : A Child's Tale of the Supernatural . " Although this picture does deliver the expected ample amount of coarse language , nudity , rape and violence , it's still by no means a typically crass and sexist piece of lurid mindless filth ; the movie very effectively explores the many ways in which men cruelly exploit women and strongly asserts the pro-feminist notion that women can overcome any obstacles if they band together into a group so they can bravely face their misogynistic oppressors as one mighty fighting force . Demme's zesty , confidant direction comes through with a glorious abundance of astutely observed incidental details and delightful moments of engagingly quirky human behavior . Furthermore , both Tak Fujimoto's vibrant cinematography and John Cale's marvelously dolorous oddball blues score are 100 % on the money excellent . Patrick Wright ( Sheriff Mack in the uproariously awful cheap-rubber-monster-suit creature feature howler " Track of the Moonbeast " ) has a sidesplitting bit as a jerky cop who has his car stolen by a trio of prison escapees when he stops at a gas station to use the bathroom . Lively , rousing and immensely enjoyable , " Caged Heat " qualifies as absolutely essential viewing for 70's drive-in movie fans .
An absolutely astonishing camp riot	This astoundingly abysmal piece of unmitigated schlock rates highly as one of the single most sublimely stupid and sidesplitting kitsch hoots I've had the pleasure to watch in quite a while . An evil drug lord uses a bunch of rot-faced hopping vampires to retain his power . Narcotics agent Tom Wilde gets shot and killed in the line of duty . He's brought back to life as a lethal and unstoppable cyborg who looks like he's been wrapped from head to toe in bright shiny tin foil . Meanwhile a macho meathead mercenary guy battles dope dealers in the jungle who have abducted a beautiful blonde babe agent . Boy , does this jaw-dropping dreadful doozy possess all the correct so - utterly - wrong - that - they're - paradoxically - right stuff to qualify as a real four-star stinkeroonie : fumbling ( mis ) direction , priceless dopey dialogue ( favorite line : " Kill the priest , quick ! " ) , ineptly staged shoot-outs , hilariously horrible dubbing , plentiful gut-busting over-the-top chopysocky fight scenes , broadly drawn characters , horrendously hammy acting , a silly romantic subplot involving the head vampire guy who can fire sparks from his fingertips and a sexy ghost girl wearing a semi-transparent gown ( said sexy ghost girl is obviously doubled by a man during her more strenuous fight scenes ! ) , a generic hum'n'shiver synthesizer score , outrageously gruesome , yet tacky gore , a rambling and barely coherent narrative ( this flick is clearly two separate movies which have been sloppily edited together ) , a nonstop frantic pace , and a seriously messed-up story that clumsily combines elements of horror , action , martial arts , crime thriller and even comedy into a spectacularly ungodly brew . An undeniably awful , but often uproarious and always immensely entertaining serving of infectiously inane celluloid lunacy .
My favorite Mexicon biker movie	If you've always wanted to see a sordidly spirited south-of-the-border version of Roger Corman's immortal chopper classic " The Wild Angels , " then this alarmingly crude and gloriously excessive degenerate filth biker trash is the answer to your wildest , most deranged and antisocial scuzzy celluloid prayers . You know you're in for a real treat when the picture opens with the credits spray-painted in gaudy graffiti on a brick wall while a crummy surf-rock theme song ( complete with wailing vocals and a tacky reverb guitar riff ) blares away on the soundtrack , then clinches the whole deal by showing a bunch of machine gun-brandishing nuns robbing a bank ! And that's just for starters , as this exceptionally abominable feature graphically depicts the gross exploits of an especially nasty coed biker gang embarking on a blithely immoral and unrestrained crime spree . What follows after that astounding beginning rates as a marvelously odious anything-goes let-it-all-hang-out catalog of wall-to-wall violence , brutality and plain old no-holds-barred stinkweed depravity : shoddy splashes of grungy gore , a gaggle of frumpy housewives are tied-up and savagely raped ( one has her hand cut off and mailed to her husband ! ) , sleazy soft-core sex scenes , gratuitous bared distaff skin on frequent display , an amazingly debauched biker orgy , chain whippings , a hapless gas station attendant gets torched , a cop is dragged behind a speeding vehicle , and even a Russian roulette scene , plus such standard action as car chases , shoot-outs and explosions . The latter stuff is staged with an appalling ineptitude that's a wretched wonder to behold , while the lousy acting , limp direction , ragged editing and grainy cinematography shot on ratty scratched-up film stock further enhances the overall rankness of this supremely schlocky swill . Better still , the motorcycle mamas are incredibly slutty-looking : With their obviously phony over-sized silicone breasts , scarily garish made-up faces , and frightfully enormous over-permed hairdos , these skanky honeys resemble low-rent strippers . The men are even more laughable : their scraggly beards , ridiculous Mohawks , hideous multi-colored dyed hair , and ugly heavily made-up mugs make them seem like gay bondage bar regulars . Special credit must go to the movie's costume designer , who as the eye-burning onslaught of metal studs'n'chains leather outfits worn by most of the cast implies clearly had a thing for scrappy " Road Warrior " ish leather punk apparel . Now , with all this positively delectable and unmitigated cheesiness going for it , how can one not seriously dig this beautifully base and berserk mondo freako garbage ?
An exciting and hugely enjoyable fantasy adventure treat	Courageous sailor Sinbad ( an appealingly earnest Kerwin Matthews ) embarks on a perilous quest to break a spell put on his beloved fair maiden Princess Parisa ( ravishing brunette beauty Kathryn Grant ) by cunning and wicked powerful magician Sokurah ( grandly played with lip-smacking aplomb by Torin Thatcher ) . Nathan Juron's strong , robust direction maintains a steady pace throughout and stages the action set pieces with considerable rip-snorting brio . Ray Harryhausen's marvelously vivid and lifelike stop-motion animation creatures include a ferocious gigantic Cyclops , a vicious two-headed giant bird beast , an angry fire-breathing dragon , an exotic four-armed snake woman , and , best of all , a lethal sword-wielding skeleton who fights Sinbad at the film's incredibly exciting conclusion . Kenneth Kolb's smart , colorful script has a few nice gritty touches ( Sinbad's crew is largely made up of hardened criminals and the Cyclops puts a screaming man on a splint over a fire so he can cook and eat him ) . Richard Eyer delivers a charming performance as a sad imprisoned little boy genie . Bernard Herrmann's lively , rousing , flavorsome score , Wilkie Cooper's rich , vibrant color cinematography , and the engagingly sincere tone are likewise on the money excellent and impressive . A real delight .
A wonderfully ridiculous 50's low-budget sci-fi camp classic	Rich recovering alcoholic Nancy Archer ( a marvelously fierce performance by the gorgeously statuesque Allison Hayes ) transforms into an angry and lethal roaring behemoth after she has a run-in with a giant bald alien ( leering chromedome Michael Ross ) . Nancy breaks free from her chains and goes looking for both her faithless no-count dirtbag husband Harry ( a perfectly slimy William Hudson ) and his sexy floozy mistress Honey Parker ( a deliciously naughty portrayal by the yummy Yvette Vickers ) . Competently directed by Nathan Hertz ( who amazingly enough also helmed the magnificent " The 7th Voyage of Sinbad " around the same time ! ) , with a blithely silly script by Mark Hanna ( who also wrote Roger Corman's fantastic " Not of This Earth " ) , a nonstop brisk pace , stark black and white cinematography by Jacques R . Marquette , hilariously hokey ( far from ) special effects ( the tacky back screen projection is absolutely sidesplitting ; ditto the cheesy big rubbery hand ) , a tight 65 minute running time , a fabulously brassy overwrought orchestral score by prolific 50's B-flick composer Ronald Stein , a simply astounding last reel mondo destructo rampage ( Hayes looks incredibly sexy clad in her bed sheet bikini ! ) , and admirably sincere acting from a game cast that includes Roy Gordon as the kindly Dr . Isaac Cushing , Ken Terrell as loyal butler Jess Stout , George Douglas as the stalwart Sheriff Dubbitt , Otto Waldis as wise Dr . Heinrich Von Loeb , and Frank Chase as amiable goofball Deputy Charlie , this legendary cult item totally deserves its sterling status as a positively gut-busting kitsch gem .
It's the end of the world with Chuck Heston - - and it's a total groove , baby !	Richard Matheson's terrific novel " I Am Legend " has been twice adapted for the big screen . The first adaptation was " The Last Man on Earth , " an unsparingly grim'n'gloomy Italian mid 60's Gothic horror outing starring Vincent Price . " The Omega Man " on the other hand is a lively undead corpse of an altogether separate hue - - and it's one rip-roaringly loud , gaudy , tripped-out funky-a blinding Day-Glow color at that . Yep , this American made sci-fi / action baby only retains the central premise of Matheson's book , embellishing greatly on the story so it can snazzily cater to all the hip'n'happening trends of the early 70's . The film serves as a wildly distorted and hugely entertaining funhouse mirror reflection of the heady early 70's and nowadays naturally represents a hopelessly dated , yet still oddly charming time capsule of a bygone era . A terrible plague has wiped out most of mankind and turned the bulk of folks who are still alive into crazed albino mutants . Famed NRA spokesman and archetypal post-nuke sci-fi / action survivalist icon par excellence Charlton Heston portrays with his customary steely resolve and firm granite jaw one Robert Neville , an unattached , sardonically wisecracking , rough'n'tumble machine gun-toting bachelor scientist who lives in an eerily empty and desolate Los Angeles along with a lethal bunch of the evil albino mutants . Led by former TV newscaster turned Charles Manson-style cult leader Matthias ( deliciously essayed with lip-smacking hammy relish by veteran villainous character actor Anthony Zerbe ) , the smart , calculating , shades-wearing nocturnal albino mutants call themselves " brother " and " sister , " wear cowled black robes which make them resemble deranged monks , use bows and arrows as weapons , and wish to destroy all remnants of modern society so they can create a new technology-free medieval world . These gloriously gaga freaks come across like a marvelously malign cross between the Manson Family and the Black Panthers . Meanwhile our carefree and nonchalant human hero Heston tools around the barren ruins of LA in a fancy convertible while blasting the sappy theme of " A Summer Place " on his 8-track stereo ( ! ) , treats himself to countless free showings of " Woodstock , " blithely blows away lots of mutants with his trusty machine gun , sips fine wine and plays chess with himself , and has a steamy interracial affair with a spunky black lady survivor ( the delightful Rosalind Cash , sporting a jumbo Afro that would make Pam Grier blush ) . Heston runs across a handful of mellow hippie kids led by motorcycle-riding longhair Paul Koslo who have all somehow managed to avoid being infected by the disease . It gets better . WARNING : Big old nasty SPOILER ahead . The film ends on a ridiculous optimistic note with Heston being done in by a spear-tossing Matthias ; a serum made from his blood is left behind to cure the survivors . Best of all , Heston croaks with his arms outstretched in a cheesy Jesus Christ on the cross posture , a self-deifying image that's further hammered home by a tacky solarized final freeze frame . The closing visual reveals the entire picture to be nothing more than a silly , thinly veiled Christ allegory . Yep , the basic tone strongly adheres to an extremely conventional and conservative Christian mentality , a giddy upbeat mindset which in turn makes this amazing item an absolute four-star camp hoot of the highest order . The scenes of Heston roaming through the bleak and abandoned city streets are wonderfully bizarre and haunting , highlighted by Heston's extraordinary " the phone isn't ringing " crack-up scene . It's this pervasive straight-faced sense of total inside-out strangeness which gives this fabulously flipped-out film its peculiarly irresistible oddball appeal .
One of the all-time great 70's made-for-TV horror movies	Darren McGavin gives a wonderfully robust and engaging performance as Carl Kolchak , an abrasive , impetuous , impulsive , and excitable down-on-his-luck newspaper reporter who uncovers the scoop of a lifetime after he finds out that Janos Skorzeny ( a genuinely frightening portrayal by Barry Atwater ) , the man responsible for a vicious series of baffling murders in Las Vegas , is an actual vampire . Expertly directed with topmost brisk efficiency by John Llewllyn Moxey ( who also gave us the well-regarded early 60's gem " Horror Hotel " ) , with a sharp and witty script by noted writer Richard Matheson , a constant frantic pace , plenty of tension ( the big confrontation between Kolchak and Skorzeny is especially harrowing ) , a wickedly amusing sense of cynical humor , several rousing rough'n'tumble action set pieces , and a realistic downbeat ending , this bang-up little winner makes for an incredibly gripping , scary , and flat-out entertaining treat . The first-rate acting from a stellar cast of seasoned pros constitutes as another significant asset : Carol Lynley as Kolchak's loyal , concerned gal pal Gail Foster , Simon Oakland as Kolchak's irascible , long-suffering superior Tony Vincenzo , Ralph Meeker as affable FBI agent Bernie Jenks , Claude Akins as the huffy Sheriff Warren A . Butcher , Charles McGraw as the crusty Police Chief Ed Masterson , Elisha Cook , Jr . as wormy informant Mickey Crawford , Kent Smith as the severe District Attorney Tom Paine , Larry Linville as puzzled coroner Dr . Robert Makurji , and Stanley Adams as fast-talking used car salesman Fred Hurley . Michael Hugo's crisp , polished cinematography accurately nails the blinding gaudiness of the Las Vegas setting ( said Vegas setting is a truly inspired stroke of genius , with the city's notorious reputation for sucking tourists ' wallets dry serving as an ideal counterpart to Skorzeny's literal bloodsucking rampage ) . Bob Cobert's groovy-spooky score likewise hits the funky spot . Moreover , the violence is really brutal and intense for an early 70's made-for-TV picture ( Skorzeny calmly breaks a large dog's neck in one particularly chilling scene ! ) . With his battered straw hat , rumpled suit , and aggressively opportunistic go-getter sensibility , McGavin's Carl Kolchak qualifies as a highly likable , if unlikely and pretty scrappy everyman hero . Totally worthy of its cult classic status .
A great stirring slice of prime 60's Japanese sci-fi horror fun	In the early 21st century an asteroid on a direct collision course with Earth is successfully destroyed by the courageous crew of the military space station Gamma 3 ( this harrowing beat-the-clock tension heavy sequence , with several dudes drilling holes into the asteroid so explosives can be planted in its core , was shamelessly ripped off by the horrendous big budget blockbuster abomination " Armegeddon " ) . Alas , the staunchly professional army men unwittingly take an alien spore back with them into the space station . The spore grows into an unsightly , lumpy , noisy , tentacled , multi-eyed , lumbering green-skinned vegetable monster with a lethal electric touch , the ability to reproduce at a shockingly fast rate , and an insatiable appetite for electrical power . Pretty soon the whole station is under attack by a teeming horde of these relentless , seemingly unstoppable creatures . It's up to starchy , tenaciously by-the-book Commander Jack Ranklin ( toughly played to the stern , steely hilt by Robert Horton ) , equally austere and stalwart base head honcho Vince Elliot ( the always intense and gravely serious Richard Jaeckel ) , and resolute physician Lisa ( bodacious former Bond Eurobabe Luciana Paluzzi in a strictly decorative eye candy part ) to defeat the dangerous extraterrestrial thingies in order to save the entire human race from possible extinction . Directed with tremendous flair by Kinji Fukasaku ( who brought a similar vigor to the extraordinary end-of-the-world dazzler " Virus " and later helmed both " Battle Royale " pics , jam-packed with rousing laser gun battles , monsters jumping and frying folks , heroic sacrifices , edge of your seat suspense , some surprisingly graphic outbursts of deliriously out of control violence , and mighty macho guys gritting their teeth and manfully standing up to the alien menace , " The Green Slime " doesn't mess around for a second , getting right to the point with stirring headlong momentum and a winning paucity of pretense . ( Be sure to snag a copy of the original Japanse version , which thankfully jettisons a draggy romantic triangle subplot involving Hutton , Jaeckel and Paluzzi in favor of emphasizing more monster-loaded action sequences . ) The tone remains properly solemn and matter of fact , without ever lapsing into any needless goofball humor . The cast all turn in solid performances , bringing an admirable gritty conviction to their parts . The pace gallops along an an incredibly brisk tempo ; there are no dreary lulls to be found in this bang-up item . The urgently brooding score is used judiciously . The groovy , rough-diggin ' , fuzztone'n'zither rippin ' psychedelic rock theme song profoundly cooks . Yoskikaza Yamasawa's lively , polished cinematography cuts loose with lots of crazy tilted camera angles and lightening swift pans , adding a heady adrenaline rush buzz to the fiercely kinetic proceedings . Akira Watanabe's hokey , but colorful special effects - - Tonka toy miniatures , extremely conspicuous matte lines , rubbery monster suits , that sort of endearingly fake stuff - - possess a certain tack charm . Bluntly plotted , efficaciously executed , and often exciting , " The Green Slime " overall rates as the genuine no-kiddin ' business .
An exciting , outstanding and extremely imaginative sci-fi / action time travel treat	In the wake of an unfortunate incident which lead to six people losing their lives , smart , gutsy , but severely guilt-ridden hostage negotiator Karen Warren ( strongly played by Kylie Travis ) quits her job and goes driving cross country to get her head together . Problems arise when Karen wrecks her car in the middle of a swelteringly hot and empty stretch of barren Texas backroads . Karen's given a lift by foul , boorish , obnoxiously hostile and hot-tempered redneck psycho criminal Frank Booth ( a fabulously forceful and flamboyant portrayal by James Belushi ) and his timid , browbeaten wife Rayanne ( a topflight turn by erstwhile 90's direct-to-video erotic thriller starlet Shannon Whirry ) . Frank kills Rayanne in a fit of rage when he finds out she's cheating on him . Karen narrowly avoids being bagged by Frank , seeking shelter in a secret government compound where token nerdy scientist Brian ( a charmingly boyish Frank Whaley ) is experimenting with time travel . Karen goes back twenty minutes in time and attempts to stop Frank from killing Rayanne with even more disastrous results . Bound and determined to get things right , Karen goes back in time again . And then again when things go even more awry . . . Director Louis Morneau , working from a highly sharp-witted and imaginative script by Michael Hamilton-Wright , Robert Strauss and Philip Badger , ingeniously blends elements of a gritty crime thriller , a grungy road movie , and your basic ripping'n'rousing actionfest with a nifty central science fiction premise into an excitingly dynamic , absorbing and oftentimes literally explosive handy dandy multi-genre combo synthesis . The extremely exhilarating action sequences are staged with heart-stopping brio and ability , the suspense is dexterously stoked to the nerve-frying ninth degree , the admittedly funky special effects are used with laudable judiciousness , and the furiously forward-ho headlong pace never once flags or falters during the film's fiercely zesty 91 minute running time . George Mooradian's bright , sun-bleached cinematography adds considerably to the sweaty tension . Ditto Tim Truman's lively , rattling , pulse-pounding score . Kudos as well to the uniformly first-class acting from a swell cast . The always welcome and invigorating M . Emmet Walsh contributes a cogent cameo as a weaselly gas station proprietor . James Belushi's deliciously rip-roaring hog-wild histrionics as the dangerously volatile Frank are a riot to watch , injecting a hilariously crude'n'rude sense of black-as-coal humor to the generally serious proceedings . Most impressive of all is Kylie Travis ' fiery performance as Karen , whose deep-seated need for redemption and exceptional bravery make her a very moving and sympathetic tragic heroine . A multiple award winning feature at numerous foreign fantasy film festivals , this bang-up terrific indie sleeper favorite deserves all the acclaim and accolades it has garnered abroad . It's a sheer delight that's eminently worthy of cult status .
Watch out for the killer jellyfish man !	William Grefe , the terminally terrible bargain basement Sunshine State auteur responsible for such choice all-thumbs turkeys as the atrocious " Death Curse of Tartu , " the tawdry " The Naked Zoo , " the wonderfully wretched William Shatner psycho scream " Impulse , " and the amiably dippy " Jaws " clone " Mako : Jaws of Death , " strikes out something smelly once again with this alarmingly awful , yet undeniably awesome and hugely enjoyable $1 . 98 K-Mart dime-store discount version of " The Creature from the Black Lagoon . " When a hottie college gal invites a bunch of her friends over to her scientist dad's remote Florida Everglades abode for a swinging swampland shindig , you know that the bash is bound to be crashed by a deadly monster of some kind or another . Well , said monster does indeed materialize in the gloriously ludicrous form of an uproariously crummy-looking , seaweed-covered , obscenely bulbous-headed - - the bloodthirsty beast looks like it has a large , filthy , semi-transparent plastic garbage bag over its noggin ! - - cheesoid humanoid murderous mutant jellyfish man who proceeds to off the pinheads with his lethal poison touch . If that isn't absurd enough , we've also got an uglier-than-a-donkey's-butt creepy hunchback assistant who tries desperately to win over our fetching leading lady's affection to no avail , Neil Sedaka making an off-screen strictly-on-the-radio appearance heartily belting out the exceptionally asinine dance ditty " The Jellyfish " during a simply smashing let it all hang out hedonistic pool party sequence ( Neil eventually did pop up on screen to warble the similarly silly " Do the Waterbug " in the sensationally schlocky psycho howler " The Playgirl Killer " ) , lots of attractive sweet young honeys in skimpy apparel shaking their shapely fannies in the most rhythmically challenged manner imaginable ( ravishing redhead looker Deana Lund of " Land of the Giants " fame among ' em ) , and the marvelously nihilistic fact that almost everyone in the horrendously dismal cast gets deservedly bagged by the homicidal whatchamawhosit . Add Grefe's lifeless direction , pacing so lethargic it makes two snails on downers going uphill sound downright stirring in comparison , painfully stiff acting , gaudy , but static photography , a surprisingly rousing last reel boat chase , and one of those horribly droning stock film library scores . Put all these endearingly crappy elements together and the net result is a real four-star stink-bomb that hard-core bad movie buffs will relish every last profoundly pitiful minute of . Those fabulous freaks at Something Weird Video offer this must-see doozy on a bang-up DVD double bill with " Death Curse of Tartu ; " tasty extras include the original theatrical trailers and a pair of very lively , informative and often hilarious William Grefe commentaries .
One of the single most sublimely screwy Saturday morning kidvid TV shows to ever grace the airwaves	I use to religiously watch this incredibly off-the-wall quirky'n'kooky children's TV show every Saturday morning as a kid growing up in the mid to late 70's . Stalwart widowed forest ranger dad Rick Marshall ( excellently played by the firm-as-granite Spencer Milligan ) , his whiny son Will ( teen pin-up hunkling Wesley Eure ) and spunky daughter Holly ( adorable pig-tailed cutie Kathy Coleman ) are absorbed through a mysterious time portal into an exotic and dangerous primitive world populated by ferocious dinosaurs , savage cavemen , vicious humanoid lizards called Sleestaks , and other such otherworldly beings . The trio are terrorized by Grumpy the Tyrannosaurus Rex , befriended by Cha-Ka the simpleton furball missing link , and try their best to leave this alternate universe . Of course , they run across plenty of bizarre beasties such as Medusa and the Abominable Snowman . Rick was eventually replaced by the equally gutsy Uncle Jack ( rugged Ron Harper ) , but the show never lost its strangely beguiling and captivating sense of zany oddball fun , with the crude herky-jerky stop motion animation , chintzy sets , endearingly shoddy special effects , offbeat plots , likable main characters , and a simply spectacular spirited hillbilly bluegrass theme song all adding immensely to the hugely entertaining weirdness . An awesome vintage 70's time capsule of lovably ludicrous lunacy .
The triumphant return of Nazisploitation !	The Nazisploitation sub-genre was briefly hot in the 70's . Perhaps most famously represented by Don Edmonds ' legendary sickie " Ilsa : She Wolf of the SS , " other examples include such similarly twisted sleaze as " SS Girls , " " The Gestapo's Last Orgy , " and " Deported Women of the SS Special Section . " Alas , this fabulously vile and offensive sub-genre has been dormant for thirty years . Well , Nazisploitation returns with a vengeance with this insanely raw , gruesome and vicious , yet always entertaining and even occasionally quite funny belated entry . 1945 : Sadistic Commandant Helmut Schultz ( superbly essayed with hearty demented aplomb by Charles Esser ) and his equally brutal assistant Wolfgang ( a terrific performance by Steve Montague ) grossly mistreat the prisoners in their war camp . Fed up with being severely manhandled by their ruthless captors , the motley assortment of multi-international prisoners set aside their differences and join forces to stage a revolt . Director / co-writer Keith Crocker loads this trashy tale with all the tasty nudity ( not just the expected luscious bared distaff skin , but also a couple of guys even go full frontal ! ) , sordid sex , graphic gore , hardcore nasty torture , and unflinching depravity any self-respecting fan of unapologetically rough'n'ready low-grade exploitation fare could possibly want and hope for . Among the nifty and exciting outrageous highlights are a beautiful buck-naked lady running through the woods and blowing away Nazi dirtbags with a machine gun , the greatest bathtub castration scene since " I Spit on Your Grave , " some truly wince-inducing genital mutilation , and the rousing climactic jailbreak riot . Moreover , Crocker adds plenty of surprising humor into the already heady mix and acquits himself well in a sizable supporting part as an American soldier prisoner . Kudos are also in order for the uniformly sound acting from a bang-up cast : Edward Yankus as take-charge American Jack , Brenda Cooney as the tough Scottish lass Lucille , Marjie Kelly as the sassy black Marjie , Gordanna Jenell as Helmet's wicked sister Frieda , Tammy Dalton as ditsy Southern gal USO stripper Candice ( " Hail Hitler , y'all " ) , Wayne Chang as vicious visiting Japanese General Yugosami , Steph Van Vlack as the cruel Dr . Zuber , Paul Richichi as a priest with a secret , and Natasa Warasch as the perverted Helga . While all these folks do stellar work , I still have to single out for special appraisal ravishing redhead stunner Tatyana Kot , who delivers an impressively fierce performance as fiery'n'ferocious Russian soldier Natasha . In addition , Jim Knusch's polished cinematography offers a few striking images , the neatly eclectic score hits the groovy spot , and production designer Keith Matturro works wonders with a modest budget . Why , this unbeatable winner comes complete with a provocative central message about how war brings out the worst in human beings and the only way to defeat your enemies is to be even more base and barbaric than they are . Great stuff .
The kids are totally messed up !	New Grenada is a cozy , pleasant , sedate planned suburbanite community in California . The swank , dreary burg's bored and ignored adolescent population wreaks much havoc ( senseless vandalism , excessive swilling of cheap , available booze , inane , but irritating pranks , multifarious abuse of illegal illicit narcotic substances , and so on ) , which the kids see as the sole viable option for kicking the never-ending tedious blahs that are an intrinsic part of living in such a pedestrian small town . Basically decent , but confused lad Michael Kramer falls in with the neighborhood bad boys , namely surly , heedless , recalcitrant 14-year-old rebel without a clue Matt Dillon ( who's perfect in his film debut ) and vicious jerk bully Vincent Spano . A totally trenchant , arresting and frequently unsettling portrait of seething suburbanite teenage angst and its bitter consequences , " Over the Edge " still remains both timely and topical to this very day . Kramer , Dillon , Spano , Pamela Ludwig and Andy Romano all give excellent and compelling performances as the angry , hostile , mixed-up kids , a memorably nihilistic , unsupervised and uncontrollable bunch of hooligans who get into trouble in a desperate effort to get their negligent , self-absorbed Me Generation parents to notice them . The almost alway fine Jonathan Kaplan's expert , astute , slam bang on-target direction maintains a swift , steady pace , keeps the mood scarily intense throughout , and presents the kids ' assorted criminal antics in a grimly plausible manner . The vivid , cutting , perceptive script by Tim Hunter ( who later wrote and directed the equally chilling and outstanding " The River's Edge " ) and Charlie Haas nails adolescent disaffection and disillusionment with harrowing accuracy . Both Andrew Davis ' agile , lively , luminous cinematography and Sol Kaplan's super , alternately sad and stirring score contribute considerably to the film's sterling quality . The exceptional , highly appropriate and subtly subversive rock soundtrack includes choice 70's tunes by the Ramones , Cheap Trick , the Cars , Van Halen , Little Feet , Jimi Hendrix , and Valerie Carter , whose haunting , elegiac cover of the Starsteps ' bubblegum soul classic " Ooh Child " is played to genuinely devastating effect during the ending credits . The climactic mini-apocalypse - - the kids run completely amuck , trashing and torching several cars and the local civic center - - is truly horrifying . The movie's smart refusal to pass judgment on the kids and their shocking amoral behavior is the key to its tremendous success ; instead the film wisely observes the kids and their actions , thus allowing the audience to make up their own minds what to think about it all . A terrific and powerful knock-out about parental apathy , the destructive , anti-social juvenile malcontents who are direct toxic products of gross adult indifference to their plight , and the severe dysfunction that lurks just below suburbia's placid surface that grown-ups don't wish to openly acknowledge the existence of , this remarkable troubled teen masterpiece hasn't dated a bit and still packs a potent punch even today , primarily because it starkly addresses certain bleak and disturbing social issues that are still sadly prevalent in our society .
An awesomely awful 80's direct-to-video sci-fi / horror atrocity	They're bad movies and then there's exceptionally atrocious , brain-numbing , please God make it stop jaw-stopping spectacles of sheer mind-rotting awfulness that are so utterly abominable that they defy belief and soar off into a stratosphere of extraordinary stinkiness that's a ghastly wonder to behold . " Breeders " qualifies as one of those special kind of schlocky treats . The gloriously sordid premise centers on an ugly , scaly , oversexed humanoid reptile lizard alien ( actually , it's some poor schmoe in a laughably obvious and unconvincing rubber suit ) who kidnaps and rapes a lovely assortment of Big Apple virgins so it can reproduce its species for an impending invasion . Colorless cop Lance Lewman and dull doctor Teresa Farley try to stop the evil extraterrestrial menace , but since they're both incredibly insipid and can't act their way out of a soggy cardboard box one quite frankly doesn't give a st if they succeed or not . Boy , does this beautifully botched baby contain all the right wrong stuff to rate highly as one four-star clinker : flat , uninspired ( mis ) direction by the chronically inept Tim Kincaid ( who also makes gay porno under the name of Joe Gage ) , a grating synthesizer score , pathetic make-up f / x by Ed French ( in one particularly pitiful scene the viewer can clearly see that the actor playing the hormonal alien is wearing sneakers ! ) , plodding pacing , relentlessly cheap'n'chintzy production values , dire dialogue , and staggeringly putrid acting from the entire cast . Fortunately , there's a tasty plenitude of gratuitous distaff nudity from a smoking hot bunch of luscious young women ; almost every luckless lass who gets attacked is either disrobing or in the shower when they get jumped . Special credit must be given here to the beauteous brunette hottie supreme Frances Raines , who performs a lengthy Jane Fonda-style aerobic workout clad only in her birthday suit that's leeringly lingered on by the filmmakers . A truly choice chunk of deliciously dreadful celluloid cheese .
This so - awful - it's - downright - awesome 70's Grade Z creature feature schlocker quite simply rocks ( pun intended )	Loner mineralogist Paul Carlson ( drably played by the singularly dry and uncharismatic Chase Cordell , who alas never acted in another film ) gets a piece of moon rock lodged in his skull during a meteorite shower . The decidedly lethal chunk of green cheese has a severely bad effect on Paul come nightfall : He transforms into a hilariously cruddy-looking humanoid lunar lizard that ravages the dark , desolate New Mexico countryside , leaving a trail of bloody , mutilated corpses in its deadly wake . It's up to Paul's wise old Native American buddy Johnny Longbow ( poker-faced , more-wooden-than-a-giant-oak stiff Gregorio Sala , who gets to say all this funky mystical prophecy mumbo jumbo about how the murderous reptilian creature is really an ancient Indian god come to life so it can bring about the end of the world ) , aided by Paul's leggy bimbo photographer squeeze Cathy Noland and clueless , stolid local yokel Sheriff Mack ( glumly essayed by Patrick Wright , a beefy , curly-haired perennial co-star in numerous 70's exploitation films who played similar dippy cop roles in " Caged Heat , " " Revenge of the Cheerleaders , " and " Roller Boogie " ) , to stop the scaly , sanguinary , nefarious nocturnal were-lizard beast . Thanks to such tried'n'true so - bad - that - they're - perversely - beautiful ingredients as rank community theater level acting ( although Donna Leigh Drake as Cathy almost compensates for her woeful lack of thespic prowess by wearing these drastically cut blue denim hot pants which show off a lot of her long , shapely , well-tanned stems throughout the entire picture ) , Joe ( " Ilsa " ) Blasco's horrendously chintzy and unconvincing make-up f / x ( Joe also plays the titular butt-ugly critter ) , Bob ( " Ginger " ) Orpin's corny score , a memorably ridiculous creature that was designed by a young , unknown , just starting out up-and-coming Rick Baker ( I'm sure he still lists this baby on his resume ) , a horrifically bad aspiring folkie singer / songwriter who briefly appears on-screen to bleat out the unforgettably insipid folk-pop ditty " California Lady " in a dreadfully slight , nasal , off-key tenor voice , uproariously godawful dialogue ( favorite line : " If I'm gonna die , I wanna die looking like a man - - NOT like a monster ! " ) , painfully gradual molasses going uphill in the wintertime sluggish pacing , several very amusing , dimly lit nighttime attack scenes ( the best-ever assault occurs when Moonie rips open a tent so he can make grisly hash out of a bunch of redneck card players ; one poor guy has his arm torn clean out of its socket and not a single drop of blood gushes forth from the gaping wound ! ) , and poor ( mis ) direction by Dick Ashe ( who oddly enough never helmed another feature ) , " Track of the Moonbeast " makes for an unsparingly ludicrous , often risible and hence quite entertaining so - shoddy - it's - strangely - sublime low-budget horror flick howler .
A poignantly astute and accurate portrait of the devastating psychological effects of incest	Please do not read this review unless you've seen the film first . I'm going to address and elaborate on a key aspect of the movie which is of paramount importance . This stunningly dark , daring , and disturbing exploitation masterpiece tackles the touchy subject of incest head-on with genuinely insightful and unsettling results . Former Ann Frank Millie Perkins gives a strikingly moving and audacious portrayal as Molly , a deeply troubled seaside town barmaid who's in fierce denial about the fact that she was molested by her father as a little girl . Molly projects her repressed rage and vehement disdain for her dad onto other men whom she castrates after having sex with them . Robert Thom's superbly acrid , intelligent , and incisive script possesses a complex Freudian psychology to it , astutely presenting how Molly acts out her aggression towards her father onto other guys who are revered in our culture as god-like figures akin to the father ( Molly's victims include two football players and a stuck-up TV commercial actor ) . It's this aspect of the film which makes it one of the greatest unsung oddball psycho pic gems of the 70's . Of course , this movie wouldn't work as well as it does without Perkins ' truly fabulous lead performance . She makes Molly alternately both sad and scary , sexy and frumpy , vulnerable and impenetrable , lucid and opaque . She's especially heart-breaking towards the shattering conclusion . The supporting performances are likewise outstanding , with noteworthy turns by Lonny Chapman as Molly's sweet , loving and concerned boyfriend , Vanessa Brown as Molly's loyal and worried best friend , Peggy Feury as Molly's pathetic manic depressive layabout sister , Rick Jason as a vain TV actor , the always delightful and vivacious Roberta Collins as a temperamental actress , and Richard Kennedy and George " Buck " Flower as the homicide detectives investigating the murders Molly commits . Flower even served as the film's casting director ; that's his daughter Verkina as young Molly in those profoundly upsetting flashback scenes and his good buddy John Goff as Molly's vile pedophile father ( Goff and Flower appeared in scores of films together , plus collaborated on the script for the immortal schlock slasher stinker " Drive-In Massacre " ) . Exquisitely well photographed by Dean Cundey and smartly directed in effectively no-frills fashion by the great Matt Cimber , further graced by a hauntingly melancholy tone and punctuated with shocking moments of raw violence and hideous abuse , this remarkable gut-kicker packs one hell of a strong and lingering wallop . Truly essential viewing for 70's grind-house film fans .
Mickey Rooney really cuts loose in this stunningly strange and twisted early 70's psycho horror oddity	The legendary Mickey Rooney gives an incredibly wild , hammy and over-the-top full-tilt insane , inspired and uninhibited performance as B . J . Lang , a deranged and delusional psychotic washed-up Hollywood has-been who thinks he's a great successful big-time film director ala Orson Welles . Lang relentlessly torments and terrorizes hapless lovely aspiring actress Carlotta ( the beautiful Luana Anders ) on a dingy and decrepit abandoned studio back lot : he rants and raves to himself with rip-snorting gonzo aplomb , spoon feeds her baby food , impersonates an effeminate make-up artist ( Rooney sports bright red lipstick and gaudy blue eye shadow ! ) , pretends to have a fatal massive heart attack , and occasionally breaks into these astounding impromptu a cappella renditions of " Chattanooga Choo Choo " which he heartily belts out in this pained hoarse'n'wheezy croak of a voice . Writer / director Yabo Yablonsky whips up one awesomely aberrant and idiosyncratic marvel of an outré indie avant garde experimental cinematic meditation on dreams , delusions , dementia and the fine line between unattainable fantasy and bitter reality . Yablonsky deftly creates and maintains a clammy , creepy and claustrophobic weirded-out mood that sucks the viewer into the stunningly surreal and suffocating anything-goes nightmarish atmosphere which proves to be both jarring and riveting in comparable measure . Baird Bryant's garishly stylized cinematography uses every fancy artsy trick in the book : crazily tilted camera angles , distorted fish-eye lens , strenuous slow motion , artificially sped up film , wonky zoom-in close-ups and startling freeze frames . Gil Melle's groovy , droning , atonal psychedelic acid jazz score constitutes as another significant asset . Keenan Wynn briefly pops up in an embarrassingly thankless bit part as a mumbling drunken bum who Rooney runs through with a rapier . While Rooney clearly dominates the picture with his bracingly berserk and bravura acting , Anders still nonetheless holds her own quite well and gets to perform a major crack-up scene where she really cranks up the astonishing eye-rolling histrionics to 10 plus . A splendidly screwy and singular one-of-a-kind piece of sheer celluloid lunacy .
A truly startling and wickedly funny black comedy treat	Morose middle-aged Donnelly ( a typically terrific performance by the always great Brendan Gleeson ) takes a long and grueling train ride home following the tragic sudden death of his wife . Donnelly encounters both a young couple whose baby has just passed away and a brash , rowdy , irrepressibly snotty punk kid ( splendidly played with deliciously malicious glee and gusto by Ruaidhri Conroy ) who antagonizes his fellow hapless passengers with his incessant coarse language and blithely rude , callous and offensive behavior . Writer / director Martin McDonagh , an acclaimed Irish playwright , deftly mines a fresh , startling and often uproariously twisted line in black-as-coal gallows humor in this offbeat and inspired meditation on death , grief and loss . This is hardcore merrily macabre black humor that's as dark as the best chocolate and every bit as tasty ( the exploding cow gag is especially gut-busting ! ) . Moreover , the performances are across-the-board fantastic ( Conroy in particular is simply amazing ) , the photography of the lush Irish countryside is breathtakingly beautiful , and the story offers a wondrous wealth of delightfully warped and shocking surprises . Overall , this stupendous Oscar-winning short film qualifies as 30 sublimely nasty and frequently flat-out sidesplitting minutes worth of pure black comedy gold .
Behold the righteously destructive fury of Father Beatdown	This is without a doubt the greatest , wildest , most gloriously ridiculous and hilarious action movie ever made about a kick-boxing , a-whupping , limb-breaking vigilante Catholic priest with the gift of second sight . Yes , you read that correctly . Our hero ( woodenly played by martial arts champion Michael Foley , who's now a karate teacher ) is a devout man of the cloth blessed with amazing psychic powers ( he has premonitions of evil events right before they happen ) and even more extraordinary deadly chopsocky skills . The butt-stomping padre is sent to a particularly hellish crime-ridden section of downtown Los Angeles . Pretty soon he's cleaning up the heretofore dirty and downtrodden neighborhood , cracking down hard on rapists , drug dealers and other such no-account scum of the earth sinner types . If you think the above plot synopsis sounds unbelievably absurd and outrageous ( and it's certainly both , but in the best " what the hell ? " jaw-dropping surrealistically dreadful way imaginable ) , just wait until you actually watch this fabulously freaky flick . Two of the priests are played by none other than faded " C . H . I . P . S . " dip Erik Estrada and an especially sour Jan-Michael Vincent , the latter as a cranky man of the cloth who's most sincere wish is that God would grant him a transfer already ! ( Pay astute attention to the newspaper Mr . Vincent holds in a bulk of his scenes ; at one truly magical point you can briefly see pages of the script with Jan's lines on them glued inside the paper ! ) . Their irritatingly perky landlady is portrayed by blonde bubble-head Judy Landers of crummy TV infomercial fame ! Better still , a couple of nefarious dope peddlers Foley foils are portrayed by none other than onetime 70's blaxploitation biggie Jim Brown and the massive " Maniac Cop " himself Robert Z'Dar , who looks uncharacteristically suave and spiffy here in a finely pressed suit . All those above cited folks are a definite hoot and a half to watch embarrass themselves royally on screen , but the guy who clearly makes off with the Grand Booby Prize is my main man Don Stroud , whose incredibly berserk and over-the-top hambone turn as a thoroughly deranged fruitcake serial killer who thinks he's a vampire is an absolute gut-busting riot to behold . Poor Don looks and sounds like hell here : Fat , pasty and way out of shape ( Don goes shirtless in one scene and it sure ain't a pretty sight ) , with black raccoon rings around his half-closed eyes and blurting out his insane ranting dialog in a pained raspy croak , Stroud appears to have spent an insubstantial amount of time at a drug detoxification center . One simply hasn't lived until witnessing the sublimely screwy moment in which a cheesy computer-animated skull on Don's dresser comes alive and shouts : " Otis , give me some blood ! Kill the bch ! Kill her ! " Oh yeah , Don keeps the skulls of his female victims and uses them as cereal bowls ( now , that's something special ) . Even more astounding is the sight of Foley in full clerical garb ( white collar , flowing black robe , the whole works , baby ) popping up at various crime scenes brandishing Chinese stars , daggers shaped like crucifixes , and pearl-handled 45 caliber pistols with crosses emblazoned on them . And Foley even gives the low-life hoodlums an ultimatum before busting loose with his quick'n'lethal martial arts skills : They can either ask God for forgiveness and get on the straight'n'narrow path of pure goodness or face the righteously destructive fury of Father Beatdown . Why , this wonderfully wacked marvel even comes complete with an alarmingly atrocious rap ending credits theme song ! Needless to add , this honey rates highly as truly essential viewing for hard-core oddball bad film buffs .
A very thorough and fascinating behind-the-scenes making of documentary	This highly engrossing and informative documentary covers many different bases concerning the making of the fantastic fantasy adventure cult favorite " The Dark Crystal . " Among the people interviewed are Jim Henson , Frank Oz , conceptual designer Brian Froud , Froud's wife Wendy Widener , producer Gary Kurtz , Garthim supervisor Fred Nihda , Kira performer Kathryn Mullen , and choreographer Jean-Pierre Amiel . The topics covered herein include the evolution of the creatures from drawings to sculptures , the building of the puppets , how the vile reptilian villains the Skeksis are based on the seven deadly sins , the use of a large and diverse array of technicians for the demanding and ambitious project , casting mimes , dancers and acrobats as performers in the picture , the meticulous creation of a whole elaborate alternate world from the ground up , the occasional artful use of matte paintings , the building of the sets , the great stroke of having ace cinematographer Oswald Morris shoot the movie , the unique decision of having both Oz and Henson collaborate on directing the feature , and the filming of the destruction of the Skeksis castle for the thrilling climax . Everyone involved talks about all the hard work and effort that went into making " The Dark Crystal ; " any sense of smug self-congratulation is thankfully absent . Essential viewing for fans of the film .
A simply stupendous early 60's end-of-the-world sci-fi scream	This endearingly earnest , but hopelessly ham-fisted early 60's $1 . 98 poverty row sci-fi end-of-the-world doomsday thriller plays today like a four-star funny laugh-a-minute high camp exercise in hilariously hysterical Cold War era paranoia . The minimalistic setting is the side of a desolate desert backroad . The time is 4 : 00 a . m . in the morning a few days before Christmas . Stalwart , upright , fiercely by-the-book Deputy Sheriff Dan Colter ( a ridiculously rigid and stolid performance by stocky , poker-faced Seaman Glass , who later had small roles in " Deliverance , " " Damnation Alley , " and " The Rose " ) hears about an impending nuclear war over his police radio . Colter pulls over a motley group of folks to prepare them for the forthcoming holocaust . This colorfully varied bunch represent a cross section of white middle class America : a crotchety old man and his equally feisty cutie pie grand daughter , a bickering middle-aged couple , a hot-headed truck driver , a couple of jive-talking hipsters , a speed crazy teenybopper , and , in a desperate attempt to milk a few extra dollops of suspense from this already tense scenario , a murderous young fugitive criminal guy . These pleasantly insipid one-note ciphers argue , fret , drink booze , fight , make out , get all histrionic , become unglued at the seams , commit suicide , gather food and water rations , convert a truck trailer into a makeshift bomb shelter ( ! ) , and sweat out the inevitable . Moreover , Colter kills an adorable puppy dog in order to conserve air ( ! ) and fends off a gang of hostile looters . Brick Marquard's grainy , gritty , starkly plain and unadorned cinematography brings a semblance of naturalistic conviction to this otherwise delightfully overwrought affair , a quality not apparent in Frederic Gadete's ponderous direction , the stiffly sincere acting from a game no-name cast , Greig McRitchie's uproariously inappropriate swinging beatnik jazz score , the tin-eared dialogue ( " Don't let this badge happy cat bug ya " ) , and the silly , pulpy , well-meaning script ( Gadete also co-wrote this howler with Peter Abenheim and Betty Lasky ) . A marvelously clumsy hoot with an appealingly naive mentality about mankind and Armageddon which in turn gives this lovably off-beat period artifact a certain irresistibly quaint charm .
Are you man enough , big and bad enough , to dig this superfly Shaft flick ?	The ever-cool Richard Roundtree , who along with the equally awesome John Saxon has played more cops than any other actor alive , makes his third appearance as John Shaft , the super-tough , super-smooth , oh-so-hot black private dick who's a sex machine to all the chicks and a most gnarly guy who's always getting into loads of trouble . This time our main man Shaft - - the ultimate bad-a soul brother from the Big Apple hood - - goes to the motherland ( that's Africa , homeys ) so he can get the goods on an evil black slavery ring that's run by - - natch - - an odious bunch of wicked white btards , with the Major Nasty Man himself being suavely slimy French dirt-bag Frank Finley . Like , can you dig this funky st , baby ? Well , frankly I totally dug this simply fantastic and wonderfully outrageous globe-trotting action / adventure treat . John Guillerman's briskly efficient direction keeps the rousing zesty momentum humming along throughout , the action scenes are suitably rough , strenuous , exciting and dynamically staged ( the stick fights in particular are the genuine happening article ) , there's a welcome sense of wryly self-deprecating humor ( a male assassin in drag tries to plug Shaft in an airport bathroom ! ) , the dialogue sporadically offers a few profanity-laced slangy zingers ( " Baby this may blow your mind , but I don't want to [ very naughty word deleted ] you ? " ) and the snappy pace never lets up for a minute , thereby ensuring that " Shaft in Africa " races towards a thrilling conclusion with terrifically steady and unwavering headlong brio . Moreover , the luscious Vonetta McGee lends her fetching , captivating presence as a foxy young African princess who helps Shaft out , Johnny Pate's intensely groovy wah-wah guitar-ripping score is very easy on the ears , the ever-wondrous and under-appreciated Frank McRae pops up in an amusing minor part as a bothersome henchman , the African scenery's gorgeous , Roundtree carries himself with his customary extremely watchable and winningly easy'n'breezy off-handed grace , and - - hubba ! hubba ! - - the tiny , adorable , curvaceous blonde looker Neda Arneric will definitely raise the blood pressure of any red-blooded heterosexual male with her smoking hot portrayal of Finley's sensuous , sex-starved main squeeze ( Arneric's steamy seduction sequence with Shaft is so incredibly sexy and arousing that it almost melted my DVD player ) . A hugely satisfying and immensely stirring final filmic fling for blaxploitation cinema's single most engaging and significant take-charge man's man rugged individualist protagonist .
It's all about the big showdown between car and truck	Substantially more than just the definitive man vs . machine vehicular horror movie ( although this aspect of the film has acquired greater and more stinging resonance because of our current near-total reliance - - hell , debatable over-dependence - - on technology ) , this groundbreaking " danger on the road " genre landmark centrally details the harrowing progression of a meek , spineless , impotent businessman ( strikingly played to the antsy , sweaty hilt by Dennis Weaver in an extraordinary performance that's all raw nerves and disbelieving wide-eyed stares ) with a deep-seated dread of confrontation being forced literally head-on to overcome his fear of adversity by engaging in a do-or-die face-off between his tiny red car and a monstrously humongous rusty truck . The truck itself - - filthy , enormous , covered with grime , vicious and relentless to the point where it can't be dissuaded or reasoned with - - truly represents adversity at its most unsparing harsh and malevolent - - and with a deranged , insatiable craving for continual confrontation . Otherwise , why else would the truck driver blow his horn before demolishing the phone booth when Weaver makes a desperate attempt at calling the police so they can handle the problem for him ? Surely , the truck driver wants Weaver in his car on the road so he and Weaver can carry out a mano-a-mano - - no , scratch that , car-to-truck - - Old West gunslinger-style showdown in order to prove who's make of sturdier stuff . It's either the dude in the truck or the guy in the car , with only one winner allowed and the loser taking the ultimate dive . ( It's also very possible that the truck is really an imaginary product of Weaver's repressed id . ) Okay , one can further interpret this as road rage taken to its most brutal extreme , as a fiercely timely and topical modern update on that classic Darwinian kill-or-be-killed survival of the fittest premise given the contemporary twist of get on the highway or stay in the driveway , with the added punch being that if you can't hack it on the road then prepare for a date with destiny with Mr . Ditch , edged along by a frightening all-powerful gasoline tanker that's hellbent on pushing you into that one remote corner of the road no sensible motorist ever wants to be boxed in . Naturally , none of this would register as strongly as it does if it wasn't for Richard Matheson's brilliantly incisive script and , most importantly , for the fact that Steven Spielberg's superb direction serves as a smashingly accurate model of straightforward no-frills narrative expediency at its most deceptively basic and rattlingly effective : There isn't a single wasted moment , every frame counts , and the edge-of-your-seat nerve-wracking suspense steadily escalates to a shockingly powerhouse white-knuckle zenith .
A deliciously cheesy chunk of vintage 70's Crown International drive-in exploitation sleaze	Bitchy , surly , calculating high school senior Kim Bentley ( a marvelously venomous performance by tasty hot brunette Jill Lansing ) ain't having a good time of it . She's been dumped by her jerky boyfriend Kevin ( stolid Stuart Taylor ) , lives with her shrewish , overbearing mother ( shrill Phyllis Benson ) , is still traumatized by the suicide death of her father , and is flunking all of her classes . Kim immediately starts to improve her miserable lot in life by seducing all of her male teachers and earning extra cash by servicing numerous guys in back of a van for scuzzy no-count pimp Tony ( a nicely slimy Alex Mann ) . Things get even better for the seriously ruthless and amoral sociopath Kim when she leaves Tony and hooks up with smooth crime kingpin Lance ( the ingratiating Garth Howard ) . Next thing you know Kim is bumping off folks for Lance as a deadly assassin ( ! ) . Crudely directed by Irvin Berwick ( who also gave us the wonderfully wretched psycho riot " Hitch Hike to Hell " ) , with a spectacularly lurid , sordid and torrid melodramatic script by John Buckley and Tom Singer , rough , grainy cinematography by William De Diego , plenty of scrumptious gratuitous female nudity , ragged editing , a hilariously horrendous stock film library score ( the " People's Court " theme plays in its entirety during a lengthy chase sequence ! ) , terrible acting from a game no-name cast , a tacky theme song , a sizable smattering of leering soft-core sex , crummy dialogue , a mean , hard , sleazy tone , and one dilly of a surprise bummer ending , this gloriously gaga over-the-top schlock mini-epic makes for a whole lot of entertainingly trashy fun . One especially great scene has Kim give elderly high school principal Mr . Elmhurst ( doddery John Harmon ) a fatal massive heart attack by exposing her breasts in front of him . A simply astonishing disco dance party set piece rates as another uproariously campy highlight . A shamefully overlooked and under-appreciated exploitation crime drama gem .
A funny , touching and simply wonderful gem of a drama	Eric Stoltz delivers an extraordinary performance as Joel Garcia , a successful young novelist who winds up paralyzed and in a special hospital for the recently disabled after breaking his neck in a hiking accident . While learning to cope and adjust with the gravity of his new limited physical condition Joel befriends slick , fast-talking , charming womanizer Raymond ( an amazing Wesley Snipes ) and boorish , surly , racist biker Bloss ( a terrific William Forsythe ) , who feels threatened by the diverse multi-ethnic array of fellow patients he's forced to share a room with . Joel also receives substantial support from his loyal and loving , but married girlfriend Anna ( radiantly played by Helen Hunt ) . But he still must come to terms with being disabled on his own . This remarkable movie's key triumph is its laudably stubborn refusal to neither sanitize nor sentimentalize the severity of what these men are going through . Directors Neil Jimenez ( who also wrote the thoughtful and insightful script ) and Micheal Steinberg relate the story with exceptional taste , wit and warmth , specifically addressing with disarming candor and matter-of-factness how being handicapped irrevocably alters one's lifestyle , including and especially your sex life ( this point is most powerfully made in a striking sequence when Joel and Anna try and fail to make love in a motel room ) . Besides the expected poignancy , the film further provides a surprising surplus of wickedly funny raw , earthy humor that's highlighted by the uproarious sequence with Joel and Bloss making a secret nocturnal expedition to a strip club . The uniformly superb acting qualifies as another significant plus : Stoltz , Snipes , Forsythe and Hunt are all outstanding , with stand-out supporting turns by Grace Zabriskie as Bloss ' doting , amiable mother and Elisabeth Pena and William Allen Young as compassionate hospital nurses . Despite the grim subject matter , the film ultimately proves to be a very moving , positive and uplifting cinematic testament to the astonishing strength and durability of the human spirit . A simply wonderful little gem of a drama .
Do the BIM , everybody !	Set in the excessively garish and tasteless retro 70's discoid totalitarian future of 1994 , this spectacularly horrendous sci-fi musical religious fable rates highly as one of the single most uproariously atrocious cinematic abominations to ever disgrace celluloid . It sure ain't remotely good by a long shot , but it's so bad in that special sublimely schlocky manner that it's always entertaining and often funny as hell in a total kitsch sort of way . Wholesome folkie duo Bibi ( the insanely foxy Catherine Mary Sewart in her film debut ) and Alphie ( the drippy George Gilmour in his first and only movie gig ) are discovered by evil and debauched music mogul Mr . Boogalow ( deliciously played with lip-smacking wicked aplomb by Vladek Sheybal ) . Bibi falls under Boogalow's foul spell , but Alphie refuses to sell his soul to the devilish creep . Can Alphie save Bibi and the rest of the world from Boogalow's vile influence ? Writer / director Menahem Golan relates this supremely heavy-handed tale about evil , corruption , and the ultimate triumph of good and virtue over the forces of evil in a gloriously overblown glittery Day-Glo style that's strangely intoxicating in its blinding glam trash aesthetic : the tacky costumes , hopelessly dated groovy thumping music , crude lyrics about drugs and sexual innuendos , frenzied dance choreography ( keep your eyes peeled for the dancing nuns ! ) , lavish , but plasticky sets , gaudy cinematography , and the laughably ludicrous happy ending ( Joss Ackland as the saintly Mr . Topps takes all the good people away to another better world in his sparkling white fancy car ! ) make this unholy blend of " 1984 , " " Faust , " and " Hair " a positively jaw-dropping ghastly wonder to behold . The crazy musical numbers are terrifically terrible , with an elaborate set piece set in hell and the sequence with a bunch of folks getting down to the funky government-enforced dance sensation the BIM standing out as the definite sidesplitting highlights . A marvelously absurd and messed-up one-of-a-kind camp masterpiece .
A simply wonderful yuletide show	Cheery Emmet and his kindly Ma are two otters who live in poverty in the quaint rural swampland community of Frogtown Hollow . Both want to buy the other a gift for Christmas , but neither has the money . So they both enter a local talent show contest in order to win the $50 dollar cash prize . This endearingly pleasant and tenderhearted show offers a marvelously delightful wealth of entertainment : the engaging and colorful characters , the brisk pace , the folksy , flavorsome down-home score , the polished photography , the hilarious talent contest show set piece ( the split dancing horse is gut-bustingly bad ! ) , the gentle , good-natured humor , the meticulous set and costume design , the catchy and charming songs ( " Our World " is an especially lovely tune ) , the amazingly lifelike and personable puppets ( Emmet in particular is adorable ) , and the sweet , upbeat tone all click just right . The positively astonishing mean'n'growly hard rock harshness of the Riverbottom Nightmare Band rates as a definite highlight . Moreover , the cast voice their parts with infectious aplomb : Jerry Nelson as Emmet , Marilyn Sokol as Ma Otter ( her singing voice is truly heavenly ! ) , Dave Goelz as Emmet's amiable porcupine best friend Wendel , Eren Ozker as the snippy Gretchen Fox , and Frank Oz as hostile Riverbottom Nightmare Band ringleader Chuck . But what really makes this program so special and touching is the irresistible glowing warmth that's prominent throughout which in turn makes it a complete joy to watch .
A total gut-busting riot	This movie reigns supreme as one of the funniest features ever made . The key to this film's success is its gloriously inane and cheerful anything-goes comic attitude . Some of the jokes are crude ( the st literally hits the fan at one point ) , others strange ( Robert Stack walking out of his mirror ) , many are spot-on sidesplitting parodies of such popular pictures as " Jaws , " " Saturday Night Fever , " " From Here to Eternity , " " Zero Hour , " and the " Airport " series , all of them work because they are presented in a perfectly deadpan , yet still wacky tone . Writers / directors Jim Abrams , David Zucker and Jerry Zucker load the movie with so many throwaway jokes that you have to watch this flick several times in order to catch them all . Moreover , the game and engaging cast all give spirited performances : Robert Hays as goofy hero Ted Striker , Julie Hagerty as daffy stewardess Elaine , Leslie Nielsen as dour Dr . Rumack , Lloyd Bridges as harried airport manager McCluskey ( who picked the wrong day to give up drinking booze , taking amphetamines and sniffing glue ) , Stack as ramrod Rex Kramer , Peter Graves as the kinky Captain Oveur , Stephen Stucker as the zany Johnny , and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar as co-pilot Roger Murdock . Plus we've got nifty bits by Ethal Merman , Kenneth Tobey , Jonathan Banks , James Hong , 70's child actress Michelle Stacy ( hilarious as the little girl who likes both her men and coffee black ) , Nicholas Pryor and Russ Meyer starlet Kitten Natividad . Uproarious highlights include a sweet stewardess serenading a sickly girl with a sappy folk ballad , a little old lady sniffing coke , Stack beating up Moonies and Hare Krishnas asking for hand-outs in the airport terminal , Barbara Billingsley speaking jive , and the " Don't Call Me Shirley " running verbal gag . Joseph Biroc's polished cinematography and Elmer Bernstein's appropriately melodramatic score further enhance the overall sterling quality of this absolute hoot .
A superbly eerie , intelligent and ambiguous 60's British sci-fi / horror gem	Quite simply one of the all-time great spooky and atmospheric British sci-fi / horror winners from the 60's , this supremely chilling and engrossing knockout still packs a potent , lingering punch even today . All the young women in the quiet remote English hamlet of Midwich mysteriously become pregnant after the whole populace goes into a bizarre and abrupt 24-hour trance . The ladies give birth to a bunch of odd , emotionless , tow-headed kids with extraordinary kinetic and telepathic abilities . They also have glowing bright eyes , unusual fingernails , and acute advanced intellects . Moreover , the murderous moppets casually kill anyone they perceive as a threat in strange and startling " accidents . " Some of the frightened townspeople stand up to the freaky tykes to no avail . It's ultimately up to brave and perceptive military scientist George Sanders ( who gives a truly outstanding performance ) to put a stop to ' em before it's too late . Tautly directed with commendable understatement by Wolf Rilla , with a smart and compact script co-written by future Oscar-winning screenwriter Stirling Stilliphant , gorgeous black-and-white cinematography , a nicely spare and shivery score , an eerily ambiguous tone , a pleasingly concise 78 minute running time , uniformly aces acting from a top-drawer cast ( the child thespians are extremely unsettling while Hammer horror queen Barbara Shelley makes for a very charming and pretty damsel in distress ) , and a genuinely nerve-wracking conclusion , " Village of the Damned " never falters for a minute . The film's smashing success derives partly from Rilla's wisely stark and straightforward execution , partly from the sheer vague creepiness of the intriguing plot ( no explanation is ever given for how or why the children were born in the first place ) , and primarily from downplaying needless flashy special effects razzle-dazzle to emphasize instead the strong and absorbing adults vs . children conflict at the heart of the narrative ( this movie could be read as a weird and imaginative fantastic allegory on the generation gap that was a key hallmark of the 60's ) . A terrific terror tale that's wholly deserving of its substantial classic status .
A very powerful and poignant 70's made-for-TV drama classic	Troubled , confused , insecure teenager Richie ( a stunningly fine and moving performance by Robbie Benson ) feels unloved , unwanted and alienated , so he becomes dangerously involved with drugs . His stern , abusive , overbearing father ( superbly played by Ben Gazzara ) and overprotective mother ( the equally excellent Eileen Brennan ) try to help Richie , but when conventional methods of aid prove ineffectual poor Richie's drug habit spirals out of control , thereby leading to a shocking and tragic conclusion . Splendidly directed with great care and restraint by Paul Wendkos , with a smart , thoughtful and commendably unsentimental script by John McGreevey , slick photography by Robert B . Hauser , and a spare , melancholy score by Fred Karlin , this strong and gripping cautionary tale about the perils of drug addiction and the severe damage it can inflict on a family packs quite a devastating emotional punch . Besides addressing drug addiction with admirable acuity and matter-of-factness , this film further illustrates the damage wrought by the lack of intimacy and communication between kids and their parents . If Richie's father especially hadn't been so strict and spent more time with his son , then maybe he would have never turned to drugs to alleviate his pain and frustration . Benson and Gazzara are exceptional in their demanding parts . They receive terrific support from Lance Kerwin as Richie's concerned younger brother , Cindy Eibacher as Richie's sweet girlfriend , and Charles Fleischer and Clint Howard as two of Richie's druggie pals ( peer pressure also clearly plays a substantial part in Richie's descent into substance abuse ) . Heartbreaking and unforgettable , " The Death of Richie " rates highly as an extremely poignant and hauntingly sad 70's made-for-TV movie classic which has lost none of its considerable potency throughout the years .
The true reason cinema was invented . An absolute celluloid masterpiece of exceptional subtlety and profound artistic significance	As the extremely subtle , tasteful and artistic title alone suggests , this here is one of those unsung cinematic masterpieces , a monumentally important and incisive cinematic landmark of tremendous cultural significance , a profound and provocative rumination on the complex multi-faceted tenets of the human condition , sheer celluloid poetry . . . hey , who the hell am I fooling ? Scratch that high-faluting nonsense . As the extraordinarily asinine title truly suggests , this steaming hunk of utterly worthless and artless cinematic offal is a sublimely shoddy , silly and downright stupid slice of slapdash spoofy sci-fi piffle any avid connoisseur of sheer celluloid detritus should relish every last dopey , dunced-out dreckoid minute of . The so-called " plot " plumbs startling new depths in the history of " you gotta be kidding me ! " celluloid idiocy : A luscious quartet of predatory and temperamental outer space babes land in the sleepy hamlet of Mayfield to find hunky attractive teenage fellows to mate with . Any person who ticks off the hot'n'horny extraterrestrial honeys gets transformed into gigantic humanoid vegetables such as carrots , pickles , tomatoes , zucchinis , and even squash ! It's up to the boys ' insanely jealous and possessive girlfriends to thwart the perniciously seductive distaff alien menace . Okay , witty and sophisticated the story sure ain't , but frankly who cares about that highbrow artsy crap ? In place of that stuff we got a meandering narrative , mostly decent acting from a game no-name cast , a bevy of nice-looking chicks in skimpy outfits , a goofy synthesizer score set to a thumpin ' disco beat , a touching subplot concerning one alien mother getting to know the psychic half-human son she had 16 years ago ( oh the pathos ! ) , lots of dumb dialogue ( sample line : " Wait a minute - - this is ridiculous ! " ) , chintzy ( far from ) special effects , and cheapo production values that are just a step or two above a homemade stag movie . Granted , this doozy never matches the sidesplitting lunacy of the brilliantly berserk " Invasion of the Girl Snatchers , " but it's still an amiably brainless and hugely enjoyable piece of inconsequential fluff all the same .
An awesomely funky , exciting and dynamic blast of a sports documentary on professional skateboarding	In the groovy mid 70's a scruffy bunch of brash young Venice , California adolescents from broken homes and the bad side of town known as the Z-Boys turned the previously staid world of professional skateboarding on its ear with their fierce punk attitude , radical unconventional riding style , and unbridled spirit of pure in-your-face aggression , revolutionizing the sport in the process and paving the way for the many extreme variations on sports that popped up in their influential wake . Director Stacy Peralta , who's one of the legendary Z-Boys himself , relates the incredible exploits of this amazing ragtag crew in a ferociously punchy and visceral manner that's both informative and wildly entertaining : the snappy rapid-fire editing , ceaseless speedy pace , and raw , gritty photography deliver one hell of an infectiously kinetic buzz , projecting a sense of sheer joy and full-on bustling energy that's a total pleasure to behold . Better still , this documentary neither sanitizes nor romanticizes its subjects : These rough'n'scrappy lads were so fiercely competitive and out for themselves that they all went their separate ways when the lure of fame and fortune manifested in their lives . The ultimate fates of certain guys is poignant and heartbreaking , with gifted and spontaneous ace skateboard rat Jay Adams rating as the saddest and most tragic : He blew his chance at the big time and wound up doing time in jail . The other dudes are very colorful and personable as well ; charismatic ball of cocky and defiant fire Tony Alva in particular comes across as one arrogant , yet impressive piece of furiously assertive work . Marvelously narrated with delightfully easy'n'breezy nasal nonchalance by Sean Penn . The terrific rock soundtrack likewise seriously smokes . But what really makes this documentary such a winner is its refreshing complete dearth of pretense : It's every bit as dynamic , exuberant and larger-than-life extraordinary as the gloriously outrageous Z-Boys themselves .
A choice crummy 70's Crown International creature feature favorite	One of my all-time favorite so - laughably - lousy - that - it's - totally - lovable el cheapo and stinko nickel'n'dime independent horror creature features , an enjoyably dreadful marvel that was released by the formidably fecund exploitation outfit Crown International Pictures so it could play numerous crappy double bills at countless drive-ins back in the 70's and eventually wound up being rerun like crazy on several small-time secondary cable stations throughout the 80's . I naturally first saw this gloriously ghastly abomination on late-night television one fateful Saturday evening while in my early teens and have had a deep-seated , albeit completely irrational abiding fondness for it ever since . A meteorite falls out of the sky and crashes into the still waters of a tranquil country lake , thereby causing a heretofore dormant dinosaur egg to hatch . Of course , the baby dino immediately grows into a gigantic waddling , grunting , teeth-gnashing prehistoric behemoth with goofy flippers , an extended neck and a huge mouth full of little sharp , jagged , stalagmite-like chompers . Our Southern-fried male cousin to the Loch Ness Monster promptly starts chowing down on various luckless local yokel residents of a previously quiet and sleepy hillbilly resort town . It's up to drippy stalwart sheriff Richard Cardella , assisted by the painfully idiotic hayseed comic relief brotherly fishing guide duo of Glenn Roberts and Mark Seigel , feisty gal pal Kacey Cobb and terminally insipid nerdy scientist Bob Hyman , to get to the bottom of things before the over-sized gluttonous Jurassic throwback ruins the tourist trade by eating all the campers and fisherman that the hick hamlet makes its cash off of . Director / co-screenwriter William R . Stromberg displays a wonderfully woeful and thoroughly clueless incompetence when it comes to pacing , atmosphere , taut narrative construction and especially eliciting sound , credible acting from his hopelessly all-thumbs rank amateur community theater level cast . The performances are uniformly abysmal : Cardella is way too bland and wooden to cut it as a solid heroic lead while the pitifully dopey redneck comic antics of Roberts and Seigel provoke groans of slack-jawed disbelief - - you aren't laughing with these two atrociously mugging clods so much as at them , particularly when the insufferable imbeciles discover a severed head bobbing up and down in the murky lake water . Better yet , a clumsily integrated sub-plot concerning a vicious on-the-loose criminal leads to a spectacularly ham-fisted supermarket hold-up scene which degenerates into a hilariously stupid mini-massacre when a young lady shopper interrupts the stick-up artist in mid-robbery ! A subsequent car chase is likewise severely bungled as well ; it's so limply staged and unimpressive that one feels more relieved than scared when the monster abruptly pops up to devour the nefarious fugitive . Moreover , David Allen's funky herky-jerky stop motion animation dinosaur is the authentic gnarly article , projecting a certain raw charisma , sneaky reptilian personality and overall forceful screen presence which makes all the horrendously underwhelming human characters seem like pathetically unbecoming nobody bores in comparison . And as for the rousing conclusion where the sheriff takes on our slavering beastie with a bulldozer , the operative word for this thrilling confrontation is boffo all the way .
Absolutely astonishing	Diminutive three foot tall midget thespian Weng Weng positively lights up the screen with his infectious energy and irresistible charisma in this delightfully dippy spy spoof as Agent 00 , a supremely smooth and suave super spy who's an ace martial artist ( he's a very dirty fighter with a shocking sadistic penchant for hitting opponents below the belt ) , expert marksman , snappy dresser ( Agent 00's gleaming white leisure suit puts John Travolta to shame ) , brutal ruthless killer , and total chick magnet . Agent 00 is assigned to thwart nefarious crime kingpin Mr . Giant , who's abducted brilliant scientist Dr . Von Kohler and plans to use the good doctor's latest invention the N-bomb for evil purposes ( i . e . , world domination ) . However , it would be grossly unfair to say that the incredible Weng Weng is the whole show here : we've also got a tasty plethora of hot babes , hilariously dopey dubbing ( all the villains talk with exaggerated New York accents while Agent 00 speaks with a squeaky Woody Allenesque wimpy whine ! ) , crude direction , gut-dusting dialogue ( " You're such a little guy , though . Very petite like a potato , " one lovely lass remarks to Agent 00 ) , a constant frantic pace , goofy gimmicks galore ( a poison pen , gun umbrella , X-ray glasses ) , rough , scratchy cinematography , a funky-grooving sub-John Barry score , and plenty of the funniest , wackiest , most sublimely ridiculous action scenes to ever erupt onto celluloid . A complete riot .
An astonishingly abominable unsung camp classic	A band of nefarious terrorists lead by crippled ruthless drug kingpin Alby the Cruel ( the stunningly dreadful Blackie Dammett , who does a third-rate Dr . Strangelove impression throughout the entire movie ) kidnap a bus full of tourists who include a U . S . congressman . Alby demands the release of a dangerous criminal cohort and that all the drug enforcement agents in the Phillippines leave the country . The American government send in the courageous DART team - - lollipop-sucking ace martial artist Spike Shinobi ( stolid Sho Kosugi ) , macho meathead Steve Gordon ( the extremely obnoxious Brent Huff ) and hot blonde babe Jennifer Barnes ( the gorgeous Emilia Lesniak ) - - to save the day . Emmett Alston , the same low-budget movie blunder wonder who blessed us with the shoddy seasonal slasher stinker " New Year's Evil " and the amusingly inane Bigfoot sci-fi / horror bomb " Demonwarp , " writes and directs this amazingly abominable chopsocky action opus with a staggering ineptitude that's a true gloriously ghastly marvel to behold . Ray H . Wagner's crude cinematography , Cecile Colayco's cheesy score , the ridiculous villains ( an especially wicked lesbian is named Honey Hump ! ) , and the incredibly awful acting are all uniformly pathetic . A simply stupendous pseudo-James Bond style opening credits sequence with a bare-chested sword-brandishing Kosugi , lots of swirling mist , and three terrible lady dancers clad in leotards rates as a definite campy highlight . The maladroitly staged action scenes are often unintentionally uproarious : Kosugi beats up a bunch of guys while disguised as an old man and even fights four dwarfs sporting sunglasses and really bad teeth . A total four-star sidesplitting schlock howler .
A wonderfully raunchy and ridiculous cinematic ode to the naked female form	This terrific piece of lascivious trash begins on a profoundly artistic note with Rose ( the impossibly tall , busty and leggy Cierra Knight ) cooling herself off with a garden hose . A lone foxy cavegirl ( the divine Michelle Bauer ) shows up . Rose and cavegirl engage in an ineptly staged catfight . Then they take a lengthy shower . Rose's friend Savannah ( the incredibly buxom and voluptuous popular skin mag pin-up favorite Jerica Fox ) arrives at the house . Since both Rose and Savannah are - - big surprise ! - - strippers , they decide to show cavegirl the tricks of their trashy trade by performing a smoking hot sleazy bump'n'grind number . All three gals join together to take a steamy group bath . Meanwhile a hairy caveman prowls around the house . The late , great Gary Graver directs this choice chunk of tasty cheese with exceptional taste , restraint and subtlety , thus offering plenty of heavy insight on any given red-blooded all-American male's deep-seated need to see beautiful women parade about in their birthday suits . Iron Mike Buell's groovy score totally rocks . The crude , leering cinematography surveys all the naked flesh with unapologetic voyeuristic glee . Overall , this superbly mindless T & A schlock rates highly as the " Citizen Kane " of tacky no-brainer soft-core sexploitation short movies .
Still holds up after over 40 years	Yeah , this particular enduring ( and endearing ) classic TV special was indeed made over forty years ago , but still retains its magical ability to cast an enchanting spell just the same . It's partly because of the appealing topicality of the central story ( mopey Charlie Brown can't get into the Noel spirit because of the current crass commercialism of the yuletide season ) , partly because the key message makes a significant point about Christmas without ever becoming too preachy or sappy , and mainly because the show itself astutely captures the joy , warmth and humanity of Christmas in a most lovely and moving way . Director Bill Melendez and writer Charles M . Schultz keep things beautifully simple and unpretentious throughout . Moreover , the cast of lovably awkward kid voice actors add a certain clumsy charm to their characters . And what a likable and colorful bunch of characters we have here , starting with the hapless , yet persistent Charlie Brown , highlighted by the marvelously irrepressible buoyancy of the ever-chipper Snoopy , and given an extra lift by Lucy's delicious meanness , the wise-beyond-his-years sagacity of Linus , and the giddy slovenliness of the hysterically filthy Pigpen . The bright and vibrant animation might seem a tad crude by today's more advanced standards , but gets the job done nonetheless . Vince Guaraldi's delightfully jaunty'n'jazzy score hits the rousing spot . The snappy tempo and merry tone are likewise totally on the money excellent . A real treat that should be watched at least once a year around Christmastime .
An outstanding seriocomic slice-of-life character study indie treat	A wonderful , unjustly forgotten little beaut of a film , a wryly seriocomic and sharply observant slice-of-life character study focusing on the feckless , outmoded , past his prime modern-day " cowboy " and his increasingly woeful , insignificant plight in a rapidly changing contemporary society that no longer has any room or tolerance for the cowboy's rowdy , roughhewn , obstinately conservative he-man way of life . A small Houston , Texas bar called the Alamo is going to be razed to make room for a high-rise building . The tawdry Texas tavern's a popular hangout where the brittle , pathetic , alcoholic nobody regulars - - a bunch of hyper-masculine strutting redneck yahoos stuck in a permanent state of arrested adolescence - - pour their hearts out about how they're catching lots of flack from both their wives and at work while also drowning their sorrows in a sea of liquor so they can feel better about their poor , wretched old selves . The Alamo supplies a means of escape for its lower middle-class blue collar patrons , a fantasyland where the otherwise weak , inconsequential male regulars can parade forth their flashy , hoked-up machismo and pretend to be kings rather than the lowly , powerless serfs that they really are . Independent Lone Star state filmmaker Eagle Pennell's incisive , restrained direction deftly captures and conveys an elegiac , realistic nighttime down-home feel , a wistfully reflective and melancholy tone that in turn creates a poignancy which proves to be extremely moving because it never seems remotely forced or contrived . Brain Huderman and Eric A . Edwards ' plain , stark , gorgeously unadorned monochromatic black and white cinematography lends the film an authentically gritty , quasi-verite look , palpably evoking a smoky , grungy , unglamorous barroom milieu with remarkable vividness . Most impressive of all is the caustically witty and perceptive script by Kim Henkel , who co-wrote both " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and " Eaten Alive " for Tobe Hooper . Henkel's exceptional screenplay , loaded with often sidesplitting , full-bore and surprisingly eloquent profanity , offers a touching , trenchant critique of the all rugged and stoical on the outside , but quite anguished and vulnerable on the inside macho male condition , convincingly showing how the common male hang-up of refusing to mature and accept responsibility as one gets older can prove to be highly counterproductive to both emotional and intellectual growth . Moreover , although the picture takes the immature manly man attitude to the cleaners , the characters are never drawn in a smug , condescending way . In fact , the warts and all guys who populate the movie come across as a genuinely likable , sympathetic and affecting bunch . This is largely due to the uniformly top-notch acting , with particularly superb performances by Sonny Carl ( " Melvin and Howard , " " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " ) Davis as the blustery , arrogant , much-revered Cowboy , who gets exposed as an inadequate phony little nothing with unattainable big man delusions ; Steven Mitilla as the scrawny , insecure , irritable William ( a . k . a . " Ichabod " ) , Tina-Bess Hubbard as William's sweet , long-suffering girlfriend , and the incredible , under-appreciated Lou ( " The Blues Brothers , " " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre Part 2 " ) Perry , who brings a funny , touching pathos to his role as Claude , an excitable , despondent , hen-pecked working class stiff who spends half the movie on the phone making fumbling attempts at reconciling with his estranged wife . Made at a time when countless big-budget Hollywood action blockbusters glorified macho excess and made it seem very attractive , " Last Night at the Alamo " stands out as a marvelous anomaly that's totally out of sync with the brutish , testosterone-charged no-brainer mentality of its era , eschewing breast-beating machismo for a quietly astute and bittersweet introspection which makes for a beautifully smart and revealing portrait of hard-headed masculinity and its unfortunate consequences .
A truly astonishing and often uproarious low-budget " King Kong " clone	The lamentably lousy ' 76 " King Kong " remake fortunately inspired a handful of hilariously horrible low-budget cash-in copies which includes the incredibly awful Korean cheapie " APE , " the groan-inducing idiotic spoof " King Kung Fu , " and this simply stupendous Hong Kong howler . Produced by the Shaw Brothers , who usually cranked out extravagant chopsocky costumers by the dozens and shot on a conspicuously paltry budget of what appears to be several rolls worth of quarters , this utterly inept , yet always entertaining and frequently sidesplitting tale of gorgeous jungle honey Samantha ( the beautiful , curvaceous , flaxen-tressed Euro minx Evelyn Kraft , giving the viewers am amazing eyeful in a scanty , revealing fur bikini outfit that leaves precious little to the imagination ) and the fearsome , village-stomping behemoth ape who's her best friend is not to be missed . Blessed with all the correct so - totally - wrong - it's - paradoxically - right schlock movie stuff - - clueless ham-fisted direction by seasoned journeyman Ho Meng-Hua , a crummy , leave-no-cliché-unturned cookie cutter script , meager ( far from ) special effects , laughably poor dubbing , proto-MTV buzzsaw editing which accentuates a manic rapid-fire pace over rhythm and continuity , unspeakably terrible dialogue ( " Hey look - - it's Peking Man ! " ) , ramshackle production values , a sappy romance between Kraft and dorky Oriental adventurer Danny Lee ( who also portrayed the titular bionic superhero in the equally astounding " Infra-Man " around the same time ) , a breathlessly frenetic pace , an absurdly melodramatic score , a fantastic mondo destructo monster on the rampage sequence ( WARNING : Possible SPOILER ahead - in one alternate version Kraft croaks along with the ape at the film's riotously botched conclusion ) , a few groovy Erutrash disco tunes ( one's even sung to a cloying lovey-dovey jungle montage ! ) , and , most importantly , a certain cheerfully off-target , yet still unyielding and unbridled go-for-it hearty gusto which blithely permeates every last fabulously fumbled frame - - this choice chunk of delectably dreadful cinematic cheese rates as essential viewing for hardcore bad film buffs .
A misunderstood masterpiece of rancid 80's schlock art	I can't believe all the harsh reviews this movie gets . I think it's a true work of deliciously dreadful 80's trash exploitation movie art that totally nails the rampant hedonism and stupidity of adolescence with uncanny accuracy . All the kids want to do in this film are play video games or make out . They have no ambitions or aspirations towards doing anything meaningful or significant with their lives . They just wanna party and have fun . Come on , people , that's exactly what being a teenager is all about ! And boy does " Joysticks " peg this blithely moronic mindset with spot-on incisiveness and authenticity . This movie reaches its true moment of absolute cinematic greatness during the legendary strip video sequence . When the camera pans down to show the hot chick's ample breasts jiggling up and down in extreme eye-popping close-up as she plays the video game those beauteous bouncing boobs perform a majestic ballet that just screams " gleefully mindless sleazy entertainment ! " Yeah , the acting stinks , the plot's a paper-thin joke , the humor is crude and sophomoric , the production values are strictly rock bottom , and the 80's slang , clothes , and hairstyles now are hopelessly dated and laughable at this point in time , but " Joysticks " nonetheless reigns supreme as a genuine tacky no-brainer dreck artifact of its era .
Crispin Glover at his wonderfully wacky best	The gloriously gaga opening scene expertly sets the tone for the incredible , jaw-dropping , incessant and often excruciatingly riotous eccentricity to come : A silhouetted nighttime profile shot of chronically kooky and uncompromising consummate flake thesp Crispin Glover , wearing a flowing blonde wig , wind whipping his hair about in undulating waves , stands astride a mountaintop lip-syncing to Olivia Newton-John's forlorn pop ballad " Please Don't Leave Me Waiting " ! You see , Crispin's an awkward , ungainly , socially maladjusted jerkwater burg misfit with a secret hardcore infatuation with Olivia and her music , a closet fetish that's so extreme that Crispin actually dresses , acts , and - - oh gaa-wd ! - - even sings just like Olivia . Worse yet , Glover even has a " Xanadu " poster on his bedroom wall ! Crispin , after much fretting , decides to come out about his Olivia hang-up to the burg's stuffy , conservative , stubbornly set in their ways square citizens by impersonating Olivia - - he's got the wig on , plus bright red lipstick and black eyeliner ! - - and belting out one of her tunes in a shrill , scratchy , piercing soprano wail at a local talent show that's going to be broadcast on television . A very barbed and caustically funny 35 minute American Film Institute student movie project , " The Orkly Kid " doesn't pull any punches with its revealing exposure and mordant ridicule of the hidebound , close-minded , oppressively staid toe-the-line conformist mindset that's a rigid cornerstone of small town America ( " This town's enough to drive a man nuts , " Glover moans at one point ) , an uptight sensibility which leads to xenophobia and a gross inability to either tolerate or appreciate anyone courageous enough to break away from the restrictive conventional mold . Moreover , the film has the admirable guts to equate conformity with repressiveness , depicting Glover's amiable nonconformist oddball as the only person in the picture who's easygoing and enjoys life while the straight townies are sour , cranky and often down in the dumps unhappy frumps . Glover delivers a perfectly manic performance as the endearingly gonzo main character , with solid support from Stefan ( " Fear No Evil " ) Arngrim as his sole friend ( Crispin tries unsuccessfully to have Arngrim put on a gorilla suit and carry him off stage after he's done with his number ! ) , the ever-adorable Elizabeth ( " Valley Girl " ) Daily as a tarty diner waitress , and Courtney ( " Children of the Corn " ) Gains as a local bullying hick . Glover and fellow marvelously idiosyncratic celluloid quirkmeister writer / director Trent Harris reteamed for the equally amusing and abrasive " Rubin and Ed . "
The Commies are coming ! The Commies are coming ! Save us Chuck Norris !	Our country is in big trouble : a ragtag multi-ethnic guerrilla army of nefarious Communist terrorists led by no-account Russian psycho Rostov ( veteran screen villain Richard Lynch in peak nasty'n'snarly form ) have washed up on the Florida coast . These horrible scumbuckets first slaughter a boat full of helpless Cuban refugees . Next they butcher a libidinous teen couple making out on the beach . Then they blow up six suburban houses populated by folks merrily celebrating the yuletide holiday with a single rocket launcher . They even gun down nice Latino youths . Worse yet , they have the appalling gall to attack a mall at the height of the Christmas shopping season . Why , these foul scum not only attempt to blow up a church holding a mass , but also a school bus loaded with little children happily singing " Row , Row , Row Your Boat . " But have no fear , good Americans . Thankfully we got Matt Hunter ( legendary martial arts champion and hopelessly wooden thespian Chuck Norris , who co-wrote the senseless script ) to save the day . Who's Matt Hunter ? Well , apparently he's some kind of former government agent , although we never are told any specific details about his background . Does it matter ? Not in the least . Moreover , Hunter has the magical ability to materialize seemingly out of thin air in his souped-up pick-up truck whenever he's needed to stomp some evil commie butt . Nonstop wall-to-wall mondo destructo ultra-violent carnage is the order of the day here . And boy does director Joseph Zito really pour it on thick , blowing up lots of stuff real good , staging insanely go-for-broke vehicular action sequences with rip-snorting aplomb , and racking up an astonishingly hefty body count . Better still , both Joao Fernandes's slick photography and Jay Chattaway's robust , rousing score are up to snuff , Melissa Prophet gives a spectacularly terrible performance as a spunky , yet troublesome lady reporter , Eddie Jones just takes up space as a useless FBI agent , Billy Drago briefly pops up as a slimy drug dealer , the basic overwrought tone represents Reagan era Red Scare paranoia at its most ludicrously hysterical , and Norris cuts loose with a steady series of truly groan-inducing cheesy quips every time he commits a heroic feat . Now , is this film any good ? No , it most certainly ain't . In fact , it's exceptionally bad , stupid and utterly mindless . But there's no denying that it's a great deal of so - totally - dreadful - it's - oddly - delectable Grade Z schlocky fun . A real four star high camp 80's trash movie hoot and a half .
Rock me , Mr . Spock ! Rock me !	In 1967 Leonard Nimoy was at the height of his " Star Trek " fame . He had also recorded several albums in which he croaked out a variety of songs that include everything from Credence Clearwater Revival's " Proud Mary " to Jackie DeShannon's " Put A Little Love in Your Heart " to Judy Collins ' " Clouds " in a pained gravel voice . Well , Lenny occasionally covered a novelty song or two on his albums . " The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins " is perhaps the single most sublimely silly and hence most sidesplitting tune Nimoy ever wrapped his ragged tonsils around . Best of all , Leonard actually performed this gloriously ridiculous number on a short-lived groovy 60's musical variety show . Len belts out this song with tremendously hale'n'hearty aplomb on a beach while a bunch of insanely cute swingin ' hippie hotties sporting pointy ears ala Mr . Spock merrily dance all around him . One of these gals is none other than a very young and foxy Erin Gray , who went on to portray Wilma Deering on the popular 80's sci-fi TV series " Buck Rogers in the 25th Century . " Another lady is adorable bubbly blonde pixie Patricia Wymer , who had a regrettably fleeting cinematic career as a drive-in exploitation starlet in the enjoyably trashy movies " The Babysitter , " " The Witchmaker , " and " The Young Graduates . " Did I mention that the chicks also wear these goofy buttons with dopey sayings on them ? Or how about the kooky bassoon solo that concludes the song ? Yep , what we got here is a truly choice chunk of pure blithely ludicrous 60's kitsch at its most delectably absurd and awful . Sure , this stuff is undeniably tacky , inane and hideously dated , but it's also flat-out hilarious ( the club-footed dance choreography has to be seen to be disbelieved ) and loads of fun to watch . An absolute gut-busting hoot and a half .
A simply sensational 60's rock concert winner	That's the " Teenage Awards Music International " to you and me - - and without a doubt one of the best , grooviest , most utterly enjoyable and righteously raucous , hell , even historically relevant , mid-60's rock concert films to ever romp its way onto celluloid , a dazzling and eclectic mix of rowdy rock'n'roll bands and class act rhythm and blues groups that was performed live at the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium and recorded on videotape and subsequently transferred to film for posterity's sake by American International Pictures . Puckish surf-rock jokers Jan and Dean , who do " The Little Old Lady from Pasadena " and " Sidewalk Surfin ' , " are the goof-ball hosts of this non-stop musical extravaganza . Chuck Berry gets things off to a rip-roaring start , working his spindly wibble-wobble legs overtime as he tears the place up with roll-over-deadly renditions of " Johnny B . Goode , " " Sweet Little Sixteen , " and " Nadine . " British Invasion band Gerry and the Peacemakers keep everything a hopping by first joining Chuck on " Maybellene , ' then holding their own with such winners as the gentle , lulling " Don't Let the Sun Catch You Crying " and the life-affirming " It's Gonna Be Alright . " Lovely feminist-rock pioneer Lesley Gore mesmerizes the audience with strong , commanding performances of the " sisters stand up to your man and don't take any guff " anthems " You Don't Own Me , " " It's My Party , " and " Judy's Turn to Cry . " Smokey Robinson and the Miracles deliver a tasty , tuneful truckload of spot-on keening tenor harmonies , highlighted by the gorgeous " You Really Got a Hold on Me " and a crazed , chest-thumping , abdomen-itching cover of the wiggy novelty dance number " Mickey's Monkey . " Marvin Gaye , looking mighty spiffy in an immaculate white tux , cuts a suave figure as he belts out " Hitchhike , " " Pride and Joy , " and " Can I Get a Witness . " Representing flavor-of-the-month generic pop slop , the hopelessly dweeby Billy J . Kramer and the Dakotas nerd it up something hysterical with several remarkably doofy songs . Diana Ross and the Supremes , sexy as all hell in clinging dresses and enormous heavily lacquered hairdos , strut their sultry stuff with a scorching medley which includes the luscious " Baby Love . " Token grunged-up garage rock outfit the Barbarians do the sinewy caveman stomper " Hey Little Bird , " with their famous one-armed drummer Moulty ( he's got a hook hand ! ) gleefully trashing his kit during a gloriously protracted solo . James Brown rides the " Night Train " straight to Funkytown and back with his bring the house down manic antics , complete with wild dancing feet , hips and pelvis a swinging rotation action , the groin pulling splits , crashing onto the floor and getting up for more - - we're talking some seriously smoking theatrics , people . The Rolling Stones , surly , scruffy , arrogant and punk as all get out , burn up the place with lots of sizzling lowdown dirty blues covers , with their blazing rendition of Irma Thomas ' " Time Is On My Side " rating as the definite stand-out . The Beach Boys , clad in white striped shirts , end things on a suitably stirring note , doing 100 % on the money honey performances of the timeless classics " Surfin ' U . S . A . , " " Surfer Girl " and " I Get Around . " Steve Binder's razor-sharp direction captures the concert's merry , upbeat , bubbly atmosphere with consummate unwavering acuity and expertise . The really into it audience never cease to shriek their approval . A sense of both wide-eyed innocence and carefree , frivolous , oftentimes even downright explosive gaiety pervades throughout . The excellent black and white cinematography makes terrific use of stately crane shots , slow , graceful dissolves and snazzy super-impositions . Phil Spector music arranger Jack Nitzsche served as music director . Terri Garr and Toni Basil are among the nice-looking go-go gals who energetically frug their way across the stage . A marvelously vibrant , joyous and jubilant time capsule of the swell 60's rock scene .
One of the sickest and hence funniest cartoon shorts ever made !	Director John Goras earns every last ounce of my respect and admiration for making this sublimely perverse and depraved porno cartoon marvel . Jolly and adorable little yellow bird Chirpy gets seriously stoned after eating some smiling psychedelic mushrooms . Chirpy walks through the woods while tripping out of her tiny skull . Chirpy has a horrifying hallucination of a scary Satanic cow . She then encounters a huge horse and does just what you think with the enormous equine animal . Yep , what we've got here is a truly choice demented and debauched depiction of interspecies copulation that's presented all raw , raunchy and graphic . Watching Chirpy get freaky with the horse makes for often hilarious viewing . The dialogue in particular is frequently sidesplitting ( " Tastes like chicken ! " ) . Better still , we've even got a catchy'n'funky theme song and groovy 60's style acid rock music plays throughout the whole jaw-dropping 12 minutes of this gloriously gonzo gut-buster . The animation is every bit as crude and garish as it ought to be . Plus there's a poignant central message about how the power of love can overcome all boundaries . Absolutely essential viewing for fans of hardcore underground cinematic degeneracy .
