Truly awful .	I'm really fed up with such movies like " Scream " , " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , " Urban Legend " or " School's Out " - these so-called horror flicks pose as a slashers , but they're nothing more than politically correct trash . " Schrei-denn ich werde dich toten ! " borrows unashamedly from American " Scream " like slasher movies without adding new twists . The film is boring , completely unscary ( if you think that fake scares are scary , you don't know the genre ) , awfully acted and not gory at all . It just sinks in the ocean of clichés . I like slasher movies in general , especially those from early 70's and 80's-they were low-budget , badly acted , but actually scary ! Nowadays horror movies ( apart from Japanese and HK stuff ) are trying to please more teeny boppers than real horror fans . Oh well , we still got thousands of old ones to watch ! And as long as I have those movies to watch I'll be a happy person . So don't bother with this awful mess . Not recommended .
Truly abysmal .	" Legion of Fire : Killer Ants ! " is indeed one of the worst horror films ever made . It's so bad and stupid it has to be seen to be believed . The cast is horrible and the special effects are even worse . I ask the film-makers : what is scary in computer-animated ants ? The only good thing about this piece of crap is beautiful photography . Avoid this pile of garbage like the plague . My rating : - what else ?
The biggest load of teenybopper trash I have recently seen .	Handsome beautiful vampires with pale faces . I'm sure that sixteen or seventeen year old girlies are dreaming about meeting such enigmatic vampire presence as Edward Cullen . " Twilight " consists tons of annoying extreme close-ups of Edward and Bella faces and a lot of slow-motion moments . Robert Pattinson's performance is over-acted and the dialogue is unspeakably horrible . " Twilight " is unintentionally ridiculous and takes itself way too seriously . Everything about the technical direction from the melodramatic cinematography to the unbearably corny score is just plain bad . And those two elements alone are nearly enough to make " Twilight " an unwatchable film . There is no suspense , no gore-just a bunch of annoying bloodsuckers , our romantic vampire Edward and his slave of love . The target of " Twilight " is simple : teenage girls obsessed with popcorn vampire romanticism . I guess I'm not a fan . Watch Swedish " Let the Right One In " instead of this over-hyped garbage . .
Truly awful .	Henry Sala's " Nightmare Weekend " is a rotten piece of sludge from Troma . This is a juvenile , sloppy and stupid low-budget horror film about some teenage girls spending the weekend at a mansion . The professor's evil assistant lures the girls into a bizarre scheme to perform hideous experiments . Using a brain implant she transforms her victims and their dates into zombies . " Nightmare Weekend " is a completely braindead piece of garbage that features lots of nudity and some cheesy gore , not to mention a laughable musical score . The acting is horrendous and the script is utterly incoherent . Why such piece of crap is widely distributed is beyond me . Avoid it like the plague . .
A torturous waste of time .	Frank Gillis plays the mass murderer . Watch him cook and eat his victims right before your very eyes . The director of " Frozen Flesh " proudly claims that his film is the most explicitly gory , shocking , bloody and controversial movie ever made . A bunch of lies ! I have seen thousands of horror movies and I'm very tolerant when it comes to low-budget indie horror , but literally nothing happens in " Frozen Flesh " . We see our mass murderer , who is trying to cook the hand of the victim and it takes him almost an eternity to do this . We see boiling faucet , we see severed hand and flies on it , we see faceless killer breathing and stabbing the air . We feel incredibly depressing boredom . No gore , no nudity , no suspense-just static shots filmed with a red lens filter . I can't believe that I subjected myself to such nightmarish piece of garbage . .
Grimly bad .	I remember seeing " Grim " many years ago on Polish TV . To this day I consider it to be one of the worst pieces of utter garbage I have ever seen . The plot is about very hideous troll-like monster that carries a crude scythe and can walk through walls . Of course the creature likes to kill and eat it's victims which consists of a bunch of dumb teenagers and drunks . The action takes place in the mines and the origin of the monster is never really explained . Honestly " Grim " is incredibly awful . The action drags , the creature looks painfully bad and the acting reeks . The worst of all " Grim " is so horribly boring that you will want to kill its creators after it's over . .
Absolutely awful .	" Sundown : The Vampire in Retreat " is a rubbish . The acting is terrible , the atmosphere is non-existent and the characters are uninteresting . The only scary thing about this piece of scum is that majority of the IMDb users gave it a 10 . This is really horrifying . No gore , no suspense , no violence , nothing . Bruce Cambell ( " The Evil Dead " , " Intruder " ) is completely wasted , the supporting cast is also terrible . Yes , some people may like this picture , especially a mainstream society but hard-core horror fans or gore-hounds won't enjoy this piece of crap . Personally I hate horror comedies , I prefer watching serious horror movies like " Cannibal Holocaust " or " Last House on the Left " . In my opinion , a real horror movie is supposed to be scary , excessively bloody and disturbing , without stupid humour , which usually ruins the whole concept . This one isn't scary , isn't gory , isn't even funny as a comedy , so don't waste your precious time .
Incredibly boring garbage .	Art student Richard Alfieri keeps dreaming that his twin brother ? who died before birth ? is determined to kill him and take over his body . Insanely melodramatic and extremely boring drama with no horror whatsoever . The suspense is completely absent as is the gore . After finishing one hour of this turd I was so utterly bored that I decided to rewind the rest of " Living Nightmare " . I can't believe that this pile of garbage was actually released on DVD and so many real horror films are still obscure and unavailable for mass consumption . I rarely give low budget horror movies the lowest rating possible , however this one truly deserves a big fat .
Another proof that Wes Craven is overrated .	Wes Craven-many horror fans consider him as a master of horror , but after watching his truly god-awful movies like " Deadly Friend " , " Invitation to Hell " and this one I came to conclusion that he is very overrated . Only three of his movies are actually worth watching : " Last House on the Left " which is brilliant , " The Hills Have Eyes " and " Deadly Blessing " which are pretty good . His other movies , including overrated " Scream " and " A Nightmare on Elm Street " are a typical Hollywood garbage . " The Hills Have Eyes Part 2 " is truly one of the worst horror movies I have ever seen . The plot concerns a bunch of annoying youngsters , who are attacked by cannibals : Pluto ( Michael Berryman ) and his uncle Reaper ( John Bloom ) . Absolutely no suspense , even no gore to satisfy gore-freaks ( although there's a nice throat slashing ) . The acting is diabolically obscure and the final twist is obnoxious and stupid . The scene when the pet dog has a flashback to the previous movie is extremely dumb , but also hilarious at the same time . Avoid this junk like the plague . Not recommended .
Total failure .	Recently I saw this piece of crap on the Polish TV and phew ! what a stinker , I can't believe the good reviews people give it here . Michael Rooker , who gave us an incredible performance as Henry Lee Lucas in " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " is totally wasted as a well-armed priest , yeah right ! ! ! While a few effective sequences do exist ( notably the beginning of the movie ) the overall effect is lame . The film resembles me a TV movie and lacks any scares , gore and violence . The acting is alright , I suppose , but these CGI-effects are terrible and the plot is boring . So if you're looking for a good horror movie , then try to avoid this one at all costs .
Another really lame slasher flick .	Apart from two scenes of gratuitous nudity there's absolutely nothing to recommend here . " Too Scared to Scream " is completely lifeless , dull and bloodless outing in the slasher genre . The acting is awful , the pace is extremely slow and the final motif of a knife-wielding killer is so painfully stupid that it has to be heard to be believed . Anne Archer in her first role is incredibly wooden , and there is almost no blood and gore to be seen here . So don't be fooled by other reviews-this is one of the worst , most boring slash'em all flicks I have ever seen . . You'll regret seeing this your all life !
Piece of garbage .	A dark and terrible secret lurks on the 13th floor of a plush city office block , where a supernatural curse has brought disaster to anyone who rents it . A mysterious ' presence ' has driven business to ruin , made office machinery break down and created a deadly lifeforce of its own in the electrical system . The tortured soul of an innocent boy who was cruelly murdered many years before is lying in wait for the moment of revenge . " The 13th Floor " is easily one of the worst horror films I have ever seen . The film is extremely boring and there is no gore nor suspense . The special effects are incredibly cheesy and the acting is horrible . Why such piece of crap is widely distributed and some Italian horror movies are completely unavailable is beyond me . .
Unwatchable garbage .	" Blood Diner " is without a doubt one of the worst horror movies ever made . I couldn't find any merit , any redeeming values in this trash . It's amazing that some people actually like this movie . The story is extremely stupid , the cast is horrid and the music is awful . It's obvious that this is a zero-budget movie , because the special effects are so laughably fake , so inept that I found myself laughing a lot during the film . OK , some people may say " Come down ! This is a Troma picture ! " . Sure , but if they want to make a horror movie , they should make it scary or extremely bloody . " Blood Diner " isn't scary , isn't even gory enough . It's simply a piece of garbage . If you have seen Troma's " Redneck Zombies " and you like that kind of stuff you might even like this trash , as for me , I give up . Not recommended .
Painfully bad slasher flick .	" Hollow Gate " is early Joseph Merhi / Richard Pepin production made before they formed PM Productions , who made a slew of decent action and horror films during the 90's . This one is easily one of the worst horror films I have ever seen . It's about psycho Mark Walters ( Addison Randall ) killing a bunch of incredibly stupid teenagers at his isolated country estate during Halloween Night while wearing various silly costumes ( soldier , doctor , cowboy ) . The killings are bloody , but the storyline is so dumb , that you'll just shake your head in complete disbelief at some of the things these teenagers do . The acting is awful and there is no suspense whatsoever . The film is clearly as bad as Joseph Merhi's " The Newlydeads " , so if you're a fan of this kind of trash you won't be disappointed . As for me , I give up . .
Absolutely abysmal slasher film .	" Cutting Class " is easily one of the most awful slasher flicks from the late 80's . Brian returns back to college aged 18 after spending five years in a mental asylum for killing his father . He tries to worm his way back into the lives of his ex-best friend Dwight and Paula his old flame . And suddenly a bunch of people start dying , in the most bizarre and stupid ways in slasher film history . There is for example death by pottery kiln , death by photocopier , but my favourite is the old classic , flagpole under a trampoline so the fascist Gym teacher gets impaled on the American Flag . " Cutting Class " is a stinking piece of crap filled with silly jokes and a little bit of gore . The acting is downright horrible and the characters are completely flat . There is no suspense and the killings are lame . This film is clearly as bad as " Hollow Gate " or " Return to Horror High " . Avoid it like a plague . .
Piece of crap .	" The Ungodly " is one of the worst horror movies I have seen ( and I've seen nearly 2000 horror movies so far ) . This is a slobbering , dire , stupid mess of a film directed by Raphael Nussbaum . I can't believe I wasted my money on such a diabolically bad , excrement laden piece of trash . The acting is awful , the special effects are cheesy beyond belief and there's plenty of silly humour in this one . I found here also the most idiotic depiction of Satanism ever captured on screen . There's no suspense , no gore , just huge pile of idiocy . Avoid this piece of garbage at all costs . ( because the final appearance of Satan is hysterically funny and there's also a little bit of sex ) .
A real yawner !	" An American Werewolf in Paris " is one of the worst werewolf movies ever made . The intro is actually pretty good , but after it the film goes quickly downhill . The direction is horrible and the characters are even worse . No suspense , no scares , just huge load of rubbish . Generally the special effects are okay , but creators of this garbage put an overdose of them into the plot . I don't know why so many people like this sorry piece of crap . Personally I like horror movies to be scary and disturbing . This one isn't even gory , so don't bother with it . Oh , and these terrible CGI werewolves are some of the fakest I have ever seen . Avoid " An American Werewolf in Paris " like the plague . Not recommended .
Almost equally as bad and worthless as " The Fog " remake .	" The Omen " by John Moore is so strikingly similar to the original that I was able to predict scenes in explicit detail . Thankfully I saw this boring crap for free . The filmmakers added only a few minor changes-for example the opening scene is slightly different . The plot is the same as in Richard Donner's horror classic : Liev Schreiber takes the Gregory Peck role as a US diplomat who discovers that the boy he has raised as his own is actually the son of Satan . First of all the remake of " The Omen " is extremely dull and as exciting as watching paint dry . Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick who plays Damien is one of the worst child actors I have ever seen on screen . This kid is simply not scary , just annoying as hell . There is absolutely no suspense , even the death scenes are weak . Admittedly the cinematography is slick and the acting is generally solid ( with the exception of Damien ) , unfortunately this remake is completely pointless . " The Omen " is the product of a lack of ideas from screenwriters who would rather dust off old scripts instead of trying to come up with something new . Avoid it like the plague .
Turd .	The first " Nightmare on Elm Street " is rather overrated , but still pretty good and entertaining horror flick ( I still think that Krug and his companions from " Last House on the Left " are infinite times scarier than this so-called horror icon Freddy Krueger ) , but this one is beyond lame . Fred Krueger ( Robert Englund ) is back in the dreams of Springwood teen Mark Patton , and uses the sulky youth to bring him more souls . Credit must go to the effects team for some fine work , but otherwise , this entry from the director of " Alone in the Dark " is extremely weak . The acting ( especially from Mark Patton-gotta love his laughable scream ! ) is hysterical and the film is full of homosexual overtones-what kind of crap are we dealing here with ? So if you want to amuse yourself check out this laugh-fest , but if you want to be scared steer clear .
Another worthless trash masquerading as a horror film .	A small town has a sinister method of conditioning its unruly youth into an eerily complacent band of upstanding citizens . But there are horrific side effects behind this dark secret . . . " Disturbing Behavior " by David Nutter is actually more silly than frightening . The film recalls " The Stepford Wives " and " Village of the Damned " , but it's ten times worse than those genre classics . Director David Nutter resorts to cheap tricks to scare the audience , so there is absolutely no suspense . The characters are paper-thin and totally uninteresting and the acting is mediocre at its best . I watched this silly piece of garbage only for lovely Katherine Isabelle of " Ginger Snaps " trilogy fame . Thankfully this one is relatively short ( only 83 minutes long ) , so I didn't waste too much time . So if you like " I Know What You Did Last Summer " or similar politically correct crap you may even enjoy this , as for me I give up . Watching paint dry is far more interesting than enduring this type of teen-oriented garbage . .
Piece of garbage !	" Moon in Scorpio " is one of the worst slasher flicks I have ever seen . Everything in this picture is by-the-numbers , and even undemanding horror fans who only ask for competent gore will be disappointed , as the numerous murders ( mostly stabbings and throat slashings ) are practically anemic . Shot on a very low budget , the production values are almost nonexistent and the story moves at a snail's pace . This is truly bad horror film full of meaningless scenes which do nothing to the plot . The acting is completely awful and the direction by Gary Graver is even worse . An absolute trash-avoid it like the plague . My rating : ( for some nice murders ) .
Epitomizes everything what's awful with mainstream American horror .	A young man named Tim is traumatized by memories of terrible events he experienced in his childhood bedroom . Years later he reluctantly returns home to face his fears of a monstrous entity called Boogeyman that could be real or merely a figment of his imagination . Did a Boogeyman really steal his father away from the house all those years ago ? Are his nearest and dearest in danger as the monster returns from the past to haunt the present ? Does anybody want to suffer whilst watching this piece of garbage ? " Boogeyman " is just another lame and politically correct horror film that's not even remotely scary . The film has all the typical horror movie cinematic clichés for example lightning and thunder , silhouetted figures outside in the rain and dead people that talk on screen . The jump scares are irritating and the use of CGI effects is awful . The characters are completely uninteresting and there is absolutely no suspense . Avoid this bloodless piece of junk like the plague . This is surely one of the worst horror films of 2005 .
Absolutely awful .	" I Like Bats " is about a beautiful Polish woman , who is a vampire . She would like to become a human , so she seeks help from a psychiatrist . There is no doubt that Polish horror movies are incredibly rare , but this vampire laugh-fest is truly awful . Extremely boring , badly acted and stupid it features the most laughable depiction of vampires ever put to film . If you want a piece of good Polish horror check out " Wilczyca " ( 1983 ) or " Widziadlo " ( 1983 ) . Avoid this steaming pile of crap like the plague-you'll thank me later . and that's being generous . Recommended only if you need a perfect cure for insomnia or if you are desperate to see all the horror movies ever made .
Absolutely worthless and boring .	Emma has a strong aversion towards her family's new house , especially the attic . After moving in , she becomes miserable and reclusive . The rest of her family also seems unhappy and unsettled . The situation escalates one day when Emma is in the attic alone . All of a sudden someone who looks like Emma's identical twin sister attacks her viciously . Emma is convinced that someone or something is haunting her . . . First of all I can't believe that Mary Lambert , the director of very creepy " Pet Sematary " is responsible for this tedious piece of garbage . " The Attic " is deadly dull and contains no suspense . There is one throat slashing and that's all when it comes to gore . The acting is pitiful , the script is predictable and it took me two days to actually finish this turd . Skip it .
Truly bad .	" The Revenge of the Living Dead Girls " has to be one of the worst zombie flicks I have ever seen . Directed by porn director Pierre Reinhard it certainly delivers plenty of sleaze and nudity . The acting is horribly bad and the script is so pitiful that it nearly made me cry with its stupidity . Still the gore is pretty strong : there is for example an eye stabbing , biting off a penis and vagina mutilation . This is just a pure exploitation , so if you like this kind of crap give this one a look . Still be sure to get an uncut version !
Extremely horrible pseudo-horror film .	In this bizarre horror film , Ilsa and Sabrina are a mother / daughter team of lesbian nurses with sadomasochistic tendencies who , with their compatriot Greta , enjoy luring unsuspecting strangers back to their remote clinic and subjecting them to various homegrown tortures . Somewhere down the line , Sabrina falls victim to a cadre of feminist terrorists who have decided that she is to be part of their plan for world domination . " Maniac Nurses Find Ecstasy " is a truly abysmal exploitation film which was released in America by exploitation film masters Troma Team Pictures . It has also appeared under the title " Bloodsucking Freaks II " , though it has no connection to Joel M . Reed's memorably sleazy 1977 cult abomination . The film itself is boring and there is very little nudity . The acting is amateurish and the storyline is completely absurd . The funniest thing is that " Maniac Nurses " is apparently a Hungarian porno film that's been edited into one of the most delirious stinkers you'll ever see . The hardcore sex scenes were cut out and Troma or somebody else decided to dub it . Some women are absolutely gorgeous and there is a gory moment where a guy's feet is sliced off his body when he runs into a trip wire type booby-trap , but you'll suffer watching this mess . .
Piece of trash .	" Intensive Care " by Dorna von Rouveroy is easily one of the worst horror movies ever made . This extremely cheap Dutch slasher flick offers some gore and plenty of absurd situations . A horror veteran George Kennedy is completely wasted as as Professor Bruckner . The acting is abysmal , the action is slow and the climax is laughable . A famous surgeon has a car accident . He lies in a coma seven years and then he wakes up and goes on a bloody rampage . " Intensive Care " is clearly influenced by American slasher films including " Halloween " and " Friday the 13th " series . The killings are hilarious and the dialogs are painfully stupid . Still if you are in the right mood you can give this piece of trash a look . You'll laugh until it hurts with this one-you can believe me !
Typical brainless so-called ' horror film ' for mainstream audience .	" Van Helsing " is easily one of the worst so-called ' horror films ' of 2004 . Why people compare this CGI-laden piece of crap to Universal classics or Hammer vampire movies is beyond me . Instead of focusing on suspense the film is loaded with tons of unimpressive CGI-imagery . The script is painfully weak and the characters are totally one-dimensional . Admittedly , the opening scene is pretty good as it follows a mob of angry villagers as they storm Dr . Frankenstein's castle . It's shot in black and white and ? for a little while , anyway ? captures the eerie , fog-ridden atmosphere of such horror staples as " Frankenstein " and " The Wolf Man " . After this short prologue we meet Van Helsing and the film quickly becomes stupefying mess . The dialogue is particularly atrocious and there is no suspense or gore , just lots of loud noises and computer animated vampires and werewolves . The film may be entertaining for popcorn eaters , but everyone who calls himself or herself a true horror fan will hate it . . Avoid this travesty like the plague .
Horribly cheap and idiotic slasher flick .	A group of obnoxious teens rents a ruined house , which once belonged to the infamous serial killer called The Family Man . They quickly become victims of this crazed slasher . " Return of the Family Man " is extremely cheap and extremely stupid . The acting is diabolical , the gore is absent as is the nudity and the killer is laughable throwing painfully dumb one-liners . I have seen literally tons of 80's slasher flicks and this one is easily among the worst . Even the killings are particularly anemic and bloodless . The film is very obscure and only recommended for fans of cheesy trash cinema . All others should stay away from this steaming pile of junk . .
Total trash .	An LAPD detective Hank Holten goes searching for a missing college girl and discovers that she has joined a commune of bloodsuckers lurking in the Los Angeles underground . " Out for Blood " is as awful as the modern vampire flicks get . The concept has been done to death , our protagonist gets bitten by a vampire after visiting a rave and he is slowly transforming into vampire . There is a bit of gore including quick decapitation and the tongue bitten off by vampire , but the film is absolutely predictable with no suspense or scares . The acting is weak and the make-up of the vampires is hilarious . If you enjoyed " Dracula II : Ascension " or similar nonsensical vampire crap you may try it . I still think that watching paint dry is far more interesting than suffering through this garbage . and that's being generous .
Hideously bad .	On a weekend hunting trip two firefighters Alex Kerwood and Wayne Higley stumble onto a mysterious burial site . They dig it up and find the skull of an ancient horned creature . Big mistake ! Suddenly the unleashed monster starts killing people in a small American town . . . OK , I'm a pretty tolerant guy when it comes to low-budget indie horror , but " In the Woods " is bad to the bone . The script is lifeless and dull , the suspense is non-existent and the action takes place in the woods for only 10 minutes or so . The DVD proudly claims " Creepier than ' The Blair Witch Project ' " . Yeah , right ! Avoid this piece of cow dung like the plague unless you want to be bored beyond comprehension .
Incredibly awful .	When Dr . Alan Harker travels to the crumbling estate of his university mentor Dr . Usher , he finds the man plagued by a horrible paranoia-destroyed by his repeated attempts at awakening his comatose daughter . Haunted by ghosts of his dead family members , Dr . Usher is rushing toward madness , with only Harker left to save him . I can easily say that I'm a big fan of Jesus Franco , unfortunately " Revenge in the House of Usher " is breathtakingly awful . Those expecting gore and sex in a Eurohorror title ( especially from Franco ) will be sorely disappointed , because there is absolutely no nudity or blood in this one . The pacing is horribly slow and there are a lot of ' flashback ' scenes taken from Franco's earlier horror classic " The Awful Dr . Orloff " . Avoid this piece of stinking crap like the plague .
Another slasher trash .	I really like slasher movies , but this one is truly awful . The acting is lame , the script is bad , and the atmosphere is non-existent . The plot is as follows : a deformed gardener Charlie Puckett slaughters people in a small American town . That's right-this is the plot . Very original , eh ! " The Night Brings Charlie " isn't even gory enough-if the film ain't gonna be scary , at least they should make it bloody . Avoid this cheap piece of trash at all costs . If you want to see some good slasher flicks check out " Madman " , " The Burning " , " The Prowler " , " Just Before Dawn " or " Humongous " - just don't waste your precious time with this worthless piece of garbage .
Terrible horror film .	After being bitten by a bat in a cave , a doctor named John Beck undergoes an accelerating transformation into a man-bat creature . His wife assures him that there's nothing wrong with him , it's all just due to rabies or the anti-rabies drugs he's taking . The local cop thinks that John is responsible for several gruesome murders . " The Bat People " by Jerry Jameson is one hell of a horrible film . The script is deadly dull and there is no gore nor nudity . This pointless piece of crap is so mind-numbingly boring that you'll scratch your head in a total disbelief after suffering through it . Even the design of a man-bat creature by a young Stan Winston is completely pathetic and unmemorable . Avoid this stinker like the plague . .
Boring trash with no horror whatsoever .	A female baby-sitter is watching a young prankster on Halloween night . The kid's dad is a murdering lunatic who just happens to break out of an asylum that very night . Gary Graver's " Trick or Treats " is a badly-lit and incredibly boring " Halloween " clone with almost no horror elements at all . The plot makes little sense and is filled with several disjointed and out-of-place situations . I have also seen Gary Graver's " Moon in Scorpio " and it was equally as bad and pointless . The utter lack of blood and gore is hard to forgive as is the lack of suspense and scares . Overall , " Trick or Treats " is a complete waste of time . Watch " Halloween " again and don't bother with this piece of cow dung .
Hilariously awful zombie romp .	" The Chilling " directed by Deland Nuse and Jack A . Sunseri is one of the worst zombie flicks I have ever seen . Why Linda Blair ( " The Exorcist " , " Witchery " ) appeared in this stinker is beyond me . The plot is really dumb : the frozen bodies at a cryogenic lab are revived after lightening strikes and turned into cannibalistic zombies . The characters are completely one-dimensional and stupid , the zombies look horrible and there is no gore . Avoid this cheap piece of trash like the plague . My rating : .
Complete garbage .	Members of a family succumb to the hypnotic spell of the Shaman as he searches for the one to inherit his powers . Only Paul is able to resist these forces of evil . However his desperate struggles lead him to oppose his best friend , the appointed successor . " The Shaman " has to be one of the worst horror movies I have ever seen . The acting is completely awful and the script is beyond abysmal . The film is extremely obscure , but even undemanding lovers of trash cinema will be disappointed . A couple of bloody knife killings can't save this stupid mess . Avoid this piece of trash like the plague-you'll thank me later . My rating : and that's being generous . Highly unrecommended .
An insult for the fans of Romero's zombie classic .	" Night of the Living Dead 3D " is the second remake of George A . Romero's classic , after Tom Savini's version made in 1990 . Barb and her brother Johnny arrive late for the burial of their aunt and walk straight into a nightmare . With zombies on her heels , Barb flees the cemetery and is rescued by Ben , a local college student . The two seek refuge in the nearby farmhouse of the Cooper family , where the marijuana growing residents aren't remotely prepared to have their lives turn into a horror movie . But Barb is destined for an even grimmer confrontation , with the dark secret of the mortician Gerald Tovar Jr . Utterly terrible zombie flick that offers zero scares and almost no gore . The zombies look horrible , the acting is bad and the script offers nothing fresh or interesting . I have seen only 2D version , but I highly doubt that 3D version will be better .
This is a horror ? ? ?	I really tried to like this one and after the film was over I thought " What the hell ! ! ! " . There's nothing even remotely interesting about this one : no suspense , no gore , just another politically correct Hollywood's drivel . I agree that Stan Winston's creature effects are impressive to say at least , but damn does this movie suck ! Watch " Alligator " ( 1980 ) instead , but if you like so-called " horror movies " like " Scream " then be my guest !
Sickening .	" Smush " contains eight minutes of an actress Erika Elizondo killing dozen of earthworms . She crushes the blind squirming beasts under her feet , squish them in her toes and finally under high heels . I have seen various fetish videos out of morbid curiosity , but " Smush " truly repulsed me . It's so morally wrong and reprehensible that I was somewhat fascinated by it . It certainly reaches the depths of perversion I have never seen in the porn cinema . I have seen " Cannibal Holocaust " , " Man Behind the Sun " , " Viva La Muerte " , " Blood of the Beasts " , " Mago " and various other films involving brutal animal butchery , but this squish sickie tops ' em all . For curious and fetishists only . and that's being kind .
Piece of garbage .	A top-notch computer security system installed in a private college becomes deadly when infected with a computer virus called The Mangler 2 . 0 . The virus crawls into the school's mainframe and all sorts of mechanical gadgets , like freezers , washing machines , security locks , and the various cameras all begin to go haywire and kill students / college workers . " The Mangler 2 " has nothing to do with gory and enjoyable original . The film itself is a tedious bore . The script is filled with holes , the gore is non-existent and the dialogue is rubbish . The techno soundtrack is incredibly annoying and horror regular Lance Henriksen is completely wasted as the strict head master . Stay away from " The Mangler 2 " . and that's being kind .
A waste of time .	" FearDotCom " is so damn bad that it really has to be seen to be believed . The script is rubbish , the acting sucks and the lighting is beyond awful . The film is clearly a rip-off of Hideo Nakata's masterful " Ringu " , but it offers more violence and gore . Still the atmosphere of dread and fear is completely non-existent and the film is boring . It's nice to see horror veterans Jeffrey Combs and Udo Kier on screen and this is basically the only reason to see this piece of crap . William Malone is definitely a talented director ( I enjoyed his " Creature " and " House on Haunted Hill " remake ) , but this tragic misfire needs to be forgotten very quickly . Avoid this lame horror film like the plague . My rating : and that's being generous .
More yucks than scares .	" Pet Sematary 2 " is a totally unnecessary sequel to the first " Pet Sematary " , which has to be one of my favourite horror movies of all time . Instead of suspense it is loaded with gore and repulsive violence . The acting is pretty bad , the characters are one-dimensional and the film is completely idiotic in places ( for example how our boys managed to carry the body of Gus through the quagmire ? ) . If you're a gore-hound then you will be able to handle this little flick ( there are better gorefests , though ) , but if you like scary horror movies avoid this trash like the plague . .
Pretty lame .	In a remote region of the Bering Sea , a boat salvage crew discovers the eerie remains of a grand passenger liner thought lost for more than 40 years . Once on board , the crew must confront the ship's horrific past and face the ultimate fight for their lives . " Ghost Ship " starts very promising with wonderfully created scene of massacre ( dozens of bodies are literally sliced in two , leaving body parts and intestines to flop around on the deck of an ocean liner ) , but after this fairly gruesome moment the film quickly goes downhill . First of all there is absolutely no suspense or atmosphere . The acting is only decent and nothing more . The script is pretty weak and the film is simply dull . Avoid " Ghost Ship " like the plague-check out Alvin Rakoff's " Death Ship " ( 1980 ) which is certainly more creepy and atmospheric than this piece of trash !
Silly Fangoria produced gore comedy .	A young scientist is trying to carry on his dead father's work on limb regeneration . His overbearing mother has convinced him that he murdered his own father and is monitoring his progress for her own evil purposes . A young doctor uses reptilian DNA he extracts from a large creature and when his arm is conveniently ripped off a few minutes later , he injects himself with his formula and grows a new murderous arm . . . Admittedly the special effects in " Severed Ties " are pretty good and grotesque , but the rest of the film is awful . The severed arm is behaving like a snake and kills few people . Big deal . The acting is mediocre and the climax is silly . .
Pile of garbage !	First of all , I hate " Nightmare on Elm Street " series . Only the first one is worth watching , avoid sequels like the plague . This is possibly the most overrated series ever made . Anyway , horror fans who are looking for gore and nudity will be disappointed , because this movie contains no gore and very little nudity . " Nightmare on Elm Street 4 : The Dream Master " is boring , extremely stupid and politically correct horror trash . The acting is weak , the script is awful and the ending sucks big time . OK , the special effects are pretty good , but any trace of originality is gone . Not recommended .
Users tell no tales : " Incubus " is really bad .	Jay ( Tara Reid ) and group of her friends are stranded in a building where they realize that a serial killer is terrorizing them by going into their dreams . Fairly routine plot offers nothing fresh or interesting . The acting is hysterical with the token black guy being the worst . Admittedly the location sets in Romania are mildly eerie and there is a bit of gore and suspense in the climax , but I was bored whilst watching this film . Of course I didn't expect nail-biting suspense or tons of splatter , I just wanted to be entertained and " Incubus " failed to do this . Just another quickly forgettable horror film recommended only for some rabid fans of low-budget crap .
Piece of crap .	Peter Manoogian's " Seedpeople " is a stupid horror film about people being taken over by a plant monsters in a small town of Comet Valley . The action is deadly dull , the monsters are completely unscary and there is no gore . The film is a blatant copy of " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " , so anyone who is looking for some new ideas will be disappointed . The monsters by John Carl Buechler are among the most laughable movie creatures in recent years . The script by Jackson Barr is truly lame and the direction by Peter Manoogian ( " Demonic Toys " , " Eliminators " ) is not better . The film may be marginally entertaining , if you're in the right mood . My rating : and that's being really generous .
Another slickly made teen slasher garbage .	" Valentine " is just another teen slasher from Jamie Blanks , the director of extremely generic " Urban Legend " . It tells the story of five school friends now grown up . One by one the girls start to receive strange cards around Valentine's Day . The cards all bear the same initials and when the girls and the detective get together they all point the finger at a school nerd they knew years ago whom they had all humiliatingly knocked back at the local school dance . From then on in as the girls are killed one by one you are left to work out if is it the school nerd or whether someone else is responsible . " Valentine " is a suspenseless and almost completely bloodless slasher film that literally offers nothing new . The acting is surprisingly flat and the plot heavily borrows from Canadian slasher " My Bloody Valentine " . The script is poorly written , the conversations are all lifeless and dull and as for the plot , it's safe to say you won't find many more stupid than this one . The climax is awful with totally pointless plot twist at the end . The film is slickly made and moderately entertaining , but the lack of gore is hard to forgive . A typical trash for teens , who don't know the genre . . If you want truly grisly and savage piece of horror rent " Haute Tension " .
Pretty awful .	I wasn't expecting this one to be good and I was right . " The Fear " isn't the worst horror movie I have ever seen , but it surely comes close . The acting is awful , the gore is non-existent as well as suspense . Wes Craven is completely wasted here as Dr . Arnold but it is nice to see Ann Turkel from cult exploitation / horror film " Humanoids from the Deep " ( 1980 ) . There are some interesting shades of Jung's philosophy floating in " The Fear " , but I wouldn't recommend this film to anybody . - a total trash !
Totally obscure and insanely bad Wendigo flick .	" Wendigo " by Paul Kener is easily among the most obscure horror movies I have ever seen . That doesn't mean that everyone is entitled to search for this cheap and deadly dull piece of horse dung . A group of hunters and photographers reaches the secluded area of Canada . Soon they discover that they are camping near an ancient Indian burial site . According to some legend a magnificent treasure is hidden there guarded by a mighty spirit of the wind Wendigo . I have seen Paul Kener's mind-numbingly bad survival / slasher flick " Savage Water " and " Wendigo " is equally as amateurish . The lighting during the night scenes is terrible-virtually nothing is seen , the acting is diabolical and the action is utterly lifeless and boring . Watch this in pair with " Savage Water " and prepare to die out of sheer boredom .
Slickly made piece of garbage .	As its 23 horrifying days of flesh-eating come to an end , an ancient creature known as the Creeper embarks on a final voracious feeding frenzy , terrorizing a group of basketball players , cheerleaders and coaches stranded on a remote highway after their bus breaks down . The Creeper picks off the occupants of the bus , one by one . That's the whole plot . " Jeepers Creepers 2 " is certainly one of the most pointless horror movies I have ever seen . The acting is surprisingly decent , but the characters are completely one-dimensional , so it's rather difficult to see them as anything besides lunch . There is absolutely no suspense , even the gore is non-existent . The film has some good special effects , but not much else . Avoid it like the plague .
Extremely boring house of Usher .	" The House of Usher " is called " the modern re-telling of Edgar Allen Poe's story from a female perspective " . Yeah right , and I'm an alien invader from Pluto . First of all , the film fails as a thriller as it's extremely boring and lacks tension . Like so many earlier adaptations of Poe's work , this latest interpretation bears little resemblance to the source material . The cast is pretty terrible , albeit it's nice to see Polish beauty Izabella Miko in the main role . On the plus side the cinematography is great and the last 15 minutes are actually quite interesting to say the least . It's a shame that the rest of the film is so painfully dull . If you want a proper Poe's adaptations rent or buy a couple of Roger Corman's flicks . .
What the hell ?	I doubt that the reviewers are reviewing the same film I saw today . Sam-519 from London is obviously reviewing Tamakichi Anaru's porno / pseudo-snuff " Niku Daruma " from 1998 . Maybe Kevlin is reviewing the right film , I ain't sure . However " Flesh Meat Doll 1 : Doll for Pleasure " or perhaps different film left me disappointed . It's a boring and heavily censored optically S & M porno with no gore and violence . Basically a Japanese woman played by Saki Yuri is sexually pleasured and degraded by the driver of a red car . The film looks amateurish , the porno scenes are pixellated and it lacks gore and grisly violence of " Niku Daruma " . Maybe somebody who actually seen all four movies of " Flesh Meat Doll " series will point me at the right direction . - the biggest disappointment I have in years .
Utterly terrible with few amusing moments .	Delores Carlos and Byron Mabe play a couple , who is visiting a Miami nudist camp . Unfortunately for them an escaped gorilla chooses to show up on grounds of camp and start killing female nudists , one woman to be precise . How the beast in gorilla suit escaped or why it's attacking nudists in their grass huts at night is never explained though we're given a soundless scene near the end of the film where the cops arrest an unnamed woman with a large cage in her home . I have seen my share of bad horror movies and " The Beast That Killed Women " is no exception . It has tons of naked flesh , but no full-frontal nudity . The acting is terrible , the plot is extremely dull and the beast looks laughable . Still the scenes with gorilla are strangely amusing . .
Very weak horror film .	" Sometimes They Come Back . . . for More " is a fairly routine and forgettable horror film that offers literally nothing new . The first half is actually interesting , but after it the film goes quickly downhill . Two military officers ( played by Clayton Rohner and Chase Masterson ) set out to investigate a remote Antarctica based governmental outpost where a mysterious occurrence has killed crew members . The only survivors are a medical officer ( Faith Ford ) and a tech officer ( Max Perlich ) . Before long , the bodies are discovered all over the place . " Sometimes They Come Back . . . for More " has nothing to do with Stephen King's short story . The plot tries hard to surprise , but all its twists are pretty silly . There is only a little bit of suspense and gore , so I was disappointed . Give it a look , only if you want to see every horror film . .
Truly dreadful teen slasher .	" Cherry Falls " tries to mix slasher flick with teen sex comedy and it fails miserably . The town of Cherry Falls has a psycho killer , who is knocking off the town's teenagers . He chooses his victims among the town's virgin population . I have to admit that such premise is certainly interesting . However the script is bland and predictable , the acting is weak and there is no suspense . The are some violent set-pieces , unfortunately almost all of the gore wound up on the cutting room floor . It's perfectly clear that " Cherry Falls " owes a lot to Italian giallos , but there is no convincing mystery here . The pace of the film is slow with a lot of boring stretches where nothing happens . The lack of gore is also very disappointing . So if you like teen slasher movies you can give it a look . I prefer slasher films from late 70's or early 80's which are better than most of the crap being churned out today . .
Crappy film slightly redeemed by its infamous pseudo-snuff conclusion .	" Snuff " is actually a pretty notorious little film for propagating the snuff film myths . However it's also really bad , an amateurishly acted , written and dubbed Charlie Manson inspired story about a crazed hippy who controls pretty girls and makes them worship him and kill . The 5-minutes long pseudo-snuff segment added to the end of the film contains the sequence in which an actress in the movie is slashed , her fingers and hands chopped off and then disemboweled in unconvincing , prototypical Guinea Pig fashion . If you want to see the closest thing to snuff ever put on screen try to find Psychic TV's very graphic " First Transmission " video from 1982 .
This is not a REAL Argento's film !	What a total let-down ! What a huge disappointment ! I still can't believe that Dario Argento was responsible for this Hollywood-influenced piece of garbage . It's simply a romance with some splashy gore thrown in . All of Argento's trademarks are gone here : no cool camera angles , no Goblin music , no playing with colors , no black-gloved killer , no bizarre dreamlike sequences , and worse of all , absolutely no suspense . The direction is very flat , the acting is horrible and the characters are not interesting at all . The gore scenes are well-done , but the film is extremely boring . All in all , " Phantom of the Opera " is pretty hard to sit through since it is so lame and unscary . I wouldn't be able to watch this trash again . I only hope that Argento's next horror project " I Can't Sleep " will be really worth watching . Avoid " Il Fantasma dell'opera " like the plague . Better watch " Suspiria " or " Deep Red " again . Not recommended .
Extremely bad and painful to watch .	Detective Burt Williams has been on the trail of the infamous Poe killer for nearly three years . Burt's daughter Kris Williams , a homicide agent for the FBI along with her partner Sean Michaels take over . Burt reluctantly steps down from the case and retires . For the next seven months the " Poe Killer " continues his murderous rampage until Kris discovers that the killer uses internet chat rooms to seduce his prey . She logs in as Annabel Lee and is quickly captured by Poe killer . It's time for Burt to find the sadist and free his daughter before it's too late . Amateurish and supremely braindead horror flick with no suspense and a bit of nasty gore . The acting is hilariously terrible , the characters are painfully dumb and the killer is not menacing . Still I have seen worse indie horror flicks . .
Truly dreadful slasher flick .	A killer is dispatching the patrons of the local drive-in with a sword . Heads are sliced off , necks are slashed and other various body parts are impaled . Two inept detectives are trying to solve the case . " Drive-In Massacre " is an abysmal slasher flick directed by porn director Stu Segall . There are some bloody killings , but the gore effects are crude and amateurish . The pace is slow , the acting is painfully bad and the synthesizer score is beyond awful . Easily the best thing about this insanely rotten piece of festering cow-dung is its short running time . The only way to enjoy " Drive-In Massacre " is to drink lots of alcohol . for providing me a few laughs .
Pretty boring and predictable .	Brian De Palma's " Carrie " is an undisputed classic of the genre , whilst the sequel is just plain horrible . The acting is not bad and Emily Bergl is pretty likeable as a Rachel . Still there's absolutely no suspense or atmosphere to keep horror fans intrigued . The characters are total stereotypes and there's plenty of lame jokes and dialogue . The film is gorier than its predecessor , but is also extremely predictable and somewhat annoying . Mena Suvari's suicide scene is the most interesting part ! Avoid this one like the plague . My rating : .
Atrocious slasher flick .	After the mysterious death of an old friend , a group of teenagers find themselves in the possession of Stay Alive , a horror survival video game based on the gruesome story of Erzebet Bathory known as The Blood Countess . The group begins to play the grisly game and soon they are murdered one by one in the same method as the character they played in the game . As the line between the game world and the reality disappears , our heroes must find a way to defeat vicious Blood Countess . " Stay Alive " is an incredibly poor teen slasher flick without any iota of suspense . Writer-director William Brent Bell doesn't have the damn clue how to make a watchable horror movie . The jump scares are irritating , the blood / gore level is almost non-existent and the story doesn't make sense . The dialogue is utterly bad and the acting of all involved is embarrassing . " Stay Alive " is easily one of the worst mainstream horror flicks of 2006 . Stay away from this stinking turd .
If this is the future of American horror , then I give up !	" Thir13en Ghosts " is so disappointing ! First of all it is not scary and there's not enough gore . There is only one moment in entire film that I found pretty creepy-the bathroom scene . Of course some kids may find this film extremely scary , but real horror fans will be certainly disappointed . This is typical Hollywood's fodder made only for undemanding MTV generation and popcorn eaters . On a plus side the acting is fairly convincing and some of the ghosts look terrifying , but the film just sinks in the ocean of mediocrity . I'm really fed up with boring and politically correct Hollywood's trash that is played in cinemas . I expect horror to be scary , raw and disturbing-fortunately there are some underground American filmmakers who really can make a true horror movies-Jim Van Bebber and Eric Stanze for example . They are the future of American horror !
Slightly amusing piece of utter trash .	The back of my DVD describes the plot of " El Chucabra " : after his capture in the wilderness , the legendary bloodthirsty creature Chupacabra escapes into the city creating mayhem and panic . As they pursue the deadly beast , an animal control officer and scientist Dr Starlina Davide realize that a vigilante with his own suspicious plan is also tracking the elusive killer for a mysterious research facility run by the diabolical Dr Goodspeed . This putrid horror flick is somewhat amusing , if you watch it under the influence of alcohol . The script is completely silly , the acting is wooden beyond belief and the direction is amateurish . Two rubber Chupacabra suits are easily the best thing about this movie . and that's being extremely kind .
Incredibly dull remake .	I'm not a fan of Herschell Gordon Lewis cheap gore films , but they are better than this CGI-gore laden remake . Amateur journalist Edmund Bigelow becomes obsessed with the gruesome onstage magic of Montag the Magnificent ( Crispin Glover ) , who seems to violently murder his female volunteers before the audience's very eyes . Bigelow discovers that the women are turning up dead-days later-from their supposedly illusionary wounds . Extremely boring remake with unconvincing dialogue and terrible script . The death scenes are eerie and grotesque , however I must say that I hated the use of digital blood . At least the film features some full-frontal nudity by feminist Suicide Girls . Skip this one and watch the original from 1970 . You will thank me later !
Boring and amateurish trash .	As an obscure horror cinema enthusiast I borrowed this extremely rare horror film on VHS from my friend and it left me disappointed . It's not only amateurish , but also completely lifeless and dull . The cover of " Death Doll " is actually pretty misleading , because this ain't killer doll flick in the vein of " Dolls " or " Child's Play " . The doll here is simply the symbol of death . There is a tiny fraction of suspense and this is the only positive thing I can tell about this sorry excuse of the film . " Death Doll " is a predictable , tedious and goreless film that I can only recommend as the cure for insomnia . Still some rabid fans of ultra-obscurities may want to give it a try . Good luck finding the copy !
Lesbian vampire flick without nudity ? What the hell !	Sydney gets intrigued by a new online dating service and since she hasn't dated anyone for several years , she decides to sign up . Unbeknownst for her the dating service is run by a pack of female lesbian vampires . " The Last Sect " bored me senseless . It is simply mind-numbingly dull . The plot is incredibly tedious and worst of all there is absolutely no nudity . As a fan of early 70's lesbian vampire flicks like " Vampyres " , " Twins of Evil " or " Vampyros Lesbos " I found the lack of nudity incredibly disappointing . Admittedly the film is well-made and the women are quite gorgeous to look at , however " The Last Sect " offers zero scares or gore and is simply worthless . Avoid it . .
At least it's marginally better than " Boogeyman " .	Horror film enthusiast Mary defies her parents wishes and joins her friends to catch a glimpse of the scariest movie ever called ' The Wisher ' . But five minutes into film , Mary becomes violently ill and leaves the cinema . She senses that something is wrong . Soon afterwards , someone dressed as The Wisher from the film begins to haunt Mary , stalking her and with each wish that Mary makes , The Wisher grants it , twisting it around to make it worse than what it really is . " The Wisher " is an incredibly generic slasher flick that fails to generate even the slightest amount of suspense . The script is completely unoriginal and the action is rather dull . The Wisher of the title looks pretty crappy too . He's a cross between Freddy Krueger and the Creeper from " Jeepers Creepers " , only with shards of glass instead of knives . The climax is awful as it doesn't make any sense at all . There is very little blood , so fans of splatter will be disappointed . So if you want to watch creepy and unsettling Canadian horror film try to find " Born for Hell " and " Rituals " . Heck , even " Ginger Snaps " series is better than this turd . .
Pretty lame .	For a start I'm not interested in adding nothing new in this review . " Fear Runs Silent " has a good premise , but this premise is completely wasted . Director Serge Rodnunsky doesn't create almost any atmosphere ( apart from the beginning , which is pretty creepy ) , instead he fills this trash with so many annoying flashbacks . The ending is totally awful : after all these grisly events it all turns into dream ! ! ! Yeah right , what a load of s ! ! Three stars : one for a funny performance by Stacy Keach as a biologist , one for beautiful photography , and finally one for the beginning . Avoid this mess like the plague .
Utter garbage .	Clad in his zombie mariachi costume twenty-one year old Diego is going to a Dia De Los Muertos party . Unfortunately for him he is abducted , sacrificed and resurrected by the Aztec Gods of Death and Destiny . " El Muerto " is easily one of the worst so-called " horror " films I have seen recently . It's dull and completely unscary . There is no gore and some CGI effects look really poor . The film is based on the comic book series from Javier Hernandez , which I never read . The production values are surprisingly high and the cinematography is great , but the lack of suspense , gore and nudity can't be forgiven . Avoid this boring mess like the plague-you'll thank me later . and that's being kind .
Incredibly bad .	The plot of " Mortuary " goes like that : single mom played by Denise Crosby of " Pet Sematary " fame and her two children , a teenage son and young daughter move from Chicago to a small town . Crosby has just finished Embalming School and has leased a rundown old mortuary Fowler Brothers Funeral Home . Her son finds a job at a local diner and quickly learns the story of Bobby Fowler ; a boy so hideous his parents kept his face covered with a ' death shroud ' . In the early 60's , the Fowler parents are murdered and the boy missing and was presumed dead , but the myth is he's alive and living in the catacombs under the graveyard and funeral home . First of all I can't believe that Tobe Hooper , the man behind horrifying horror classic " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " directed this mess . The script is laughable , the comedy elements are stupid and unnecessary and finally there is no suspense . The minimal amount of blood doesn't help either . " Mortuary " fails even as the parody of campy 80s horror . Avoid this crap like the plague . Sorry Tobe , try harder next time .
Amazingly horrible low-budget slasher flick , but I have seen worse .	Four unlucky photography students head into the Nevada desert to take photos for an extra credit assignment , but they find themselves stalked by a vicious machete-wielding killer Quiltface who wears a mask made from human skin . Massimiliano Cerchi's " Carnage Road " is an incredibly poor slasher film filled with atrocious acting and stupid characters . The pacing is awful , the death scenes via machete are weak and the gore effects are amateurish . " Carnage Road " plays like the homage to " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and " The Hills Have Eyes " , but offers nothing fresh or interesting . Thankfully Mack Hail of " Nutbag " fame is amazingly funny as the driver who picks up four students and so is the final confrontation between Quiltface and the last survivor . Watch this only under the influence of alcohol . .
Pure crap .	" Transformations " is one hell of a bad film . Mitch Brian's script manages to rip off " Aliens " and " The Fly " with truly hilarious results . Rex Smith transforms into a mutant following a night of passion with a seductive succubus . Mayhem ensues when he lands on a nearby prison planet . As this was one of Band's last productions to be made at Rome's Empire Studios / Cinecitta , some of the sets in the movie are surprisingly expensive . Unfortunately the monster looks absolutely pathetic . The special effects range from ludicrous to gross ( boils on skin ) . There is a particularly nasty organ-yanking scene near the end , but it can't save this horrible mess . Give it a look , only if you like sleazy grade-Z trash cinema . .
Another mainstream crap .	What I would like to say is that " New Nightmare " has to be one of the most overrated horror movies ever made . Everyone who thinks that this film is scary is possibly 15 years old or even younger . Sure , there are some good special effects in the film , but there's not enough gore for my liking . The acting is solid , the script is okay , unfortunately " New Nightmare " becomes quickly boring . Someone has to say it : Craven's horror movies are mostly stupid ( " Deadly Friend " , " The Hills Have Eyes Part 2 " , " Shocker " ) , laughable and goreless . Why this guy is considered as the horror master is beyond me . If you want to see a good Craven's horror movie-check out " Last House on the Left " ( 1972 ) , " The Hills Have Eyes " ( 1977 ) or even " Deadly Blessing " ( 1981 ) . Avoid " New Nightmare " like the plague !
Truly horrible .	" Tentacoli " is easily one of the worst Italian horror movies ever made . It's competently acted and made , but the pace is painfully lethargic and there is absolutely no suspense or gore . The special effects are lame and the script is really bad . During the climatic octopus-whale fight , the music score sounds like something lifted from epic war drama . Considerable amount of time is being spent with characters and subplots that has absolutely nothing to do with the eventual outcome . " Tentacles " is also a very bad " Jaws " rip-off . It fails to create even a moment of tension during its 98 tedious minutes . I'm a huge fan of Italian horror and I have seen plenty of Italian horror movies , giallos or exploitation pics , but " Tentacles " is so bad that it's painful . Avoid this one like the plague .
Extremely boring thriller .	After he escapes from a mental hospital , deranged Zooey Hall sets out to kill his mother ( who sent him there ) , but along the way attacks and kills any " loose women " that cross his path . Eventually , he falls for a young girl , the daughter of his mother's housekeeper . " I Dismember Mama " is an extremely boring and ugly thriller . I actually suffered watching this one and that's saying something . Exploitation and horror fans will be disappointed , because there is absolutely no gore . There is a little bit of sleaze and perversion ( for example photos of naked children in the warehouse filled with mannequins ) , and the denouement is almost intense , unfortunately " I Dismember Mama " is too dull to be enjoyable . Watching paint dry is far more interesting than suffering through this turd . and that's being kind .
Oh , this one is really bad !	I found this one by accident in an old Polish video store and I bought it immediately . " Zombie Brigade " is one of the dumbest horror flicks I have ever seen , but still it manages to be both entertaining and amusing . The zombies ( undead Vietnam soldiers ) are funny looking with these fake fangs-the make up is truly horrible ! The acting isn't so hot either . The film is worth watching just for curiosity sake ( Australian horror movies are pretty rare ) or if you like such brainless entertainment ! Rather not recommended .
Boring drama masquerading as horror .	" Dark Water " shouldn't be called horror movie simply because it isn't horror at all : a full hour passes before anything remotely scary occurs and all the suspenseful scenes take place in the final ten minutes . What's left is gigantic tedium and a seemingly endless build-up to nothing much at all . The main horror emits from the ghost of a little girl with long , dark , straggly hair . Of course Walter Salles horror drama is a remake of Hideo Nakata's very creepy " Dark Water " . It tells the story of a recently divorced mother who moves into a haunted , slum-like apartment with her daughter . Admittedly Jennifer Connelly is pretty believable as Dahlia , who suffers from migraines and must summon the courage to battle her ex-husband's lawsuits and deal with the mucky leak in her ceiling and Tim Roth steals the show as her lawyer , but the lack of suspense is extremely disappointing . Skip it .
Pretty dull gore film .	" Demonium " is the English language debut of Andreas Schnaas , whose previous amateurish horror movies include " Zombie 90 : Extreme Pestilence " , " Anthropophagous 2000 " and " Violent Shit " trilogy . For a Schnaas film , " Demonium " actually looks pretty expensive , but not too much . The acting is very poor and the script by Ted Geoghegan and Sonja Schnaas is awful , with appalling dialogue and unsympathetic characters . The gore is pretty extreme , with decapitations , throat ripping , torture and chainsaw dismemberment . Still the film is rather dull , so casual horror fans will be disappointed . Give this one a look , if you're a fan of German splatter . .
Pathetic crap !	I was always a Full Moon's horror fan , but this film is a total waste of time . The characters are completely one-dimensional , there's absolutely no suspense-even the gore is absent ! The cast is horrible-of course the girls are nice to look at . The special effects are really cheesy-the film is quite boring , but if you have enough time to kill . . . - watch " Re-Animator " or " Shadowzone " instead !
Terrible low budget werewolf horror .	The Colorado town of Fairview is plagued with a vicious string of wild dog attacks . The dogs are mutilating humans , especially around Fairview School . No one has actually seen these wild dogs , but there are also reports of a large wolf walking on its hind legs . . . Who is the werewolf ? This is one of the many cheesy horror flicks from late 80's . Admittedly the make up effects and a few gore scenes are decent , so if you like rubbery transformation sequences you shall enjoy this crappy flick . The utterly terrible music is credited to the awful ' heavy metal ' band called Tyxe . Overall , " Lone Wolf " sucks massively and is only recommended for non-discriminating fans of grade-Z horror trash . .
Watchable piece of junk !	" House " isn't completely bad , but isn't great either . Usually I don't like horror comedies ( apart from Peter Jackson's stuff ) and this film isn't also exception . The gore is virtually gone as is any trace of originality . William Katt is basically decent as a writer , who fights with demons in the house and the film is quite entertaining and relatively non-violent-good for children ! OK , if you want a bad copy of " The Evil Dead " and " Demons " mixed with humour , you can try this one , just don't expect something really exciting . Not really recommended . Avoid its sequels like the plague .
A waste of time .	Chris Thomson's " Trucks " is loosely based on Stephen King's short story " Trucks " . The plot is simple : when a small and remote town is terrorized by trucks without drivers , the local community must try to stay alive at all costs . Many of horror fans probably remember " Maximum Overdrive " by Stephen King . That was extremely cheesy and entertaining film that left me amused . On the other hand , " Trucks " is pretty boring and routine . The acting is mediocre , there is no suspense and the violence is toned down . Timothy Busfield stars as Ray , a man who has a son named Logan . They live in the town and Ray has a thing for Hope ( Brenda Bakke ) . But soon they are all thrown into nightmare , when trucks start killing people . Anyway , I suggest watching " Maximum Overdrive " instead . . A nice cover , though !
Truly mediocre and forgettable horror / comedy .	Set in a New Brunswick college town , our heroes are a pair of easy going roommates named Luke and Roger . After sneaking into a sorority girl's room to return some quarters , Luke spies the girl sprouting tentacles in front of her friend-who's casually huffing liquid nitrogen . Luke reasonably comes to the conclusion that the two are aliens-though none of his friends believe him ( he was drunk at the time ) . After a pair of suspicious deaths , Luke becomes convinced he's right and begins investigating . " Decoys " is loaded with fake scares and plenty of bad CGI imagery . The almost complete lack of gore and violence is also hard to forgive . There are some mildly humorous moments , but the pace is rather slow and the acting is weak . So if you want a proper and intelligent Canadian horror watch again " Ginger Snaps " or check out late 70's slasher classic " Rituals " .
Disgusting crap .	" Lucker the Necrophagus " is total garbage on any other level than the sicko / puke level on which it definitely succeeds . The film is loaded with gore and violence , but there is plenty of boring scenes too . The murders are quite explicit and misogynistic , but the sickest and most nauseating scene is the necrophilia scene that comes near the end . It is ten times sicker and more off-putting than anything Buttgereit ever filmed . You know in Lucker's case , the rotting body is also filled with worms and maggots and some disgusting pus that this sicko rapist licks from his hands . Then he , of course , makes love to the body and this thing really made my stomach angry and if I had eaten something I would have probably been forced to turn my head off immediately because this scene is so sick and repellent . " Lucker " is nothing but exploitation , and as sick as that can be . The gore effects are well-done and the music is occasionally pretty good . Worth watching only for fans of seedy exploitation flicks .
Not bad , but easily forgettable .	" Dracula II : Ascension " is the story of a group of medical students who come across the body of Dracula . When a mysterious stranger appears and offers the students $30 million to harvest the body and steal its blood for auction , it's an offer they can hardly refuse . Soon the students also find themselves relentlessly pursued by a vampire killer from the Vatican ! " Dracula II : Ascension " is a slightly entertaining horror film that has many flaws . The characters are one-dimensional and the acting is pretty average . There are some good gore effects like really cool double decapitation scene , but there is not enough violence for my liking . The film becomes quickly boring and forgettable and there is absolutely no suspense . So if you like modern vampire flicks give it a look . I prefer atmospheric vampire chillers from 60's and early 70's like " Lips of Blood " , " The Brides of Dracula " or " Lemora : A Child's Tale of Supernatural " to name only a few . .
A mediocre voodoo-themed horror film .	Alice Dodgson , a New York doctor gets her license suspended when she treats one of her patients with an unapproved drug , resulting in the patient's death . Without a job , Alice is forced to go to Jamaica , where she tends to the brother of a wealthy white landowner . The brother thinks he's a zombie and is deeply involved in the local people's voodoo practices and rituals . " Ritual " is a mediocre horror flick . The action is pretty dull , the plot twists are silly and there is no suspense . There is a bit of gore as someone is killing off white people with a machete , but not too much . The cinematography is decent , however the acting is truly woeful . Definitely one to avoid . .
Really bad .	A group of college kids travel to the ghost town of Hellgate to find out the truth about a young woman who was murdered by a motorcycle gang in the 1950's . There , they are greeted by ghosts and walking dead . " Hellgate " is a cheesy horror flick that will satisfy only the most undemanding fans of horror genre . The acting is terrible and the script is cheesy beyond belief . There is a fair amount of blood and gore including a nice decapitation scene , unfortunately the special effects are lame . The only reasons to see this stinker are a fish on steroids and re-animated turtle plus Abigail Wolcott as a hot zombie girl . . Only for fans of truly mindless zombie flicks .
As exciting as watching paint dry .	Deranged mama's boy Joe Balogh prowls the Virginia Beach area in his Winnebago , picking up women whom he thinks might take the place of his dead mother , then killing them when they come up short . He kidnaps a slim blonde ( Josie Bissette ) , because of her resemblance to his dead mother . " Hitcher in the Dark " is a cheesy and predictable Umberto Lenzi's thriller that manages to be slightly entertaining . There are some total lapses in logic and there is absolutely no suspense . The climax is incredibly awful and the script is weak . The movie is poorly done in typical Lenzi fashion with lots of false suspense and a total lack of believability in both the performances . However if you are a rabid fan of Italian horror films you can give it a look . .
Pretty abysmal horror flick with plenty of CGI-gore .	A group of paper-thin characters is again trapped in the abandoned asylum named the Vanacutt Mansion for greedy reasons , namely treasure hunting . Ariel Wolfe , fashion magazine editor and sister of Sarah , one of the survivors of the incident seen in the previous film is kidnapped by Desmond and his group of pathetic mercenaries and forced to enter this dilapidated building where ghosts seem still roaming . Amanda Righetti is actually pretty decent as Ariel . Unfortunately " Return to House on Haunted Hill " lacks the creepy atmosphere of 1999 remake . It relies on gore instead . Some of the bloody scenes include one of the thieves getting torn apart limb from limb and another having her face literally removed with a scalpel . The entire premise of the Baphomet statue is a little ridiculous and there is plenty of unconvincing CGI-effects . The lesbian scene is a nice touch , though . .
Very mediocre low-budget slasher flick .	A group of college kids volunteers for a weekend retreat to help their psychology professor with his research and soon find themselves fighting for their lives against a mysterious hooded killer who's picking them off one by one . " The Retreat " , which is also known under the title " Silent Scream " is an unoriginal slasher flick shot in the woods of Michigan . The acting is horrible , the action moves at snail's pace and the direction is bad . However there is a decent amount of gore and some of the killings are suitably gruesome . The so-called plot twist at the end is utterly stupid . Give it a look , only if you are a rabid fan of slasher films-just remember that there are far better hack ' em up flicks out there . My very generous rating : .
Extremely disappointing .	" Candyman : Day of the Dead " is an incredible pile of garbage . The script is not only awful , but extremely predictable with a totally pathetic ending ( I won't go into it , but you might kick in your TV set after viewing it ) . The acting is really pitiful , with dialogue to match . OK , there are some nice splatter scenes ( I like especially the sequence in the car when one guy is slowly gutted ) , but the rest of the film absolutely sucks . To sum up , " Candyman : Day of the Dead " is one of the worst horror movies ever made-bland , boring and mind numbingly stupid and gets 3 only because of some pretty good gore . I really like bad horror movies , but this is an insult . Avoid it at all costs . Not recommended .
Extremely bad and amusing Yeti flick .	Unperturbed by the gruesome failure of a previous such mission some years earlier , the peculiarly motivated Sasquatch hunter Professor Prell is planning a new field trip with an assorted group of students . The bickering group of students find themselves on a field trip in darkest Boot Island , staying at the residence of another mysteriously motivated character Dr Waring . . . with the laugh inducing monster outside ! " Shriek of the Mutilated " is amazing in its badness . It offers woeful acting , amateurish gore and most laughably unconvincing Sasquatch ever put to film . Add also a gruesome cannibal cult and you have memorable Z-gade horror trash , which remains a highly entertaining if comparatively rare film that should be sought by fans of cheap exploitation cinema .
Surprisingly dull and uninvolving .	Mad scientist Professor Tabani drinks a potion he has brewed up in his laboratory but is turned into a blood craving vampire instead . When Dr . Aqil pays a visit Tabani sees a picture of Aqil's wife Shabnam and , after turning Aqil into a vampire , heads for Shabnam to make her his bride . Aqil's brother discovers the grave of the vampire and his brother at Tabani's castle and kills his brother with a knife to free his soul . Tabani succeeds in putting the bite on Shabnam and once turned she tries to lure her young niece away . Aqil's brother races against time to put a stop to the vampire curse . " Zinda Laash " almost put me to sleep . The plot is extremely slow but more or less follows Bram Stoker's famous novel . The suspense is completely absent as is the gore and nudity . The film is only recommended for curious horror fans that want to see the second horror film made in Pakistan ( after " Madman " from 1964 ) .
Boring and overtly sentimental garbage with no nudity .	Despite its lurid title " Execessive Torture in a Female Prison Camp " is easily the worst WiP I have ever seen . I had an opportunity to see it in Chinese , so the plot went beyond me , but basically the film centers around a Korean family who gets on the bad side of the Japanese during the Japanese occupation of Korea during World War II . A Korean mother and daughter are thrown into a prison run by the Japanese and a lot of surprisingly tame abuse is heaped upon them . Extremely disappointing WiP movie that features absolutely no nudity . What the hell ? Women in prison flick without sex and nudity is simply bad and with no redeeming qualities . There are a couple of cool fight scenes and some of the prisoners are cute looking , but that's the only positives . Overall , this rare Chinese film is boring and surprisingly tame . Avoid it . .
Pretty amusing trash .	" Yonggary " is a pretty amusing film about a big lizard from Korea named Yonggary . It's a fine example of giant monster flick that will keep most monster lovers entertained . The special effects are horrible , but they are still fun to watch . The script by Marty Poole is laughable . The acting by a bunch of unknowns is not too hot , either . The film features giant monsters , car chases , exploding jets and helicopters , spaceships and space aliens , so kids won't be disappointed . I love horror movies , but this one is surely nothing special . Avoid it , but if you have enough time to waste . . . .
Interesting concept destroyed by bad CGI .	" The Deaths of Ian Stone " tells the story of an unfortunate young hockey player , who mysteriously encounters a creature late one night and then is thrown into the path of an oncoming train . The next day , he wakes up like nothing even happened , but in a different corporate life . He's quickly murdered again by supernatural presence . It turns out the creatures are Harvesters , beings that live on the fear and pain that humans associate with dying . " The Deaths of Ian Stone " plays like an uneven mix of " Matrix " , " Groundhog Day " and " Jacob's Ladder " . The script offers few surprises and a lot of annoying CGI-effects . The premise is certainly fresh , but the lack of suspense is hard to forgive . There is only a little bit of gore and the climax is downright stupid . I'm fed up with modern horror films that try to scare me with laughable CGI-creatures . Unfortunately " The Deaths of Ian Stone " suffers too much from obnoxious computer generated imagery . .
Very mediocre George A . Romero's horror film .	A man who cannot stand up for himself-not to his foul boss , nor to his adulterous wife-wakes up one day to find an irremovable mask over his features . His human face hidden even from himself , he begins to exact bloody revenge . " Bruiser " by George A . Romero is a revenge fantasy in the E . C . horror comics tradition . Romero is a great horror director-unfortunately he's just not doing anything worth mentioning . " Bruiser " is an extremely weak horror flick . After about 40 minutes it turns into yet another slasher film ( with only slightly more panache than the usual fare ) . The most disappointing thing about " Bruiser " is that the film just doesn't feel like a horror movie , or at least a horror movie made by the great George A . Romero . There are some fascinating images and ideas going on in " Bruiser " , but there is very little gore or suspense . Still I'm waiting impatiently for Romero's " Land of the Dead " - I hope that that film will blow me away . .
Nothing is shocking in " Shocker " .	" Shocker " is another overrated piece of junk from so-called horror master Wes Craven . I found only three of his movies actually interesting : " Last House on the Left " , " The Hills Have Eyes " and maybe " Deadly Blessing " , his other movies including " Shocker " are lame . " Shocker " is truly horrible : no suspense , no gore , just stupid mess . Yes , Horace Pinker is a cool psycho , the film is fast-paced , cheesy and pretty enjoyable but I like horror movies to be scary and disturbing . I'm sure that kiddies under 16 or fans of politically correct garbage from Hollywood will like this one , as for me , I give up . If you want to watch a good horror film , check out Argento's or Fulci's stuff instead . My rating : ( because the ending is really funny ! ) .
Trashy , sleazy , gory and completely illogical .	Doris Wishman's " A Night to Dismember " is an ultra-cheap and sleazy slasher flick that simply has to be seen to believed . Wishman was an innovative low budget filmmaker . Her directing , editing and marketing of her films was all self-taught and almost all of her films were self-produced . " A Night to Dismember " is her only full fledged horror film . It is also a big mess . The editing is beyond awful , the use of same location in several scenes is painfully obvious , the acting is amateurish and the story is illogical and confusing . Still the film is never boring and there are some fairly nasty scenes of gory carnage including ripped out hearts and chopped off fingers . Basically " A Night to Dismember " is about psychotic woman who gets out of an insane asylum and promptly starts butchering people around her . Give this low budget trash a look . .
A waste of time .	A stunningly beautiful Charlotte Lewis stars as a woman who is terrorized by a ghosts who torment her on the phone . Driven to the edge in terror Charlotte is forced to confront this chilling mystery in order to save her sanity and her life . I can't believe that Ruggero Deodato , the director behind " Ultimo Mondo Cannibale " , " Cannibal Holocaust " and " House on the Edge of the Park " directed this absurd piece of trash . Admittedly the music by Goblin front man Claudio Simonetti is pretty good , but the story is painfully stupid . The script by Franco Ferrini is ridiculous and it makes no sense , the acting is bad and there is absolutely no suspense . The scene in which a prospective rapist of Charlotte Lewis is killed by coins ejected from a subway telephone is more than laughable . Don't waste your time with this piece of crap . There are far better Italian horror movies out there !
Really weak Italian nunsploitation film .	I have seen plenty of nunsploitation flicks and " Killer Nun " is among the worst of them all . This Giulio Berruti's extremely boring horror film casts Swedish former sex symbol Anita Ekberg as Sister Gertrude , a nun working in a mental institution . Gertrude is clearly insane , and takes a great deal of morphine for her self-diagnosed cancer . She goes to town and picks up men , seduces a younger nun Sister Mathieu ( Paola Morra of " Behind the Convent Walls " fame ) who was abused by her grandfather , and supposedly murders patients . " Killer Nun " is a disappointing Italian nunsploitation film that offers only a little bit of sleaze and nudity . Another serious flaw in the film is the relationship between Sister Gertrude and Sister Mathieu which only hints at lesbianism . During these scenes Ekberg appears frigid while Paola Morra feels more relaxed doing these moments . " Killer Nun " is too tame for my liking and the pace is incredibly slow . If you want to see some good nunsploitation flicks check out " Flavia the Heretic " , " Visions in a Convent " , " Convent of Sinners " or even Bruno Mattei's " The Other Hell " . Avoid this one like the plague . and that's being generous .
Pretty dull thriller .	A serial killer ( William Witt ) is murdering young women of San Francisco . Police detective Michael ( Warren Lincoln ) tries to find him . Unfortunately , Michael's fiancee Jennifer ( Taylor Gilbert ) soon becomes the madman's next obsession . She finds herself trapped inside a dark house with an elderly near-cripple ( Eve Brenner ) . " Torment " is a boring thriller which offers nothing new . There is no gore and no nudity , so fans of horror will be disappointed . Even the violence is toned down . There is some suspense during the climax , but I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone . .
Another boring Japanese deja vu ghost story .	Oh gosh , I'm really fed up with all these generic Japanese horror films about long-haired female ghosts and ghostly kids . " Ghost Train " is no exception . It is clearly influenced by " Ringu " , " Ju-On " , " Shutter " and " Pulse " . Two years ago I was into such modern ghost stories , because they usually managed to give me some goosebumps , unfortunately there is nothing fresh or interesting in " Ghost Train " . In fact the film is really boring . Noriko goes missing in a subway tunnel-like an elementary-school classmate-Nana must investigate a mystery of multiple disappearances , with the help of a youthful train conductor and another " disappeared " child's mother . The film offers some mildly creepy moments , however the CGI effects are laughable and the climax is illogical . Skip it .
Pure schlock .	" Don't Go in the Woods " is often regarded as the worst slasher movie ever made . I can honestly say that I have seen worse slasher flicks like " Hollow Gate " , " The Last Slumber Party " or " The Newlydeads " . A crazy killer stalks and kills tourists and campers in the woods . Anyway , this film is without a doubt beyond horrible . The acting is incredibly awful and both female leads are uglier than hell . The music is abysmal , the script makes no sense and the cinematography is really weak . The killer is just an old bearded guy who doesn't even have a motive or reason for killing campers . Fortunately this slasher flick is never boring and it contains many gory murders ( for example a photographer guy gets his arm ripped off , a crippled guy is decapitated ) . So if you are a fan of trashy and mindless Z-grade slasher flicks give this one a look .
Pretty bad soft-core sex comedy .	There is nothing even remotely interesting or particularly arousing in this boring piece of soft-core sex trash . The only reason to watch it is lovely Sylvia Kristel from " Emmanuelle " and " Private Lessons " . The sex scenes are strictly soft-core and rather uninteresting . The last sex scene on tennis court in the rain is pretty good , though . The acting is mediocre and the film is loaded with some truly annoying and laughable characters . Sylvia Kristel provides some nudity , but there is not enough T & A for my liking . " Julia " is a pretty obscure film , so if you're a fan of cheerful exploitation you may give it a look . Just don't expect something really arousing , because this film is just average . Watch Joe D'Amato's sleazy sexploitation movies or Walerian Borowczyk's erotic stuff instead . My rating : .
Terrible .	An aura of mystery surrounds the twins , Beth and Michael and their widowed father . Daddy has reason for keeping them from a normal life ; for they've inherited their dead mother's powers . When their father is killed by four gun-crazy bikers they decide to re-animate daddy's corpse . They create a zombie to protect them , and to avenge his own death . " Kiss Daddy Goodbye " / " Revenge of the Zombie " is a shoddy horror flick that is perfect for fans of trash cinema . The acting is truly horrible and the gore is non-existent . The only reason to watch this obscure horror film is Marilyn Burns in a small role as the social worker who unites with policeman Fabian Forte to unravel the mysterious secrets of the children . The film lacks tension and excitement and is pretty boring , so fans of low-budget American horror will be disappointed . Anyway , give this one a look only if you're a fan of Marilyn Burns . .
Hilarious trash .	" La Mansion de los Cthulhu " is surely one of the worst horror movies ever made . On the other hand I found it to be very enjoyable . This film is never scary , but it is quite amusing . It has awful acting , pathetic special effects and some of the most annoying characters I have seen . These people are so extremely stupid that I laughed a lot while I was watching their idiotic actions . I know that Juan Piquer Simon isn't very talented director , but I enjoyed his " Pieces " and " Slugs " , because they were so over the top in their gore department . This one is enjoyable , because of its outrageous stupidity . You'll laugh until it hurts with this one-you can believe me ! The bloody shower scene has to be seen to be believed !
Very loud and dumb .	Uwe Boll's " House of the Dead " is based on the Sega Dreamcast video game . It's cheesy and totally unscary , but it can be pretty amusing if you're in the right mood . Five friends hop on a boat to take them to a large-scale rave party on a nearby island . But when the group reaches shore , they find that local legends surrounding the island are terrifyingly real and there are bloodthirsty zombies everywhere . The acting is laughably bad and there is absolutely no suspense . The characters are one-dimensional and incredibly dumb . There is plenty of violence and gore on display , including some nice head explosions , but not much else . Avoid this one like the plague , but be sure to check out Uwe Boll's earlier horror film " Amoklauf " ( 1992 ) , which is much better than this load of crap .
Weak Spanish teen slasher with some ghostly elements .	An annoying group of ex-students from ' Monte Alto International High School ' decide to spend a night in the now abandoned institution where a ' mystery ' killer called the watchman played by horror legend Paul Naschy murders them off one by one . " School Killer " features some references to such teen slasher staples like " Scream " or " Friday the 13th " . The climatic twist ending looks like lilted from " The Sixth Sense " . The uncertainty about whether the homicidal watchman is alive or dead provide some mild interest , but the characters are one-dimensional and the endless scenes of walking through dark school corridors really got on my nerves . The presence of charismatic Paul Naschy almost saves this clichéd slasher flick . There is also some decent gore on display including a splendidly bloody beheading . It's nice to see Manuela Velasco of " Rec " fame in a small role . .
Weak , but still pretty funny " Jaws " rip-off .	A small Maryland town , desperate to recover from hard economic times , is under threat when voracious Snakehead fish mutate and survive previous lake chemical poisonings . Thriving on the hormones , the Snakehead fish grow to monstrous proportions , devouring everything within reach . Capable of moving and eating on land , they are forced to leave the now barren lake in a desperate search for food ? animal , vegetable or human . Bruce Boxleitner ( the town's Sheriff ) and Carol Alt ( the sexy scientist ) team up to take on the snakeheads . " Snakehead Terror " is mildly entertaining " Jaws " rip-off with snakehead fish instead of shark . The acting is suitably weak , but the gore effects are okay . The plot is totally clichéd and the computerized snakeheads look mediocre . Give it a look , if you need to see the perfect example of B-movie .
Laughable satanic porno horror ,	This extremely amateurish and hilariously inept porno horror tells the story of Pamela Goodnight and her boyfriend Wayne , who are searching for Carla . Carla was sacrificed by a bunch of goofy looking Satanists including Manheim Jarkhoff played by a veteran actor George " Buck " Flower , his idiot assistant Boris , who was burned at the stake in 1815 and Edith , a 200 year old witch . Unfortunately for blonde Judy Angel she is next for satanic sacrifice . . . This silly porno offers few mildly arousing sex scenes and some lovely hairy vaginas . The production values are amateurish , the acting is painful to watch and the satanic rituals are more than laughable . The sex scene between Judy Angel and her boyfriend is the hottest bit of the film . I enjoy watching early 70's porno roughies , but " Satan's Lust " is rather weak . .
Talking zombies - is this a joke ?	Angela is a young woman who has just been killed by her angry ex , but Angela isn't dead , she's one of the undead . You see , the recently deceased have come back to life and these are not your typical zombies either . They are organized , intelligent and crave the flesh of the living . A crazed cult of undead terrorists and a militia of brutal zombie-hunting humans fight for dominance . I'm a fan of old-school zombie flicks , where walking dead devours the living and that's why I highly disliked " Last Rites of the Dead " . Undead can talk , shoot , search for a job or drive a car . Zombies roam the street , hold jobs-even have their own dating services online . Is this a joke ? Admittedly the script has some originality and fresh ideas , but I prefer zombie flicks with an constant aura of apocalypse and tons of gory mayhem . The concept of intelligent zombie is beyond retarded . Still the acting is pretty good , some of the gore is excellent , unfortunately " Last Rites of the Dead " plays more like an unfunny joke . .
For the studio pocketbook's amusement , not the audience's .	I wasn't amused with " Amusement " . The laughable synopsis on the cover goes like that : Tabitha , Shelby and Lisa . They're longtime friends on separate life paths . But they share a horrific destination when a seemingly innocent incident from their school days comes back to terrify them . Someone wants payback : warped vengeance . . . mind-games vengeance . . . taunting , shredding , slashing vengeance . Inside a stone-walled chamber of prison cells and mechanisms of doom , the three women and other victims face a fierce fight to survive . " Amusement " is terrible . With dumb plot and zero scares it offers nothing even remotely interesting even for seasoned horror fan . The killer is an underdeveloped cliché with truly annoying laugh . There is only one effectively creepy scene in which the emerging female lead is confronted with a room stuffed with dolls and clowns . The violence is tame so gorehounds and slasher fans will be disappointed . .
Tedious Italian sleaze .	" Le Porno Killers " has definitely an awesome title , but fails to deliver both violence and an abundance of sleaze . This tedious bore features two female agents ( one of them is Carmen Russo of " Patrick Still Lives " fame ) who go after Vassilli Karis . First of all the title is completely misleading , because there are no porno scenes and no killers in this flick . At least beautiful Carmen Russo provides some full-frontal nudity . First we see her sunbathing nude then she gets up to walk across the yard buck-naked . Then she takes a shower with her female co-star and they engage in a truly fantastic lesbian scene . Finally we see her in a menage-a-trois totally nude on the bed then briefly getting up . Still the film is pretty light on sleaze and the action is deadly dull . Only for tolerant fans of Italian smut . .
Late 60's sleaze that pushes an envelope few times .	A candidate for California state representative wants to get the vote of pot smoking hippies to win , so he runs on a platform to legalize marijuana . The politician quickly becomes some kind of a guru for local group of hippies , smokes a lot of weed and has tons of sex with slutty hippie girls . " The Dirtiest Game " is a total sleaze with no redeeming qualities . Jam packed with full-frontal nudity , sex and bad acting it offers 68 minutes of dirty entertainment . The razorblade masturbation scene is quite unsettling and actually made me feel a little bit queasy . I can't believe that the maker of terrible slasher schlock " Don't Go in the Woods " is also behind this piece of utter filth .
Hilariously bad and cheap zombie flick .	The premise of " Alien Dead " is that a space-born disease infected a bunch of bayou rednecks and after they finished up all the alligators they start eating the locals . Fred Olen Ray's " Alien Dead " is so bad that it quickly becomes hilarious . The acting is utterly terrible , only veteran actor Buster Crabbe can act . The makeup consists of Halloween masks for the male zombies and the women are mostly leggy hot blonds with white and black face paint . There is also a decent amount of gore including some cannibalistic feasts . I have seen plenty of awful zombie flicks including " The Chilling " , " Zombie Lake " or " Zombie Brigade " and I must say that " Alien Dead " is at least watchable , if you are in the right mood . That's why I give it .
At least it's marginally better than terrible part VI .	When calls for her eccentric grandmother go unanswered , Jamie Lowell is shocked to discover that her grandmother's last known address is a condemned tenement building overrun by murderous children . But as Jamie slowly uncovers the truth behind her grandmother's mysterious disappearance , she merely disturbs a powerful evil that now seeks to destroy Jamie as well ! First of all I'm not a fan of " Children of the Corn " series , however the description on the back of my tape sounded good enough to watch this film . Guy Magar's " Children of the Corn : Revelation " lacks gore and scares and is filled with huge plot holes . Still the location sets are suitably atmospheric-the hallways are dark and slimy looking . Unfortunately the ridiculous climax truly got on my nerves . Overall , this isn't the best in the " Children of the Corn " franchise , but it sure is better than horrible part 6 .
Dull monster movie .	A family moves into an old house in the desert . There is a long commentary at the beginning that talks about an evil spirit that dwells in a tunnel below this house . The Indian creature occasionally manifests itself to frighten the little boy staying in the house and to pick off a stray secondary character . I remember seeing " The Cellar " several years ago and was highly unimpressed . There is no gore and nudity in this suitably dull monster feature from usually uneven Kevin Tenney . The script is silly and the direction lacks enthusiasm . The performances are passable , but they can't save this film from fading into obscurity . A generous .
Dumb SOV gore flick .	A bunch of teenagers decide to go to an abandoned factory to drink beer / smoke weed / have sex and they get locked in with a hideous monster with an urge to kill . It seems that a mutant was created by an accident in the factory years ago , stalks them and kills them . " Death Factory " is actually my first experience with horror movies made by Brad Sykes and I hope that it won't be my last . The plot is dumb , the acting is horrible , but there is plenty of gore to keep splatter freaks happy . A horror regular Tiffany Shepis plays the monster which looks almost like the cross between female zombie from " Return of the Living Dead 3 " and Freddy Krueger . Ron Jeremy has a small cameo as a bum , who is quickly killed . The main heroine Lisa Jay is likable and has a wonderful body . .
Watchable ghost / slasher flick .	A back of my DVD proudly claims : a brilliant engineering student named Megan sets out to find the blueprints for the device that Thomas Edison completed right before his death ; a device for talking to the dead . She assembles a group of friends to help her build it in a dilapidated house , never sharing with them the history of the building ; a family brutally murdered one another within its walls years ago and they're just itching for a trip back to the other side . The device they put together allows that trip to happen and a very disturbed evil finds its way to our world . " The Brink " is a watchable indie horror flick with some idiotic moments and pretty strong acting . The budget is tiny , the plot is routine and there is a minimal amount of blood . Worth a rental but nothing more .
Sick little film .	Eric Stanze's " I Spit On Your Corpse , I Piss On Your Grave " is a piece of vile exploitation , which reminds me nasty movies from the 70's such as the rape and revenge genre . However unlike excellent " Scrapbook " this film was made only to shock the viewer . It is still one of the most extreme movies I have ever seen . Some scenes of sexual torture and humiliation are pretty hard to stomach . The most disturbing moment for me is when Sandy ( Emily Haack ) forces one guy to eat his own excrement . The scene , where Sandy masturbates with a broomstick and then shoves it into another guy's ass is pretty vile and unsettling too . The actress , Emily Haack is wonderful-her performance is simply outstanding . The film may be not as good as " Scrapbook " , but anyone who likes violent exploitation should be pleased . .
Very mediocre and lazily made Cat III offering .	Pauline Suen plays remorseless female psychopath from Mainland who seduces her cousin's wimpy husband . When her almost always horny cousin Kuen objects Suen proceeds to butcher her and use her meat for roast ribs . Totally unnecessary sequel to my beloved " The Untold Story " . It's nowhere nearly as powerful and shocking as its sickeningly nasty predecessor . Anthony Wong returns as veteran cop Officer Lazybones who divides his time between arresting illegal chicken sellers and eating at Cheung's roast shop . The film is filled with lots of lame comedy and there is not enough gore and violence for my liking . The dismemberment of Kuen is quite gruesome and there is a bit of delicious sleaze , but I expected more . The film also spawned a second sequel " The Untold Story III " by Herman Yau . .
Gory and pointless Italian " The Evil Dead " clone .	An American woman played by Italian actress Coralina Cataldi-Tassoni of " Opera " fame is vacationing in Venice and decides to go with her local boyfriend on trip to the Alps . They run into a witch who says she was attacked and they give her a ride into town . There they meet a crazy guy on a motorcycle who speaks using a electrolarynx . They hike into the mountains and run into both of these people again up there . They also meet a zombie , who is chasing ' em without reason and promptly uses a fishing pole to catch a girl . The funniest thing is titular ' evil clutch'-a giant bloodthirsty claw protruding from witch's vagina . Hell yeah ! This cheap and silly Italian " The Evil Dead " clone offers few amusing moments and plenty of grue . Lovers of bad cinema will be pleased with such oddity .
Very mediocre horror film with ridiculous script .	Angela Bettis of " May " fame stars as a woman who returns home for her niece's graduation . There her haunted past resurfaces and the serial killer whom she thought she years ago killed once and for all is out to make her life living hell . This 3D / HD horror thriller is very bloody and gruesome . There are some graphic torture scenes of teenage girls that made me cringe . The script is utterly ridiculous and the film is clearly influenced by " Saw " and " Hostel " . The identity of killer comes across as laughable . There are some huge lapses in logic and several young characters are downright annoying . Angela Bettis is pretty much wasted in this mediocre flick . .
So-so .	The first " Children of the Corn " film is a decent horror film with some suspense and atmosphere , this one is basically just a typical slasher film gussied up with occult elements . By those standards , it isn't bad , with some decent scares and a fair amount of blood . Sure , it's nothing new , but overlook that if you really love horror genre . The acting is either wooden or over-the-top , but there are some rather inventive death scenes for example when an old woman is crushed by her own home . So if you are a fan of this series then go ahead-try this one , if not check out some other horror flicks . .
Cheesy , but still watchable garbage .	Biologist Neil Hamilton succeeds in synthesizing a growth hormone and uses it to create giant tomatoes . Unfortunately the tomatoes are eaten by caged rats which then grow until they become the size of dogs . When animal rights activists break into the lab , they accidentally succeed in freeing the rats which escape down into the tunnels beneath the campus and start preying on people . " Food of the Gods II " is one hell of a bad movie . The acting is lousy , the characters are painfully stupid and there is plenty of gore with ripped-out throats and severed limbs to boot . The film has its share of riotously unintentionally funny sequences too . In spite of its New York setting this amusing crap was actually made in Canada . So grab some beer , invite a couple of friends and laugh how stunningly bad " Food of the Gods II " is !
Just another terrible monster-on-the-loose flick .	Oh yeah , " Watchers 2 " is really bad , but certainly more enjoyable than " Grim " or " Haunted Sea " . The acting is passable and the dog is smarter than every person in this movie . The monster is lame looking , the gore is almost non-existent and there's also no suspense at all . I still think that this one is slightly better than " Watchers " ( 1988 ) with its extremely laughable " monster " , but not as good as " Watchers 3 " ( 1994 ) - very stupid , but gory and fun to watch monster flick set in the jungle . Recommended , if you like this sort of stuff .
Pretty bad movie , but great gore .	Dr . Douglas Madsen is on his way back home from work one day when his car collides with a prison bus , setting off a horrific chain of events . The four surviving prisoners , one of whom is severely injured , take the doctor hostage and flee into Canada . The group of intruders finds refuge in a mysterious , isolated house inhabited by a very strange family of bloodthirsty cannibal demons . . . " House of Blood " is a mediocre horror film . The acting is horrible , the dialogue is ridiculous and there is no suspense . Many people compared this film to Uwe Boll's cinematic atrocities like " House of the Dead " or " Alone in the Dark " , but I wouldn't go so far to call it worse than them . At least " House of Blood " contains plenty of grue including head explosions , decapitations and chainsaw dismemberment . Still this one is only for die-hard horror fans . and that's being generous .
Boring crap .	The third sequel is basically a rip-off of " The Howling " . Not only it's highly unexciting , overtly talky and dull-it is also unconvincing and the werewolves seen during the climax are terrible . The atmosphere of dread and fear is non-existent , the gore-apart from pretty yucky melting scene-is very mild . Skip this one and watch the original instead ! Highly unrecommended .
Standard German soft-core sex film .	Hubert Frank's " Catherine Cherie " is nothing special . It works as a soft-core porn , but the dialogue is horrible and the music is extremely irritating . The sex scenes are strictly soft-core , but there is one hard-core sex scene with Ajita Wilson giving a blow job . The main actress Berta Cabre is pretty hot and has a nice body . Give this one a look , if you're into sleazy European exploitation . . I still think that " Vanessa " ( 1977 ) is much better .
Too melodramatic and dull .	Mommy's little girl Hyeon Su is a normal 17-year old student , beautiful enough to disregard her friends latest obsession : plastic surgery . Or maybe the lack of interest is due to the fact her gentle mother Yong Hee is a plastic surgeon . When one of her friends decides to go under the knife for a little skin revision , Yong Hee gives her more than a pretty new face . The result is blood all over the place . Seeing so many of her friends die , Hyeon Su finds comfort in her friend Seung Eun , but then she discovers a creepy secret of her mother . . . Some reviewers compared this film to masterful " A Tale of Two Sisters " , but it's clearly not as good and memorable . In fact it's pretty dull and offers almost zero scares . " Cinderella " looks slick , the acting is fine and Korean girls are jaw-droppingly beautiful , unfortunately the action moves at the snail's pace . Skip this one . .
A routine horror film .	A young housewife , Susan ( Bobbie Breese ) is the eldest daughter in a bloodline afflicted with an ancient curse . She takes a series of lovers and kills them in a variety of gory ways . Her husband Oliver ( Marjoe Gortner ) eventually realizes what's going on and is eliminated as well . Pretty sleazy bargain-basement horror film with some gory deaths . The special effects are pretty lousy and there is a fair amount of nudity . My rating : .
Notorious bestiality porn with Linda Lovelace .	The plot of " Dogarama " is very simple : a future star of " Deep Throat " Linda Lovelace is pleasured by a German Shepherd . Personally I don't know what to think about this film . It's cheaply made , taboo-breaking and utterly sickening . Bestiality is still considered as a taboo in many countries and such stuff is simply illegal . I read that Linda Lovelace was so ashamed of starring in two bestiality flicks " Dogarama " and " Dog One " that she later claimed that she was forced to have sex with her pet dog . She didn't like to talk about those two infamous stag films . For a long time she even denied that such movies existed . Anyway , being a fan of extreme cinema I always wanted to see this piece of filth . Now after watching it I can safely say that " Dog F'cker " is not worth checking out . It's not enjoyable , not arousing , it's just sick . Still fans of Linda Lovelace should check it out . and that's being generous .
Rather boring piece of soft-core sex .	This is another so-called horror flick , which is more soft-core sex than actually horror . Apart from some nicely filmed sex scenes and atmospheric sets there's nothing worth any recommendation here : no suspense , no gore & violence . The lead actress Jenna Bodnar is pretty hot ( especially during the masturbation scene ) and the sex scenes are suitably titillating . Watch it , if you have got nothing better to do .
Dumb 80's horror trash .	Girls ex-boyfriend Eric wants his revenge after burned himself in the fire caused by mall developers . Now horribly disfigured he haunts in the mall where the gal works and kills people working there . Armed with conveniently located knives , crossbow , poisonous snakes and massive amounts of dynamite Eric unleashes an all out assault on the shopping mall . Pretty hilarious and annoying horror flick that features a kung fu fighting phantom . The killings are surprisingly creative including death by escalator , exhaust fan blade and incinerator door . The story is dumb , the suspense is completely absent and the acting is bad to the bone . If you have enough time to kill give it a look , but I wouldn't go too far to find it . .
Pretty good low-budget horror .	Six beautiful high school girls are involved in initiation ceremonies for their exclusive society , The Sisters . A shot from a presumably harmless pistol-part of the ritual-kills Elizabeth . Seven years later each of the remaining Sisters receive identical letters inviting them to a reunion in isolated estate mansion . With nightfall the reign of terror and madness begins as Elizabeth's death is revenged . " Sisters of Death " is a pretty good low-budget horror . It's rather tame , but there is enough suspense and surprises to satisfy horror fans . The acting is surprisingly decent and the ladies are quite beautiful . Give it a look , if you're a fan of low-budget American horror . .
Pretty average horror film .	The bloodthirsty laundry machine is purchased at auction by repairman Hadley , who quickly becomes possessed and kills his wife . Some time later , Hadley is now abducting young women for the Mangler to kill . One such victim is Jaime , who is taken back to Hadley's house , where the Mangler devours its victims . But while Hadley was away father and son thieves Rick played by Reggie Bannister of " Phantasm " fame and Mike are doing some breaking and entering and it just so happens that their latest target is Hadley's horror house . " The Mangler Reborn " is pretty bad . The gore doesn't come until the last 20 minutes , the action moves at the snail's pace and the acting is stiff . Still the third act of " The Mangler Reborn " offers plenty of blood and gore and is worth waiting for . .
Very hilarious Turkish " The Exorcist " rip-off .	" Seytan " is a shameless Turkish remake of William Friedkin's " The Exorcist " that copies it scene after scene . It uses the same exact set-up as " The Exorcist " - a young girl , living with her well-to-do mother , becomes possessed by Satan after tooling around on a Ouija board . Of course there's the head spinning , the mustard spitting , the message written across her abdomen and even the scene where she comes downstairs to pee herself to the dismay of her mother and her guests . Some of the shots are even exactly the same and the house they use as the setting for most of the film looks pretty much like the one in Friedkin's " The Exorcist " . This film is simply hilarious , so grab some beer and give this amusing piece of trash a look . .
Pretty funny .	" Innocent Blood " is an unusual mix of comedy , gangster movie and gory horror . Anne Parrilaud is a vampire with a strong appetite for blood . She turns to Italians as her next food source . The film has some great moments of humour , and there is plenty of cheesy gore and violence . The eye effects are outstanding and the film is well-written and doesn't fall into too many vampire cliches . It's also notable because of the short appearances of Tom Savini , Sam Raimi , Dario Argento and Linnea Quigley . Worth a look , if you want to be entertained !
Not as bad as it's reputed to be .	" Soultaker " is a pretty dull horror film , but it's far away from being one of the worst horror films ever made . Joe Estevez plays a soultaker , a black clad guy who is collecting souls of the recently deceased . He tries to collect the souls of two teenagers ( a redhead played by Vivian Schilling and her boyfriend ) , after taking the souls of their friends . " Soultaker " has some interesting and fascinating ideas to boost , but it clearly suffers from a low budget . There is absolutely no suspense and no gore , so fans of horror will be disappointed . Still the film is quite entertaining , if you're in the right mood . It actually won the 1992 Saturn Award for Best Picture On Video . So if you're a fan of low budget fanatsy / horror give this one a look . .
Okay horror flick , if you're bored .	Here-in this installment-we learn that Michael Myers isn't just the Bogeyman , he's some sort of ancient Druidic avatar sacrificing members of his family to the pagan gods . The script doesn't make much sense and is full of meaningless plot developments , and horror veteran Donald Pleasance died during the production . I did find a couple of things to like-the cast is pretty good and John Carl Buechler's gore effects are suitably nasty ( gotta love especially this cool head explosion ! ) . Plenty of blood and violence to satisfy gore-hounds and there's also a fair amount of suspense as well . Overall , " Halloween 6 : The Curse of Michael Myers " remains worth watching and might even provide a few chills on a dark night . Check it out .
Murder is clean in " The Poughkeepsie Tapes " .	" The Poughkeepsie Tapes " - a faux documentary about the activities of the mixed serial killer from Poughkeepsie called The Waterstreet Butcher garnered tons of hype before its official release . The premise of the film is certainly interesting : the police raids a home of suspect and finds it empty aside from boxes of VHS tapes . On these video cassettes are hundreds of hours of footage recorded by a serial killer as he filmed the abductions , torture , murder and disposal of his victims . " The Poughkeepsie Tapes " plays like a tame version of " August Underground " series . The amount of violence and terror is surprisingly minimal . What drags " The Poughkeepsie Tapes " down is truly horrible acting . The interviews with investigators ( there is even laughable " dismemberment expert " ) are terrible as was the archive footage of court proceedings and press conferences . The killer is also ridiculous as he giggles and yells and acts more like a total buffoon . " The Poughkeepsie Tapes " is not shocking or disturbing . The torture and murder scenes are usually off-screen and they lack a bite . If you want to see truly horrifying serial killer movie check out Austrian " Angst " from 1983 . .
Forgettable and suspenseless Polish horror .	Four friends come to old and abandoned factory in Nether Silesia where a year ago a friend died . So they try find out how and why he died but in the end they found an horrific truth about experiments conducted in the factory . A group of research workers kidnap them and use them as human guinea-pigs in an effort to attain immortality . . . Well , being Polish I wanted to see this film pretty badly , because Poland don't have any visible tradition when it comes to horror genre . Unfortunately " Pora Mroku " disappoints on almost every level . The characters are obnoxious and stupid , the suspense is completely absent , the gore is kept to minimum and the plot borrows few elements from " Hostel " . On a plus side I enjoyed dirty and claustrophobic location sets and menacing electro soundtrack . .
Terrible .	Francis Teri's " The Suckling " is easily one of the worst horror movies ever made . It's sleazy , disgusting and incredibly stupid , so fans of trash cinema won't be disappointed . This time the monster in this movie is created when a teenage couple go to the whorehouse for an abortion . The fetus is flushed whole down the toilet and lands in the sewer , right beneath the leak from a barrel of toxic waste . The small embryo becomes a hideous monster , who promptly starts killing people . . . This hilariously awful horror film has to be seen to be believed . The acting is horrid , the special effects are downright horrible and the sound is weak . Still there is plenty of gore and nudity and the climax is pretty creepy and rather sick . So if you're a fan of trashy low-budget monster movies give this one a look . .
Painfully bad , but vastly entertaining in a hysterical way .	The plot of " Black Devil Doll from Hell " is fairly simple : a foul-mouthed ventriloquist dummy terrorizes a defenseless religious zealot . Helen Black , a prim and deeply religious woman , buys a strange doll in a curio shop . The shop's owner tells her that the doll has been purchased four different times , and each time it has found its way back to the shop . Soon the Helen is thrown into a nightmare as the doll begins to terrorize her . . . Wow , this piece of blacksploitation sleaze is completely abysmal . The acting is horrible , the score is incredibly awful and there is no gore . The special effects are some of the worst I have ever seen . Still the lengthy sex scene between Helen and a doll is hilarious . That sequence , with the puppet ( obviously controlled by a guy shaking it off-screen ) humping this plump but ecstatic Bible-thumper had me laughing so hard I was crying . The action drags tremendously , with most scenes going on for way too long and others being totally unnecessary . Overall , a must-see for fans of trash cinema .
A ridiculous sequel to " Silent Night , Deadly Night " .	Little Ricky ( Eric Freeman ) , the brother of our killer Billy from " Silent Night , Deadly Night " , is grown up now and has inherited his brother's dislike for naughtiness . In the office of his 13th psychiatrist , he tells his family's background , including events following the first movie , where Ricky kills random people . " Silent Night , Deadly Night Part 2 " offers nothing new in comparison to the original . In fact the first 35 minutes or so are just flashbacks from the first film . The acting of Eric Freeman is incredibly lousy , however the killing spree in a yuppie neighborhood is slightly amusing to say the least . " Silent Night , Deadly Night Part 2 " is mildly entertaining in its intentional awfulness-that's why I'd give it . Stick with the original .
An average fare .	The miners discover strange runestone in the mine . The runestone is transported to New York . Not long after that an archaeologist Martin Almquist , while studying a discovery , cuts his finger and becomes a blood-thirsty monster . This creature-on-the-loose flick isn't very good , but isn't completely bad either . The film tries to be scary and exciting at the same time , some lines are also pretty funny . No gore at all-for me the lack of blood is disappointing . The acting is acceptable , the monster is creepy looking and kills so many cops that it has to be seen to be believed . Good for the rainy day , just don't expect anything special . My rating : .
Laughable rape and revenge flick .	The plot of " Demented " centers around attractive Linda Rodgers , whose life and sanity is destroyed when one day whilst tending to her horses she is horrifically gang raped in the stables by four thugs . She begins having horrific hallucinations about her rapists and finally breaks down and extracts a cruel and violent revenge on four masked youths . The tormented woman dispatches the teenage pranksters with a shotgun , a meat cleaver and in the films show stopping highlight even castrates one using a coil of piano wire . Pretty exploitative rape and revenge flick with plenty of sleaze and incredibly annoying heroine . The performance of Sallee Elyse is utterly horrible and her high pitched voice truly get on my nerves . Overall , " Demented " completely fails to engage the viewers emotionally and is basically worthless . . Only for completists of rape and revenge sub-genre .
Definitely the worst of all " Ilsa " movies .	The first half of the movie is set in Gulag 14 in Siberia . Here , Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne ) devises grotesque tortures for the prisoners , feeds their pieces to her pet tiger , and gets friendly with the guards . For the second half , it is 24 years later and she is running a chain of high class whore-house with the emphasis on torture . " Tigress " is pretty lame-not as nasty as previous installments-and also quite dull . There's some gore , plenty of soft core sex and silly dialogue to keep the viewer entertained , but this is nothing in comparison to " Cannibal Holocaust " , " Forced Entry " or even " Ilsa-She Wolf of SS " . However if you consider yourself a fan of low-budget sleaze you can give this film a look . .
A disappointing horror film that lacks suspense and scares .	Between the years 1818-1820 , the Bell Family of Red River , Tennessee was visited by an unknown entity that haunted the family and eventually ended up causing the death of one its members . The attacks grew in strength and savagery , with the spirit slapping , pulling , dragging and beating the Bell's youngest daughter , Betsy . The Bells try to leave the house and the town , but they eventually have to accept that the poltergeist will follow them anywhere . " An American Haunting " is loosely based on a book by Brent Monahan that purportedly told of the only recorded case in U . S . history of a spirit causing the death of a human being . However the film is boring and repetitive . Every scene in " An American Haunting " plays itself out in the exact same fashion . The film is loaded with cheap jump scares which are incredibly irritating . The cast is okay with Donald Sutherland and Sissy Spacek to boost , some of the cinematography is beautiful , unfortunately the final scenes are beyond senseless and idiotic . Don't bother with this mess-watch " The Exorcism of Emily Rose " again . .
Horror in the music studio - unfortunately unsatisfying .	A rock band prepare to record their comeback album by locking themselves in a recording studio overnight . They sample an old recording which turns out to hide a mysterious voice that opens a gateway to Hell . " Reverb " was currently released in Poland on DVD , so naturally I wanted to give it a look . Unfortunately the film left me disappointed . The premise of " Reverb " is actually pretty interesting , but its execution is unsatisfying and rather dull . There is no suspense , just a lot of quick cuts , even the amount of grue is minimal . Overall , I didn't enjoy this film as much as I wanted . Still if you have enough time to kill give it a chance . .
Suspenseless and unexciting .	Two friends hit the road for a surfing trip and decide to take a short-cut when night falls to speed up their journey . On their way they meet a couple of girls with a fast car and are invited to a party . In the following car race , the guys crash their car and go looking for help . They approach a farmhouse but as they look in the window , they see someone being murdered . Now the friends are on the run from the locals who want to kill them . " The Locals " is a major disappointment . The film plays like the cross of " Deliverance " and " The Sixth Sense " , but as an avid horror fan I found it dull and suspenseless . The locals are neither scary nor menacing . The photography is good and there are some creepy locations , but the absence of suspense is hard to forgive . The director shows some potential , so hopefully his next horror project will be more intense than unexciting " The Locals " . .
Not as bad as it's reputed to be , but Carpenter's original is still better .	The first half of Rob Zombie's " Halloween " covers Michael Myers youth , where he was a long-haired blonde kid who liked to torture and kill animals . On the Halloween night Michael kills his scumbag stepfather , his sister and her boyfriend , then he is placed in Smith's Grove Sanitarium where he spends a long time visited by the his psychiatrist Dr . Loomis . After 15 years Loomis moves on Myers escapes and the slaughter in Haddonfield begins . . . Every horror fan knows exactly the plot of John Carpenter's horror classic " Halloween " , so I won't be wasting my time describing it in detail . Rob Zombie's remake differs from it in some aspects : the atmosphere is dirty and grimy , the characters are sleazy and the killings with a butcher knife are quite gory . Zombie also likes his nods to the horror genre : black and white movies like " The Thing From Another World " and " White Zombie " pop up on television sets , finally Blue Öyster Cult's " Don't Fear The Reaper " and The Misfits " Halloween " adorn the soundtrack . Overall , if you want to see somewhat vicious and mean-spirited remake of an instant horror classic check it out . .
Pretty enjoyable horror / comedy .	An old lady's boarder Nestor Duvalier ( Brion James ) turns out to be a cannibalistic monster terrorizing Los Angeles , and promptly turns her into one too . It's up to her son to stop the carnage . " Mom " is a perfect flick for few laughs . There is a good amount of gore , but if you're searching for suspense-packed horror avoid this one at all costs . All in all " Mom " is worth checking out for some undemanding horror fans , so if you get the chance watch it . My rating : .
Rather uninteresting ghost story .	A young couple escape the city and purchase an old Victorian house , intending to establish a bed and breakfast inn and revitalize their troubled marriage . Little do they know , they're sharing the house with an evil ghost tortured by a shocking secret . Fear and tension build when they discover a hidden room off the attic and find clues to the horrifying history of the home's first owners . " The Haunting of Seacliff Inn " is a mildly interesting old-fashioned ghost story . The film is almost never scary , albeit the wolf-like dog looks pretty creepy . The production values are great , the acting is surprisingly good , but there is not enough tension for my liking . Admittedly the female ghost is undeniably sexy , but not menacing at all . So if you want to see a truly eerie ghost story check out " The Woman in Black " instead . .
Forgettable giallo .	Umberto Lenzi's " Eyeball " is a mediocre giallo which is about a vicious killer who gouges an eye out of his female victims while slashing them to death . The setting is sunny Barcelona and the suspects include a bus loaded with coarse American tourists . " Eyeball " is one of the weakest giallos I have ever seen . It's a shame , because Lenzi can turn out a really atmospheric giallo like " Sette Orchidee Macchiate di Rosso " ( 1971 ) . The script is awful and the killer-in-a-red-raincoat is nothing new ( check out " Don't Look Now " ) . The score by Bruno Nicolai is terrible . There is plenty of nudity and sleaze and some violent murders including throat cuttings and eye gougings . The film is pretty dull and forgettable , so don't waste your time with it . Check out some other giallos instead . .
Watchable , but pretty boring .	Some days ago I tracked this one on Polish TV-I wasn't completely disappointed , but it bored me . Just another werewolf film with a lot of CGI-effects . There are some good scenes in this picture , which is well-made and has some pretty cool photography too . Only a little bit of gore , so gore-hounds will certainly be disappointed . Not as bad as " An American Werewolf in Paris " , but nothing really ground-breaking . .
So utterly bad and worthless it really needs to be seen .	The genetic experiment goes wrong as it creates a hideous monster from dead body parts : a re-animated corpse thirsty for blood . After killing some idiots the zombie escapes from the hospital and searches for the victims in the nearest woods . A group of teenagers is camping in the forest . Soon they are stalked and murdered by hungry humongous . The 3-minutes long narration by Jack Palance is hilarious-he talks about The Hungan and some silly voodoo mumbo jumbo . Ultra-cheap and ultra-braindead slasher / monster flick with some of the lousiest special effects I have ever seen . The monster is just one guy wearing lame mask . There is even utterly horrible hair metal band Cry Wolf , which plays a couple of songs . The acting is non-existent , the gore is awful and the monster flails his arms while chasing his prey . A perfect example of hysterical Z-grade trash . Good for few laughs !
Ultra low-budget gore flick .	" Weasels Rip My Flesh " is an entertaining , albeit extremely low-budget debut of Nathan Schiff , the New York film-maker behind " Long Island Cannibal Massacre " and " They Don't Cut the Grass Anymore " . A NASA shuttle collects some goop that looks like egg yolks from Venus then , on the way back , crashes into a pond and its radioactive contents end up all over a weasel that looks like a deformed teddy bear . Two cops stumble upon a secret lab and do battle with a mad scientist Dr . Sendam , who performs an experiments with the weasel's blood . " Weasels Rip My Flesh " is a homemade horror film that certainly delivers plenty of cruddy gore . The sound sucks , the acting is awful and the script is hilariously bad , but if you like Z-grade horror cinema give this one a look . .
Occasionally effective , unfortunately forgettable .	11 contestants sign up for a scary reality show which forces them to confronts the supernatural and their inner fears . They're brought to an ancient war museum in Cambodia , which was used as a Khmer Rogue prison twenty years before . Thousands of people were tortured and killed there during the Cambodian war in the 70's . Now the museum is abandoned and no one dares to step inside . The single winner of the show will be rewarded for 5 million Baht . Inspired by the big reward , they accept to risk their lives in the museum and soon they meet the real ghosts of the past . . . " Ghost Game " is occasionally effective horror flick that is also very confusing . The characters are one-dimensional and they generally only scream and argue with each other . The script lacks creativity and the ghostly apparitions quickly become boring . .
Okay horror anthology film .	Roy Ward Baker's " The Monster Club " is an above average horror anthology . Vincent Price plays a vampire who brings horror story writer John Carradine to a bizarre club for Transylvanian freaks . The club is used as a link between the three tales of horror , and Price relates the three stories . The second one offers some humour and a couple of shocks . Donald Pleasence is a detective , who finally catches up with and kills his nemesis but in the process is transformed into a vampire himself . The other two segments are rather dull and unmemorable . The soundtrack is extremely cheesy and annoying . Still the scene where a female stripper takes off everything but her bones has to be seen to be believed . .
Brutally mediocre .	" Brutal " is actually a prequel for " Blackwater Valley Exorcism " , which I haven't seen . It tells the story of several attractive and usually whorish young women , kidnapped and messily killed with various tools and implements including hedge clippers . This trashy and unmemorable horror flick has Jeffrey Combs as the sheriff and Michael Berryman as the autistic dog breeder . The film is pretty gory , but the killings are not really shocking and the victims are incredibly annoying . The killer is bland and comes across as wimp . The climax isn't half bad , however I'm still not very satisfied by the whole proceeding . Fibonacci sequences as a plot device is a strange choice . Overall , if you are a fan of Combs or Berryman give " Brutal " a look .
Rather disappointing action / horror flick .	Out for a day of kicks with three girls , Steve , Larry and Rip ( three college buddies who enjoy playing war games ) stop at a remote wilderness cabin as a storm approaches . They've walked right into a nightmare trap set by two deranged killers . " The Zero Boys " surely doesn't live up to its full potential . This film is quite dull and there is absolutely no gore . There are some moody shots and a little bit of suspense , but there is not enough violence for my liking . There are much better horror films which are quite similar to " The Zero Boys " for example " Scarecrows " , " Hunter's Blood " or even the recent " Wrong Turn " . Check them out instead of watching this disappointing movie . .
Just average .	I have seen all " Guinea Pig " movies and " Android of Notre Dame " is surely nothing special . It's definitely not as shocking as " Devil's Experiment " or " Flowers of Flesh and Blood " . There is a reasonable amount of blood and gore , but the action is pretty dull . The film is neither funny nor disgusting . Anyway " Android of Notre Dame " is about Japanese dwarf who is trying to bring his girlfriend back to life by inserting various machine parts into her body . . . So if you're a fan of " Guinea Pig " series give this one a look , just don't expect something really repellent . .
Come on , people it's okay !	" Wishmaster " isn't a masterpiece , but it is quite entertaining and simply fun to watch horror flick . Overrated director Wes Craven produced this one and I can safely say that this is his best film of the 90's ( his " Scream " series , " Mind Ripper " , " New Nightmare " are pathetic crap , though ) . Of course the main heroine Tammy Lauren is annoying as hell , but there are some funny cameos to be seen here-Kane Hodder , Robert Englund , Tony Todd , Angus Scrimm ( the Tall Man from " Phantasm " series ) and Tom Savini . I like also wickedly funny Andrew Divoff's performance as a Djinn . There's plenty of gore ( people are ripped open etc . ) to keep gore-hounds happy . . Check it out , if you're bored . Avoid its awful sequel " Wishmaster 2 : Evil Never Dies " like the plague .
Pretty mediocre horror film .	Wes Craven's " The People Under the Stairs " is a weird horror film that plays like a dark fairy tale . The film is not scary and there is very little gore , so fans of splatter will be disappointed . Still the production values are excellent , the old house and the mazes within are nicely constructed . The acting is exceptionally good , albeit Brandon Adams overacts sometimes as the hero Fool . On the other hand , there are some bits of lame slapstick comedy that are simply out of place . The film also features rather grisly themes of child and animal abuse , incest , S & M and murder , but it's not offensive . So if you're a fan of Wes Craven's horror films give this one a look . However I still consider " Last House on the Left " as his best film to date . My rating : .
Visually impressive drama very light on horror .	Doctor Lazar Perkov has just returned to his apartment in Skopje from his parents ' villa in the lakes district after a year convalescing from a near-fatal car crash . He tries to return to work at the hospital , but his nightmares won't help him . He forgets things , fears his recovery isn't stable and has now had his first visit from the disturbed souls of the dead ( the old lady and the creepy looking guy with unbaptized infant ) . I saw " Senki " during Warsaw Film Festival and I was a little bit disappointed . The film is too long and quite dull in spots . It offers some beautiful photography of Macedonian landscapes , some scenes are pretty moving , but the horror elements are weak . Still there are four lovely sex scenes with a good dose of female nudity to keep me happy . .
Decent slasher , but nothing really impressive .	" The Clown at Midnight " is an enjoyable slasher , which owes a lot to Michele Soavi's brilliant " Deliria " ( 1987 ) . It has some genuinely creepy moments , a scary looking clown killer plus a pretty gruesome death scenes . It's well-acted and competently made , unfortunately any traces of originality are completely gone . There's also not enough gore for my liking . The mystery element isn't spectacular either ! All in all , I still enjoyed this one-it's certainly better than such crap like " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , " School's Out " or " Urban Legend " , but I wouldn't go so far to call this one a masterpiece . It's a solid piece of horror-nothing more , nothing less ! .
An enjoyable horror film made for the teenage audience .	" Night of the Demons 2 " is an okay sequel of Kevin Tenney's " Night of the Demons " . At Saint Rita's Catholic college Shirley Fenerty ( Zoe Trilling ) and several friends are banned from attending the school Halloween party for fooling around with boys so decide to hold their own party at Hull House . Several years ago at Hull House some teenagers were killed , all except one girl , Angela ( Amelia Kinkaid ) , whose body was never found . But as the party begins the demonic Angela appears and starts killing people . The film is just average-there are some good gore effects , unfortunately there's no suspense or atmosphere whatsoever . The scene when Zoe Trilling's breasts morph to envelop one character's hand totally cracked me up . So if you're in the mood for a campy horror give this one a look .
Above average psycho thriller .	Alberto De Martino's " Blood Link " is a pretty good thriller . Michael Moriaty plays a doctor , who has frightening visions of murder and discovers that this may be because of a psychic link to his siamese twin brother , who is murdering women in Germany . He tries to find him and stop the madness . The cast is pretty good with excellent performance by Michael Moriaty and the score by Ennio Morricone is brilliant . There is some violence and plenty of nudity . The film reminds me a little bit Brian De Palma's masterful " Sisters " ( 1973 ) , but it has enough suspense and surprises to satisfy horror fans . Check it out .
Jaw-droppingly bad , but still enjoyable enough to watch .	I'm not surprised that " Zaat " was put on IMDB's list of the worst movies of all time . The film is truly abysmal , but this doesn't mean that it isn't enjoyable to watch . The monster is actually really funny looking and wanders around killing many stupid people . The underwater photography is quite good and the acting isn't as bad as I expected . Highly recommended if you like trash cinema from early 70's . The plot : A mad scientist turns himself into a giant half man / half fish to try and rule the world !
Mildly interesting HK piece of sleaze .	" Raped by an Angel 4 : The Raper's Union " features three rapists led by Ben Ng of " Red to Kill " fame . Ng plays an ex-CIA worker who uses the latest in miniature technology to peep and prod into the lives of his victims , notably lovely novelist Suki Kwan . He and his two rapist friends form a close union to rape as many young Chinese girls as they could . " Raped by an Angel 4 " is a cheesy and mildly amusing exploitation flick that offers a little bit of sleaze plus some clever jokes . It also has Anthony Wong in a small role as the ancestor of rapists . There are some moments of rape and terror , but there is not enough sleazy exploitation or nasty violence for my liking . Overall , I prefer watching more serious Cat III fare over this one . My rating : .
Very entertaining Cat III piece of sleaze .	One night , an office worker in a rubber raincoat rapes a pretty secretary ( Veronica Yip ) , then accidentally kills her on a memo spike . Later that week , he goes to a hostess bar and sees the girl's lookalike named Minmin , and offers her a pile of cash to show up for work the next morning and tender her resignation . This would have worked if Yip hadn't been rescued from an abduction and rape by a kung fu businessman-who coincidentally happens to be the dead woman's business associate ! Veronica's more capable than any of the men , so she decides to take the dead girl's place , which means the rapist-killer has only one option . Not to be confused with the American politically correct piece of garbage starring Julia Roberts , this " Pretty Woman " features incredibly hot Veronica Yip plus plenty of sleaze . Veronica's ten minutes long shower sequence is truly arousing . There is also a little bit of bloody violence and some great martial arts action scenes , so I'm not complaining . Give this sleazy film a look . .
A wall-to-wall Spanish porno sleaze .	A band of kinky perverts kidnap a young heiress and teach her the joys of sexual decadence in this rare psycho sleazefest from Carlos Aured and Sergio Bergonzelli . The hard core Italian language print is definitely one to find as it offers tons of delicious sleaze for example we see women cramming pool cues and switchblades up their hairy vaginas . The film is loaded with lots of rough sex and sexual torture , so fans of dirty exploitation cinema will be pleased . Overall , " Apocalipsis Sexual " is among the nastiest Spanish sexploitation flicks I have ever seen . It makes Wes Craven's " Last House on the Left " and " Late Night Trains " look like kindergarten stuff . So if you are a fan of Lina Romay or Ajita Wilson you can't miss this nasty piece of filth . .
Okay , but nothing impressive .	" Netherworld " is a typical Full Moon's horror flick-entertaining for a while , but not really memorable . The cast is decent , the photography is pretty good and the story is okay . Basically it's about one guy , who with the help of a sexy witch tries to re-animate his dead father . Not very violent , although there are two or three gore scenes made by Mark Shostrom ( " The Mutilator " ) . The film is also quite atmospheric and relatively well-made . David Schmoeller ( " Tourist Trap " ) is definitely a talented genre director . Anyway , if you like horror movies I would recommend this one . Not the greatest horror flick ever made , but worth checking out .
Not bad , if you enjoyed " Grizzly " .	When a giant , killer grizzly bear terrorizes the countryside three men go on a dangerous hunting mission to bring it down . " Claws " is not as good as " Grizzly " ( 1976 ) - in fact it's pretty dull at times . There is no gore to speak of and no suspense . The photography of Alaska wilderness is outstanding . The acting is pretty good and the climax is fairly exciting . Still the special effects are not too hot . " Claws " is tough to find , but if you liked " Grizzly " give this one a look .
Fun low-budget gore slasher .	In " Killing Spree " an airplane mechanic becomes so convinced that his wife is as unfaithful to him that he launches an inventive and elaborate campaign to dispatch her numerous lovers , in the most violent , gory and repulsive ways imaginable . The bloody effects rank from pretty good to awful , but if you are a rabid gore fan you will love " Killing Spree " . The gore is plentiful including the scene , where our hero rips open a man's belly with chainsaw and then electrocutes him through his exposed intestines . A couple of the kills are hilariously ludicrous and the scene in which the wife ' gives head ' to her husband's best friend is unlike any horror film moment you've ever seen . The acting is unfirmly awful and the editing is bad , but if you enjoy watching low-budget gore flicks grab some beer and give " Killing Spree " a try .
Sleazy and dirty giallo - " Giallo a Venezia " is much better .	Barbara Magnolfi plays Ursula , who along with her sister Dagmar checks into a beautiful hotel by the sea in sunny Italy . Soon the guests start to be murdered by an unseen assailant with a dildo . Ursula , being a touch neurotic due to the trauma of her fathers recent death has a bad feeling about the hotel and some of the guests , especially the shady Fillipo , drug addict boyfriend of the hotels resident cabaret star Stella Shining . I must admit that I'm a fan of super sleazy Italian giallos from 70's like " Giallo a Venezia " or " Play Motel " , however " La Sorella di Ursula " is the worst of the bunch . The soft-core sex scenes are quite steamy , each one followed by a murder . Still the film is poorly acted and made . Give it a look , only if you are a fan of Italian sleaze . Enzo Millioni went on to direct only two more films after " La Sorella di Ursula " the most notable being " Fuga Dalla Morte " ( 1989 ) , one of the five films that Lucio Fulci supervised and used the footage from it in " Cat in a Brain " .
Lots of grue and sexual violence , but where is the plot ?	The plot of " Murder-Set-Pieces " is almost non-existent : a serial killer ( Sven Garret ) is raping and butchering hookers and strippers in Las Vegas . The film itself is more or less a remake of Nick Palumbo's earlier horror film " Nutbag " . It borrows some elements from William Lustig's horror classic " Maniac " too . The cinematography is excellent and the musical score is pretty moody . Unfortunately the lead actor Sven Garret is quite awful as a murderous Neo-Nazi . His constant overacting really get on my nerves . " Murder-Set-Pieces " tries so hard to be disturbing and disgusting that it almost becomes laughable . I have seen tons of extreme stuff including scat , bestiality stuff , some vomiting and underaged gonzo-style misogyny , so I wasn't particularly shocked or disturbed . Really " Murder-Set-Pieces " is nothing in comparison to " Mu Zan E " or " Psycho : The Snuff Reels " . Even such serial killer staples like " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " or Gerald Kargl's " Angst " are much more effective and disturbing . Of course the gore effects by Toe Tag crew are great , but lots of them still appears off-screen . Overall , " Murder-Set-Pieces " is a pretty over-hyped horror film that should only satisfy fans of gore and graphic nudity . Fans of horror films that contain an actual story will be sorely disappointed . and that's being generous .
Pretty bad .	Bernard L . Kowalski's " SSSSSSS " is an amusing horror cheapie . Kowalski is the director of many B-movies including " Attack of the Giant Leeches " ( 1960 ) and " Night of the Blood Beast " ( 1958 ) . The acting is decent and Strother Martin steals the show as the mad scientist . The use of real snakes is pretty effective , but the script is very mediocre and absurd . The snake man make-up is okay , but the final transformation scene is beyond horrible . " SSSSSSS " is surely good for few laughs , so if you have enough time to kill give it a look . .
Amateurish exploitation flick about crazed Vietnam vet and his dynamite .	A soldier in Vietnam goes insane after seeing two enemy soldiers brutally raping an innocent woman . As a result he is sent to a hospital for several months and sent back to the U . S . But though released he is not cured and becomes a rapist with a tendency to dynamite couples having sex . Very amateurish and suitably dull Vietnam vet turns into killer exploitation sickie . The opening scene set in Vietnam where two men rape , beat and blow-up a girl with dynamite is supposed to act as the trigger for the killer when he returns to the USA . What follows are several rather tame scenes of rape and murder as the killer attempts to recreate the scene he witnessed in Vietnam . The acting is awful , the nudity is frequent and the quality of my SWV copy is jumpy and worn out . .
Strange and surreal French vampire flick .	First of all I never understood a word in this flick . But that didn't stop me from watching it . The IMDb synopsis of " The Sadist Has Red Teeth " goes like that : Daniel gets out of the hospital where he has been cured for " vampirical obsessions " . But his life takes a weird turn as he transforms into a vampire and starts to kill women . Despite his young fiancée's support , Daniel's fate is definitely doomed . . . Being an aspiring collector of rare and forgotten horror movies I wanted to see " The Sadist Has Red Teeth " for a long time . The film is very surreal as it clearly plays with vampire myth . Several scenes are downright bizarre for example Daniel sees a crowd of people going backwards or buys vampire fangs in the shop . Overall , an interesting curio for the lovers of surrealist cinema .
Mildly interesting Thai horror flick .	Arawati was a beautiful girl among Khmer villagers cornered in battle . She was sentenced to death after being caught in a secret affair with a young soldier . Burnt alive , her soul remained in her head and bowels . At the same time in another town , village beauty Dao died . Tarawati's soul took the chance to occupy Dao's corpse . At night , her head and entrails join the occupied body to drift in the air looking for prey . The premise of " Krasue " is certainly interesting , but the special effects are weak and there is not enough gore . The acting is average at its best and CGI-animated flying vampiric head looks unconvincing . Frankly the film is pretty dull as it's filled with a lot of boring talk between the characters . Still the cinematography is gorgeous and there are some memorable moments including the fight scene between a flying vampire head with guts hanging underneath and cobra . Give it a look , if you have enough time to kill . .
A mediocre underwater horror that owes a lot to " Alien " and " The Abyss " .	The crew of a deep-sea mining rig discovers a sunken Russian freighter that harbors a deadly secret : a hideous monster that is the product of genetic experiment . With a storm raging on the surface of ocean and no hope for rescue , the captain played by Peter Weller and his team battle for survival against the creature . " Leviathan " is a pretty derivative underwater horror / science-fiction thriller that rips-off " Alien " and " The Thing " . Admittedly the acting is decent , the score by Jerry Goldsmith is excellent and the location sets are great , unfortunately the script is bad and the monster designed by a famous FX wizard Stan Winson is neither scary nor menacing . In conclusion , " Leviathan " is a decent , albeit utterly forgettable " Alien " clone that is perfect for rainy afternoon . .
Weird and a little bit dull .	Christopher Brooks gives an energetic performance as the rising magician Alabama who is treated like a celebrity . He learned all his magic tricks from the dead Carter the Great whose ghost still haunts him . A big promoter turns out to be a megalomaniac vampire planning to enslave a viewing audience with zeta rays . There's also a Nazi femme scientist named Dr . Caligula who builds a robot version of Alabama ! I'm not sure how to treat this surreal mix of horror , comedy , musical and sci-fi . One thing for sure : there were copious amounts of LSD involved . Director / producer / writer Fredric Hobbs of " Godmonster of Indian Flats " fame has crafted an utterly bizarre , multi-layered film which can only be described as one-of-a-kind . Still the action is dull in spots and the suspense is replaced by weirdness . Fans of surreal cinema should give this film a chance .
Mildly amusing zombie flick .	This is amateurish horror film making at best ! There are a few huge plot holes , but there are also some great inside jokes . Horror fans will find references to Rob Zombie , Megadeth , John Carpenter , Tom Savini , Lucio Fulci , David Warbeck , " Evil Dead 2 " , " The Beyond " and " Cannibal Ferox " . The acting is pretty bad , but there is plenty of cheesy gore ( heads get ripped off , throats ripped out , and the poor guy is dragged around by his intestines ) . Director Dave Parker is apparently a big Raimi / Fulci / Romero fan ! The are also the digital effects , but they totally suck ( electricity bolts , fire and a gunshot to the head ) . If you like zombie flicks give this one a look . . The plot : a small group of people shooting a low-budget zombie flick in an abandoned hospital unleash the living dead ! Fulci lives !
An enjoyable , but completely unscary zombie romp !	" Resident Evil " isn't definitely the worst horror film ever made , but movie of the year ? ! . . . come on ! I'm sad to have say that this is actually more action flick than horror . As cool as the games are ( at least the first two ) , as mediocre is Anderson's film . Almost no gore at all , pretty bad acting ( the characters in the computer game almost seem lively ) and no uncanny atmosphere to be found . And , by the way it's mostly kind of rip-off of " Dawn of the Dead " . Still there are some enjoyable moments to be found here . There's one reasonably creepy sequence in the mansion near the beginning . The sequence where several characters are trapped in the bright , shiny corridor with a deadly laser beam is the highlight of the film and contains one of the coolest and most unexpected decapitations I've seen in awhile . The battle between Milla Jovovich and creepy dogs is also excellent . The climax is okay and it leaves the door wide open for a sequel . The film is well-made and looks really nice , but the lack of gore can't be forgiven . However there are better zombie movies with plenty of red stuff out there for example " Zombi 2 " , " Burial Ground " , " The Beyond " , Romero's " Living Dead " trilogy , " Flesheater " , " Meat Market " series etc . The game is also a lot more scarier-if you want a really good , albeit forgotten horror film which is quite similar to the first " Resident Evil " game , please check out " Scarecrows " ( 1988 ) .
Not bad little horror flick .	" Martin " is about a young disturbed boy who believes himself to be a 77 years old vampire . Martin drugs women and drinks their blood after slashing their wrists with a straight razor . He becomes a radio sensation known as The Count when he describes his crimes nightly to a late night radio DJ . " Martin " is a weird and atmospheric tale , with John Amplas character being alternately creepy and charismatic . The cast is surprisingly good , and the atmosphere is beautifully surreal with hypnotic flashback sequences . Romero builds up a great amount of suspense with the good use of locations , story and a little bit of gore . Recommended viewing for horror fans and vampire enthusiasts .
Pretty average sequel to surprisingly enjoyable " Vacancy " .	Agnes Bruckner plays Jessica , a sexy girl from South Carolina . She on a road trip with her fiancée Caleb and annoying friend Tanner . Soon they find themselves checking into the Meadow View Inn a week after an initial murder took place the previous week . The motel's employee Gordon and his three comrades focus on torturing guests for profit and recording their agony on tape , leaving the three friends having to fight for survival . This straight-to-video sequel to horror hit " Vacancy " offers nothing fresh . It's more violent and sadistic than its predecessor , but less believable . The characters of villains are actually more interesting than protagonists . The motel setting is spot on as it provides some spooky atmosphere . It's a shame that the climax is so anticlimatic . .
Very disappointing giallo from Dario Argento .	On her birthday , police detective Anna receives an e-mail from an anonymous killer challenging her to a grotesque game of internet poker , with a live woman ( shown bound and gagged on web cam ) as the stake . Each time the police lose a hand , the abducted loses a body part , and if the police lose the whole game , she is murdered . Anna's investigative team is soon joined by John Brennan , a disgraced British policeman now attached to the embassy in Rome and by Remo , a young student blessed with extraordinary gambling skills-but with few clues , and the police commissioner's own daughter ( played by Argento's daughter Fiore ) in the killer's clutches , Anna needs to find the joker in the pack . " The Card Player " is a mediocre Italian giallo made by Dario Argento . The film is filled with many flaws : the characters are uninteresting , the dialogue is bad and the identity of the killer is easy to guess . The worst of all there is no gore or bloody violence in the film . Even the score by Claudio Simonetti is rather bland . Still I'm gonna ' give " The Card Player " , but this one easily ranks as one of the worst productions of Argento to date .
Very cheesy Italian killer crocodile flick .	A group of environmentalists discover that barrels of radioactive waste have been dumped along a Santo Domingo river . This causes a giant crocodile to emerge and start devouring the local villagers . " Killer Crocodile " by Fabrizio De Angelis is an extraordinarily poor horror film that provides tons of cheese and amusing moments . The film rips-off " Jaws " and is filled with bad acting and idiotic scenes . The main star of it is of course the killer crocodile , who devours its victims incredibly fast . The existence of this bloodthirsty beast is never fully explained . Give this one a look , only if you enjoy trashy Italian horror films . .
Definitely the weakest Alexandre Aja's horror film so far .	Kiefer Sutherland plays a former NYPD detective and divorced father of two , who takes a job as a security guard of a creepy burned down shopping center . Our hero quickly starts seeing strange spectres and hearing disturbing noises . Ghostly mirror reflections start affecting his family too . His young son starts seeing a ghost of female figure in his mirror at home . This remake of eerie Korean horror film " Into the Mirror " offers some suspenseful scenes and a bit of gruesome gore including lovingly grotesque moment , when Amy Smart rips open her own jaw . The scenes in the mall filled with mannequins are surprisingly chilling . Unfortunately the film clearly lacks the visceral punch of " Haute Tension " and " The Hills Have Eyes " remake . It is a standard ghost story mystery with some extreme gore thrown in . A generous .
Mildly interesting vampire flick from the director of " Midnight " .	" Heartstopper " was directed by John A . Russo and is based on his own written novel " The Awakening " . The plot is simple : a young doctor named Benjamin Latham condemned and put to death as a warlock in 1776 , is back from the dead in present day Pittsburgh as a fangless vampire who's saliva is a deadly poison and who can walk only during the daylight hours . He meets up with museum curator Moon Zappa , falls in love with her and comes across a copycat serial killer who also seems to have the same vampiric affliction and dispatches women in a style similar to Latham's . The premise of " Heartstopper " is actually pretty unique and original , but the film is surprisingly dull and uninteresting . The cinematography is grainy , the acting is decent and the heavy metal soundtrack adds a raw edge to the urban atmosphere . Give it a look , but " Midnight " is a much better film . .
Not bad .	Dean Crow's " Backwoods " is nothing special . The film itself is quite entertaining as it reminds me a little bit " Luther the Geek " . Jack O'Hara , who plays William , is truly amazing as a drooling and bearded weirdo . He kills chickens by biting their heads off and goes mad on numerous occasions . The film offers plenty of female nudity and a little bit of gore . The action is rather slow-moving , but the climax is pretty suspenseful and memorable . So if you're a fan of low-budget horror give this one a look-just don't expect something scary or original . My rating : . Here are my other recommendations : " Just Before Dawn " , " Hunter's Blood " , " Blood Tracks " , " Blood Salvage " and " The Hills Have Eyes " .
Watchable low-budget zombie film with few interesting ideas and plenty of grue .	During their trip a young couple is attacked by flesh-eating zombies . A guy is bitten by a living corpse . The couple is rescued by Simon and rushed to an enclosed commune in an abandoned military facility , where they find themselves company with the most unlikely group of survivors . As it happens , a comet carrying a parasite had hit Earth while the couple was hiking , spreading a sickness across the planet . " Days of Darkenss " is a low-budget rip-off of George A . Romero's " Day of the Dead " and Tobe Hooper's " Invaders from Mars " , albeit with some interesting ideas buried under its surface for example the zombies are all growing an alien organism within them . The makeup effects and the scenes of flesh-eating mayhem are believable enough and the acting is surprisingly good . . Check out this decent indie horror .
Frankly boring .	" Bloodthirsty Butchers " ( what a great title ! ) is possibly Andy Milligan's most famous film . Unfortunately I found it disappointing-I enjoyed his " The Ghastly Ones " ( 1968 ) more . There are some good scenes of splashy gore and butchery , but the rest of the film is overtalked and dull . In my humble opinion Andy Milligan was an underrated filmmaker-I'll definitely check out more of his stuff if I have a chance . - a breast in a pie scene is priceless !
A trilogy of darkly humorous and creepy tales .	" Terrorgram " is a pretty good low-budget horror movie . It has a nice amount of suspense , a bit of disgusting gore and some surprises . The acting isn't as bad as I expected-my favourite story is the first one called " Heroin Overdose " . It's very funny , quite offensive ( check out fingers cutting scene ! ) and politically incorrect ! All in all I enjoyed this film , so check it out , if you can find it !
Pretty worthwhile remake of Jacques Tourneur's horror classic .	Irena Gallier ( Nastassja Kinski ) is a young girl orphaned and sent to live with relatives , including her brother Paul ( Malcolm McDowell ) . There is a little family secret that must be discovered by Irena , she and her brother are descended from a race of people that transform into leopards upon completing the act of sexual intercourse . The only way to return to human form is to stalk their prey and kill . She is also drawn to the local zoo where she meets a man , Oliver ( John Heard ) who awakes an attraction in her . It also causes her to feel jealous of his co-worker Alice ( Annette O'Toole ) . " Cat People " is an okay horror film . There is a nice amount of gore and Nastassja Kinski's full-frontal nudity , so if you are prude don't watch it . Unfortunately the pace is really slow and the film is quite dull . However if you liked the original " Cat People " give this one a try .
Rather disappointing .	" Ju-On 2 " isn't definitely as good as the original . It's very bland and boring film with some occasionally scary moments . " Ju-On 2 " starts at the beginning of the first film , re-telling the story that started it all in the original " Ju-On " , and then about half way into the film the new story picks up . The film offers some downright creepy moments , but there is not enough creepiness for my liking . There is also one scene obviously stolen from Hideo Nakata's horror hit " Ringu " ( 1998 ) . So if you liked the first film you may be a bit a disappointed with this one . My rating : - and that's being generous . Stick with brilliant original .
Often annoying , but enjoyable slapstick slasher .	A group of unsuspecting college coeds move into the house on Totem Hill , a cursed place where four Toltec Sorcerers buried themselves hundreds of years ago-alive and still breathing ! On the coming of the Evil Days , the ancient demons arise to feed on the living . Now only one old Ranger with a whip played by western veteran Lash LaRue-fashioned out of materials from the four quarters of the world-stands between the girls and the mystical zombies from the past . " The Dark Power " is clearly Phil Smoot's answer to Raimi's " The Evil Dead " with an isolated house , resurrected bloodthirsty demons and lots of POV camera-work in the woods . What surprised me the most are the racist remarks of several characters . The Confederate flag also pops up with alarming frequency . The four Indian monsters are fun to watch and there is a bit of gore including the scene where a man's head is torn apart . Lash LaRue is great with a non-sexual whip action . It's really a shame that the first 45 minutes are so criminally boring . A generous .
Pretty good George A . Romero's flick .	A government plane carrying a biological warfare virus suddenly crashes near a small Pennsylvania town resulting in a poisoned water supply . When the residents embark on a chaotic , murderous rampage , the government send in the army , unannounced , to quarantine the town and resolve the anarchy . A small war breaks out when the citizens find themselves caught between a lethal disease , their crazed neighbors and an occupying army . " The Crazies " is a solid horror / action film which is scary at times and rather gory . The highlight of the film is the scene where an old lady brutally stabs a soldier with a knitting needle . The movie is indeed slow at times , but the atmosphere of fear and panic is well executed and the script is realistic . All in all " The Crazies " is definitely a movie worth seeking out . Highly recommended .
Not as bad as I expected .	" Children of the Corn 5 : Fields of Terror " is actually better than the following entry " Children of the Corn 666 " . The acting is pretty good and the cameos by Fred Williamson , David Carradine and Kane Hodder are nice to see . The pacing is decent and there's a bit of gore . So if you like slasher / splatter movies give this one a look-I still think that Fritz Kiersch's " Children of the Corn " is the best of the series ! My rating : .
Sleazy fun .	Mario Gariazzo's " Amazonia : The Katherine Miles Story " ( 1986 ) is an Italian exploitation film set in the Amazon . Supposedly based on a true story it has plenty of gore , but no actual cannibalism . Elvire Audray plays an 18 years old girl abducted by native tribe and she is pretty terrible actress . Fortunately she is naked through most of the film , so fans of sleaze won't be disappointed . The gore is pretty good ( there are numerous decapitation scenes , stabbings etc . ) and the film has an obligatory animal cruelty scene . So if you're a fan of Italian exploitation cinema or cannibal sub-genre give this one a look-just don't expect another " Cannibal Holocaust " ( 1979 ) .
Very eerie and atmospheric chiller .	" Don't Look Now " has something that is missing from most entries into the horror genre these days : a dark , sinister mood . This creepy story is permeated with the spirit of a dead character , in this case the drowned daughter of architect Donald Sutherland and his wife Julie Christie . While Sutherland is restoring a church in Venice , his grieving wife meets two elderly sisters , one of whom ( Hillary Mason from " Dolls " ) is a blind psychic . Mason claims that the dead girl is trying to make contact , and a series of frightening , unexplained events follow , many related to a series of murders along the canals . What is good about this movie ? The acting is brilliant , the direction is superb and the climax is genuinely nightmarish . Some of the cinematography is the best you'll ever see in any movie . The film is slow-moving , even boring at times , but overlook that and you have a great horror picture . So many horror / thriller movies were set in Venice ( " Giallo a Venezia " , " Murder by Design " , " Bloodstained Shadow " ) and this one is also among them . If you enjoy horror movies , you should see this little gem .
Potentially great isolation flick ruined by ridiculous ending .	In this supernatural-themed thriller a remote Alaskan outpost owned by a major oil company is haunted and its personnel are killed off either by the ghosts of ancient creatures ? or by nature itself . Reminiscent to " The Thing " and " The Shining " the newest horror film by Larry Fessenden is mostly about global warming and its ghastly consequences . It seems that global warming somehow released the malignant spirits of ancient creatures that attack the oil company employees . In the vein of " The Shining " the personnel is slowly going insane one by one . Unfortunately the entire eerie premise is ruined by awful ending with silly CGI creatures make their appearance . The action is slow-moving , the gore is completely absent , but there are few spine-tingling moments . .
Darker than " Death Factory " .	" Death Factory " by Brad Sykes is a cheesy gore flick which heavily relies on tired clichés . In its sequel six degenerates are invited to the abandoned factory to witness the killing of an innocent , only to discover they were lured there by religious nut Denny who supplies the victims for his sister Alexa , who was turned into a flesh-eating monster as the result of a chemical experiment turned wrong . Ana tries to find the individual who was responsible for killing her daughter and is invited among the fresh meat . " Death Factory : Bloodletting " is a little bit better than its predecessor . The film provides some ghastly gore , but almost all the characters are uninteresting . The script is generic and offers nothing new . At least Claudia Vargas is pretty believable as Ana , not to mention very sexy . .
Surprisingly overrated .	Four teenagers with the end of school on the horizon head up the New South Wales coast for a weekend of surfing , drinking and sex . The boys have told their parents they are going alone . It's only when the stranger appears and weird time anomalies occur on the beach and in the camp that they start thinking . Admittedly the premise of " Lost Things " is quite interesting , but hardly original . The film actually in many ways reminded me " Dead End " . The acting is sub-par , but I must applaud the excellent work of cinematographer . The lonely beach indeed looks creepy and atmospheric and such details like the mannequin buried in the sand put the smile on my face . The climax is satisfying of itself , but is undermined by too many unanswered questions . Give it a look , however if you want to see seriously eerie horror flick that will make you think afterwards rent or buy " Session 9 " . .
Japanese torture porn .	This suitably dull and extremely cheap Japanese torture flick contains plenty of rape and torture . It offers the viewer four misogynistic and cruel stories-1 ) female Christians are viciously tortured in a dungeon circa 18th century 2 ) a cuckolded man beats his cheating wife and her lover 3 ) during WW2 inquisition soldiers abuse female traitors with whips and wooden horse tortures 4 ) three soldiers rape and violate spies . " 100 Years of Torture " reminded me " A Joy of Torture " , but is not as professionaly made . In fact the film looks very cheaply , the torture scenes are uninteresting and the direction is bad . I expected more from one of the pioneers of pinku eiga Koji Wakamatsu . A generous .
Mindless fun .	It's the year 2176 , and Mars has become the new wild frontier . Colonists on the red planet work at remote desert outposts , mining the planet's natural resources and slowly transforming the harsh environment into something more hospitable . Commander Helena Braddock , Lieutenant Melanie Ballard and a small squadron of the Mars Police Force have been sent to one such town , Shining Canyon , to transport Mars ' most notorious criminal , James " Desolation " Williams , back to the Martian city of Chryse to stand trial for murder . When they arrive , however , the police find a ghost town full of mutilated corpses . Only Williams and four other prisoners still locked in the town jail appear to have survived . After Commander Braddock mysteriously disappears , Lieutenant Ballard and the other officers soon discover that the dormant spirits of Martian warriors have awakened to possess Shining Canyon's human inhabitants , turning them into a tribe of bloodthirsty savages bent on reclaiming the planet . " Ghosts of Mars " has an interesting concept and features plenty of violence , however the pace is rather slow and the film quickly becomes uninteresting . Still Natasha Henstridge is great as a super confident hero . The score by thrash metal band Anthrax is pretty effective too . .
An enjoyable time-waster .	An armed male intruder breaks into a women's dorm and with a gun and a butcher's knife binds and gags all the residents . Then one by one he stabs them cruelly and with great brutality . All of that happened in Chicago on the night of July 14 , 1966 in a dormitory that housed eight nurses who worked at the South Chicago Community Hospital . The perpetrator was Richard Speck , then 24 , a drifter born in Illinois , raised in Texas , wandering from petty crime to petty crime and bar to bar . He had the words " Born to Raise Hell " tattooed on his arm . " Chicago Massacre : Richard Speck " is a fairly accurate portrayal of this murderous loser . Of course some scenes are obviously fictionalized , so true crime buffs may be disappointed . The central performance of Corin Nemec is pretty good and menacing . The film is not as grimly effective as " Born for Hell " from 1976 . Worth a rental but nothing more .
Really bad slasher flick .	Some happy campers are stalked and viciously butchered by a demented cannibalistic killer called Daddy . " The Forest " is one of the strangest slasher flicks I have ever seen . It starts fairly competently , but quickly becomes boring and tedious . The opening murder scene of two backpackers in the California wilderness is quite suspenseful and gory . The acting is really bad and the script is not better . Still there is a lot of cheese for fans of slasher movies . Unfortunately the gore is kept to minimum , so gorehounds may be disappointed . The film features also the ghosts of two kids and their mother and I can safely say that this supernatural element adds some touches of originality to the plot . So if you are a fan of slasher films you can check this one out . However I prefer Donald M . Jones earlier horror film " Schoolgirls in Chains " ( 1973 ) , which is way more demented than " The Forest " .
Nonsensical plot and lots of gore .	A young female reporter has hunted down the caretaker to get an exclusive story on him . The first story the crypt keeper tells her involves a bunch of gangsters , a suitcase with a mysterious secret and lots of gory violence and swearing with a bit of rape thrown in for good measure . The second story takes place in Medieval Times . It's loaded with gore and violence and it has to do with " the eternal heart " which might grant immortality to whoever feeds it the most blood . " Beyond the Limits " is slightly better than " Chain Reaction " , but not as enjoyable as 90's Ittenbach's splatterfests . At least it offers lots of gore : axes are buried in faces , throats are slashed , eyeballs are removed and guts fall out . Unfortunately there is zero suspense and the acting is simply atrocious . The film is worth watching only for its outrageous gore . .
A marginally better than " Silent Night , Deadly Night Part 2 "	Dr . Newbury has saved the life of the hideously injured Ricky Caldwell . The doctor has encased his patient's explosive brain inside a Plexiglas cap , yet he has failed to revive him from his deep coma . In Newbury's attempt to reach the comatose victim's mind , he connects Ricky's brain waves to a gifted clairvoyant , Laura Anderson , who unexpectedly taps into the dark and twisted realm of his haunted dreams . Ghastly things begin to happen and detective Connoly ( Robert Culp ) , must fight to stop the dangerous experiment . " Silent Night , Deadly Night 3 " is a mediocre horror film at its best . The pace is horrendously slow , the script is terrible and the acting is weak . Still there are some interesting camera angles and the film is suitably interesting . The next sequel was a completely unrelated gorefest from Brian Yuzna , whose unusual vision ? often rejected by series fans ? was at least a change of pace . .
Obscure and forgotten precursor of " The Fog " .	The zombie ghost of a drowned excursion boat captain Manfred Gohr haunts an Austrian lake in search of vengeance against those who caused the accident . The plot of " Dark Echo " sounds familiar for an avid horror fan . It pretty much reminded me John Carpenter's horror classic " The Fog " . The film offers some atmospheric moments shot in caves and old castles and few interesting underwater shots . The gore is completely absent apart from badly made decapitation of the witch . The acting is decent , but the pace is terribly slow . Still if you are a collector of extremely tough to find European horror films you can give " Dark Echo " a look . I'm also sure that Robotham's debut was released many years ago in Poland on VHS under the title " Mroczna glebia " . .
Cool creature-decent horror !	OK , I enjoyed this film , but I wouldn't go so far to call this " the scariest movie of all time " . Admittedly , the creature ( Pumpkinhead ) is scary and menacing , the acting is decent enough , and the film is very atmospheric and spooky , but there's not enough gore to satisfy my bloodthirsty needs . Overall I'd recommend this one for horror buffs-just try to avoid its dreadful sequel like the plague . .
Fun trash from Troma .	" Surf Nazis Must Die " is an enjoyable piece of funny trash from Troma . The gang war erupts between several groups on a California beach . The Surf Nazis , naturally led by some guy named Adolf , are the agressors and they start killing the members of other beach gangs one by one . There is also a black woman who becomes an angel of vengeance , after her son is killed . The acting is horrible , but the film is fun to watch . There is enough sex and violence to satisfy Troma lovers . Give this one a look , if you're a fan of exploitation . .
Pretty mediocre Italian horror .	" A Blade in the Dark " is a mediocre horror film . People comparing it to Argento's classics are completely missing the point . Obviously Lamberto Bava does not have the talent of his brilliant father Mario Bava - " A Blade in the Dark " is nothing in comparison to " Blood and Black Lace " , " A Bay of Blood " or " The Girl Who Knew Too Much " . Still " A Blade in the Dark " is quite enjoyable , if you're a fan of Italian horror . Bruno , a music composer is offered a job by a female director to write the music for her newest horror film . He takes on the job and rents a small villa . As soon as he starts his work a series of brutal murders is set in motion . The film is not as scary as some people claim-in fact it's pretty dull . There are some vicious and really bloody murders , particularly the bathroom killing , but there is not enough gore for my liking . The script is sometimes too idiotic and the dubbing is horrible . So if you have enough time to waste give this one a look-just don't expect a masterpiece .
Good stuff !	Antonio Climati's " The Green Inferno " is obviously inspired by Ruggero Deodato's unforgettable masterpiece " Cannibal Holocaust " ( 1979 ) . Professor Koranz is missing so 4 individuals ( one woman reporter and three guys ) head off to the Amazon to search for him . They encounter fish that feed on the intestines of live humans , bat attacks , unfriendly headhunters , anacondas and more jungle horrors . " The Green Inferno " is nothing special . It has some rather unpleasant scenes involving animals , but the amount of violence is extremely low . Still if you like Italian exploitation cinema give this obscure little flick a look . However fans of Antonio Climati's downright unpleasant mondo movies will be sorely disappointed . .
Great Italian low-budget fun .	Ten years after " 1990 : The Bronx Warriors " life is still a pure hell for the Bronx warrior street gangs . A sinister Manhattan Corporation with plans for the region sends in death squads named ' The Disinfestors ' to eliminate the remaining inhabitants , and only the man called Trash can stop them . Mark Gregory is back as Trash in this cult follow-up to " 1990 : The Bronx Warriors " . This is surely very fast-paced and violent flick with tons of action . Of all the early 80's post apocalypse movies , " Escape from the Bronx " looks like it has one of the higher budgets , mostly spent on spectacular flame-thrower effects and effective explosions . The acting is terrible , although it's always nice to see Lucio Fulci's regular Paolo Malco in the small role . The soundtrack by Francesco De Masi of " The New York Ripper " fame is also quite good . Check it out . .
An average Italian horror film .	I really wanted to like this film , especially after watching the beginning , which was creepy enough to keep me on the edge of my seat . Unfortunately " The Ogre " becomes quickly boring and unintentionally funny at times . There's absolutely no gore and the underwater sequence near the climax totally rips-off similar ( and much better executed ) scene in Dario Argento's brilliant " Inferno " ( 1980 ) . The main actress is really annoying , but overall I liked the Gothic feeling of this film . The setting ( an old Italian castle ) is a nice touch . .
Gory bikersploitation madness .	" Mad Foxes " has to be seen to be believed . It's a tasteless exploitation trash with no redeeming qualities whatsoever . We meet Hal who is trying to get his drunk 18-year-old virgin girlfriend home to have sex with her . Unfortunately he is violently beaten by Nazi-loving bikers who rape his girl . Hal recruits some kickboxers to invade the funeral the bikers are throwing for a fallen comrade at an amphitheater . They beat up the bikers and castrate their leader . Later Hal picks up a sexy hitchhiker and takes her to his parents country villa . While he's out shagging her , the bikers show up and slaughter his family and the servants . Now it's time for bloody revenge . . . Unbelievably stupid trash loaded with gory violence and sleaze . The direction is weak , the acting is abysmal and some scenes are delightfully absurd . Still " Mad Foxes " takes a lot of patience to watch .
Pretty sick exploitation film .	Luigi Batzella's " Beast in Heat " is a hyper sleazy and hyper hilarious and just plain sick nazi exploitation turkey that beats every other film of the questionable genre . The film rips so many other films and documentaries off it makes you laugh alone . There are many scenes of some war documentaries that have extremely bad picture quality . The same thing is with Bruno Mattei's " Hell of the Living Dead " that rips also everything possible off , including the Goblin score from " Contamination " and " Dawn of the Dead " . " Beast in Heat " is also very graphic with its violence , mainly towards naked females that get abused and sexually violated as we can expect . Plenty of nudity and pubic hair ripped off and then eaten by the monster and so on . The film doesn't even have a credits in its beginning ; I've heard that every member of the crew , including the director , wanted to take their names off from this film . Overall , " Beast in Heat " is surely wild , so fans of Italian exploitation won't be disappointed .
Very gory slasher made by David DeCoteau .	" Dreamaniac " is a typical 80's slasher directed by David DeCoteau ( " Nightmare Sisters " , " Witchouse " ) . Another thing that ensues it's place in the history of horror is that the female lead is the lady who would go on to be known as Ashlyn Gere , one of the more attractive porn stars in recent years . The plot is simple : Adam , a heavy metal fan manages to summon Lily , a succubus . His girlfriend Pat talks him into letting her sister use his apartment to throw a party . When the party begins , the bloodbath ensues . . . " Dreamaniac " is pretty stupid , but there is plenty of gore . . . particularly the drill decapitation scene , lots of sex but little nudity and a lot of cheese . Don't expect too much and you won't be disappointed . My rating : .
The best in the series , but nothing great .	The world is ravished and nearly dead . The evil Umbrella corporation , still after Alice is attempting to domesticate the zombies , but they need her in order to do so . Meanwhile , a convoy of survivors is attempting to find a small square of land where they can find peace . Alice meets up with the convoy and finds herself the reluctant hero of it . " Resident Evil : Extinction " borrows heavily from " Day of the Dead " , " Mad Max 2 " , " The Killing Birds " and " Alien " . The story doesn't make sense , once again full of convolutions , boring clichéd characters and confusing subplots . The acting is rarely good and the film is a mess . Still it's a passable entertainment , if you are in the mood for highly kinetic action flick with zombies . .
Sleazy German rip-off of " The Exorcist " .	A young virgin , Magadalena ( Dagmar Hedrich ) , orphaned at a boarding school for girls is raped and possessed by an invisible demon which exists the corpse of a recently deceased Satanist . Possessed by the demonic spirit Magdalena spews obscenities and runs around naked . " Magadalena , Possessed by the Devil " is loaded with delicious sleaze and exploitative elements . The film is fun to watch and quite blasphemous , so fans of outrageous exploitation cinema will be enthralled . The acting is terrible , the plot is weak and there is no suspense whatsoever , but I don't care . I wanted sleaze and nudity and that's what I've got . So if you like sleaze cinema give this one a look . Highly recommended especially hand in hand with " Malabimba " by Andrea Bianchi .
Not as good as " Shivers " and " The Brood " .	A collision between motorcycle and motorhome on a country road leaves Hart Read ( Frank Moore ) and his girlfriend Rose ( Marilyn Chambers ) badly injured . Read is stable enough to be shipped to a hospital , but Rose is shipped to the clinic . The operation to save her life appears at first to be a complete success , but soon all hell breaks loose . Marilyn Chambers is pretty believable as Rose-even Cronenberg was surprised that she didn't do more mainstream movies . The film has some great moments of terror-the shooting of a man trying to get into a car and the immediate washing down of the windshield that follows , is a perfect example . " Rabid " isn't as gruesome as " Shivers " and " The Brood " , but if you are a fan of Cronenberg's movies you can't miss it . Highly recommended .
Very enjoyable Spanish piece of trash .	A Nazi war criminal named Franz , hidden in the jungles of Africa , is running guns to the presumably hostile natives . The governments of the world send an inept band of agents , poorly disguised as a reverend and four nuns , to investigate . " Tarzan and the Mystery of Jungle " is a perfect example of turkey cinema . The acting is laughable , the fight scenes are horrible and there is no nudity . Richard Yesteran steals the show as Tarzan and his yell is wonderful . The film is pretty tough to find , but if you like laughably bad cinema give it a look . Recommended .
Mildly interesting horror / thriller .	Lacey Cole , a beautiful young widow living in an isolated cabin in the forest of the great American Northwest , is forced to fight for her very survival when she lets a stranger into her life . Michael Bodine , an escaped serial killer and demented genius with bizarre psychic powers takes on the personality of Lacey's dead husband , lulling her into a state of open trust and romance . When Michael reveals his true identity , a life and death struggle begins , pitting Lacey's ingenuity against a consummate evil genius . The above synopsis of " Hobbs End " sounded pretty good for me , unfortunately the film itself was quite mediocre . There are some nice visuals and the snowy location sets provide a little bit of atmosphere , but " Hobbs End " is too long and quickly becomes dull . The acting is surprisingly passable with a beautiful Catarina Conti giving a likable performance as the lonely widow . Not a great amount of blood either . Give it a look , if you have nearly 2 hours to waste . .
Disappointing 80's horror from the maker of " Witchtrap " .	Jim and Linda are a young couple who have separate history with Brandon Sinclair . With Jim they were once best friends and with Linda they used to be lovers . One night at a party Brandon brings over a Ouija board and talks Linda into using it with him . Linda gradually becomes more and more obsessed with the board and the initially harmless and friendly spirit becomes increasingly violent and sadistic . " Witchboard " is a suitably disappointing 80's horror with strong script and likable characters . Under Tenney's impressive direction there are also quite a few scares . The acting is pretty good and very few deaths are gruesome enough . Unfortunately the action drags and the film becomes suitably dull . . Followed by two inferior sequels .
Slightly disappointing , but still watchable horror film .	Sarah Michelle Gellar plays Karen , an exchange student studying social work in Japan who innocently agrees to cover for a nurse who didn't show up for a work . When she enters the assigned home , she discovers an elderly American woman , Emma , who is lost in a catatonic state while the rest of the house appears deserted and disheveled . Suddenly Karen hears scratching sounds from upstairs . Soon she learns the secret of the vengeful curse that has taken root in this house . I was able to see " Ju-On " , before I saw " The Grudge " and I can safely say that this American remake is nowhere nearly as horrifying as the original . Sadly it relies more on shock tactics , such as having ghosts jump out at unexpected moments . However " The Grudge " still has its share of few effective scares and thrills . Overall , if you like Japanese horror movies like " Ju-On " or " Ringu " you can give this one a look . .
Trashy entertainment from Jesus Franco .	Jesus Franco's movies are really strange : on the one hand they're really trashy and brainless , on the other hand they always deliver a good amount of sleaze and are simply fun to watch . " La Venganza del doctor Mabuse " is an enjoyable trashy romp filled with bad acting , sleaze and nudity . The monster is extremely laughable and the characters ( especially those stupid cops ) are very funny . So if you like Franco or Spanish cinema give this one a look .
Do we really need another Thai ghost story ?	The plot of " P " goes like that : whilst growing up in rural Thailand a young orphan girl is taught the ways of magic by her grandmother . But when old woman falls sick Dau is lured to Bangkok to find work so that she can buy medicine . She finds herself working in a go-go bar as a dancer and prostitute . She uses the magical skills her grandmother taught to her advantage but her magic gets darker and people start dying . The photography of Thai countryside and Bangkok is stunningly beautiful , the lead actress looks very cute , but the film lacks sleaze and nudity and is very tasteful when it comes to the subject of prostitution . The horror scenes are surprisingly weak too . .
Visually striking , ultimately dull .	Tsui Ting-Yin is a best-selling author and for her new book she decides to change genre and instead of writing love stories focus on the supernatural . When writing a chapter for her new book , entitled Re-Cycle , the supernatural she writes about appears to her in real life in the form of a woman . Afraid at first , Tsui Ting-Yin later follows the long-haired woman that appeared to her in order to be able to write more and is soon plunged into a world of fantasy and horror . " Re-Cycle " plays more like a fantasy flick than horror . The film certainly looks truly beautiful and features some jaw-dropping scenery , unfortunately it lacks scares and is simply dull at times . Unlike their previous films , the building of nail-biting tension and creepy suspense did not play as big a part in " Re-Cycle " . Overall , I expected more from the makers of " The Eye " and " Ab-normal Beauty " . A solid .
Mildly enjoyable German teen slasher .	When a group of 13 high school friends graduate , they break into the city's abandoned swimming pool complex on one last drunken spree . But the ultimate pool party soon turns into a murderous bloodbath when a vicious killer begins to stalk them one by one . " Swimming Pool " borrows heavily from American teen slasher flicks . Still it delivers plenty of blood . The killings are surprisingly vicious : we get slit throats , machete stabbings , a machete impaling , cut off feet , a girl cut in half and more . The lack of nudity is extremely disappointing , though . Overall , I rather enjoyed Boris von Sychowski's horror debut . " Swimming Pool " is certainly more engaging than " Cherry Falls " , " Urban Legend " series or similar teen slasher garbage . .
Routine but suitably creepy Indonesian horror flick	Maya and her younger sister Andin are orphans since a year back and have just started to move on with their lives . Maya is getting married to her boyfriend soon and Andin is afraid that Maya will forget about her . To patch things up with her sister , Maya decides to buy Andin her own apartment now that she's starting college and has to take care of herself . What she doesn't know is that the building is haunted and the terrifying ghost starts to haunt Andin . It's a surprise that such derivative horror flick received so many glowing reviews . It obviously borrows from " Shutter " , " Ju-on " , " The Eye " and many other successful Asian horror movies . Admittedly some scenes are pretty creepy , but I wasn't paralyzed with fear . Jaume Balaguero's recent horror hit " Rec " is far more scarier . Still a stark , white and empty apartment building , with claustrophobic rooms and dark shadowy corners and hallways is the perfect setting . .
Mediocre horror offering from Full Moon .	A charming old lady named Mrs . Albright guests at a New England Boarding House . She hides a dark secret , because beneath her stitched-on human skin lurks a demon from hell bent on capturing the souls of unsuspecting occupants and imprisoning them for all time in her hideous book of paper dolls . One by one , the residents receive Mrs . Albright's special attention and she is really effective at her job . Admittedly the premise of " Stitches " is quite good , unfortunately the performances are mostly mediocre and the special effects are lame . The lack of nudity is also disappointing . Still the film sustains a pretty creepy atmosphere and the script by frequent Full Moon scribe Benjamin Carr offers some surprises . Give it a look , just don't expect a masterpiece . .
Absolutely disgusting .	" : 20 . Spetember " by Kurt Kren is easily one of the most disgusting short films I have ever seen and that's saying something . Again the film contains virtually no plot-somebody is drinking , then pissing and somebody is eating , then defecating . The images of defecating man are shown in unflinching detail . I have seen many extreme and controversial movies in my time , but I almost vomited during " : 20 . September " . The film is shot in black and white and it doesn't have any soundtrack or dialogue . It's edited very fast , like a music video and the photography is simply stunning . So if you are a fan of off-beat underground cinema give it a look-just don't forget your barf-bag . .
Nothing special .	Clive Barker's " Nightbreed " ( based on Barker's novel " Cabal " ) is a disappointing horror film-especially in comparison to legendary " Hellraiser " ( 1987 ) . First of all there is not enough suspense or gore to satisfy horror fans . The sets are incredibly fake as are some of the monsters . However the cast is fine and David Cronenberg steals the show as a Dr . Phillip K . Decker . Check it out if you have enough time to kill . . . My rating : .
Enjoyable trash from Hammer .	Oh yeah , " The Gorgon " is really bad-the special effects ( especially the Gorgon's make-up ) are horrible , but I enjoyed the film . It's pretty scary , atmospheric and well-acted ( horror veterans Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee are great as usual ) . So if you like subtle horror films from Hammer , then this one is a must-see-just don't expect something with over blown budget here . You have been warned . . .
Pathetic ending ruined this one .	I've never seen William Castle's original from 1958 , but in my opinion 1999 version isn't completely bad . Director William Malone creates some atmosphere and suspense during the first hour , but everything is almost completely ruined by awful ending . There's some good gore , striking visuals and atmospheric sets , but the conclusion is absolutely lame ( the CGI effects look really fake ! ) . If you like horror movies give this one a look , just don't expect something impressive .
Nothing really impressive .	Toru Murakawa's " Distant Justice " is a mediocre action film . Like any self-respecting " Death Wish " clone , it certainly delivers plenty of violence , but there is absolutely no suspense to be found here . Visiting America for the first time with his wife and daughter , Inspector Rio Yuki ( Bunta Sugawara ) discovers how dangerous Boston can be . After Rio's wife inadvertently photographs a drug buy , she is gunned down and his daughter Sakura ( Sakura Sugawara ) is kidnapped . Despite assurances from his police buddy , soon-to-retire Chief Bradfield ( George Kennedy ) Rio decides to take the law into his own hands . The film isn't as bad as its rating suggests-it is just extremely routine and predictable . There is a nice amount of violence ( even gang-rape attempt scene ) , so fans of gritty action movies won't be disappointed . My rating : .
Rather disappointing .	Marcus Nispel's " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " is clearly not as good as Tobe Hooper's claustrophobic and disturbing horror classic from 1974 . It's still much better than " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , " Urban Legend " or similar politically correct garbage . The acting is pretty good and there is a nice amount of gore and violence , unfortunately the low-budget nature and intensity of the original are completely gone . The film is fairly predictable and not scary at all . The lack of cannibalism is also hard to forgive . Despite using the cinematographer of the original film , Daniel Pearl , nothing in this remake will scare you or thrill you , unless you're a kid . Still the film is entertaining and has some good atmospheric moments , so if you like horror movies give it a look . .
Okay Jean Rollin's vampire flick .	A professor and his young assistant are investigating about the coming of the master of parallel , who is simply Dracula . They go to convent and follow Isabel , a mysterious woman , who could be the next fiancee of the master . " La Fiancee de Dracula " is clearly not as good as Rollin's best works like " Lips of Blood " and " Fascination " . Still it has some surreal moments and a good amount of female nudity . The ending is really beautiful and tragic . It's nice to see Brigitte Lahaie in a rather small role . So if you're a fan of Jean Rollin's wonderful cinema you can't miss this film . Highly recommended , especially if you like vampire flicks . My rating : .
Cheap Japanese exploitation flick .	" Kyoko vs Yuki " is another cheap exploitation flick made by Daisuke Yamanouchi , the guy behind " Red Room " series or " Mu Zan E " . The aforementioned movies are much better than this silly exercise in bad taste . Basically " Kyoko vs Yuki " is about two Japanese girls ( one of them is a schoolgirl trained to be killer and another one is a lesbian ) fighting with each other with incredibly bloody results . The film offers plenty of lesbian sex / necrophilia and some sickening gore , but the acting is really horrible . I must say that I had always had a problem with SOV stuff , because it looks crap . Japanese filmmakers are usually very good with this medium as they use high-quality equipment and often make films such as " Toriko " or " Naked Blood " . Unfortunately this is not the case with " Kyoko vs Yuki " . Still if you are into gore or sadistic Japanese horror give this one a look . .
Decent sci-fi horror with a bit of grue .	The young American tourists in Spain encounter lethal alien lifeforms that were brought to Earth by Apollo 14 then tested on animals aboard SkyLab . But SkyLab has now crashed to Earth and the aliens have survived , infect the locals and messily killing them . The trio of young people pick up a NASA scientist who has to get an antidote to a nearby laboratory . " Alien Predator " was one of the very first horror films I have seen as the kid . That's why I can't give it a negative rating , even though the pace is lethargic and the gore is kept to minimum . However the film is suitably dark and atmospheric and offers a few creepy moments . The acting is decent and the characters are likeable . .
A passable South Korean horror with lotsa spooky dolls .	A cute sculptor Hae-mi and four other people are invited to a gallery of dolls . They are excited to pose to be a doll model . Superintendent Mr . Choi and Jae-won a doll-maker are the hosts who invite them to this gallery . After just being in the house a short while strange things start to happen to each one of the newly arrived guests and there are also other strange things going on there , like a man being chained in the basement and some weird acting girl in a red dress showing up every now and then . I must admit that the dolls in " The Doll Master " are spooky as hell . However the climax is disappointing and the pace is slow . Still " The Doll Master " is decent enough to watch it once . .
Rather mediocre horror film .	" Kiss of the Tarantula " is a mildly interesting horror film about a teenage girl named Susan ( Suzanne Ling ) and her fondness for spiders . When anyone crosses her or her mortician father , the spiders come out to set things right . Her leering uncle and town sheriff ( Eric Mason ) has eyes for her , and she has the perfect plan to dispose of him . She also takes vengeance on the high school kids who broke into her house and killed her prized spider . She unleashes a slew of her friendly eight-legged buddies in their VW Bug at a drive-in . It's a pretty gruesome , but also very silly scene . Although its ' low budget shows , the film still has some nice touches and a great ending which shouldn't be missed . Director Chris Munger also made exploitation flick " Black Starlet " ( 1974 ) and producers Daniel Cady and John Hayes were also responsible for " Grave of the Vampire " ( 1972 ) and " Garden of the Dead " ( 1972 ) . Give it a look , if you like tarantuals . .
Watchable remake of sub-genre defining camp slasher .	A shortened introduction sequence efficiently conveys that Pamela Voorhees killed off the camp counselors who neglected her deformed baby Jason that a final girl chopped her head off and that Jason came back . A present day . A group of horny teenagers is hiking through the woods looking for a secret marijuana crop . Of course they stumble onto the camp grounds by mistake , which is where a now adult Jason steps in , gorily dispatching the teens in a glorious fashion within twenty minutes . Several weeks later Clay comes to Crystal Lake looking for his sister , Whitney , one of the teens who disappeared after that prologue . Clay runs into another batch of young people , this time staying at the lakeside cabin owned by one of their parents . Soon the bloodbath ensues as Jason is hiding in the woods . . . The remake is superior to the original series mostly in technical ways : better editing , better acting , better overall craftsmanship . Unfortunately the film is not as gory as the legendary original . The killings are mostly bland and uninspired and the lack of tension is disappointing . There is a little bit of highly welcomed nudity , but not too much . I expected far more intense slasher and was let down . Still Nispel's remake is watchable , if you have enough time to slash . A generous .
Pretty average teen slasher .	As young children Laura and Henry Porter witness the bloody murder of their parents at the hands of a faceless , hooded psychopath . Years later they remain highly disturbed , but Henry has recovered far more than his sister due to a stint in a mental hospital under the care of a respected psychiatric doctor named Dr Mitchell Allen . When Henry gets the opportunity to work thousands of miles away , his sister Laura decides that she too must finally confront her demons and voluntarily commits herself into the same facility . Soon her fellow patients begin to die . . . " Boogeyman 2 " is the sequel that is almost entirely better than its laughably tame predecessor . There is a decent amount of blood and gore and the acting is not bad with " Saw " star Tobin Bell having a relatively small role . The film relies on slasher clichés , there are some huge lapses in logic and the ending is hysterically stupid . Still I rather enjoyed this suitably gory teen slasher . .
Pretty good British horror .	" The Sorcerers " is the second film directed by Michael Reeves , the man behind " The Conqueror Worm " ( 1968 ) . A medical hypnotist ( Boris Karloff ) invents the machine that enables him and his wife ( Catherine Lacey ) to live the experiences of Michael , a young man ( Ian Ogilvy ) who the machine has placed under their command . But Michael is driven to murder for their pleasure . . . The film is cheaply made and quite gritty-the atmosphere is pretty nihilistic and the climax is bleak . Karloff is excellent as an elderly scientist . It's really a shame that Reeves committed suicide in 1969-he could be an excellent horror director . " The Sorcerers " is pretty hard to find , so if you get the chance watch it . Highly recommended .
Unsatisfying .	Clive Barker's " Hellraiser " is an entertaining horror film as is " Hellbound : Hellraiser II " , but I'm going to say that " Hellraiser III : Hell on Earth " is a big disappointment . The film is really boring , but it has some interesting elements . The gore is plentiful and some of the scenes like Pinhead's nightclub massacre truly blew me away . Doug Bradley is excellent as Pinhead , unfortunately these new Cenobites are more laughable than scary . A guy who shoots razor-sharp CD's , another with a camera in his head , and another who breathes fire ? Come on , these villains look more like carnival sideshow freaks than hellish Cenobites . The film is still marginally entertaining , so if you're a fan of " Hellraiser " series give it a look . My rating : .
Sleazy and goofy werewolf trash .	In " The Werewolf and the Yeti " we follow the renowned adventures of Waldemar Daninsky across the Himalayas as he is out on an expedition to find the Yeti . Waldemar ends up getting lost in the mountains , where he meets two cannibalistic sex starved nymphos in the cave . Sleaze comes thick and fast as Naschy becomes sex slave of the women . As a result he turns into werewolf , who wreaks havoc in the mountains . The final battle between him and the Yeti is a laugh riot . Cheesy and dumb trash with a healthy dose of nudity and a little bit of gore . One unfortunate woman gets her back skinned in the film's most gruesome scene . The acting is bad and the special effects are even worse . .
Very average at its best .	The short synopsis of " Amityville : A New Generation " goes like that : a young photographer Terry Keyes receives a mirror as a gift and sees in its reflection a link to murders committed in Amityville decades before . And slowly the artists loft he shares with friends Suki , Dick and Pauli is turned into a living chamber of horrors , as they too fall prey to the dark seductive powers of the mirror . " Amityville : A New Generation " is an average horror flick at its best . There is a little bit of suspense and the characters are surprisingly likable , but the plot is slow-moving and the finale is laughable . I'm not an enthusiast of " Amityville " series , however this seventh installment is actually passable , if you are in the right mood . .
Extremely dumb , but gory as hell ! ! !	This ultra-gory German bloodbath is basically about a guy called Karl the Butcher Shitter who escapes police custody and runs around a wood killing Germans with huge meat-cleaver before melting into pile of goo and a baby leaps out of him . . . wacky ! Don't expect any suspense or interesting characters , you'll not find them here . Tons of blood and gore , incredibly nasty killings for example one guy is completely cut in half with a tree trimming saw , another man has his penis hacked off with meat-cleaver . However the special effects are so cheesy , you can't really take the movie seriously to begin with . Anyway , if you're looking for bloodshed check out this totally tasteless and revolting film . Highly recommended , but only for gore-hounds .
Trashy Argentinian vampire flick with plenty of nudity .	A group of obnoxious swingers are touring the vamp's area when their hippie van collapses , leaving them to spend an unforgettable and seemingly unlivable evening at the Count's lodge . The Count has kept an unwilling yet equally undead bride in his clutches and the blood begins to flow . . . I kind of enjoyed this trashy little flick , however there are some incredibly dull and boring spots . The acting is very bad , the atmosphere is non-existent , but if you are a fan of exploitation flicks , who enjoys watching bare breasts of some fine looking Argentinian ladies you may want to give this blood-sucker a try . Cinematically we're treated to numerous topless Go-Go dancers who wiggle wildly to cool-school jazz while inserts of sea gulls double for vampire bats . Vieyra's genre credits include : " The Deadly Organ " , the mind-blowing " Curious Dr . Humpp " and of course " Blood of the Virgins " . My generous rating : .
Pretty good horror film from George A . Romero .	The plot of " Monkey Shines : is fairly simple : after an aspiring law student Allan Mann is disabled after an accident , his best friend recruits an animal trainer to educate a lab monkey to assist him in his day-to-day tasks . A monkey named Ella shares a bizarre mind link with her master and starts to act out his subconscious thought of revenge . " Monkey Shines " is a smart and underrated chiller that features some truly intense moments . The tension that is slowly built up in certain scenes is absolutely incredible . The script relies more on subtle psychological horror than gore . The acting is pretty good and there is even a little bit of nudity . The plot is very interesting but the film can be slow at times . Give this one a chance-just don't expect another " Martin " or " Dawn of the Dead " .
Erotic , sensual and emotional film .	Dr . Johnson conducts revolutionary experiments with human embryos he keeps in jars around the lab . When medical committee rejects his findings and orders him to stop his work , the doctor becomes depressed and commits suicide . His beautiful wife decides to seduce and kill three men and one woman ' responsible ' for his suicide . Of course , two of the potential victims include Howard Vernon and Jesus Franco himself . " She Killed in Ecstasy " is a pretty good Spanish horror film . The photography is excellent and easily captures the natural beauty of the lead actress , Soledad Miranda . There is plenty of nudity , but the film is quite tame . Still there is a really hot lesbian scene between Soledad Miranda and Ewa Stromberg , who was also in " Vampyros Lesbos " . So if you are a fan of Jesus Franco you can't miss this film . .
Very entertaining Italian nunsploitation flick .	A priest is sent to investigate an outbreak of apparent demonic possession at convent . There is certainly something dark and sinister at work there , but is it really Satan or maybe has it something to do with the Mother Superior's gloomy secrets ? " The Other Hell " by Bruno Mattei is an atypical Italian nunsploitation flick . There is absolutely no sex or nudity , still there is a little bit of gore . The film offers some rather tasteless moments like genital mutilation or blood-vomiting nuns . The acting is terrible and the dialogue is stupid , but the film is fast-paced and surprisingly entertaining . So if you like Italian horror films give this one a look . My rating : and that's being very generous .
More sleaze to please from the King of Smut Joe D'Amato .	Emanuelle travels the world once again on a crusading mission to report on the abuse and degradation of women at the hands of male-dominated organizations . At her first stop in India she meets up with George Eastman who plays a guru who has discovered the secret of prolonged sexual pleasure . While at the temple she also meets gorgeous Brigitte Petronio and it's not too long before both are having hot lesbian intercourse . While at her next stop in Rome she meets Karin Schubert who gives her a lead about a white-slavery ring . . . Joe D'Amato's " The Degradation of Emanuelle " is not as sleazy and shocking as infamous " Emanuelle in America " , however there is enough sex and violence to bring the smile on the face of any self-respecting smut peddler . The erotic scenes are mostly soft core , but there is a bit of hard core sex added for a good measure . The film is nicely photographed and immensely enjoyable . Give it a look .
Unusual and disturbing giallo .	In the ' 40 Mariale is an eight year old girl . Powerless , she witnesses the death of her mother and of her young lover , both killed in cold blood by her father . Years have passed and Mariale has married a young nobleman who keeps her almost captive in an old estate forbidding her to take part in society's life . A sort of love-and-hate relationship has developed between the two characters . One day Mariale decides to put an end to her seclusion ; she eludes her husband's and the butler watchful vigilance , breaks the phone's padlock and sends several telegrams inviting friends for a evening at her home . As absurd as it may seems , Mariale intends to reconstruct , thanks to her guests , the tragedy she lived several years before . She wants to prove that in everyone of us exist two distinct entities . When Paolo , Mariale's husband fully understands the situation is too late . The evening turns into bloody nightmare , when unknown killer starts murdering people . Romano Scavolini's " Spirits of Death " is a stylish giallo with some gory murders . The photography is beautiful and the atmosphere is creepy and nightmarish . The identity of the killer is never explained and that makes the film quite disturbing . The cast is splendid with Ivan Rassimov and Luigi Pistilli to boost . Check it out . .
Trashy mix of soft core porn and cannibal mayhem .	" Emanuelle and the Last Cannibals " is a sleazy cannibal exploitation sickie made by Joe D'Amato . It has lovely Laura Gemser plus plenty of soft core sex , some nasty gut munching and gore . The soundtrack by Nico Fidenco is quite effective . Laura Gemser plays a journalist Emanuelle who joins an expedition into the darkest and deepest corners of the Amazon after the patient in the lunatic asylum turns out to be sporting cannibal tattoo . The film is loaded with long scenes of sex and masturbation and there are some pretty sadistic gore scenes added for good measure . " Emanuelle and the Last Cannibals " isn't bad by any means , so anyone who likes sleazy Italian exploitation cinema won't be disappointed . Recommended . .
Surprisingly gruesome Thai occult horror .	" Art of the Devil " is Thanit Jitnukul's first stab at horror which tells the story about one family's disaster after the father's mistress uses black magic to get revenge against him . The back of my VCD says : a mysterious and bizarre murder of a millionaire's entire family grips the attention of the public . Not a clue is uncovered ; not a person can be fingered as the killer . The mysterious and gruesome deaths baffle everyone . A crime reporter goes to investigate the case , which leads to a beautiful lady . How can he convince others that she is the mistress of the occult , a witch who is skilled in the art of the devil . " Art of the Devil " offers some gruesome effects including eels vomiting and bloody regurgitation . The acting is mediocre , but the film is quite interesting . Still there is not enough tension for my liking , but if you like horror films which deal with black magic you can give it a try . .
Pretty good parasite survival horror .	A young couple Seth Belzer and Polly Watt retreat to the wilderness for a romantic camping weekend , but their idyll is shattered when they are car-jacked by an escaped convict and his drug-addicted girlfriend , Dennis Farell and Lacey Belisleon , on the run from the police . As the foursome travel the back roads together they find themselves in deeper trouble than any of them could have imagined-a blood-crazed , parasitic creature that absorbs the corpses of its victims has laid claim to the woods and the two couples are now in its sights . Finding shelter at an abandoned gas station , they must use their wits and every weapon at their disposal to stave off the onslaught , not only from the insatiable creature , but also each other . The premise of " Splinter " is very simple and quite suspenseful . The film is obviously influenced by John Carpenter's classic " The Thing " and offers plenty of gore . The special effects are pretty good : during most of the creature shots , it looks as if there's a real corpse on screen . The use of hand-held camera is the main drawback of the film . It is obnoxious and should be slightly toned down . Still " Splinter " is a competent indie horror flick with enough grue to satisfy genre fans . .
Not bad little horror flick .	Jamie flees from her psycho boyfriend only to find that he has had a sex change in order to please her . The bad news is that he has been killing off anyone she is close to in order to win back her affections . " Transamerican Killer " is a sleazy slasher that features a transvestite killer plus lots of blood and nudity . It certainly delivers plenty of what the genre fan expects : T & A , gore , strippers , random killings and a little bit of chainsaw action . The story is weak and the characters are one-dimensional , but the film is never boring due to its relatively short time . The acting is awful and the lack of suspense is especially hard to forgive . Still if you liked ' em trashy or sleazy give it a look . and that's being generous .
Pretty good sequel .	This time , Herbert West is aiming not just to restore life , but to create it from spare body parts . His twisted genius has given birth to hideous and disgusting combinations , both animal and human . Yet , still the ultimate triumph of rebuilding an entire woman from assorted limbs and organs eludes him . . . until now ! Dr . Carl Hill is also back ! Oh yeah , but it's just his head returning this time . As for the title " Bride of Re-Animator " , it takes its reference from James Whale's horror classic " Bride of Frankenstein " . The acting is far above average and there is plenty of gore . Overall , " Bride of Re-Animator " doesn't come as close to perfection as the original , but it does have some nice qualities that make it worth seeing . Recommended .
Occasionally creepy indie horror film .	Following their daughter's brutal murder , Julie and Allen escape the city to find solace and grieve in a solitary cabin on a remote mountain . Allen's intentions are good , he wants his wife to get out of her depression by resuming her photography . Julie stumbles across an ancient prison and sees the perfect creepy , decaying setting for her photography . But when the photos are developed they are full of dead people-and Allen quickly discovers the tragic history of suicide in their new mountain . " Dark Remains " is a pretty decent indie horror flick . It offers some genuine scares and plenty of tension . The acting is fairly good and the cinematography is great . .
Very gory zombie flick .	" Bone Sickness " by Brian Paulin is an ultra gruesome and extremely gory independent zombie flick . The film is loaded with tons of gore and violence . Bodies are torn out , eaten , shot , impaled , beheaded , chewed up , set on fire , rotting corpses are filled with maggots and worms and the gore flows freely . Alex is terminally ill with a degenerative bone disease for which there is no cure . Even if there was , his wife wouldn't be able to afford the treatment anyways . With the help of Alex's friend Thomas , they seek an alternative medical treatment . Soon they are thrown into a nightmare of flesh-eating zombies . Anyway , the film is well-made and acted and the makeup effects are impressive . Of course " Bone Sickness " is not as memorable as " The Beyond " or " City of the Living Dead " , but it's still among the best American indie zombie flicks ever made . Oh , and this gruesome bloodbath is dedicated to Thomas ' Quorthon ' Forsberg of Bathory fame , so my full respect goes to its director Brian Paulin .
Sex and violence HK style .	" The Imp " is just another of countless cheap HK exploitation flicks made during 90's . Stunningly sexy Pan Dang plays a Hong Kong woman who's traveling in search of her twin sister , who disappeared leaving nothing more than a native doll , the eponymous imp . Along the way she hooks up with a mobile film crew led by Category III veteran Mark Cheng . They discover that something isn't quite right with the boarding house in which they're staying . " The Imp " offers plenty of raunchy sex and the last 15 minutes or so are pretty violent , but the pace is slow and the script is silly . However Pan Dang steals the show with her impressive breasts . Fands of HK sleaze should give this Cat III offering a look .
Rather shocking horror short .	" My Sweet Satan " is based on a real-life murder / suicide case where a dangerous drug dealer took a teenager out into the woods , got him high on LSD , accused him of stealing money , tortured him and stabbed him to death whilst screaming " Say you love Satan ! " . After this sickening event his friend stomped the boy's head to the pulp . " My Sweet Satan " is a pretty gross little horror short . There is a hanging , a closeup nipple piercing and extremely brutal head stomping . Jim Van Bebber is fairly convincing as a creepy drug dealer and Mike Moore is okay as his whiny victim . This disturbing short is clearly not as good as Van Bebber's masterpiece " The Manson Family " , but if you enjoy low-budget independent horror you can't miss it . .
Not as shocking as it's reputed to be .	" Diversions " by Derek Ford is a five part sex anthology which stars Heather Deeley as the main character . Deeley plays a female prisoner escorted by the police . During her transport by train she begins to create sexual fantasies involving her travelling companions . The second vignette is easily the most controversial of them all . Deeley has a pretty wild sex with Tim Blackstone . Suddenly she stabs him to death with a dagger , masturbates with the murder weapon , bloodily castrates him and performs fellatio on his severed penis . However the special effects are pretty poor and annoying music destroys entirely the credibility of this slightly unsettling sequence . The other episodes are not as interesting , but still provide plenty of hard core sex and sleaze . " Diversions " even in its uncut form is not as shocking as it's reputed to be . American porno roughies like " Forced Entry " , " The Taming of Rebecca " or " Femmes de Sade " are much more disturbing . .
Cheesy and gory .	" The Laughing Dead " is a typical 80's horror film filled with blood and gore . The acting is abysmal , the atmosphere is completely non-existent , but for the gore-hounds there are some nasty splatter scenes including decapitation , head smashing etc . The make-up and special effects are pretty good . All in all I quite enjoyed this one , so if you like obscure horror movies give this one a look ! Recommended . . My favourite gore scene is where the guy has his own torn off arm shoved down his throat !
Absolute sleaze .	" Bare Behind the Bars " is a sleazy , seldom seen WIP movie that features nudity galore , lesbian sex , violence , mutilations and a little bit of hard-core porn . Brutal beatings and torture are the order of the day in a South American women's penitentiary . The hapless inmates can avoid the torture chamber only by bartering their bodies for the warden's white slavery trade or submitting to the depraved desires of the prison's lesbian nurse . Three prisoners escape to wreak their vengeance on men by castrating them . This absolutely sleazy Brazilian flick reminded me some Jesus Franco's WIP movies . The editing is sloppy and the minimal porn footage is rather dull and unexciting . Still some of the women , especially wardens , are quite beautiful and look hot naked . In conclusion , I'd only recommend this sleazefest for an undemanding connoisseurs of exploitation trash .
Lots of gore and nudity . Can't be bad .	A mysterious man named John Stoker invites a group of paranormal investigators to The Fischer House , which appears to be haunted . It turns out that occult sleaze-ball Alfred Fischer has turned his turn of the century whorehouse into a modern day Horror House with the help with Caroline Munro's Carla the Gypsy . The bloodbath ensues as the paranormal investigators are killed one by one by three sexy succubis . " Flesh for the Beast " is far from being a good horror film . The acting is terrible and the script is pretty bad . Still the film is surprisingly enjoyable in a campy way . There is plenty of gore including fantastic Fulciesque moment in which a poor guy vomits up his entire digestive tract and some sleazy full-frontal nudity . .
Quite disappointing follow-up to " The Eye " .	" The Eye " was easily one of the creepiest Asian horror flicks I have ever seen , so I decided to check out its sequel . Qi Shu plays a young woman Joey Cheng who is in a fragile emotional state following her third relationship break-up . She tries to commit suicide , unfortunately her overdose seemingly triggers a series of visions of creepy spirits , a phenomenon that intensifies in Hong Kong when Joey discovers that she is pregnant . " The Eye 2 " lacks the suspense and chills of the original . Still there are some memorable set-pieces including a drowned corpse traversing a woman giving birth in the elevator . The acting is great with Qi Shu giving an excellent performance as a troubled woman , but " The Eye 2 " is almost completely devoid of tension . However if you are a fan of Asian horror give it a look . .
Not as grim as it's reputed to be .	John Shum leads an expedition to an supposedly deserted island only to find out that it's inhabited by a group of seriously demented characters , lead by Peter Chan Lung . This is a family that stays together , slays together and when the youngest one is refused in marriage to one of the young girls of the troupe they turn into savage maniacs . Obviously inspired by Tobe Hooper's " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " The Island " offers very few nasty surprises . The villains are quite outrageous , but the gore and violence is kept to minimum . In fact the majority of the film resembles cheerful HK comedy loaded with silly humour and it's not until the hour mark that the horror truly begins . Hong Kong filmmakers often seems very desperate to include laughs whenever they can and " The Island " is no exception . Check out " Flesh and the Bloody Terror " or " Corpse Mania " , if you want truly grim early 80's HK horror .
Surprisingly bleak and unsettling piece of Japanese exploitation .	Koji Wakamtsu's " Go , Go Second Time Virgin " is a classic pinku eiga film . Wakamatsu was raised to be a farmer but made his move to the big city and tried his hand at being a gangster and a convict before he found his true calling as Japan's most notorious experimental movie director , who made over 30 films between 1963 and 1974 , many of them too raw and disturbing to be shown in theaters but acclaimed at fine-film festivals . " Go , Go Second Time Virgin " tells the story of of Poppo ( Mimi Kozakura ) , a young girl raped ( for the second time in her young life ) by a gang of street ruffians one August night in Tokyo . Left bleeding on a rooftop , she survives the night and meets Tsukio ( Michio Akiyama ) , a fellow teenager with problems of his own . Together they explore the darker side of life and sex , with Poppo's suicidal obsessions matching similar threads in Tsukio's unsuccessfully published book of poetry . The joy they find in each other inflames their rage at the unjust world around them , and their love engenders a tragic killing spree . " Go , Go Second Time Virgin " is a beautifully shot film and the cinematography is brilliant . Most of the film is in gorgeous black-and-white , with a few tinted sequences and a full-color flashback to Tsukio's unfortunate orgy experience . So if you are a fan of Japanese art-house exploitation give this one a look . .
Not bad Mexican horror , but not particularly memorable .	After the death of their mother when they were children , twins Agata and Catalina develop a psychic skill allowing them to communicate over great distances . But Agata falls into a coma after an accident on kilometer 31 and Catalina experiences all her pain . Tormented by Agata's psychic screams for help , Catalina sets out to find what really happened to Agata and finds that her twin has fallen victim of the ancient and terrifying curse of La Llorona , the screaming woman . The main problem of " Km 31 " is that the film is heavily americanized . Sure , it utilizes some old-school Mexican folklore tales as the back-story , but the filmmakers just don't do enough with it . The acting is solid , the film is beautifully made and some moments are mildly creepy , but horror fans expecting something gruesome should really give this one a pass .
Eerie and atmospheric .	David Lowell Rich's " Satan's School for Girls " is an atmospheric , early 1970's horror / mystery which has plenty of atmosphere and some reasonably suspenseful moments . The film is completely bloodless , so fans of gore will be disappointed . The acting is pretty good with familiar TV cast to boost . So if you like horror movies from early 70's check out " Satan's School for Girls " - still it beats most of the crap being put out today . Highly recommended .
Perhaps one of the sickest porno films I have ever seen .	First of all I ain't used to bestiality pics , but morbid curiosity kept me watching this filthy flick . " Animal Lover " was directed by infamous Alex De Renzy , the smut peddler behind " Femmes de Sade " and " Long Jeanne Silver " and it supposedly premiered in some seedy cinemas in San Francisco . Apparently it contains material from " A Summer Day " including the scenes of Bodil Joensen having sexual intercourse with horses , pigs and chickens . It even shows Bodil putting an eel into her vagina . I have seen a few beasty porno flicks , but none of it was this graphic . Of course Danish company Color Climax pioneered the market of extreme pornography with such titles like " Kilroy Was Here " or " Animal Farm " , but some of CC movies are at least questionable in their value . That's why " Animal Lover " is only recommended for the curious .
Surprisingly obscure and perverse giallo .	A young girl named Edie is mysteriously kidnapped and taken to a country house where she is tied up , stripped and hung from the ceiling by her wrists . She is then tortured and finally killed by a long spear that penetrates her soft flesh Meanwhile the beautiful Margaret just released from a women's prison takes a room at Mrs . Grant's remote country mansion . Soon the strange things begin to happen . . . This sleazy and rather perverse giallo from Ramiro Oliveros is quite similar to Massimo Pupillo's " The Bloody Pit of Horror " . The action is slow and the mystery elements aren't well-handled , but there is enough nudity and misogynistic violence to keep fans of Euroexploitation happy . Give this one a chance . .
Weird and gross transgressive short .	Monte Cazazza's 8 minutes long short " SXXX-80 " is his collaboration with Tana Emmolo Smith . It depicts Cazazza digging a hole in his penis with a metal scalpel , and Cosey Fanne Tutti letting a gigantic black centipede scuttle over her freshly shaved vagina . Often described as pornographic " SXXX-80 " is certainly a bizarre and gross piece of experimental film-making . I had an opportunity to see it on Psychic TV bizarre and ultra-disturbing compilation tape " First Transmission " ( 1982 ) . Monte Cazazza was a regular collaborator with Genesis P . Orridge and Psychic TV . So if you are into bizarre transgressive cinema give " SXXX-80 " a look . For fans of Throbbing Gristle or Psychic TV this lovingly weird short is a must-see .
Pretty nasty Italian rape and revenge film .	Sister Cristina ( Florinda Bolkan ) plays a nun who takes 5 teenage girls in her care to a remote house where they rehearse ' A Midsummer Night's Dream ' . Three bank-robbers ( Ray Lovelock , Flavio Andreini and Stefano Cedrati ) show up , brutally raping and terrorizing the girls , killing one by raping her with a cane , until Bolkan renounces her teachings and seeks bloody revenge . " The Last House On the Beach " by Franco Prosperi is a typical Italian exploitation film . There are some nasty scenes of misogynistic sexual violence , but the action is slow and the characters are uninteresting . Still if you like terror cinema you can give this one a look . I still think that Deodato's " House on the Edge of the Park " or Lado's " Late Night Trains " are much more disturbing films . .
Great Italian crime thriller .	Rico Aversi ( Christopher Mitchum ) is the son of a murdered mafia chief , who is slowly engulfed by a world of forgery and drugs in order to avenge his father's slaying . His adversary , Don Vito ( an excellent Arthur Kennedy , who never achieved the recognition he deserved ) , is cruel , vicious and has years of gangland experience on his side . Here is a battle of wits , blood and violence that ends in a powerful and dramatic climax . " Mean Machine " is a memorable Italian crime thriller . It has wall-to-wall nudity ( supplied by Malisa Longo and Barbara Bouchet ) , plenty of gunplay and some nasty bits of gore for example the castration scene . The film is pretty hard to find , but you should search for it . My rating : .
Okay low-budget zombie flick .	Alicianne is hired to look after creepy 11-year-old Rosalie in her family's remote and gloomy house . It soon becomes clear that Rosalie has psychic powers and can make things move just by thinking about it-and she can also use those same powers to raise the dead , reanimating corpses in a nearby cemetery to take revenge after her mentally ill mother dies . . . A spooky and atmospheric opening scene gives way to a sluggish and wholly predictable zombie movie that has little new to add to an already over-crowded sub-genre . Technically , it's a mess and the acting is as dire as you'd expect , yet it does occasionally manage to display flashes of that creepiness that informed the opening scene . " The Child " was released by exploitation king Harry Novak ( " Axe " ) , so fans of low-budget 70's horror should be pleased . This film has its share of flaws , but give it a chance . .
Okay , but nothing memorable !	Kadaicha are ancient Aborigine stones whose hellish curse reaches from beyond the grave . Anyone receiving such a stone is doomed to die in terrifying circumstances . A group of local teenagers are each experiencing the same nightmarish dream about an eerie cave with sinister rock paintings and the brooding evil which dwells within . Each awakens to find an evil stone lying coldly next to them . . . The plot sounds really good , but the film is only decent . There are some gruesome death scenes like the spider sequence in the library , and the score is suitably creepy and menacing . - okay horror film !
Fine 80's slasher about crazed embalmer .	After her father's mysterious death Christy suffers from sleepwalking and night terrors . Making things worse , no one beliefs her claims of a ghoul faced killer lurking in the shadows . When she learns her mother is in a coven of witches , Christy begins to distrust everyone in her life . It's up to Christy's boyfriend to save her from the hands of crazed embalmer played by Bill Paxton , who looks like black metal musician . Fairly decent slasher flick with several jolts of suspense and gruesome deaths . Not a lot of blood and gore , but plenty of breasts both living and cadaver to enjoy . The ending is kind of quick after all the build up , but it is also pretty surprising . Fans of early 80's slasher flicks should give this one a try .
Watchable desert vampire flick .	While traveling cross-country Sean picks up a hitchhiker named Nick , a mysterious , pessimistic fellow with no direction . They encounter a freaked-out girl whom Nick seems to know how to help . Come to find out , the girl was recently bitten by a vampire and will completely turn into one in a few days . Nick had the same thing happen to him and thus recognized the symptoms ; he's been postponing the inevitable through a cocktail of drugs that can stave off the vampire virus for a while . If he can find and kill the vampire who bit him , the virus will go away . " The Forsaken " is a fast-paced vampire flick obviously influenced by Kathryn Bieglow's " Near Dark " . The film features a decent amount of blood and nudity . The acting is fine , unfortunately " The Forsaken " is never scary . Still if you want to kill some time give it a look . .
Interesting and arousing porno horror by Jean Rollin .	The story follows young Amy escaping a would-be rapist ( played hilariously by Jean Rollin himself ! ) only to end up in the château of charming yet nefarious Gideon . Gideon had recently " lost " his wife and is intent on performing some Marquis de Sade-ish sex rituals on the guys and gals staying in the castle . Stylish porno horror made by Jean Rollin that is high on porn , but low on horror . From about the 10 minute mark ' til the end the film it is just a series of hardcore sex scenes with little to no dialogue . Personally I prefer Rollin softcore lesbian vampire flicks like " The Living Dead Girl " or " Lips of Blood " , but if you are a curious fan of this French film-maker try to find " Phantasmes " in its uncut glory .
Not bad Italian giallo .	Nicola's beautiful wife is brutally murdered in the shower immediately after he discovers that she has been cheating on him . Naturally the police assume Nicola is responsible , but the possibility of another suspect becomes more and more likely . . . " You'll Die at Midnight " is one of the better Lamberto Bava's giallo efforts . The film is surprisingly stylish and the killings are quite gory . The film borrows a lot from Dario Argento's brilliant " Tenebre " , although I enjoyed it more than earlier Bava's giallo " A Blade in the Dark " . The murder of a young woman who has underwear stuffed down her throat is an obvious nod to the first killing scene in " Tenebre " . The stalking scene in the abandoned theater is truly creepy . The score by Claudio Simonetti is great and the acting is decent with Valeria D'Obici and Leonardo Treviglio in the leading roles . The story is pretty derivative , but " You'll Die at Midnight " shouldn't disappoint fans of Italian giallos . .
Pretty decent adaptation of Graham Masterton's successful horror novel .	A young woman named Karen develops a nasty lump on her neck which , growing at an astonishing rate , turns out to be the foetus of a 400-year-old medicine man . A bumbling tarot card mystic Harry Erskine tries to save her with the help of Indian shaman Singing Rock . The film is thoroughly entertaining as it seems to fluctuate between the possession hijinx and suspense of " The Exorcist " and what would happen if you set " Star Wars " in a hospital . The special effects are quite stunning , the acting is decent and Misquamacus looks truly ugly . It's worth noting that after " The Manitou " was completed , it instantly became a hit at the box office , making the top ten highest grossing films of 1978 . Give this film a look . .
So sleazy and bad it really needs to be seen .	" Mardi Gras Massacre " is a sleazy trash with misogynistic murders and tons of hilarity . It surely is one of the most unintentionally amusing experiences one can have . New Orlean is a dangerous city . There is a killer on the loose . The butcher of strippers and hookers . He is looking for evil women . He narrows his eyes and says to his female victims " I am looking . . . for someone . . . Evil ! " then asks " Are you evil ? " . This gentleman killer , who orders Chinese Food delivery for one of his sacrificial lambs , has an Aztec fetish , so he wants to tie naked ladies to an altar and sacrifice them to some bloodthirsty Aztec god . " Mardi Gras Massacre " delivers tons of full-frontal nudity , sleaze and a bit of nasty gore . There's also an incredibly poorly acted subplot surrounding the cop investigating these ritualistic murders falling in love with one of the hookers . The funniest thing is that " Mardi Gras Massacre " was classified as a video nasty . .
Rather average South Korean horror .	Television producer Han-Soo Jin is covering detective Choi , the main cop on a serial murder case whose victims are all women , with special interest . Choi follows the suspect through a nightclub filled with party goers , with producer Han following with her camera . Suddenly a woman on the dance floor falls to the ground . Han can't believe what she saw through the viewfinder , but during that time the woman has died . She thought she saw ' something ' going inside the woman's body , causing it to swell . The investigating team are drawn deeper into the case by the discovery that all the victims had visited a mysterious website called ' White Room ' . " Unborn But Forgotten " clearly copied many ideas from Japanese horror hit " Ringu " and " FearDotCom " . We've got another killer website which kills women , only this time it takes fifteen days for people to die instead of seven or two . Admittedly the film is well-made with all the high production values I expected from Korean cinema . There are some creepy moments and the soundtrack is wonderful . Unfortunately this is strictly routine stuff , but if you like Asian horror give it a look . .
Pretty enjoyable horror flick .	Rob Hedden's " Friday the 13th Part VIII : Jason Takes Manhattan " is usually trashed by fans of this series , but it's actually much better than " The New Beginning " or crappy " Jason X " . Still it's nothing in comparison to " Jason Lives " or " Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter " . This time the menacing killer Jason Voorhees slaughters a school class aboard a cruise ship . Only the finale takes place in Manhattan . " Jason Takes Manhattan " is nothing special at all . It certainly features some really bad special effects , and some of the weakest death scenes of the series . Still there are some creative moments in this film , especially the material seen from a character's camcorder . The ending is really horrible , so you have been warned . Anyway , " Jason Takes Manhattan " is only for fans of this series , but if you like slasher movies you can give it a look . .
A sequel which easily surpasses the original .	" Bloody Murder 2 : Closing Camp " is actually a sequel to the horror film " Bloody Murder " , released in 2000 . The film takes place five years later and the camp that saw the deaths of many teenagers has opened up again . The camp counsellors and owner are the only ones left on the site ready to shut it up for the summer . Among those is Tracy whose brother was at the camp five years ago but his body never found . The legend of Trevor Moorehouse still lives on though most people think it's just an urban legend . However it seems that Trevor is back and ready to butcher some more horny counsellors after a series of grisly murders start to happen . . . " Bloody Murder 2 " offers plenty of gore . The killings are surprisingly graphic and Tiffany Shepis provides some nudity . There is even a bit of suspense , unfortunately the acting is mediocre and the plot is predictable . Still I liked " Bloody Murder 2 " more than its crappy predecessor . .
Funny and absurd horror comedy with a healthy dose of gore .	Two city guys are driving through Hicksville USA when a rusty monster truck suddenly appears and repeatedly attempts to run them off the road . Having picked up a mysterious blonde hitchhiker , they pull up at a truck-stop full of redneck amputees , one of whom warns them of ' the demon out there ' . But they don't listen . Big mistake ! " Monster Man " by Michael Davis mixes comedy with horror surprisingly well . The film borrows heavily from " Duel " , " The Blair Witch Project " , " Jeepers Creepers " and " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . The story is pretty silly , but there is enough gore and violence to keep splatter freaks happy . I enjoyed especially the performance of Justin Urich , which offers the film its comedy relief . Still the complete lack of suspense is hard to forgive . Give this one a chance , if you have some time to waste . . Did I mention that Aimee Brooks is sexy ?
Pretty nasty and nihilistic Mark Savage's debut .	" Marauders " tell the story of two sociopaths named JD and Emilio on the wild murder and rape spree in Aussie countryside . Paul Harrington's character runs over one of the psychos by accident , injuring the loon's leg and does a hit and run . A pursuit follows that leads to an apocalyptic showdown in the deep Australian woods . " Marauders " plays like a nasty homage to " Death Weekend " and " Last House on the Left " . Despite some amateurish acting and atrocious dialogue the film offers lots of violence and is hugely entertaining . The often talked rape scene is quite tame , especially in comparison to the scenes of sexual violence shown in Savage's disturbing " Defenceless " . The production values are pretty high and the editing is pretty good . Overall , I enjoyed this little Aussie exploitation flick and you should too , if you are into violent no-holds-barred cinema .
Sleazy and rather unsettling thriller .	A handsome and lonely gym teacher Eddie Collins can't perform sexually due to his constant watching of his mother undress while he hid in her closet as a child . His only recourse is to kill the women he tries to sleep with and stash them in a pigeon hutch on his roof . He hires a prostitute to dress as his dead mother , the only way he is able to achieve sexual gratification . . . " The Arousers " is the first film of director Curtis Hanson . Originally shot in 1971 under the title " Sweet Kill " , this film lingered on the shelf until 1973 when executive producer Roger Corman had Hanson shoot two days of nudity inserts to spice-up the film . Angus Scrimm of " Phanatsm " fame has a small cameo here . Overall , this is a good piece of sleaze from the early 70's that should satisfy the exploitation fans out there looking for plenty of nudity , sex and violence . .
Nothing spectacular .	On a dark Halloween night ten years ago , Michael Myers brought fear back to his home town as he murderously stalked Laurie Strode . He was captured and locked up . But tonight , as he was being transferred from Richmond Mental Institute , Michael escaped . Now he's looking for his young niece . Unstoppable , he goes on the murderous rampage stalking and hunting down anyone who gets in the way . " Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers " surely doesn't live up to its predecessors by a long way . Still this shocker definitely does have its moments and it's good to see Donald Pleasence back in this one . There is only a little bit of gore , so I was disappointed . However there are some decent , suspenseful stalk-and-slash sequences to satisfy fans of slasher movies . Overall , if you're a fan of " Halloween " series give this one a look . .
Can we say : overrated ? !	" A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 : Dream Warriors " is actually the best part of " A Nightmare on Elm Street " series , but it is still quite overrated . Patricia Arquette stars as a Kristen , whose nightmare leads to a slashed wrist that looks suspiciously like a suicide attempt . She is placed in a hospital psychiatric ward with a group of six other troubled teens , who all dream about the same horribly burned man ( Robert Englund ) trying to kill them . The special effects are really good ( gotta love especially this walking skeleton ! ) , the acting is fine and the film manages to be quite creepy in the couple of scenes . Unfortunately the gore level is really low , and some of the characters are very annoying . Otherwise this is solid entry in overrated series and it deserves at least , but don't be fooled-this is not the best horror film of 1987 - " Deliria " / " Aquarius " ( 1987 , Michele Soavi ) is much better film .
Sleazy fun .	Melody , Marci and Mickey are three geeky and unpopular college girls who can't get a date . One night , they invite three geeky college guys over and have a seance that results in the girls becoming possessed by a succubus and turning into sex starved vamps . The madness ensues . . . The plot of " Nightmare Sisters " is mainly an excuse to show tons of nudity provided by three American Scream Queens Linnea Quigley , Michelle Bauer and Brinke Stevens . This film is impossible to take seriously as it's loaded with corny dialogs and cheap special effects . The acting is rather atrocious , but you'll laugh until it hurts with this one . So invite some friends , drink tons of beer and enjoy this amusing little horror flick . .
Fine early 70's HK gross-out horror .	Two doctors Ti Lung and Lam Wai-tiu take wives Tanny Tien Ni and Lily Li on vacation and there they met the horrors of black magic . Lo Lieh plays an evil sorcerer , who whips female pubic hairs and breast milk into powerful zombie potions , controls his creations via giant metal spikes pounded into their heads . Not only does he turn Li into an walking dead after luring her from the group , he casts a love spell on both Ti's wife and his colleague . This surprisingly eerie Shaw Brothers productions offers some nifty special effects and gross-out moments . I enjoyed " Black Magic " and " Black Magic Terror " and this sequel to Meng Hua Ho's horror hit is also worth looking for . .
Mindless fun .	" From Dusk Till Dawn 3 : The Hangman's Daughter " is actually a prequel to the first film , because it explores the origins of Salma Hayek's character Santanico Pandemonium from the first feature . It's also a big improvement over the disappointing first sequel " Texas Blood Money " . The first hour of the film plays almost like an European spaghetti western . Great actor Michael Parks gets a lead role as a real life civil war veteran and writer Ambrose Bierce . Temeura Morrison is excellent as the nasty hangman . It's nice to see a very beautiful Sonia Braga as a vampire princess Quixtla . The gore is plentiful and suitably nasty ( vampires lick blood off the floor , off their victims , rip out jugulars , there are decapitations , stabbings etc . ) Unfortunately some CGI effects are quite unconvincing , but " The Hangman's Daughter " is enjoyable enough to watch it few times . Give it a look , if you're a fan of " From Dusk Till Dawn " series .
Pretty good , but nothing really groundbreaking .	" Halloween H20 : 20 Years Later " made by Steve Miner ( " House " , the second and the third part of " Friday the 13th " series ) is quite good , especially if you liked John Carpenter's classic " Halloween " . The film disregards Parts 4-6 , which is not necessarily a bad thing . Luckily it has plenty of suspense , and a good amount of scares-especially the prologue is quite terrifying . There is only a little bit of gore , so gorehounds will be disappointed . Jamie Lee Curtis is pretty good as a Laurie Strode , but the other characters played by the supporting cast are shallow and empty . The score by Marco Beltrami sounds exactly like the one from " Scream " and this is surely big mistake . All in all I enjoyed this one and you should too if you are a fan of " Halloween " series . - a solid horror flick !
Truly hateful Nazi propaganda .	" The Eternal Jew " is a sickening Nazi propaganda film made by Fritz Hippler at the insistence of Nazi Minister of Propaganda Joseph Goebbels . The film consists of feature and documentary footage combined with new materials filmed shortly after the Nazi occupation of Poland , which then had a Jewish population of about 3 million . One of the opening shots of the film shows a pack of rats emerging from a sewer , juxtaposed with a crowd of Jews in a bustling Polish street . Close-ups of individuals show sickly , malformed facial features . The narration explains how just as rats are the vermin of the animal kingdom , Jews are the vermin of the human race and similarly spread disease and corruption . Toward the end of the film , after showing how Jews have been responsible for the decline of Western music , science , art and commerce , is a scene of a cow being slaughtered for meat by a shochet ( Jewish ritual slaughter ) . This long scene , lasting several minutes , is pretty nasty and offensive . " The Eternal Jew " is utterly vile Nazi propaganda filled with tons of lies . Still the film is well-made and it works as the historical warning . .
Very Cronenbergian film .	This surprisingly intriguing horror film has people turning into bald , blue-skinned killers after dropping contaminated LSD ten years before . " Blue Sunshine " is more fondly remembered for it's bald , thirty-something , ex-hippie murderers who are easily the most bizarre descendants of the living dead yet to reach the silver screen . This film is not easy to categorize : it's a horror film mixed with drug movie and also features paranoid urban legends and bizarre conspiracy theories . The title of this movie is taken from the name of a bad batch of 60s acid that seems to have some rather unfortunate long-term side effects . The film is badly lit and there are some dull spots , but " Blue Sunshine " is a must-see for experimental cinema enthusiasts . .
Suitably spooky Colombian horror .	After a highly traumatic event , due to which she becomes the victim of extreme agoraphobia Vega is forced to spend some time far away from work . By her father's recommendation , she decides to move to a new apartment , where she begins living as a hermit , abruptly changing her lifestyle . She begins having strange visions with no explanations and hearing voices she can't ignore . " Al Final del Espectro " was released on DVD in Poland few days ago , so I had to pick it up . It's surely influenced by Japanese modern ghost movies like " Ringu " or " Dark Water " - on the other hand there is plenty of claustrophobic atmosphere as Vega is terrified to leave her home , yet equally scared to stay and face her unknown tormentor . The acting is great , the camera work is splendid and the climax offers a nice twist . Nicole Kidman will be co-producing and acting as Vega in the American remake that will be directed by Juan Felipe Orozco himself .
Vastly enjoyable hicksploitation sleaze .	When a group of developers threaten the land of three backwoods mountain-dwelling brothers Ezra , Benny and Monroe , the homeless rednecks must resort to murder to defend their property . However the trio starts killing not only construction workers , but also camping vacationers . . . Very enjoyable exploitation trash with nasty drawn out rape scene , rampant misogyny and racist overtones . This low-budgeter is surprisingly tense due to its nasty subject matter . Almost all the characters are despicable , the acting is bad and the gore is amateurish . Still if you enjoyed such redneck terror movies like " Trapped " or " Hunter's Blood " you can't go wrong with " God's Bloody Acre " . I'm really surprised that this film didn't achieved cult status yet .
Pretty creepy thriller .	College student Juli Jenz ( Jill Schoelen ) underwent a traumatic incident with a psychotic killer ( who uses the phone to terrorize ) , five years ago and now years later at college she's been getting some suspicious calls which lead her to believe the killer is back . When she contacts the police , they inform her that her original stalker is dead therefore she must be having flashbacks and refer her to a psychiatrist , instead of checking for physical evidence . Anyway , " When a Stranger Calls Back " works as TV produced remake of Fred Walton's 1979 classic " When a Stranger Calls " . It has enough twists , turns and suspense to keep horror fans on the edge of their seats . The beginning is especially tense and memorable . There is no gore or strong violence and the killer's identity is kept secret through the film until the climax . The acting is great and the characters are well-developed . So if even casually enjoyed the original " When a Stranger Calls " , then this film is must-see . . Check it out .
Okay giallo .	Renato Polselli's " Delirio Caldo " / " Delirium " is a sleazy giallo made in 1972 . Of course the film isn't as good as Dario Argento's masterpieces but if offers plenty of sleaze to satisfy fans of Italian smut . The acting is pretty bad ( really , this time it's horribly over-the-top , not even amusing ! ) , but some killings are pretty nasty . According to my reliable friend the original edit of the film ( the true " director's cut " ) is the Italian version that is on Anchor Bay's DVD release . The French video version under the title " Au Dela Du Desir " is the most explicit version available . This version , which is not the director's intended original cut has extra footage shot for a European market that demanded more X-factor in content . There are at times extra seconds to the violence and some much stronger sexual content ( such as the bath murder where the victim enjoys the assault , even allowing herself to be masturbated with the end of a whip and sucking it before being lashed savagely to her death ! ) . The re-arranging of the order of some sequences as well as the usage of alternate edits and new footage does create a different tale to an extent . . . Anyway , give this one a look . Oh , and Rita Calderoni is very cute .
Mildly interesting and shocking surrealistic film .	During the Spanish Civil War young boy named Fando is forced to watch as Garcia Lorca is executed by a taunting Fascist firing squad . He keeps asking his mother what happened to his father , and eventually learns that his mother betrayed him to the Franco government because of his unspoken leftist ideas . Fando imagines bizarre scenarios where his father is tortured and mutilated . Many of his visions present his mother as a monster who gouges out his father's eyes , or makes love to his captors in front of him , in addition to other gruesome and scatological horrors . Fando also shows signs of sexual interest in his libidinous aunt Clara and a neighbor girl , Thérèse , as he lives a miserable existence acting out the cruelty of his mother with small cruelties of his own . Fernando Arrabal is a well-known Spanish surrealist and " Viva la Muerte " is his first and most famous piece of work . The film has its share of shocking and unpleasant moments-the defecation scene and the bull slaughter moment especially come to my mind . Many of the hallucinatory scenes of violence , that include the father's head being stomped on by horses , a priest's genitals being cut off , and imagined sexual liaisons involving Fando's mother , were filmed on videotape , distorted via the use of colour filters and transferred to film . So if you liked this one I'd also recommend " Sweet Movie " and " The Cremator " . .
Okay thriller that rips-off " Straw Dogs " !	I just saw this thriller on Polish TV and I can safely say that I enjoyed it . The relationship between David ( Mark Wahlberg ) and Nicole ( Reese Witherspoon ) is well-handled by director James Foley . The film is fast-paced and Wahlberg is pretty good as a psychotic boyfriend of Reese . The climax rips-off " Straw Dogs " , but the movie is entertaining enough to watch without falling asleep . There is a bit of violence and some frightening moments , so the film is worth checking out for horror / thriller fans . !
Gritty Swedish revenge thriller .	Girls are kidnapped by a sadistic pimp , turned into heroin addicts and dumped into a brothel , there to suffer hideous mistreatment in the hands of sweating , overweight customers . A mute girl Madeleine ( Christina Lindberg ) , escapes and finally exterminates her tormentors with a sawed-off shotgun . " Thriller : A Cruel Picture " is a notorious Swedish exploitation film which has a strange , almost dreamy feeling . The killings are long and bloody , so I was enthralled . The use of extreme slow motion during death scenes is certainly impressive . Christina Lindberg is simply excellent as a mute girl who becomes a killing machine . The most controversial aspect about " Thriller : A Cruel Picture " , aside from the bloody violence , is the presence of several ugly hard-core sex scenes that show the girl's prostitution work in graphic detail . So if you are a fan of grindhouse exploitation stuff give this film a look . Check out also " Breaking Point " by Bo Arne Vibenius which is even more pornographic and demented . .
Surprisingly enjoyable horror film .	As a last hurrah after college , friends Jeff , Karen , Paul , Marcy and Bert embark on a vacation deep into the mountains . With the top down and the music up , they drive to a remote cabin to enjoy their last days of decadence before entering the working world . Then somebody gets sick . Karen's skin starts to bubble and burn as something grows inside her , tunneling beneath her flesh . The group is so repulsed , shocked and sickened watching their friend deteriorate before their eyes ; they lock her in a shed to avoid infection . As they debate about how to save her , they look at one another and realize that any one of them could also have it . What soon began as a struggle against the disease turns into a battle against friends , as the fear of contagion drives them to turn on each other . " Cabin Fever " is nothing special . The dialogue is weak , there are some huge plot holes and there is almost no suspense . I disliked also poor attempts at humor and camp . Still the camera work is excellent and the flesh eating disease is a nice touch . There is a good amount of gore and some of the scenes are actually quite disgusting . .
Vile and disgusting .	" August Underground's Penance " is basically the personal home video of two sociopathic killers on murder spree . Again two nameless butchers played by Fred Vogel and Cristie Whiles videotape their bloodthirsty madness , but " Penance " shows also their slow decline . First of all I'm not a big fan of " August Underground " series . Still as a lover of extreme cinema who had previously seen " August Underground " and " August Underground's Mordum " I really wanted to see the final installment . This time the faux-VHS look of Mordum has been tossed aside in favor of a more contemporary digital look . The gore effects made by ToeTag crew are very convincing and the violence is dirty and vile . There are some boring moments , but overall " Penance " is not as perverted and repulsive as " Mordum " . .
An enjoyable Italian giallo .	A series of brutal and bizarre killings takes place . When Mara witnesses one of the murders the black-gloved killer starts terrorizing her-she turns to her boyfriend Lukas for assistance . But will he be able to uncover the culprit before his girlfriend becomes the next victim ? Antonio Bido's " Watch Me When I Kill " is an enjoyable giallo , albeit heavily influenced by Dario Argento's works , especially " Deep Red " . The film is an above-average effort filled with enough suspense and shocks to satisfy fans of Italian horror . Surprisingly effective murder scenes are another reason to check this film out-in particular , the muder of Fernando Cerulli in a bathtub , set to opera music , would make Dario Argento proud . The performances are pretty good and it's nice to see Fulci's veteran Paolo Malco in one of the main roles . .
Stuart Gordon doesn't disappoint .	The story follows a wealthy stock broker named Paul who is vacationing on a yacht in the Mediterranean with his girlfriend Barbara and some other friends . When their ship draws near the small coastal village of Imbocca , a storm suddenly rises up and smashes the vessel on the rocks . Paul and Barbara go to the village for help as their friend Vicki is trapped below decks with her husband Howard . The villagers seem strange with pale , almost slimy skin and vacant eyes and they look like fish . " Dagon " is an adaptation of H . P Lovecraft short story " Dagon " with the bit of " The Shadow Over Innsmouth " thrown in . There is enough blood and guts to keep horror fans happy . The ritual skinning scene is especially gruesome . The deformed villagers look creepy , unfortunately the CGI effects are awful and cartoonish . Overall " Dagon " is definitely a horror film worth checking out . .
Okay slasher flick .	A handful of teenagers sneaks into a furniture store owned by the father of one of the teenagers . An ex-convict , just recently released , has been hired to realize a variety of manual tasks . Because he hasn't had the time to find anywhere to live , he is temporarily living in the building . The teenagers believe they are alone to eat , drink and have sex . However , someone is spying on them from the darkness . As to not be noticed , they leave the lights out . When they understand that somebody is watching them , it is too late : heads start to roll and blood starts to flow . After each murder , the killer steals his victim's clothes and fools the next teenager by making them believe he is one of them . " Hide and Go Shriek " is a pretty good slasher . The killer wears his victims ' clothing , whether they are men or women and the plastic mannequins look creepy . There is a good amount of violence and gore including memorable death scene where a teenager is attached on the roof of an elevator and the ceiling tears off her head when the elevator changes floors . So if you like slasher films give this one a look . .
Sleazy , dirty and enjoyable trash .	A sadistic priest Paul Vogel played by Jesus Franco himself makes his living by writing pornography for a S & M magazine . His publisher Franval praises Vogel's work for its authenticity unaware that the mad priest draws inspiration from the exorcisms and inquisitions he undertakes in order to save sinners ' souls . Vogel discovers that Franval and his cohorts indulge in satanic games and embarks upon a new series of divinely inspired murder . Of course there is a team of investigators hot on the trail of this sadistic sex murderer . I saw this film under the title " Exorcism " . It's a typical Franco's chock full of sleaze and misogynistic violence . There isn't much gore to speak of , but plenty of whipping , rough sex and knife play . The killing scenes look very cheap and the story is paper-thin . However if you are a fan of depraved smut give this one a look .
Okay old-fashioned Sasquatch flick .	Pahoo and Rives , two anthropology students from the University of Chicago travel to Oil City in Louisiana to track down Sasquatch . They try to find old-timer Joe Canton , whose best friend was allegedly snatched in the swamps by Sasquatch , but run into a wall of hostility and opposition from the locals . " Creature from the Black Lake " is a Bigfoot flick , unfortunately Sasquatch is rarely seen throughout . Still the rural atmosphere of Louisiana is well-captured , the acting is okay and there is a few suspenseful moments . The downside of this is that the film becomes absorbed by its portrait of a small town to the extent of almost everything else . Still if you are a fan of Bigfoot horror flicks like " Night of the Demon " , " Shriek of the Mutilated " or " Screams of a Winter Night " you may give it a look . .
Mildly interesting mix of crime and pink rape .	The plot of " Subway Serial Rape " is easy to follow : a young bar hostess is viciously raped on a subway by a gang of thee thugs . None of the passengers make any attempt to help her , but a yakuza hit-man reluctantly finds himself mixed up in the ugly affair . The first part of Shuji Kataoka's " Subway Serial Rape " series mixes elements of crime thriller and pinku eiga genre . The film is loaded with sleaze and rough sex , so I was pleased . The title of it is quite misleading , because it features only one fairly nasty gang-rape scene on a subway . I haven't seen the next two installments " Subway Serial Rape-OL Hunting " and " Subway Serial Rape-Uniform Hunting " , but the fourth part " Subway Serial Rape-Lover Hunting " is also pretty good . A must-see for fans of Japanese exploitation .
Repulsive and depraved .	" August Underground's Mordum " is easily one of the sickest and most repulsive horror films ever made . The film is extremely dirty and hateful , but at the same time it fails a little bit at the realism that " August Underground " achieved . It lacks the disturbing feel of the first , but it surpasses it in the shocks and gore department . There is a really sick castration with mini scissors , vomit degradation with taunting , cannibalism , fetus eating , sex scene with entrails or a maggot ridden baby torso . The plot of " Mordum " is easy to follow : three serial killers degrade , rape and kill their victims , whilst videotaping their sickening actions . Towards the end the fourth sicko is introduced ( played by Killjoy of Necrophagia ) and the film becomes almost too unbearable to watch . The special effects are incredibly realistic and the violence is ugly and vile . So if you like truly extreme and nihilistic horror give this piece of depravity a look . .
So-so horror film about black magic and devil worship .	Timothy Daly stars as Jeff Mills , a yuppie lawyer who begins a relationship with Miranda ( Kelly Preston ) , a lovely young woman he meets when he rescues her from a parking lot quarrel with an abusive boyfriend . Turns out Miranda is an escapee from a witches ' coven whose evil leader ( Anthony Crivello ) wants to use her as a human sacrifice . " Spellbinder " by Janet Greek is a surprisingly interesting and entertaining horror film . The story is pretty good , the characters are well-developed and there are some truly creepy moments . The plot offers a few surprises , unfortunately the serious lack of gore and violence is disappointing . The ending , whilst obviously influenced by Robin Hardy's masterful " The Wicker Man " , is great . Give it a look , if you have enough time to waste . .
Decent Thai slasher with some creative and gory deaths .	The plot of " Scared " is very simple : we have a bus full of Thai school-kids on a school trip deep in a rain forest . Stranded by an accident , the survivors are viciously dispatched one by one in increasingly gruesome ways . Who is responsible for a series of brutal murders ? " Scared " plays like the cross between " Battle Royale " , " My Little Eye " and American teen slasher flick . The action is fast-paced and the body count is surprisingly high . The death scenes are creative and quite gory . However the plot is thin and the characters are totally one-dimensional . Still the gore effects are effective with decapitations , impalements and heads split in half to boost . " Scared " is certainly more engaging and entertaining than " Urban Legend " movies , " Cherry Falls " or similar crap . Give it a chance . .
Not as bad as some reviewers said .	James Hong plays here Dr . Elison Po , a famous winemaker who lives in a tropical island mansion . He is actually centuries old , but keeps his youthful appearance thanks to a jade amulet he stole from his mother ( Vivian Lee ) as a child . But the amulet is wearing out , and every so often Po ages hundreds of years unless he drinks human blood . To satisfy his needs , he has lots of women chained in his dungeon . One of his employees , a German film producer ( Karl Heinz Teuber ) brings a group of would-be actors and actresses and the slaughter begins ! " The Vineyard " is an enjoyable horror-adventure filled with nudity and violence . There are zombies buried in the vineyard who keep rising from their graves every few minutes , crossbow battles , swordfights etc . I love the scene when a girl starts coughing up spiders while brushing her teeth ! Despite rather amateurish acting this film isn't really bad ( I've seen worse ! ) and I would highly recommend it to horror / zombie fans .
Very dark and disturbing film with plenty of explicit gore .	" The Mutilation Man " tells the story of a tormented young man named Ivan who travels a barren wasteland performing gruesome shows of self-mutilation before an adoring crowd . He is doing this in the desperate attempt to make sense of his past at the hands of his abusive and murderous alcoholic father . We later learn that his dad not only abused him , but also murdered his mother while Ivan was a kid . Andrew Copp's " The Mutialtion Man " is an utterly nihilistic and disturbing piece of experimental horror . The script deals with the themes of abuse and self-loathing and is truly thought-provoking . Still Copp's debut is pretty difficult to sit through as it features lots of extreme gore including genital mutilation and even cannibalism . Real death footage is also rather unsettling . However if you are a fan of surrealistic horror films give it a look . .
Pretty disgusting , but not as good as " Nekromantik " .	This sequel to " Nekromantik " is pretty weak to me . The first one is filled with magic , whilst " Nekromantik 2 " is just overly long and dull . A young woman named Monika ( Monika M . ) takes home a corpse of Robert , the necrophile murderer who committed suicide at the end of the first film . Then she finds a live boyfriend-his name is Mark and he has a job dubbing porn movies . They strike up a relationship , but soon all hell breaks loose . . . " Nekromantik 2 " is a slow-moving film filled with meaningless sequences . The special effects are excellent-Robert's rotting corpse is disturbingly real . The sequence , where Monika dismembers his body is truly hideous . There is also very graphic footage of a seal autopsy that will definitely sicken most viewers . The climax has to be seen to be believed-it's so sick and horrendously gory that it won't be easily forgotten . This is perhaps the most graphic depiction of sexual violence ever captured on film , therefore it's a crying shame that the rest of the film is so pointless . Still if you liked " Nekromantik " give this one a look .
Pretty good .	As the continuation of one of the most successful thrillers ever made - " The Silence of the Lambs " , " Hannibal " is not bad . Once again the portrayal of cannibal killer Hannibal Lecter by Anthony Hopkins is amazing . However to be fair Hopkins ' performance as a Lecter-although well-played-is completely unbelievable to anyone who knows the slightest bit about serial killers . Not only do his crimes appear to have no sexual motivation , but he is far too organized for such horrendous butchery of which he is accused . The film is more gory and violent than its predecessor , but it's really quite tame-even by today's standards . I've seen some really brutal films - " Maniac " , " The New York Ripper " , " Cannibal Holocaust " , " Bunman-The Untold Story " , some " Guinea Pig " movies etc . - and this one looks like kindergarten stuff in comparison to them . If you think this one is disgusting , you've seen nothing . I like brain eating scene-I wasn't disgusted , this sequence is actually quite funny . It's just a harmless bad taste-since when bad taste is illegal ? Recommended !
Not as funny and gruesome as it's reputed to be , but still pretty good .	" Severance " starts with a team building retreat for the newer members of anti-terrorist weapons manufacturer Palisade Defense out in the wooded forests of Eastern Europe . When a fallen tree prevents them from advancing , the employees must hoof it the rest of the way , only to discover the luxury hotel they've all been promised is really a rundown , abandoned building without much food or accommodations . They slowly discover that there is someone out there watching them and that someone is going to start killing them in savage ways one by one . In my honest opinion " Severance " is not as grimly effective as " Creep " . The film offers a balance between the humor and horror , but I didn't find it too funny . There is a good deal of gruesome gore including some particularly brutal killings , so I was pleased . Give it a look , if you are a fan of survival horror . .
Highly enjoyable monster-on-the-loose flick .	" Gorgo " is actually one of the most enjoyable trash movies ever made . The monster is really funny-looking and the action is fast and exciting . The film will surely make you smile on some occasions . The acting is okay and the special effects are pretty good considering the year in which the film was made . . Check it out !
Okay slasher flick .	Oh yeah , this one is similar to " Happy Birthday to Me " ( I'm talking here especially about the ending ) , which I reviewed some months ago , but definitely not better . The acting is rather lame , the disco / party scene is cheesy and amusing ( one of the guests is dressed in a giant penis costume-woah ! ) , and the film is quite suspenseful at times . Only a little bit of gore , so gore-hounds will certainly be disappointed . However if you consider yourself a rabid slasher fan give this one a look ! Love that axe in the head scene !
" Carrie White burns in Hell ! "	" Carrie " is surely one of the best horror movies of the 70's . It is filled with great acting , suspense and maturity . Younger horror fans who expect fast action and lots of gore will be disappointed , but if you're a real horror fan you can't miss it . The score by Pino Donaggio is fabulous and still gives me creeps ! A must see-possibly the best De Palma's flick ever made ( although " Sisters " and " Dressed to Kill " come close ) .
Okay horror flick , but nothing special .	" Witchtrap " has a special place in my heart , mainly because it was one of the first horror movies I have seen . Yep , the acting is pretty awful , the script is laughable , but the gore effects ( for example a head explosion ) are nicely done . There are some good moments in the picture , which is well-directed by Kevin Tenney ( " Witchboard " , " Night of the Demons " ) and has some pretty cool music too . Finally how can you go wrong with the film , where Linnea Quigley gets killed by a shower ! ! Recommended .
Pretty good horror film .	John Carpenter's " Prince of Darkness " is clearly not as good as " Halloween " and " The Thing " , but it offers some truly creepy and haunting moments . A scientific research team finds a mysterious cylinder full of green fluid in a deserted church . It is in fact the Devil , contained in this prison since time began which can only be opened from the inside . Unfortunately it's beginning to stir and strange events occur . It seems that the Devil wants to release himself . " Prince of Darkness " is a pretty good shocker with interesting story to boost . The acting is reasonable and there are a few regulars in the cast including Donald Pleasence . The soundtrack by John Carpenter is very moody and chilling . So if you're a horror fan give this one a look . My rating : .
Bizarre and experimental splatter from Russia .	The story of Andrey Iskanov's " Nails " goes like that : a professional hit man retires to his colorless apartment but soon starts to suffer from horrible headaches along with that he hears voices . In order to cure himself , he starts practicing self-trepanation and hammers a nail into his skull . " Nails " is a weird little art-house horror flick . You'll have to be a very open minded to fully enjoy it . The film looks like a bad acid trip with several impressive colorful shots . There is a good deal of gore and claustrophobic atmosphere too . Alexander Shevchenko is superb as the tortured assassin . I can't wait to see the next project of Iskanov " Philosophy of a Knife " . .
A mildly enjoyable horror comedy with several creepy moments .	A new tenant Jason moves into the apartment-a railroad car converted into a house-he finds the place possessed by the ghost of the Mister , a conductor who blamed himself for a horrible train crash in the past . As the Mister comes back for revenge and starts killing the car's visitors and neighbors , Jason and his roommate try to exorcise the demons for good . " The Sleeping Car " by Douglas Curtis is a mildly enjoyable horror comedy that has its share of gruesome moments . The makeup effects are pretty good and the death scenes are suitably gory . Unfortunately the film relies too much on juvenile humour . There is also a nice amount of nudity provided by Judie Aronson and Sandra Margot . So if you are into 80's horror give this one a chance . .
Sleazy succubus .	Sexy Erika Blanc famous from Mario Bava's " Kill Baby Kill " and Emilio Miraglia's " The Night Evelyn Came Out from the Grave " plays a seductress and succubus who spends the night in a Gothic castle along with seven unfortunate tourists , some weird servants and a cursed Baron von Rhoneberg . With the use of the Seven Deadly Sins as a motive , she will kill all that are in the castle . Here is where the fun kicks in , as we are witness to several creative deaths ala guillotine , drowning in gold , gluttony poisoning , iron maiden , falling on spikes , etc . " The Devil's Nightmare " offers some nudity plus pretty steamy lesbian scene . The killings are fun and Erica Blanc is dressed in one of the sexiest evening outfits in the history of Eurohorror . The stunning cinematography by Andre Goeffers perfectly captures the majestique of the Gothic castle . .
Sleazy and mildly dirty exploitation flick .	" Schoolgirls in Chains " is a " Psycho " inspired low-budget slice of sleaze that chronicles the events of several young girls kidnapped by two maladjusted brothers named Frankie and Johnny who store them in a fruit cellar and routinely subject them to harassment . The films underlying theme of misogyny is primarily filtered through verbal intent rather than visual shocks . The film features Gary Kent as a brooding , incestuous bruiser , John Stoglin as his creepy retard brother and Leah Tate and Suzanne Lund . There is a decent amount of smut and perversity and plenty of nudity , so I wasn't disappointed . Unfortunetely there is not enough violence for my liking and the action is rather slow , but if you like grindhouse exploitation flicks you may give this one a try . .
Mildly interesting adaptation of H . P . Lovecraft's story .	" The Dunwich Horror " is the second H . P . Lovecraft adaptation from art director Daniel Haller ( " Die , Monster , Die ! " ) is actually another flawed attempt to capture the unimaginable darkness of Lovecraft's literature on film . Sandra Dee plays Nancy Walker , a young college student who is lured into the mysterious house of Whateley by the creepy young warlock Wilbur Whateley ( Dean Stockwell ) . The local community has long suspected that the whole Whateley family-Wilbur , his grandfather ( Sam Jaffe ) , and his mother , who is in an insane asylum-is unholy , and soon their suspicions are confirmed . Wilbur intends to use Nancy as a human sexual sacrifice that will unleash dark powers-represented by his monstrous twin brother , who exists in another dimension-across the earth . Occult professor Dr . Armitage ( Ed Begley ) discovers what Wilbur's up to , and with the aid of Nancy's roommate ( Donna Baccala ) , he tries to stop it . " The Dunwich Horror " is a psychedelic little horror film that offers some interesting visuals . The film is slow-paced and there is absolutely no gore . It relies more on suggestion than shocks , so if you like old-fashioned horror give it a look . .
Okay Hong Kong female actioner .	" Naked Killer " / " Chiklo Gouyeung " is a typical example of Hong Kong vicious action cinema . It has plenty of bloody violence-the action is fast-paced and never lets up . There are some energetic fight scenes reminiscent in style to John Woo's explosive action flicks . All women contained here are beautiful and deadly . The film actually reminds me similarly-themed Hong Kong thrillers like " Black Cat " or " Beyond Hypothermia " . The acting is decent-the performances by Chingmy Yau and Simon Yam are especially worthwhile . So if you're an action buff give this title a look-you won't be disappointed . . A perfect film for fans of highly energetic action stuff !
More gore , less style in the final installment of Argento's " Three Mothers " trilogy .	Sarah Mandy , an American studying art restoration at the Museum of Ancient Art in Rome , examines an urn found at an ancient , decrepit grave near Viterbo . Bound within are the relics of a witch known as the Mother of Tears , Mater Lachrymarum . Breaking the seal heralds the return of the beautiful yet malefic sorceress ' powers and Rome is plunged into chaos . A wave of suicides and crime sweeps over Italy's capital as witches congregate to pay homage to their reborn queen . Sarah must eventually discover her latent supernatural powers with the help of her deceased mother and confront Lachrymarum at the opulent Palazzo Varelli . " The Third Mother " actually bears very little resemblance to " Suspiria " or " Inferno " . The film is not as beautiful as the most famous Argento's works . The gore is pretty extreme and some killings are extremely vicious and bloody as hell . " La Terza Madre " feels more like a Fulci film in so far that the narrative is only a vehicle to the gore scenes . Unfortunately some scenes are downright terrible with the use of awful CGI and the climax is weak and disappointing . Still I quite enjoyed this film and you should too if you are a fan of earlier works of Italian maestro .
Mildly entertaining and humorous vampire flick .	A divorced dad and son attempt to build on their newly resurrected relationship by heading back to pop's hometown named Salem in up-state Maine . When he gets there , he finds that all the townspeople have turned into 300-year-old vampires . " A Return to Salem's Lot " by Larry Cohen is not as bad as it's reputed to be . In fact I used to watch it pretty often when I was a kid . Of course it's not as scary or suspenseful as Tobe Hooper's " Salem's Lot " , but it still manages to entertain if you are in the right mood . The acting is terrible as is the make-up of the vampires , but there is enough amusing moments to make the viewer smile . Samuel Fuller is quite memorable as a Vampire slayer . Overall , " A Return to Salem's Lot " is a quirky , occasionally uneven horror film that is worth a look for fans of Larry Cohen's unusual horror movies . and that's being kind .
Artistic sleaze .	A young woman is interrogated by the police and the judges , suspected of being a modern witch . The girl who shared her apartment has been found dead with a pair of scissors impaled through her heart , as she lay attached to the bedposts . Apparently , the girl does have powers , to make all people around her fall prey to her spell , glissing progressively into desire , lust and the unknown . Alain Robbe-Grillet has to be one of the most innovative French novelists and film-makers . His " Successive Slidings of Pleasure " is a wonderful film that contains plenty of surreal moments and lots of sleaze . The movie itself is truly unique and bizarre , so fans of unusual European art-house exploitation won't be disappointed . So if you are a fan of Jean Rollin's works give this one a look . This is my first journey into Alain Robbe-Grillet's visions and I'm highly impressed !
A remarkable horror film .	A Harvard anthropologist Dennis Allen is sent to Haiti to retrieve a strange powder that is said to have the power to bring human beings back from the dead . In his quest to find the miracle drug , our heroic scientist enters the rarely seen netherworld of walking corpses , blood rites and ancient curses . " The Serpent and the Rainbow " is actually one of the better horror films directed by Wes Craven . It's based on the true life experiences of Wade Davis and filmed on location in Haiti . The script is pretty good and there are some truly creepy moments . The cinematography is gorgeous and the score is excellent . So if you're a fan of Wes Craven's horror films give this one a look . It is certainly better than " Deadly Friend " , " Shocker " and " Swamp Thing " . .
Mathilda May .	" Lifeforce " is often regarded by many horror fans as a cult favourite and it's rather easy to see why . On the other hand , I prefer Tobe Hooper's earlier horror films like " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " Eaten Alive " or " The Funhouse " over this one . Still " Lifeforce " perfectly blends elements of science fiction and vampire / horror . The acting is quite good and there's a little bit of gore . The idea of the aliens serving as the origin of vampires , and the feeding off of humans not being for blood but actual life energy , not through a bite but through a kiss , is actually pretty refreshing and original . Mathilda May steals the show as a female space vampire and she spends almost all of her screen time naked , so I wasn't disappointed . So if you're a fan of B-grade sci fi / horror give this one a look-just don't expect the intensity of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and " Eaten Alive " . .
Okay time waster !	William Girdler's " Grizzly " is an enjoyable horror film about bloodthirsty bear on the loose . Especially surprising is rather high amount of blood and gore for PG-rated flick . Of course the story is pretty stupid and unoriginal , but there are several really violent moments featured here ( even a horse is decapitated ! ) . Anyway if you like horror movies give this one a look-I think that you won't be disappointed . Check out also similar " Claws " ( 1977 ) for more bear carnage !
Pretty strange film .	Mary Lambert's " Siesta " offers plenty of wonderful visuals and a nice amount of sensual atmosphere . A woman in a red dress lies in an airport field , supposedly dead . She wakes . There's blood on her dress , but it doesn't seem to be hers . She can't remember the last few days . As time goes on , the pieces come back to her , and she meets up with some pretty weird people . The plot of " Siesta " is quite confusing and the climax is unpredictable . The acting is alright with Ellen Barkin's excellent performance to boost . Barkin has also some amazing nude scenes , so I wasn't disappointed . Give this one a look . A perfect film to analyze , if you have enough time to waste !
Beautifully made , yet disturbing and perverse film .	A young boy named Fabrizio and girl Laura must psychically explore their budding sexuality . Things get complicated when arrogant Silvia enters the picture & our young hero is drawn to her and Laura now feels ignored . They begin playing cruel games and tormenting her . For instance , during a game of hide and seek Laura finds them lying naked beneath a tree and she is forced to view their love scene . " Spielen wir Liebe " aka " Maladolescenza " has to be one of the most controversial films ever made . When it came out it was banned or heavily cut in many countries as child pornography . The film contains plenty of surprisingly graphic nudity provided by Martin Loeb , Eva Ionesco and Lara Wendel . Both girls were twelve years old at the time of making the movie . At least the sex scenes are quite tasteful and thankfully simulated , but I still think that the film-makers crossed the line . The film was actually banned in Germany on 28th of July 2006 due to its content , so DVD will be no longer available for public consumption .
Very entertaining Italian WIP movie .	Covering for her brother , who killed a Brazillian drug lord , Angela Duvall is sent to women's prison . She quickly attracts the sexual advances of a female prison guard as well as the other prisoners . Between attacks from her cell-mates and the murdered drug dealer's henchmen , Angela must escape into the jungle to survive . " Women In Fury " is a typical Italian WIP movie . It offers plenty of nudity and lesbianism , so I was pleased . Unfortunately too much of the film's running time is spent with the doctor's efforts to win Angela's release and the jungle trek of the fugitives . Still Suzane Carvalho is a real beauty with a very nice body . Give it a look , if you are a fan of Italian exploitation cinema . .
A masterpiece of Gothic horror !	Made in 1970 , " House of Dark Shadows " has some genuinely tension-building moments and quite a few decent scares . It may be dated for some , but it works as a creepy vampiric horror . The atmosphere is very dark and eerie , and the setting is wonderful . If you liked this one don't forget to watch its sequel " Night of Dark Shadows " ( 1971 ) . Recommended !
Not as bad as it is reputed to be .	I expected " Lovers Lane " to be pure crap , but I was pleasantly surprised . Of course the plot is pretty stupid and unoriginal and the characters are our usual annoying slasher fodder , but I found here some things to like . Some scenes are actually suspenseful and the film is never dull . Unlike politically correct Hollywood's slasher movies this one contains some nudity , foul-mouthed language and good gore . Worth checking out , if you like slasher movies !
Disappointing , but suitably grim serial killer movie .	Antonio Frau is a cold-blooded killer . Frau has just been released from prison after serving 14 years for killing his girlfriend . He has inherited a run-down former brothel from a late aunt and married Francisca , who he met through a dating service and started writing to while inside . He lures prostitutes , most of them drug addicts , into his hotel at night where he ties them to a table , tortures and rapes them for days then cuts them into pieces using a chainsaw . " H6 : Diary of a Serial Killer " is occasionally pretty grim , but mostly uninteresting serial killer movie . It is not as extremely intense as my all time favourite Austrian " Angst " , but there are some mildly shocking moments including rapes and chainsaw dismemberment . Fernado Acaso is pretty believable as a misogynistic killer and there is a bit of gore . Give it a look .
Vastly entertaining horror flick about murderous baboon .	Roddy McDowall plays the professor Sorenson who juices up a baboon with brain serum so he'll be calmer , unfortunately he makes a mistake and instead of injecting the right serum , he injects the serum that turns him into a bloodthirsty predator . " Shakma " is a much better film than Tom Logan's awful slasher " The Night Brings Charlie " . It's full of violent animal action , mostly the baboon attacking and killing medical scientists and the other animals in the lab . " Shakma " offers a nice amount of blood and gore and the killings are pretty brutal . The acting is solid , the score is amazing and the baboon is downright aggressive . Overall this is an immensely enjoyable animal-on-the-loose horror flick that should satisfy genre enthusiasts . Give it a chance . .
Truly enjoyable sci-fi / horror .	" Shadowzone " is a typical horror film from Full Moon Entertainment . In the underground laboratory a group of scientists are doing experiments with dreams . They accidentally kill one of the volunteers . David Beecroft is sent to investigate the death . When he arrives there , he finds out that the scientists have released a monster from a dream dimension . All of them are stuck under the ground while the monster kills them . " Shadowzone " is a surprisingly well-done horror film loaded with nudity and graphic violence . The acting is decent and the characters are well-developed . The climax is disappointing , though . The film is still worth checking out , if you like bloody monster flicks . My rating : .
" When you hear the siren , don't go out . "	In 1976 the inhabitants of an isolated island of Yamajima were massacred . Thirty years later , Yuki Amamoto goes to the island with her father and her little brother who suffers from neurological disorders . The islanders are not very friendly towards them . When the siren begins to roar , the severed bits of mystery begin to assemble together to reveal the truth of the 1976 massacre and finally unravel the creepy secret of the siren . . . This adaptation of popular PS2 game is pretty decent . The pace is slow and there are several quietly menacing moments . The film lacks gore and draws certain parallels with " Silent Hill " film adaptation . The mystery aspect works quite well and the acting is fine . Give this one a look . .
The weakest part of " All Night Long " series , but still unsettling .	When a young woman witnesses a suicide she is so overwhelmed with sexual excitement that she masturbates , unaware that she is being observed by a strange man . Later he invites her home where she is wined and dined . Soon she wakes up to find herself locked in a cage . Of course their twisted and sadomasochistic relationship will end in a sadistically explicit bloodbath . . . The version of " All Night Long 5 " I have is in Japanese , but the above synopsis is general gist . I'm a big fan of Katsuya Matsumura and I absolutely love the first three " All Night Long " movies . " All Night Long R " is also pretty good whilst still being deeply disturbing . Unfortunately " Initial O " is too long and sometimes dull , so I was a little bit disappointed . Still there is plenty of sex and some unsettling sexual torture on display . There is not enough gore , but some scenes ( for example throat slashing or castration ) are particularly nasty . " All Night Long O " looks more like extremely dark drama / romance with surprisingly nasty edge than horror film , but if you're a fan of Japanese horror give it a look . .
Okay horror film .	" The Sentinel " is a horror film with an all star cast which has genuine sideshow freaks , cannibalistic lesbians in leotards and John Carradine as a blind priest . The finale , reminiscent of Tod Browning's " Freaks " , is truly gruesome . The film is based on Jeffrey Konvitz novel-Konvitz had previously written the low budget psycho-horror " Silent Night , Bloody Night " ( 1973 ) . " The Sentinel " is well-made and has some genuine scares . Here is the plot : Alison Parker ( Cristina Raines ) lives in a creepy apartment complex inhabited by the walking dead . Is she going crazy or are these the portals of Hell-and she has just been called up for guard duty ?
Not bad .	" Underworld " is not as bad as it's reputed to be . I'm a horror movie fanatic who has seen literally hundreds of horror movies ( check out my comments and be impressed ) and I enjoyed it very immensely . A wonderful beauty Kate Beckinsale plays Selene , a vampire soldier in the centuries-old war between vampires and werewolves , also known as lycans . Beneath her trench coat Selene wears a black vinyl catsuit and she looks incredibly sexy in it . As the story opens , Selene informs us that vampires have all but wiped out werewolves . After an obligatory shoot-out in a subway station , Selene realizes that the lycans are trying to abduct a human doctor , Michael Corvin ( Scott Speedman ) . The other vampires , especially her rival , Kraven ( Shane Brolly ) , believe that the best solution is to kill Michael , but Selene wants to keep him alive to learn why werewolves need him . " Underworld " is pretty stylish . It takes place in an unnamed European city that is always bathed in a steely blue light . The acting is decent and the photography is excellent . There is plenty of violence , but not enough gore for my liking . The lack of suspense is especially hard to forgive . Still the film is never dull , so fans of action / horror won't be disappointed . Give this one a chance . .
Fast-paced and amusing horror flick .	" House of Wax " is an above-average horror flick that certainly shows some imagination . Carly and her boyfriend , Wade , have hit the road with a four of their friends to attend a championship college football game ; while camping out for the night , the gang makes the mistake of getting on the wrong side of a mysterious local redneck , and the next morning they discover that Wade's car no longer works . As the others continue on to the big game , Carly and Wade make their way into the closest town , Ambrose , and discover it's all but deserted , except for a local tourist attraction , the House of Wax . However , it isn't long before they find out why the wax sculptures at the museum look so incredibly real , and discover a pair of murderous brothers are keen on making them part of the next exhibit . " House of Wax " is a routine slasher flick that is aimed to the teenage audience . This is actually a remake of the 1953 Andre de Toth 3-D horror classic about corpses turned into wax figures , which was itself a remake of Michael Curtiz's neglected 1933 two-strip Technicolor masterwork " The Mystery of the Wax Museum " . The acting is average with the exception of Paris Hilton , who is painfully bad as slutty Paige . Spanish director Jaume Collet-Serra manages to create some eerie visual images : the interior of the wax museum is appropriately creepy and the climactic scene therein is well worth waiting for . There is a little bit of genuine tension and lots of fast cuts and extreme close-ups . There are some surprisingly gory death scenes including knifings , finger cuttings and decapitations , so I was pleased . Overall , if you are a fan of slasher flicks give this one a look , just don't expect too much . .
Polish horror at its best !	" Dom Sary " by Zygmunt Lech is based on the short story written by a famous Polish horror writer Stefan Grabinski . This is a tale of a young woman Sara Braga who kills her lovers with the help of her servant Juliusz . She is a succubus and her servant is a personification of Asmodeus . " Dom Sary " is a very obscure and rarely seen Polish horror film that offers plenty of atmosphere . The action is slow-moving and the film relies more on the acting than special effects . So if you are a fan of old-fashioned suspense and atmosphere give this one a look . It's really a shame that Polish horror films like " Dom Sary " , " Lokis " or " Wilczyca " are not available on DVD and VHS abroad . My rating : .
Pretty good zombie flick .	The DEA spray a bunch of marijuana growing hippies with an experimental crop killing spray and they turn into bloodthirsty zombies who roam the countryside chewing people up . Charles McCrann's " Bloodeaters " is a low budget zombie film which was amazingly banned as video nasty in the UK . Of course there is some gore , but nothing really shocking or disturbing . The acting is pretty bad , but it's nice to see John Amplas in a small role as one of the hippies . Check it out , especially if you like zombie films .
Decent British slasher with some nasty killings .	A professional ice-skater Samantha Gray is stalked by William Haskin . As a child , she had witnessed the murder of her mother and it had left deep scars on her psyche . Haskin is dismissed as a figment of Samantha's imagination , but soon the bodies begin to pile up . " Schizo " is a decent entry into psycho / slasher craze of the late 70's . It's well-acted , skillfully directed by Pete Walker ( " Frightmare " , " House of Whipcord " ) and loaded with suspense and grisly violence . The acting is pretty good and the killings are gory and suitably nasty for example one woman is stabbed in the head with a knitting needle . I would highly recommend this film to anyone interested in horror genre .
Occasionally amusing and gruesome Indonesian horror .	An American woman named Cathy asks her Indonesian boyfriend Hendra to help her investigate Balinese black magic known as ' Leyak ' . Leyak is the most powerful black magic there is and she soon begins to pay a terrible cost when she turns into a flying head that feasts on unborn babies . I have seen my share of crazy Indonesian horror cinema and " Mystics in Bali " is perhaps the most known of ' em all . It is based on Indonesian mythology and for a supernatural culture largely undiscovered by Western movie fans . The special effects are incredibly cheesy and inept , the dubbed dialogue is absolutely hilarious , still there's a flying head which has the body's internal organs trailing behind , along with a little foetus eating and an evil sorcerer for all of you fans of Indonesian trash . The main actress Llona Agathe Bastian is incredibly wooden-in fact she was never an actress at all , but a German tourist spotted in Bali by one of the producers . Give this amusing trash a look . .
Very violent Ruggero Deogdato's action / adventure !	" Cannibal Holocaust " ( 1979 ) is one of my favourite horror movies ever . It's truly a masterpiece of gut-wrenching horror . In comparison to it " Cut and Run " is rather tame , but it features some nasty scenes of violence like where one guy is cut in half by the jungle trap . Sure , it's brutal but not as nasty as " Cannibal Holocaust " or even " Jungle Holocaust " ( 1978 ) . There's no animal cruelty or sexual violence ( apart from the rape scene near the beginning ) , but the action is fast-paced , the acting is decent enough ( I love especially the performance by Michael Berryman-this guy is creepy ! ) and the script by Cesare Frugone and Dardano Sacchetti is fairly good . So if you like violent and sleazy action give this one a look , just don't expect another " Cannibal Holocaust " . .
Extremely gory .	Young guy Mathias ( Olaf Ittenbach ) has visions of a fallen angel , Premutos wreaking havoc thorough the ages . His stepfather Walter ( Christopher Stacey ) unearths an ancient book of evil and when Mathias read it he is transformed into Premutos . Raising an army of zombies , Premutos gatecrashes Walter's birthday party and all hell breaks loose . " Premutos-The Fallen Angel " clearly plays homage to classic horror films like " The Evil Dead " , " Dawn of the Dead " or " Scanners " . There is an incredible amount of blood and gore-this film easily ranks up with Peter Jackson's " Braindead " . The 30 minute climax is amazing-non stop gore and slaughter . We have a glorious kill count of 139 here and they are seemingly all shown . There is also pretty nice sex scene added for a good measure . Highly recommended .
Very cheesy and gory monster movie .	A giant mutated Tasmanian Devil is stolen from a lab by two eco-activists and escapes near an old cemetery where a group of unsuspecting college students are making a zombie film . The hideous creature takes up residence in the old mining tunnels beneath the graveyard , feasting on both the living and the dead . Meanwhile , the two scientists responsible for the deformed creature are desperately searching the countryside witnessing the carnage of their precious creation . Very gory monster movie with predictable storyline and terrible acting . " Cemetery Gates " is a campy horror film and it offers copious amounts of blood . The sequence where a peyote-stoned hiker sees the monster as a purple cartoon character being serenaded by singing birds is hilarious and there is the dumbest blonde bimbo in recent cinematic history . A good , old-fashioned blood n ' guts creature romp .
Pretty strange .	" Cataclysm " ( 1980 ) is one of the strangest and most disjointed horror movies ever made . The film offers plenty of creepy atmosphere , but overall story is very confusing . The acting is pretty bad , but it's nice to see a horror veteran Cameron Mitchell as a detective . There is also a little bit of gore , but not too much . So if you're a fan of bizarre Satanic horror movies give this one a look . Recommended . My rating : .
Okay old-fashioned horror film .	Following the grisly murder of his fiancee , Hollywood film star Paul Toombes ( Vincent Price ) withdraws into his own world . Some time later , he is persuaded by an old actor-friend ( Peter Cushing ) to revive his famous horror role as Doctor Death . Life soon becomes a living nightmare for Toombes when friends and colleagues are brutally murdered one by one . " Madhouse " is a rather cheaply made horror film that manages to create only a little bit of suspense . The story , which is based on the novel ' Devilday ' by Angus Hall is also not very intriguing . Director Jim Clark uses clips from old Roger Corman horror films featuring Vincent Price as reenactments of the murders . Still the film is slightly entertaining and it's nice to see two horror veterans Vincent Price and Peter Cushing together . Check it out . .
Typical Italian horror film .	" Paganini Horror " isn't a masterpiece , but it is a solid horror flick that will keep almost all horror fans entertained . The acting , apart from Daria Nicolodi ( " Deep Red " , " Tenebre " ) and Donald Pleasance ( " Phenomena " , " Halloween " ) , is pretty bad and the rock music is extremely cheesy and annoying . Director Luigi Cozzi ( " Il Gatto Nero " ) desperately tries to create some spooky atmosphere and , in my opinion , he partially succeeds . The film is full of rich , glowing colors , and the gore effects are pretty well-done ( for example nasty head explosion , violin stabbings etc ) . All in all I really enjoyed this one , so check it out for yourself .
Pretty entertaining Mexican slasher .	Seven young people go to the forest looking for a bear . Soon they are all stalked and viciously murdered by a crazy Vietnam veteran . " Trampa Infernal " is a pretty entertaining Mexican slasher that reminds me a lot " The Zero Boys " . The film is fast-paced and there are some good death scenes like throat slashing or axe in the neck . Unfortunately there is not much gore , so fans of grand-guignol will be disappointed . However if you are a fan of slasher movies give this rarity a look . Mexican horror flicks are quite obscure ( I have seen only " Alucarda " and " Don't Panic " ) , so this should be another reason to see this enjoyable slasher . My rating : . Highly recommended .
Solid slasher flick .	A group of obnoxious teenagers attending the town's carnival is stalked and viciously murdered by a machete-wielding killer . " Death Screams " by David Nelson is an okay slasher flick . The script is highly unoriginal and the acting is weak , but who cares . The location sets including a town's carnival , a graveyard and finally an isolated house add a lot of creepiness to the overall atmosphere of a quiet little town . The pace is quite slow , but during the carnival bloody murders are set in motion . The gore effects are fairly effective with decapitations , throat slashings , stabbings and chopped off hands to boost . The score by Dee Barton is also surprisingly moody . Overall , I rather enjoyed this rare slasher flick and you should too , if you are a fan of hack ' em up movies . .
Malaysian horror classic .	I just bought this mega-rare horror film on Malaysian VCD and I'm highly impressed . Back in the 1950's " Pontianak " series was very popular in Malaysia . Cathay Keris was the first studio to produce ' pontianak ' films . " Pontianak " , " Dendam Pontianak " and " Sumpah Pontianak " all starred Maria Menado as the hideous vamp-the first ghoul in the history of Malaysian cinema . Unfortunately she didn't appear in " Pontianak Gua Musang " , which was the sequel to " Pontianak Kembali " . This time the female vampire lives in the cave . She is a pontianak who comes out after dark . She terrorizes local people , seducing men and then killing them . This mildly creepy Malaysian vampire flick is beautifully shot and well-directed by B . Narayan Rao . It also offers an insight into Malaysian local culture , so I was pleased . So if you like Asian horror give this forgotten gem a look . .
A passable thriller with highly misogynistic streak .	A psychotic man named Brandon Poole played by Tom Dugan , mad at the female race because he's contracted the AIDS virus , travels around in his pickup truck raping and infecting women with the disease . He works for a moving company , picks his next two victims , aspiring models Carrie and Melissa , when he moves their belongings into a new apartment in Los Angeles . When in the apartment during the moving phase , Brandon drugs the milk in the refrigerator and returns that night to find them passed out on the floor . He breaks into the apartment and he spits through a plastic tube directly into Carrie's nose and then cuts his wrist and bleeds into Melissa's mouth . He then rapes Carrie and when he hears her baby crying in the next room , he screams to Carrie , " I have news for you , slut . Your kid is an orphan ! " . . . " Perfect Victims " is not an easy film to stomach . It's pretty sleazy and depraved . The idea of AIDS-infected misogynist is repulsive enough to make some viewers disturbed . Tom Dugan is particularly memorable in a truly demented performance . .
Pretty interesting and gruesome horror film .	In the mid-70s , the members of the love cult Unity Fields sought the ultimate joining by dousing themselves with gasoline and committing mass suicide . A young girl blown clear of the fiery explosion was the only survivor . Thirteen years later , Cynthia ( Jennifer Rubin ) awakens from a coma inside a psychiatric hospital with only buried memories of that horrific day . But when her fellow patients start committing suicide one by one , her past slowly begins to come back to terrifying life . . . " Bad Dreams " is a pretty average horror flick . It's well-paced and visually interesting . The acting by Richard Lynch , Jennifer Rubin and Bruce Abbott , three actors ignored by the mainstream , is solid and there is plenty of blood and gore including knife through hand and some nasty self-mutilation . .
Violent and controversial Italian horror flick .	Franco Prosperi's " The Wild Beasts " is a fairly routine Italian horror flick about nature gone nuts . The real animals were used in this movie and in many cases killed just for the sake of this Italian shocker . The animal attack scenes are very gory , but the photography by Franco Delli Colli is too murky . The use of animals in " The Wild Beasts " is quite stunning , unfortunately the acting is truly horrible . Still it's nice to see Lorraine De Selle of " Cannibal Ferox " and " House on the Edge of the Park " fame in the main role as a professor . There is also a really tense sequence where a cheetah chases a VW bug down the road and a scene where some rats are burned off a windshield in slow motion . So if you are a fan of Italian horror cinema give this one a look . .
Fantastic HK horror comedy with lotsa nudity .	A teacher and his five female students are attacked by a monster with neon-green eyes . The teacher escapes but his students are completely dismembered . He soon discovers the monster is worshipped by a cult whose ambition is to rule the world and tear the clothes off young girls . " The Holy Virgin Vs The Evil Dead " is a campy soft porn / horror flick that mixes martial arts with shocks and sleaze . The final bit which shows dozens of nude young women in the village is amazing . The film is action-packed and filled with excellently choreographed martial arts fight sequences . There is also a nice amount of violence , so fans of crazy Hong Kong cinema will be pleased . Overall , this lovely Category III flick delivers the goods . Check it out . .
Highly entertaining little monster flick .	" Aberration " is often trashed by horror fans , but this film is certainly well-made and fairly entertaining . Pamela Gidley plays a vacationing young girl who comes back to the cabin of her childhood . Unfortunately she begins to hear strange noises throughout the house and her cat is killed . A wandering research scientist working the area meets up with her and they both fight with mutant geckos . " Aberration " is clearly not as bad as it's reputed to be . There is a lot of action and plenty of gore , so I wasn't disappointed . The monsters are cheesy looking , but generally they are convincing enough . So if you enjoy watching low-budget horror films , give this one a look . .
A masterpiece of Gothic horror !	" The Pit and the Pendulum " is the second of Roger Corman's Edgar Allan Poe's adaptations with a screenplay by Richard Matheson . Vincent Price's performance is an obvious highlight of the film . Legendary horror actresses Luana Anders ( " Dementia 13 " ) and Barbara Steele ( " Shivers " , " Silent Scream " , " Black Sunday " ) co-star in this extremely atmospheric chiller . To sum up , " The Pit and the Pendulum " is one of Roger Corman's finest offerings-it's creepy , unsettling and extremely entertaining . A masterpiece that easily gets !
Watchable Italian horror film by Riccardo Freda .	Michael is a successful actor , but he has a scandal in his past : it seems that at a tender age he knifed his father to death . He and his girlfriend Deborah go to his mother's for the weekend and are joined by the director and others from a recent film project , who are given a rather unwelcome reception by the superstitious housekeeper Oliver . Soon ghastly things begin happening to some of the guests and Michael fears a repeat of his nightmare past is in progress . The vicious black gloved killer is preying on its victims . " Murder Obsession " is perhaps the sleaziest offering of Riccardo Freda to date . It features plenty of nudity provided by Silvia Dionisio , Laura Gemser and Anita Strindberg . This often confusing giallo provides some gruesome killings including death by chainsaw and laughably fake spider attack . There is also a Black Mass , a live chicken beheading , a grubby rape scene and some random gore . .
Routine slasher flick with some nasty bits of gore .	A dangerous psychopathic killer Jacob Goodnight is holed up in the abandoned and rotting Blackwell Hotel , alone with his nightmares until eight teenage delinquents show up for community service duty along with the cop who wounded Jacob four years ago . When one of their own is kidnapped by the killer and her fate uncertain , the remaining petty criminals must fight for their lives . . . " See No Evil " was directed by the porno filmmaker Gregory Dark and it stars WWE superstar Kane as remorseless psychopath . The supporting cast is terrible and there are no surprises to be found here , but there is enough extreme violence and gore for slasher fans to enjoy . Overall , I liked this film and you should too , if you are into mindless slasher flicks . Sure , it's cliché , but who cares . .
Truly bizarre HK horror sleaze .	After getting dumped by his girlfriend David decides to conduct his own personal crusade against females . . . by training tiny lizards to crawl inside women's panties and crotches driving them crazy with lust and pain . You know , our hero is dreaming of his revenge on the women who've wronged him , coming up with the outrageous idea of teaching small lizards to attack his prey's vaginas . To train the lizards he steals underwear from various unlucky prostitutes . With such lovingly trashy plot " Lewd Lizard " doesn't disappoint . It's loaded with sleaze and naked ladies . There is also plenty of humorous moments like almost in every 80's HK horror . Wanna see horny lizards in some serious action ? " Lewd Lizard " is a perfect choice .
Okay slasher , but nothing really impressive .	Paul Lynch's " Prom Night " is an average slasher movie about four high school students stalked by a masked killer during their senior prom as retribution for their involvement in the death of a young girl six years earlier . The first half of " Prom Night " is pretty dull , but after it the film becomes interesting . There's a bit of suspense and some good kill scenes ( bloody axe decapitation being my favourite ! ) but the disco soundtrack is truly horrible . Overall I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you like slasher movies-still there are much better slasher flicks for example " The Prowler " , " Maniac " or " Just Before Dawn " . My rating : .
Charming piece of Italian sleaze .	Daniella Neseri raped as a girl , channels her hatred towards men by summoning and becoming possessed by a deceased and vicious female werewolf ancestor . She lures victims by her charm , sexual drive and seduction before turning into the Wolf-woman to graphically take a bloody revenge and kill them . " The Werewolf Woman " by Rino Di Silvestro of " Deported Women of the SS " fame is a very sleazy Italian horror film loaded with gore and graphic nudity . The first dreamy sequence in which Annik Borel is writhing and dancing naked before transforming into werewolf left me stunned . The film is occasionally quite dull , however it surely contains lots of nudity , soft core sex and bloody mayhem . I particularly liked the supernatural aspects of the story . The acting is bad and the dubbing is even worse , but overlook that and we have an enjoyable piece of Italian sleaze with no artistic pretensions . I wanted nudity and gore and that's what I've got . .
Extremely shocking and revolting Japanese gore film .	A disturbed Japanese girl locks herself in the bathroom and begins violently masturbating with a toothbrush until she bleeds . She then bites off one of her own fingers and eats it and finishes up by strangling herself . There is also another Asian woman sitting in a corner who begins mutilating herself with a fork and a knife . She slices open her stomach , pulls out her intestines and gnaws on them , cuts off her tongue and stabs herself . " Women's Flesh " by Tamakichi Anaru is easily one of the darkest Japanese splatter films I have ever seen . This is surely very unpleasant and hard to watch stuff , so fans of extreme gore will be satisfied . The film actually reminded me a little bit " Naked Blood " or Masami Akita's " Lost Paradise " , but it's much more graphic . A must-see for fans of disturbing Japanese transgressions . .
Another horror film based on Junko Furuta's savage murder .	Gunji Kawasaki's 1997 movie " Juvenile Crime " aka " Schoolgirl in Cement " was based on the same real-life murder case as Katsuya Matsumura's 1995 movie " Concrete-Encased High School Girl Murder Case " and Hiromu Nakamura's 2004 movie " Concrete " . It has been mistaken for Matsumura's movie by a number of bootleggers . In November of 1988 four young men abducted and held Furuta for several weeks in the house of one of the captors . The girl was violently raped and subjected to torture and sexual degradation for example she was forced to masturbate . On 4th January 1989 four sadists beat her with an iron barbell , poured lighter fluid on her legs , arms , face and stomach and immolated her . She died later that day of shock and her mutilated corpse was hidden in an oil-drum filled with cement . " Juvenile Crime " is an incredibly sleazy and unpleasant film loaded with scenes of sexual violence , rape and abuse . It purely exploits the brutal murder of Junku Furuta , unlike Katsuya Matsumura's supremely nihilistic and overall better " Concrete-Encased High School Girl Murder Case " . .
Passable vampire flick with sexy Lucy Liu .	Lucy Liu plays Sadie Blake out for revenge for misdeeds done to her . We flash back to the origin of her thirst for vengeance , back when she was a reporter out trying to uncover the secret behind the recent upswing in missing persons in the area and their connection to secret party invitations announcing a " feeding " . She finds out the hard way that vampires exist in the city , as they turn her into one . With all claims to her human life gone , Sadie vows to take down all of the vampires who've done her wrong . Believe me , " Rise " is actually better than action-packed " Blade " or " Underworld " . At least it offers some lovely scenes of female nudity and plenty of blood . Of course the story is routine and forgettable and there is no suspense , but I can easily say that I enjoyed it . Grab some beer and give it a look .
Vastly enjoyable European horror film .	When Baron Frankenstein is killed by a monster he created , his daughter Tania and his lab assistant Marshall continue his experiments . The two fall in love and attempt to transplant Marshall's brain in to the muscular body of a retarded servant Stephen , in order to prolong the aging Marshall's life . Meanwhile , the first monster seeks revenge on the grave robbers who sold the body parts used in its creation to Dr . Frankenstein . Soon it comes after Marshall and the doctor's daughter . . . Inspired by the Universal horror films , looking like Gothic Hammer films and containing a fair dose of European style blood and nudity " Lady Frankenstein " is an enjoyable horror film with a bit of romance thrown in . Gothic sets for Frankenstein's castle are certainly impressive and incredibly sensual Queen of Italian Horror , Rosalba Neri is a joy to look at . I have seen the American version of the film , the original European cut runs 15 minutes longer .
Unimpressive zombie flick , but still pretty good .	A group of film students is in the woods shooting a low-budget zombie horror flick when the zombies start to rise with a hunger for human flesh . Next we see civilization fall apart as the zombie apocalypse is coming . Two of the group peel off and head back to a house they describe as a fortress and the rest sally forth in search of family aboard an RV . The students are also filming themselves trying to survive the end of the world . " Diary of the Dead " is shot cinema-vérité style by our fledgling film crew caught up in the web of horror . There is a decent amount of gore and the acting by unknown cast is adequate , but the tone of the film is sometimes too preachy . If you are paying attention , assorted radio broadcasts are voiced by Romero fans such as Quentin Tarantino , Simon Pegg and Guillermo del Toro with a religious rant by Stephen King . .
Pretty hot Japanese fetish / porno .	" Nurse Hunting : Female Body Laboratory " is a part of strikingly erotic Japanese fetish / porn series produced by a sub-label of the AV company Dogma . It includes the following movies : " Tohjiro : Abnormal Rape " , " Tohjiro : Butterfly Labyrinth " , " Tohjiro : Butterfly Labyrinth 2 " , " Tohjiro : Rare Fetish " , " Tohjiro : Baby Doll " , " Tohjiro : VS425 " , " Tohjiro : Hentai Kazoku " , " Tohjiro : Outraged Boobs Nurse " , " Tohjiro : Lascvious Confessions Room " , " Tohjiro : Anal Trance " , " Tohjiro : Sailor Bondage " , " Tohjiro : Body Trance " and " Tohjiro : Whats Wrong with Perversion " . Japanese AV star Kurumi Morishita plays a masochistic nurse , who enjoys being sexually abused by her doctor . The film is loaded with oral sex , sadomasochism , bondage and sexual degradation , so fans of sleazy Japanese porn won't be disappointed . Still there was not enough wall-to-wall depravity for my liking . Give it a look . .
Not bad !	When I first saw this one some years ago I absolutely loved it . Now , when I'm older I don't think that " Return of the Living Dead 3 " is a masterpiece . Still it is a solid and very effective zombie film . The first installement in this series directed by Dan O'Bannon in 1985 is a top-notch horror / comedy , while Ken Wiederhorn's sequel is truly abysmal . Anyway " Return of the Living Dead 3 " contains lots of things to enjoy : plenty of gruesome gore , interesting and believable characters and a thoughtful script . Brian Yuzna , the horror genius behind " Society " , " Bride of Re-Animator " and " The Dentist " is along with Stuart Gordon , Frank Henelotter , Jim Van Bebber and Eric Stanze one of the best American horror directors . Recommended !
Surreal , bizarre and often repulsive .	Directed by Japanese underground legend Yoshihiko Matsui , most famous for his epic film " Noisy Requiem " , and his early work with maverick Japanese director Sogo Ishii , " Pig Chicken Suicide " is a veritable assault on the senses , mixing violent images of animal butchery , racial strife and surrealism to tell the story of two Koreans living in Japan , who's love is destroyed due to overwhelming racial discrimination . This seriously bizarre and demented film tells the story of a weird guy , who thinks that he's a chicken and works in a slaughterhouse . He eats dirt , walks like a chicken and masturbates whilst seeing Japanese woman touching herself . " Pig Chicken Suicide " is a gross art-house Japanese piece of sleaze that is as dirty as they come . I enjoyed this demented little flick and you should too , if you like surreal and off-beat cinema . Check it out in pair with Thierry Zeno's " Wedding Trough " for some wonderful sickness . .
Not as bad as it's reputed to be .	Robert Englund is the evil owner of the laundry company who has the ancient steam press that periodically sucks workers into its bowels , turning them into bloody mess . Ted Levine stars as the local sheriff who is called in to investigate the deaths and solve the mystery . Levine discovers the steam press was possessed when a virgin cut her hand into it's gears causing it to come to life . And Englund wants to make his niece the next human sacrifice to unleash the evil . " The Mangler " is an enjoyable little flick filled with plenty of gore . It's based on Stephen King's short story in his famous collection " Night Shift " . Admittedly the plot is pretty silly and there are some huge lapses in logic , but who cares . I wanted grue and this flick provided it in spades . . Much better than crappy sequel that followed .
Laughable zombie romp .	Bruno Mattei's " Hell of the Living Dead " is one of the worst Italian zombie flicks ever made . The story rips off " Dawn of the Dead " , the music is ripped off from " Dawn of the Dead " and " Beyond the Darkness " and the script is truly incomprehensible . However this film can be pretty entertaining if you're in the right mood . There is plenty of gore , and " Hell of the Living Dead " has its fair share of gut munching , eye gouging , exploding heads etc . The film is never boring and Margit Evelyn Newton has a lovely nude scene . So if you're a fan of Italian zombie / cult cinema give this one a look . Here is the story : the dead are coming back to life , most certainly caused by a chemical leak of some sort . A team of soldiers is sent to New Guinea to investigate and encounter zombies .
Okay slasher .	A group of friends decide to take a camping trip into the desert-and find themselves stalked and murdered by a mysterious killer in a black pick-up truck . " Mirage " is obviously inspired by Spielberg's " Duel " and Craven's " The Hills Have Eyes " . Still this slasher yarn offers plenty of nasty violence and gore . The film's gory highlight is a sequence involving a man having his arm and leg chained together around a tree and then having his limbs dismembered when the chain is pulled by a truck . There is also a little bit of suspense and some exciting stalk-and-slash sequences . The acting is pretty lame and the script is quite weak , but the film is fast-paced and shocking . B . G . Steers who plays the villain is fairly threatening . The desert locations provide some atmosphere and the gore is rather strong . Overall , if you like low-budget horror films give this one a look . .
Another wonderful avant-grade short from Viennese Aktionists .	Kurt Kren's " Leda and the Swan " is one of the most densely constructed of all Kren's Aktion films . Based on the poem by Yeats called also " Leda and the Swan " it features some unforgettable and disturbing imagery . We see Leonardo , who grates a large cucumber over Leda with a grater , squashes 10 tomatoes and cracks 5 eggs on her . He places a bottle containing a rose between her legs . Then he scatters bread-crumbs and coffee powder over her . Leda sets her upper body upright and draws in one leg . Leonardo places a large , uninflated plastic swan between her legs and so on . Unquestionably bizarre and edited very fast , " Leda and the Swan " is among the best short films made by infamous Viennese Aktionists . .
Above average and highly intelligent possession flick .	Emily Rose is a devout Catholic who undergoes a shocking and unexpected transformation while at college . Her family asks Father Moore to perform an exorcism . When Emily dies , Moore is charged with criminally negligent homicide . Laura Linney plays Erin Bruner , the lawyer hired to defend Moore . " The Exorcism of Emily Rose " is based on a true facts . This is a highly ambitious horror flick that has its share of suspense and scares . It mixes elements of courtroom drama with possession flick in the vein of " The Exorcist " . Laura Linney , Tom Wilkinson and Campbell Scott are all great , as is Jennifer Carpenter as Emily Rose . There are a few good scares with director Scott Derrickson using awkward pauses of silence mixed with a few furious demonic scenes to build and keep steady tension . Unfortunately the film is occasionally quite dull during its courtroom segments , however it surely asks a lot of important questions about our faith or beliefs . So if you enjoyed " The Exorcist " or " Omen " you may give this one a look . Fans of sleaze / gore will be disappointed . .
An enjoyable fantasy from Full Moon .	Two sorcerers battle in the fourth dimension , one ( Brian Thompson as a Kabal ) trying to destroy the Earth , the other ( Jeffrey Combs as a Anton Mordrid ) trying to save it . " Doctor Mordrid " is an enjoyable fantasy fare which offers plenty of cheese . The plot is pretty silly and the gore is completely absent , but the film is very short and entertaining . So if you have enough time to kill give this one a look . My rating : .
Another bizarre short from Kurt Kren .	" : O Tannenbaum " is another unforgettable short made by Viennese Aktionists . They made short movies about people having sex with swans and then chopping their heads off . They did films with people pissing on each other , and eating excrement and vomiting , people getting cut with razors etc . I think those movies still have some impact and get overlooked by the film historians . Anyway , " : O Tannenbaum " is not as scatological as some other works by Kren , but there is plenty of full-frontal nudity and weirdness on display . The filmmaker documents a ritual by members of Vienna's renegade Direct Art , Material Action group , with whom he had become associated . This explicit film counter-poses disturbingly intense imagery ? blood , paint , eggs , feathers , and candle wax smeared all over naked , writhing men and women ? with the comic element of a pathetically ragged Christmas tree on top of the writhers . In one recurring shot , a penis and a woman's breast pop up through cut-out holes in an opened suitcase ; in another , a woman attempts a faltering blow job on a man as both are sprayed head-to-toe with red paint . Unfortunately Kren's work is not available on any format , so good luck finding a copy of this one . .
Slightly disappointing and over-hyped horror / thriller .	Two strangers , Dr . Lawrence Gordon and Adam , awaken in a dank bathroom in the middle of nowhere . They are chained to opposite walls of the room , and lying between them is one very dead guy who has clearly shot himself in the head . The two men each find an audio cassette tape in their pocket , and it is soon revealed that Gordon must kill Adam in a given amount of time in order to save his family from the maniacal Jigsaw Killer . But is the Jigsaw Killer really a killer ? Afterall , he just sets up the demented situations and lets his victims kill themselves . " Saw " by James Wan is a mildly effective and slightly disturbing horror / thriller . It's definitely influenced by " Seven " and Dario Argento's works , especially " Tenebre " . The plot is pretty twisted and the climax is rather shocking , however the acting is sometimes amateurish and MTV-style camera-work is quite annoying at times . Also very little gore , apart from a few brief flashback , is depicted in " Saw " . So if you like dark horror movies you can give it a look . However I still think that " Wolf Creek " is a much better film . .
Slightly depraved Japanese pink .	Masaru Konuma's " Woman in the Box 2 " tells the story of the manager of a ski resort who kidnaps a beautiful Japanese woman , subjects her to various forms of sexual degradation and keeps his victim in a wood box in the basement . " Woman in the Box 2 " is also known under the title of " Captured for Sex 4 " . The film is not as rough and depraved as " The Woman in the Box : Virgin Sacrifice " , but still offers some delicious sleaze plus a little bit of rape . Unfortunately my copy of this sickie is heavily censored optically , so I didn't enjoy this obnoxious piece of filth as much as I wanted . Still if you consider yourself a rabid fan of Japanese exploitation " Woman in the Box " series is a blast . .
Pretty funny . ( Spoilers )	Paul Morrissey's " Blood for Dracula " is definitely a cult classic . Udo Kier is excellent as a Dracula . He can't suck the blood of anyone but a virgin or he vomits . In one outrageous scene he licks the blood of a virgin off the floor . The film is about as sleazy and politically incorrect as you can get . There is plenty of soft-core sex in this one plus incredibly gory climax when Dracula is dismembered . There is also a lovely cameo by Roman Polanski ( " Rosemary's Baby " , " The Tenant " ) . Check it out in pair with its companion piece " Flesh for Frankenstein " ( 1974 ) .
Hisayasu Sato's black comedy .	Alisa escapes her obsessed and incestuous father by jumping into the sea and washing up on the beach and heads into the city to start her life from the beginning . Harumi lives with her uncaring husband and perverse mother-in-law but leaves to find the love and affection she isn't getting at home . By fate-and some bizarre events-the two ladies meet and hope to find what they are looking for together . " Rafureisha " is a more light-hearted pinku flick from the director of " Hitozuma Collector " , " Lolita Vibrator Torture " and " Naked Blood " . There is rape , incest and plenty of sex and nudity plus some truly surreal moments including an adult baby being attacked with a chainsaw . Overall if you are a fan of clinical works of Sato give this one a look-I prefer more darker and disturbing movies by this infamous Japanese Cronenberg . .
Another nasty Cat III shocker from Hong Kong .	" Daughter of Darkness " is a tale of a young woman's sexual abuse by her father . The film is very dark as it offers plenty of sex , nudity , gore and heavy violence . Lily Chung-who played Ming-Ming in Billy Tang's " Red to Kill " ( 1994 ) - is extremely convincing as titular heroine Fong . The film is pretty uneven , because it's filled with lame comedy and silly jokes . Still the scenes of rape and sexual abuse are very shocking and unpleasant . The final slaughter scene is extremely violent and bloody . Anthony Wong from " Ebola Syndrome " ( 1996 ) is also memorable as police captain Lui . The scene where he molests the female corpse totally cracked me up . Overall , " Daughter of Darkness " is a pretty good shocker , so if you like extreme stuff give it a look . .
Another Daisuke Yamanouchi's sickie .	" Girl Hell 1999 " aka " Injured Murder Rape Film " is another nasty film from Daisuke Yamanouchi's oeuvre . I own this sickie in Japanese , so the plot is not fully understandable for me , but here we go : a girl enjoys riding her bike and she meets a homeless lady in a field who is breastfeeding a doll ( actual milk comes out ) . One day she comes back home and she sees her father raping her mother who is bandaged almost head to toe . A rich pervert is stalking her and she encounters two teenagers on a murder and rape rampage . Japanese exploitation director Daisuke Yamanouchi specializes in making obscure and very nasty pinku eiga oriented films filled with sadistic rape and sexual abuse . " Girl Hell 1999 " has a feeling of " Red Room " movies and " Mu Zan E " as it offers plenty of nihilism . An interesting curio for fans of ero gro . All others should avoid it . .
Very entertaining Inodonesian black magic horror with lovely Suzzanna .	When Baedah , daughter of the wealthy village headman , is plagued by horrifying visions on her wedding day , her husband Kohar suspects that black magic is at work . Convinced that the source of the hallucinations is Murna played by ' 70s Indonesian horror queen Suzzanna , the poor girl he seduced and then abandoned for Baedah , Kohar rallies a mob to burn down her house and throw her into a ravine . Murna is rescued by a magician , who helps her seek revenge by teaching her the black arts . She then returns to her village and gruesomely kills several of her persecutors , saving Kohar for the last and most hideous death . " Queen of Black Magic " is a classic of Inodnesian horror . The dubbing is terrible and the acting is pretty bad , but it offers some gory deaths including the demise of Kohar , who pulls off his own head in a fountain of arterial gore . If you enjoy watching wild Indonesian cinema " Black Magic Terror " is a blast .
Pretty nasty and shocking Japanese SOV horror film .	" Senketsu no Kizuna " is a sickening Japanese rape and revenge shocker loaded with scenes of gore , sexual violence and humiliation . Plot-wise it is seemingly very simple and is definitely meant as a loose remake of Meir Zarchi's " I Spit on Your Grave " . There is the gang of four rapists , the retarded member of the group and the repeated rapes and humiliation . Even the scene with the stone-rape to get the retarded guy to make his move seems a variant on the bottle-rape scene in Zarchi's film . Yet the addition of another victim is a new touch and the ways in which they take their revenge are changed . Saying that , the film is a lot more vile and sickening than infamous 1978 video nasty . Having seen most of Daisuke Yamanouchi's pinku eiga films I can safely say that " Senketsu no Kizuna " is much better than " Kyoko vs Yuki " , but not as memorable as " Red Room " series or " Mu Zan E " . My generous rating : .
Vastly enjoyable sci-fi horror trash .	An alien from outer space bites a bio-researcher and turns him into hideous monster with an urge to kill . Its first victim is the guardian at the hospital he's working in . The guardians ' daughters are getting worried that their father haven't called them and they go to the hospital , where they meet their worst nightmare . " Metamorphosis : The Alien Factor " is a wonderfully cheesy trash loaded with gore and gross monster effects . It certainly better than " Dark Universe " , " Alien Predator " or " The Star Crystal " . The plot is silly and full of holes , but the monster creations and stop-motion visuals are of a quality well beyond what one usually finds in movies on this level and remain convincing and scary throughout . Check it out .
Pretty good thriller .	" Venom " is an enjoyable thriller directed by Piers Haggard ( " Satan's Skin " ) . A deadly black mamba snake threatens the denizens of an elegant townhouse . As long as the slithering creature is on the loose , no one is safe . . . The film has its share of surprises-some scenes are actually pretty nerve-wracking . The acting is exceptionally good with pretty familiar cast ( Klaus Kinski , Susan George , Nicol Williamson , Oliver Reed ) to boost . Highly recommended .
Mildly sensual vampire flick from Hammer .	" Lust for a Vampire " is the second in Hammer's Karnstein vampire trilogy . The other two were " The Vampire Lovers " and " Twins of Evil " . Carmilla Karnstein is revived in a black magic ceremony and enrolls into an exclusive girls ' school . Novelist Richard LeStrange is visiting the area in search of the truth behind the legends surrounding nearby Castle Karnstein and falls in love with Mircalla . " Lust for a Vampire " is definitely the weakest of the three films . It offers some moments of eroticism and Ralph Bates is excellent as the intensely creepy Barton . The story is thin , the film is cheap-looking and the pop song used in it ' Strange Love ' is glaringly awful . However if you enjoy watching bare female bodies give it a try . .
Not bad !	" The Dentist 2 " is almost as good as its predecessor . It is slickly made and features some truly grotesque scenes of dental torture . I agree that the scene when Corbin Bernsen tortures a woman is pretty vicious , but I wasn't offended or shocked . Even " Marathon Man " has more powerful torture scenes . Anyway I found this film entertaining and enjoyable , so it's a worthy addition to your horror collection . Recommended , if you like Brian Yuzna's stuff !
Very enjoyable gore flick with lots of humorous moments .	A group of friends on their way to a wedding get lost in the vast Midwest , and are forced to stop for the night in the quiet little town of Lovelock . The friendly innkeeper , Mr . Wise ( David Carradine ) , shows them their rooms then promptly drops dead the next day , forcing the group to stay in town during the investigation . But while the local sheriff does his work , a mysterious force sweeps the town , turning its residents into murderous zombies . " Dead and Breakfast " is a vastly entertaining zombie flick filled with amusing jokes and gore . The make-up effects are some of the best I have ever seen , especially when Erik Palladino is dancing around with a chainsaw grinding into his neck , or when the top half of a zombie's head is removed . The combination of humour , gore , and good old fashioned zombie horror gloss make " Dead & Breakfast " one of the finest horror films of 2004 . The cast is okay and the action is never dull . If you enjoyed " Evil Dead 2 " or " Braindead " give this film a chance . .
Watchable horror film , but nothing spectacular .	Jigsaw and his apprentice Amanda are dead . Now upon the news of Detective Kerry's murder , two seasoned FBI profilers Agent Strahm and Agent Perez arrive in the terrified community to assist the veteran Detective Hoffman in sifting through Jigsaw's latest grizzly remains and piecing together the puzzle . However when SWAT Commander Rigg is abducted and thrust into a game , the last officer untouched by Jigsaw has but ninety minutes to overcome a series of demented traps and save an old friend or face the deadly consequences . First of all I'm not a fan of " Saw " series . " Saw IV " in some ways is a lot easier to follow than part three and the film really works on many different levels , while going from past to present and from present to past whenever it pretty much chooses to . Unfortunately I found the final twist to be predictable and disappointing . Overall , this film should make " Saw " fans happy as the usual demented traps , the loads of blood and gore are still present . The autopsy of Jigsaw at the beginning is especially gruesome and memorable . .
Interesting and very disturbing documentary .	" Titicut Follies " by Frederick Wiseman is a deeply disturbing 1967 documentary film about the mistreatment of patients at Bridgewater State Hospital in Bridgewater , Massachusetts . The film's release was banned ( outside of the field of education ) in the United States from 1967-1992 by a Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruling that , since it was filmed in a hospital , it violated the patients ' rights to privacy . In 1992 , it was allowed to be shown on PBS . The film shows the systematic abuse and dehumanization of mentally ill patients : they are force-fed , beaten and left naked and raving in empty cells . The cinematography is grainy and the film is so real that it's certainly very difficult to watch . Give it a look , if you have a chance . .
A wall-to-wall Brazilian sleaze .	Sexy Brazilian women are lured to the Amazon with a promise of a high paying job as a tour guide . When they arrive , they are taken captive by a white slavery ring . One of the girls escapes during the orgy , but she is killed in the jungle . Meanwhile , the gals in the corral make their big break and escape into the jungle . " Amazon Jail " by Oswaldo De Oliviera is an absolute sleaze . The script is ridiculous , the acting is utterly bad , the characters are one-dimensional , but who cares . The film provides tons of full-frontal nudity and sleaze , so as a exploitation fan I wasn't disappointed . It is loaded with lesbian sex , showers , cat fights and naked women in the jungle . A must-see for fans of WIP flicks set in the jungle . .
He liked his women naked . . . and dead !	" Fantom Kiler " is definitely the most sexually violent giallo ever made . It makes " The New York Ripper " and " Giallo a Venezia " look tame . The plot is simple : A small town is plagued with a series of brutal slayings of young women . The bodies are found naked and savagely mutilated . A misogynistic serial killer ( Fantom Kiler ) is unstoppable ! The film is packed with the scenes of sexual violence , there's also plenty of sex and explicit nudity . Still the killings are very stylish and really sick-one victim is literally raped with the knife ! The acting is pretty bad , but the ladies are really sexy . However I don't think this film is Polish at all . I'm from Poland and I know Polish horror genre very well , but I've never heard about Roman Nowicki before . In fact this sleazy series ( yes , there are also " Fantom Kiler 2 " and " Fantom Kiler 3 " ) isn't even known in Poland . The funniest thing is that the Polish and Russian dialogue doesn't even match with English subtitles ( actually some Polish lines were clearly stolen from various Polish films like " Nic Smiesznego " or " Tato " ) . I'm fairly sure that this film was made in the UK and the credits are all pseudonyms-just like in " Last House on Dead End Street " . This is surely very mysterious ! All in all if you like erotic horror movies give this one a look . Recommended .
Worth watching for the gore . Spoilers	" Mangiati Vivi " aka " Eaten Alive " is a decent cannibal flick . Yes , it is also a big mess . You've got Stone Age cannibals , a Jim Jones-type cult , hired assassins and brutal animal butchery thrown on-screen every five minutes just to keep the viewer awake . As for the gore , one has to wait an inordinate amount of time for the crimson to really start flying , but the last half-hour has some truly revolting mayhem on display . One native has his penis cut off before being speared . A woman has her breast cut off then eaten ; another girl is completely dismembered . " Eaten Alive " is quite nasty at times , but it is a joke in comparison to " Cannibal Holocaust " or even " Make Them Die Slowly " . If you love Italian splatter cinema you won't be disappointed . Highly recommended .
Decent apocalyptic horror film .	James Van Der Beek plays Tom Russell , an ex-convict whose release from prison coincides with the awakening of teenagers all over the globe . Ten years before children were universally afflicted by a mysterious plague that has since kept them trapped in a coma . Now , upon rejoining the living , the teens possess strange powers and a thirst for blood . The slaughter of their parents begins . . . " Clive Barker's The Plague " was easily influenced by " Night of the Living Dead " , " The Fog " and " Who Can Kill a Child ? " . The acting is average , but there are some mildly exciting scenes of terror and a little bit of gore . The worst aspect of the film is definitely the climax , which left me confused . Still I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you are into apocalyptic horror cinema in the vein of " 28 Days Later " . .
Rather mediocre H . P . Lovecraft's anthology .	" Necronomicon " is an anthology of three stories based on the works of H . P . Lovecraft . Lovecraft himself is searching an old library for the fabled book Necronomicon , the Book of the Dead . As he copies stories from the book , which he finds guarded by monks , the tales are dramatized . The first segment " The Drowned " directed by Christophe Gans is excellent . It is actually one of the best examples at capturing the essence of Lovecraft on film . The special effects are impressive and the mansion looks creepy and foreboding . There is also an appearance by one of the Great Old Ones , so I was pleased . On the other hand " The Cold " is pretty weak . David Warner is great as a man whose experiments have left him afflicted with the inability to bear heat of any sort , unfortunately this segment is rather dull and filed with terrible dialogue . " Whispers " is very gory with some dismemberments and a butcher's shop of body parts . The underground catacombs look creepy and the monsters are quite horrifying too . The lady cop Sarah as played by Signy Coleman is the most hysterical and incredibly stupid policewoman ever captured on screen . She only screams and waves her pistol around . The story itself is terribly written , but if you like gore and violence you may even enjoy it . Overall " Necronomicon " is not bad , but if you want a proper and intelligent adaptation of Lovecraft's stories check out Ivan Zuccon's " The Shunned House " . .
Laughable zombie romp .	Dean Miller , a tv journalist is planning to make an interview with a very important scientist who is supposed to be landing at the airport . He notices an odd airplane preparing to land on the runway . Soon afterward the scientist steps off the plane , and along with the group of other zombies that were on the plane , promptly starts killing people . Umberto Lenzi's " Nightmare City " is a laughable zombie romp . The acting is pretty bad and the script is even worse . The zombies are really fast-they can carry weapons , drive cars and scheme to kill . Still there is plenty of gore and violence to satisfy fans of Italian horror . There is a breast mutilation , an eye piercing and plenty of exploding faces . So if you're looking for trashy Italian zombie films give this one a look .
Great arthouse drama .	Peter Greenaway is one of the most unique directors at work in cinematic arthouse today . He made several truly original movies like " The Falls " ( 1980 ) , " A Zed and Two Noughts " ( 1985 ) , " The Pillow Book " ( 1997 ) etc . " The Baby of Macon " is pretty demented with the scenes of cannibalism , incest , rape and gore . The film is difficult , challenging , brutal and darkly beautiful . A baby is born from a supposed virgin woman , so a chain of hysteria about divine intervention in the birth takes place . The scene when stunningly beautiful Julia Ormond is gang-raped is really hard to watch-it is not graphic , but her agonizing screams are quite convincing . Highly recommended if you want to see totally challenging piece of art .
Bruno Mattei's sleazefest !	Caesar Neron indulges himself in any known debauchery including incest with his mother when his Empire slowly declines . Bruno Mattei's " Nerone e Poppea " isn't as outrageous as Joe D'Amato's " Caligula-The Untold Story " , but still offers some delicious sleaze . There's plenty of nudity and some nicely filmed lesbian sequences to keep fans of Italian sleaze entertained . Rudy Adams is wonderfully over-the-top as a crazy Neron and Patricia Derek is one of the sexiest women ever ! There's even a castration scene and some rather nasty torture sequences . The film is long out of print , but you might run into it in a very old video store . A must-see for fans of sleaze !
Definitely the best horror film made by John A . Russo .	Nancy's father , who is a police officer , tries to rape her . She smashes him in the head with the phone and heads off to hitchhike to her sister's place . Nancy eventually gets in with a pair of regular guys heading down to Florida . They wind up in the wrong part of the woods and meet a group of devil worshipping Satanists intent on completing an Easter Day sacrifice . " Midnight " is a surprisingly bleak and disturbing horror film . It's obviously inspired by " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and Wes Craven's " The Hills Have Eyes " . The acting is bad and the score is awful , however there is enough violence and gritty atmosphere to satisfy fans of early 80's backwoods slasher flicks . There is a little bit of gore including decapitation and throat slashing , but nothing really impressive . .
Very fascinating and puzzling giallo .	Armando Crispino's " Autopsy " is a very fascinating and puzzling film , which both amuses , grosses out and confuses . This is surely one of the most complicated giallos ever made . After watching it , I'm still very confused about how everything fits together in the plot . " Autopsy " is not a horror film-I'd rather call it a giallo with some horror elements . There is plenty of sleaze and nudity , so fans of Italian exploitation should be pleased . The score by always reliable Ennio Morricone is excellent . The acting is very good with Mimsy Farmer ( " Camping del Terrore " , " The Black Cat " , " The Perfume of the Lady in Black " ) giving an outstanding performance as a forensic pathologist Simona . A must-see for fans of Italian giallos .
Pretty gross HK horror film .	Kay , a young woman , goes on vacation to South East Asia , which turns out to be a fatal mistake . She certainly wishes to be far far away when countless centipedes attack her . Kay lives through it , but not for long . In the hospital , her body is slowly decaying and she finally dies when the worms crawl out of her open wounds . Her brother Pak does research work and discovers that probably a ' centipede spell ' was cast upon his sister . Could this all have to do with a mysterious fire his grandfather was involved in fifty years ago , that caused the death of three people ? After finding out the truth , Pak and his girlfriend are in serious danger , when the centipedes attack once more . . . " Centipede Horror " is a gross HK horror film directed by Keith Li . The scene in which poor woman begins to vomit up centipedes is extremely disgusting . The special effects are pretty good and there is plenty of Asian weirdness . Check it out . .
Germany overrun by zombies .	Kusey and Amy , two lonely civilians try to survive in a world populated by zombies . They try to find a group of Rednecks to be safe , but the undead are everywhere . Together with Redneck Mike , they barricade themselves in an old house to fight the undead . . . but they didn't reckon with the apocalypse . " Noctem " is a fine addition to your collection of zombie flicks . It's competently made and absolutely downbeat . The most surprising are perhaps religious overtones as Amy reads passages from the Bible about the apocalypse and Judgment Day . There is also a sudden appearance of Jesus who heals the wounds on her wrists . The gore is quite extreme including some decapitations and lovingly sick scene of autistic kid torn in half . The film plays like a pretty bleak variation of George A . Romero's " Night of the Living Dead " . It's also more interesting than the recent works of Andreas Schnaas , Timo Rose or Olaf Ittenbach . .
Truly enjoyable WIP movie .	Bruno Mattei's " Violence in a Women's Prison " is an enjoyable exploitation film . Laura Gemser plays a reporter named Emanuelle , who is going under cover to investigate reports of brutality and abuse of the inmates . She is exposed to beatings , forced sexual encounters , being chewed on by rats etc . The film has plenty of nudity and violence , but there is not enough sleazy exploitation for my liking . Mattei's obscure " Nerone e Poppea " ( 1983 ) is certainly more nasty and gore laden . Still the cast is pretty familiar for fans of Italian horror with Laura Gemser , Gabriele Tinti , Lorraine de Selle , Carlo de Mejo and Franca Stoppi to boost . So if you like WIP movies you can't go wrong with this one . .
Quite unsettling horror film .	" My Little Eye " reminded me a little bit " Kolobos " , but it's not as memorable . Still this experimental horror film managed to terrify me and this is not an easy thing to achieve . Like Japanese nasty " Red Room " series " My Little Eye " is obviously influenced by reality TV programs . However , instead of being on commercial TV , this competition to see who stays in a creepy isolated house is broadcast only on the Internet . Five young people are members of the household and if they can all stay in the house for six months then they'll win $1 million . Soon they are thrown into the nightmare of snuff film . " My Little Eye " starts slowly , but once the action kicks in it is quite exciting and rather gruesome . There is a fair amount of gore including one nasty decapitation scene , so I was satisfied . The film was shot entirely by the surveillance cameras dotted around the house and from a few hidden lenses inside household objects . Give it a chance . .
Above average Gothic horror .	" Night of Dark Shadows " as a ghost story works very well . It's pretty atmospheric and suspenseful . The acting is decent and the location sets ( an old creepy castle , graveyard ) provide creepy atmosphere . Still I'd love to see director's cut which is 129 minutes long-it must be great ! All in all " Night of Dark Shadows " is not as good as Mario Bava's Gothic horror movies ( " Operazione Paura " , " Black Sunday " ) , but if you like scary tales check it out .
Surreal , bloody and bizarre Tsukamoto's mindtrip .	The premise of " Nightmare Detective " is very interesting : A Japanese detective investigates two mysterious and very bloody suicides , somehow connected as the two victims dialed " 0 " on their mobiles moments before their death . The detective comes to learn of a man who has the supposed ability to manipulate people's dreams and if the case is going to be solved the detective succumbs to the realization that she must dial the mysterious " 0 " herself . . . " Nightmare Detective " is the film about dreams , alternate realities and suicides in Japan . The viewer will be trapped in a myriad of dreams within dreams and alternating worlds . Too much shaky camera movements sometimes irritated me , but the visuals are splendid and the suicides are quite disturbing with lots of blood spilled . As a fan of Tsukamoto's unique visions I wasn't disappointed with " Nightmare Detective " .
Wonderful black comedy .	I saw " Jemima : Dating Is Murder " during Horror Fiesta Festival in Warsaw . After the séance I talked a little bit with Uisdean Murray , who kindly gave me a DVD with this one and " Jemima : Photographic Trophy " . Jemima is a beautiful girl who murders uncontrollably . Her victims are always young men with whom she dates . This sweet little short is actually very funny and interesting . It offers a little bit of gore ( the killing of Jemima's boyfriend at the beginning and the following dismemberment of his body etc . ) , so fans of red stuff will be pleased . The camera work is professional as is the editing . The main character played by Joy McAvoy is well-developed and quite lovely . So if you are in the mood for some macabre fun give this one a look . . I can't wait for the last part of the trilogy " Jemima : Sessions of the Mind " .
Interesting , yet confusing horror film .	When Trevor Blackburn awoke from a coma , he had no memory of his past . In search for answers , he breaks into the secret attic with another patient , as the others are being killed one by one . A darkly sinister doctor played by a horror regular Jeffrey Combs informed him that he'd been committed to a sanitarium for the criminally insane for the sacrificial murder of his fiancée . Thrown into a bizarre halfway house filled with strange psychos he plunges into a violent world of magic , nightmares , wild sexual escapades and torturous medical experiments . The above synopsis on the back of my tape sounded pretty good , so I finally decided to check this film out . " The Attic Expeditions " is a pretty unusual horror flick . It contains a decent amount of violence and nudity . The plot is interesting as it showcases plenty of unique twists and turns , but in the end becomes extremely confusing . .
Very shocking , but almost lyrical documentary .	" Blood of the Beasts " by Georges Franju is among the most horrifying documentaries I have ever seen . Its unflinching depiction of animal butchery will certainly upset many potential viewers . The film is set in a Parisian slaughterhouse . We see various butchers slaughtering horses , cows , calves and sheep . This film is very graphic without being exploitative , though-Franju simply documents the activities in a slaughterhouse circa 1949 . It's very well done-the images are strong , often disturbing-and the camera acts almost as a neutral observer , seeing all . This is a good film , but I only recommend it with a strong warning about its content . So if you are squeamish don't watch this short . .
Groovy blacksploitation classic .	In 1780 , African Prince Mamuwalde visits the castle of Count Dracula in Transylvania seeking his support in ending the slave trade . Dracula curses his noble guest , murders his wife and transforms Mamuwalde into a vampire , imprisoning him in a coffin to suffer the unending thirst of the damned . Released nearly two centuries later by a pair of homosexual interior decorators , Mamuwalde emerges as Blacula , a vampire with a strong urge to kill . On a nightly quest for human blood he meets and fells in love with Tina , the woman who reminds him his long time dead wife . . . " Blacula " is a campy and enjoyable horror flick . William Marshall is perfect as a lonely and sympathetic vampire Blacula . The acting is fine and there are some nice scares including slow-motion attack on Sam , the morgue attendant . Overall , " Blacula " is an ultimately satisfying blacksploitation flick that is surely destined to be a cult classic . .
Pretty effective adaptation of " Silent Hill " video game series .	In this rather faithful adaptation , mother Rose ( Radha Mitchell ) takes daughter Sharon ( Jodelle Ferland ) to the ghostly town of Silent Hill . It is a town with a daemonic past that harbors a dark secret at its burning core . After Sharon is captured by a fanatical cult , Rose must make a pact with evil to get her back . " Silent Hill " is a pretty good horror film that packs a few creepy moments and offers a nicely ambiguous conclusion . The town of Silent Hill looks very eerie and the periods of darkness are ominous . Visually " Silent Hill " is seriously great ; well-directed and with gruesome effects that resulted in some disturbing imagery . The environments and sets for Silent Hill itself are quite creepy and interesting , and true to the game . Unfortunately the characters are one-dimensional , the scares are almost completely absent and there is only a little bit of gore . Still the monsters look amazing and a couple of killings are truly gruesome . However the script by Roger Avary is rather mediocre and the dialogue becomes increasingly worse as the story goes on . Overall , " Silent Hill " is a vast improvement over such horrible adaptations of video games like " Doom " or " House of the Dead " , but as a fan of " Silent Hill " games I expected more . .
Pretty chilling .	" Sometimes They Come Back " by Tom McLoughlin ( " Friday the 13th Part 6-Jason Lives " , " One Dark Night " ) is an adaptation of the short story written by Stephen King . The plot is simple : a school teacher ( Tim Matheson ) is chased by the dead punks who killed his brother when he was a kid . The film is well-made and has some creepy moments . The direction is solid , the acting is pretty good , unfortunately I found climax to be the weakest part of the film . Still if you like horror movies give this one a look . Followed by two sequels !
Pretty sleazy Greek horror / mystery .	Jim Prestonreceives a yacht as an anniversary present from his wealthy wife Ellen . He plans to kill her for the entire fortune . To carry out the murder plan , he makes a contact with Mike , a crazed rape killer , who has been terrorizing the city . Mike agrees to be the assassin for the large quantity of heroin . However he suspects that Preston will kill him as soon as his assignment is complete , so he finds a woman who looks exactly like Ellen and kills her instead . . . " The Rape Killer " is an extremely obscure Greek horror / mystery that offers a healthy dose of nudity and sleaze . The acting is pretty good , the women are beautiful and there are some nice twists and turns . Greek exploitation films are very rare , so if you get a chance watch this one . .
Truly grim Cat III shocker based on an actual crime case .	" Human Pork Chop " is based on infamous HK crime case called ' Hello Kitty Murder ' . In 1999 three triad gangsters kidnapped , brutally tortured and beat a 23-year old woman named Fan Man-yee for one month until she died . Then they dismembered and cooked the body , threw most of it out with the trash , fed legs and arms to stray dogs and hid the skull inside the head of a giant-sized Hello Kitty doll . " Human Pork Chop " tells the story of a young woman , who steals money and can't repay her loan . She is captured , tortured and degraded by her pimp and his crew , then killed and dismembered . Anyway , this HK sickie is among the nastiest , most sadistic and repugnant examples of the Category III genre . This filthy film is downright unpleasant and deeply nihilistic , so be prepared . Pretty much everything here is ugly and rotten . Still " Human Pork Chop " is a rather successful portrayal of that infamous HK crime case . . Not for the easily offended .
Racist and politically incorrect rape and revenge film .	Three escaped convicts led by racist Jessie Lee Kane head across the state line in a stolen car . They conduct a convenience store robbery where they shoot the owner and take black woman Corrie Turner hostage . They drive to her place where they take the Turner family prisoner as they sit down to Sunday dinner . There the gang proceed to torture , rape and racially abuse the family . This blacksploitation version of " Last House on the Left " is worth checking out especially for insane William Sanderson's performance as Kane . His racial hatred and use of racial insults can be pretty hard to stomach for non-exploitation fans . The scene of a young boy , who has his head bashed in with a rock by Chinese criminal is also pretty brutal and disturbing . It's a shame that " Fight for Your Life " was the last film Robert A . Endelson would ever get to make .
Pretty gross Irish horror .	On an isolated , rundown farm on the Irish countryside , a farmer named Dan agrees to participate on a research project designed to increase bovine fertility and accelerate beef production on the recommendation of the town veterinarian , long-time friend and former lover Orla . But soon , despite extensive monitoring that seem to indicate a successful graft , the two begin to sense that the experiment has not gone completely according to plan and Orla is seemingly bitten by the unborn calf . Unable to contact Orla on the evening of the impending birth and unable to manage the task single-handedly , John summons a pair of runaway lovers squatting on the farm for help , a fateful connection that would unwittingly bind them to the mutated creature and the experimental farm . This tense and suitably gross horror film has won my heart . The atmosphere of the farm is dirty and grimy , the tension rises slowly and uncomfortably and there were a few scenes that actually made me cringe . .
Violent and exciting backwoods survival horror .	A father-and-son team of hunting guides take a group of city folk into the Arkansas woods , despite some warnings that people have been vanishing inexplicably . When they encounter a family of bloodthirsty , hostile and relentless killers , they become the hunted prey and must use all their skills and knowledge to make it out alive . " Hunter's Blood " is an exciting and bloody shocker that owes a lot to " Deliverance " and Canadian horror masterpiece " Rituals " . The acting is okay and the action is fast-paced . The stalking scenes are well-photographed and there is enough violence and gore to keep most of the horror fans entertained including vicious stabbings and shots in the face . I'm a big fan of backwoods horror flicks and I enjoyed " Hunter's Blood " very immensely . It's a crying shame that this criminally underrated horror film is so rare and tough to find . Give it a look . .
Roaches have never tasted flesh . . . until now .	The quiet town of North Port is being overrun by cockroaches ! Sheriff Tarbell ( Franc Luz ) believes that genetic experiments being conducted by the INTEC corporation are the cause . Confronted with the potential disaster , Mayor Johnson ( Robert Lansing ) calls for help . When Dr . Hubbard ( Terri Treas ) arrives , she quickly realizes that an innocent experiment has gone terribly wrong . Ordinary roaches are turning into creatures with a taste for blood . Worse , the roaches are genetically mutating . . . literally becoming whatever they eat . " The Nest " perfectly blends grisly gore with humour . The movie has its flaws and it's slightly predictable , but I enjoyed it . The acting is decent and the direction is well-handled . The gore is pretty strong and the special effects are excellent . So if you're a fan of 80's horror give it a look . Killer cockroaches chewing people up and lots of gore , what more can you ask ?
Very moody thriller .	Alex Winter's " Fever " is one of the creepiest independent thrillers I have ever seen . Nick Parker , a struggling young painter , is suffering a mental and physical breakdown . When a violent murder occurs in his apartment building , Nick begins to suspect that he may have committed the crime himself . From this event begins the downward spiral of paranoia and illness that ends in the horrifying climax . The film is extremely atmospheric as it looks almost like painting . The hallucinations of Nick are undeniably creepy . The photography by Joe DeSalvo is excellent and the production design adds a lot to the atmosphere . The film is pretty tough to find , but if you get a chance watch it . Highly recommended .
Great giallo .	Looking for a way to get rid of his wife Nora , a wealthy womanizer blackmails a murderer into eliminating her . The assassin follows the plan the two men devised and brutally strangles Nora while her husband is whooping it up at a party with friends . The killer dumps Nora's corpse into the trunk of his car and returns to the house to remove any fingerprints . Upon returning to his car he discovers it's gone , along with the body of Nora ! It appears that two youths have stolen the car for a joyride unknowingly setting off a chain of events that will make them the next target for the now . . . " The Killer Must Strike Again " is a particularly effective giallo filled with a healthy dose of sex and violence . The structure of the film is quite unusual : for example Cozzi inter-cuts scenes of a young couple making love in a car with that of the killer brutally raping a young woman . Give this sadly neglected giallo a look . .
Cold and disturbing .	Harumi Inoue plays Chihiro , an attractive young girl with a good job , a big apartment and a loving boyfriend . Unfortunately for her five years ago , while still in school , Chihiro was raped by three men , who videotaped their repulsive deed for profit . Poor girl was so traumatized by the incident that she did not report the crime to anyone , so the rapists got away free . She moved to Tokyo to start a better life . But just when Chihiro thought she had escaped the evils of her past , the rapists return one-by-one to disrupt her comfortable new life , each seeking a terrifying reunion with their favourite victim . Chihiro murders the rapists one by one , eventually storing their corpses in some freezers for safekeeping . " Freeze Me " is a horrifying Japanese rape and revenge thriller in the same vein of " I Spit on Your Grave " or " Last House on the Left " . The acting is excellent and the photography is truly beautiful . So if you are a fan of powerful Japanese cinema give this one a look . .
Pretty creepy and atmospheric .	On a wintery New Year's Eve two women ( Jenny and Chrissy ) and one man ( Marty ) embark on a short snowmobile excursion . When the snowmobile breaks down , they are forced to seek refuge in a deserted hotel . There they confront powerful evil forces . " Ghostkeeper " is a pretty creepy and atmospheric horror film which will keep you guessing until the end . The acting is solid and the atmosphere of fear and total isolation is well-captured . The locations sets ( snowy mountains and a mansion in the middle of nowhere ) provide some chills . Check it out if you are a horror fan . .
Funny and violent action / horror comedy .	This 68-minutes horror / action movie spoof is often regarded as the last film of legendary Brandon Lee . The star of " The Crow " and " Rapid Fire " has a small cameo in it as the man waiting in the line to the night club . It lasts only 15 seconds or so . Richard Holm simply asked Lee to make a cameo appearance in this film and he gladly agreed . On the other hand there is plenty of splatter and violent action in this low-budget gem . The film spoofs " DieHard " , " Alien " , " A Clockwork Orange " , " Darkman " , " The Little Mermaid " , " RoboCop " , " Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles " and finally Swedish exploitation classic " Thriller : A Cruel Picture " . There are aliens , whores , plenty of fighting plus a good amount of blood and gore . .
Pretty creepy Norwegian slasher .	It's midwinter . Five youngsters are heading for the Jotunheimen mountain area to go snowboarding . On the slope , one of them has a bad fall and breaks a leg . There is no sign of any other people around and their mobile phones are out of range . They catch sight of a mountain hotel in the distance and decide to find shelter there . The hotel lies emtpy and silent , obviously closed down years ago . The phone lines are dead and the youngsters realize they have to spend the night in the hotel . Unbeknownst for them there is somebody else in the building-somebody thirsty for their blood . . . Pretty eerie Norwegian slasher with truly creepy looking killer . The director Roar Uthaug manages to create few moments of suspense and terror . There is very little gore and the motivation of the killer is fairly silly , but if you want to be scared give " Cold Prey " a look .
Fascinating .	" Trouble Every Day " has to be one of the most surprising horror movies I have ever seen . Newlyweds Shane and June ( Vincent Gallo and Tricia Vessey ) arrive in Paris for their honeymoon , but Shane seems to have other motives for the trip . He leaves his wife and goes looking for someone named Leo ( Alex Descas ) . Leo has an apparent research subject and possible lover ( Beatrice Dalle ) locked up in his attic : Dalle is very dangerous because she has the unfortunate habit of luring young men to her bed and then killing them as she has sex with them . She bites their necks and smears their blood on herself ( for example in one truly unpleasant scene , she actually chews off one's face ) . The film is monotonous and slow-moving , so fans of Hollywood's horror tripe will be disappointed . Still it's a great piece of thought-provoking cinema so if you're a horror fan give this nasty little gem a look .
Along with " The Evil Dead " the first horror film I have seen .	A giant bloodthirsty razorback boar goes on a killing spree in the Australian outback , taking the life of an animal rights activist in the process . Her husband travels over from America to find out what happened to her , unaware that her killer was a monstrous pig . " Razorback " is a pretty entertaining killer pig flick that delivers plenty of violence and excitement . The film is well-photographed and nicely edited and the electronic score provide some chills . Unfortunately there is a minimal amount of gore on display , however the most effective pig attack sequences are the ones in which the razorback isn't even seen , where it's basically up to editing and sound effects to do the trick . When the razorback does make an appearance on screen , it looks pretty awful and unconvincing . Overall , this piggy horror flick has the special place in my heart , because it was one of the very first horror flicks I have seen as a kid . That's why I give it a pretty generous .
So-so horror film .	I saw this film under the title " Mad Jake " . It tells us the story about deranged farmer Jake and his two imbecile sons-they murder tourists for their organs , which are later sold to rich merchants . " Blood Salvage " is certainly twisted and grisly , and also very funny . The acting is decent , and there's short cameo by a famous boxer Evander Holyfield , who actually produced this one . " Blood Salvage " borrows from " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " ( 1974 ) and " Eaten Alive " ( 1976-for example huge alligator as a pet companion of Jake ) , but it is more slickly made than those two . Recommended , but definitely not for the squeamish . My rating : .
Pretty good , but not as memorable as the first two " Ginger Snaps " movies .	" Ginger Snaps Back " is the third film in the immensely popular and clever Canadian werewolf series . This time Ginger and Brigitte are traveling alone in the snow in the 1800's after their boat was sunk and their parents drowned . First they are befriended and warned by an old Indian woman . Then they are rescued by an Indian hunter and taken to a trading fort where the residents appear to be under siege . The siege comes from very dangerous werewolves in the region . These monsters have been killing off the fort's personnel . Brigitte and Ginger arrive fulfilling a prophesy about the Red and the Black ( their hair colors ) . They quickly come to learn what is going on but not before Ginger becomes infected and starts her own transformation . " Ginger Snaps Back " is an entertaining sequel filled with misty forests and Native American mysticism . The special effects are excellent , the acting is great and there is a fair amount of gore . The sets are highly atmospheric , haunting and sinister . Still this film is not as memorable as " Ginger Snaps " or " Ginger Snaps II : Unleashed " . However if you like werewolf horror films you won't be disappointed . .
Charming adaptation of three Edgar Allan Poe stories .	" Tales of Terror " is a splendid mix of humour and horror . The first story - " Morella " is rather creepy , albeit a little bit predictable , the second one - " The Black Cat " is my favourite-filled with black humour , and Peter Lorre is just amazing in the main role ! The third story - " The Facts in the Case of M . Valdemar " is quite good and it features Vincent Price as a zombie-woah ! To be fair all three stories contain English horror veteran Vincent Price . All in all I liked this one so choose it as your next horror film .
Pretty spooky South Korean horror .	" Red Eye " flashes forwards almost two decades ago to find new train attendant Mi Sun as she takes the last train of the day in a torrential downpour . Things seem normal at first , but suddenly the train begins to stop every ten minutes . Strangely , when the train resumes its course , everything inside has changed . In the late 80's a horrific train accident resulted in the death of a hundreds victims . The cause of the disaster was never determined and the case became unsolved . " Red Eye " by Kim Dong Bin is almost a typical haunted house flick . There's the strange noise and glimpses of something dark and horrifying , the passengers of the train get increasingly disturbed and those who wander off by themselves meet a gruesome end . The train setting provides some spooky moments and there is enough creepiness to satisfy fans of Asian horror . Give it a look . .
Stylish vampire flick .	" The Hunger " ( 1983 ) by Tony Scott is a stylish vampire flick filled with some wonderful visuals . The film is excellently acted-a stunningly beautiful Catherine Deneuve is truly memorable as Miriam-an ageless vampire and former Egyptian queen . There is plenty of blood and vampire lesbian sex , so everyone who is into horror films or Goth music should see this cult flick . The opening scene with Bauhaus playing " Bela Lugosi is Dead " is priceless !
Quite intense .	A young couple is attacked by two masked assailants in their darkness enshrouded home . The woman is almost drowned in the bathtub . The man has his throat stabbed with screwdriver and is slowly bleeding to death . They both try to survive their ordeal . . . Pretty intense and well-made horror short . I actually cared for the both characters and their fear and agony . " Cannon Fodder " is an obvious throwback to old school exploitation horror / thriller films of the 1970's and that's why I enjoyed it so immensely . Written and directed by Stephen Cirilly it was shortlisted for the BBC New Filmmakers Award in 2005 . Check it out-it's only 11 minutes long .
Pretty good slasher !	" Alone in the Dark " is one of the better horror movies of the 80's . Some homicidal maniacs break out of an asylum and terrorize a psychiatrist's family . The cast is good , especially Martin Landau and Jack Palance are really memorable . There is a fair amount of blood and gore as well . The film is really enjoyable , so if you like slasher movies you can't miss it ! My other recommendations from early 80's : " Just Before Dawn " , " Maniac " , " The Prowler " , " The Mutilator " , " The Final Terror " , " The Burning " etc .
An enjoyable film !	" The Face of Fu Manchu " is a surprisingly good horror / crime directed by Don Sharp ( " The Brides of Fu Manchu " , " Kiss of the Vampire " ) . Fu Manchu was created by British pulp writer Sax Rohmer . This Asian super-villain appeared on screen in early 30's-in " The Mysterious Dr . Fu Manchu " ( 1929 ) , " The Return of Fu Manchu " ( 1930 ) and in the excellent " The Mask of Fu Manchu " ( 1932 ) with Boris Karloff . " The Face of Fu Manchu " is the first and best in a series made by exploitation producer Harry Alan Towers . Christopher Lee is excellent as Fu Manchu-the film is stylish and nice to look at . The opening beheading of Lee is a really haunting moment . The other Fu Manchu movies are : " The Brides of Fu Manchu " ( 1966 ) , " The Vengeance of Fu Manchu " ( 1967 ) , " The Castle of Fu Manchu " ( 1969 ) and " The Blood of Fu Manchu " ( 1968 ) - the last two films were directed by Jesus Franco .
Disturbing , but not too shocking .	" In My Skin " is considered by many horror fans as the most disturbing film ever made . I really don't know why , because I have seen much more graphic scenes of self-mutilation in " Cutting Moments " and Japanese " Naked Blood " . It's still an excellent and deeply unsettling piece of horror . A young woman named Esther ( Marina de Van ) indulges in self-mutilation . She starts cutting herself and keeping pieces of her own flesh in her purse . However " In My Skin " refuses to explain Esther's behavior . At first we are led to believe that Esther cuts herself because she feels nothing else in her life , but I'm not really sure that this is the point . Anyway , the performance of the lead actress Marina de Van is excellent and the gore effects are quite good . So if you like transgressive cinema give it a look , but if you're easily offended don't watch it . .
Short and sweet !	" Carmilla " is an adaptation of a short story written by Sheridan Le Fanu . The film is really pleasant to watch with noteworthy performances by Ione Skye and Meg Tilly . It's atmospheric and strangely sensual with plenty of spooky locations . Highly recommended especially if you're into very subtle horror cinema . My rating : !
Vastly entertaining horror comedy about deadly yogurt .	The Stuff is a sweet-tasting white yogurt which is discovered bubbling out of a hole in the ground by a factory worker . It tastes delicious and is soon packaged as a dessert heavily promoted and becomes a nation-wide sensation . Nobody seems to know quite what the ingredients are and it has the unfortunate quality of turning consumers into Stuff-addicted zombies . A little boy named Jason sees The Stuff moving and soon learns of its nefarious effects by observing his blissed-out family , while industrial spy Mo Rutherford sees it in action . " The Stuff " is a gorgeous horror satire and it mixes horror , comedy and action . The special effects by Ed French and David Allen are cool and the acting is great . Highly recommended .
Funny slasher flick .	This completely obscure slasher flick is pretty good . It's funny , violent and easy to follow . The acting ranks from acceptable to downright awful , and this Tarzan-like killer is really stupid looking . The plot : A killer is preying on tourists in new opened Memorial Valley . Don't let the plot outline fool you : he uses axe only one time in the whole film . The characters are likable ( gotta love especially those two moronic heavy metal fans ! ) and there's no happy ending here . Much more tamer than previous horror film by Robert C . Hughes " Hunter's Blood " , " Memorial Valley Massacre " is still worth a look . Check it out , if you can find the copy . .
Surreal Japanese porno fantasy .	" Captured for Sex " is a surreal Japanese porno fantasy that is also known under the title of " Daydream 2 " . A young woman visits the dentist's office . After she is given anesthesia she starts having sexual hallucinations in which she is molested and sexually tortured . " Daydream 2 " is a remake of Tetsuji Takechi's " Daydream " ( 1981 ) , which is often regarded as the first Japanese pornographic film . The film offers plenty of explicit sex and even a little bit of bondage . The plot is minimal as it contains some sequences that become increasingly bizarre and surreal . " Daydream 2 " stars Kyoko Aizome-Japan's first porn-movie superstar in the same category as Linda Lovelace and Jenna Jameson . A must-see for fans of pinku / ero-gro movies .
Surreal mixture of pinku , pornography and vampire horror .	" Daydream " is a structureless succession of bizarre and erotic set-pieces revolving around a series of fantasies in a dentist's waiting room . A young woman named Chieko begins hallucinating whilst sitting on the dentist's chair . Her hallucinations involve dental surgeon , who molests and sexually abuses the woman . She is subjected to lengthy bondage session by the dentist , then she is pursued naked by him through a shopping mall and so on . The uncut Dutch version of " Daydream " contains several explicit scenes of pornography including a very long sequence of Kyoko Aizome being fingered by the dental surgeon . The commercial success of the film resulted in making " Daydream 2 " aka " Captured for Sex " in 1987 .
Extremely cruel , vicious and sadistic Japanese torture movie .	" Shogun's Sadism " is a truly shocking drama / horror in which a number of bizarre and merciless methods of torture are carried out under the law of the Tokugawa Shogunate in a most realistic way . The story centers on an antagonism between a magistrate who finds sadistic pleasure in using all kinds of ruthless torture to sadistically torment Christians and a guard named Sasaki who despises such means . Yet in between all the the excessive violence , " Oxen Split Torturing " also features a tragic love story between Sasaki and a woman called Toyo , suspected of being a Christian . The second story takes place in a brothel , where works Sutezo as a cleaner / handyman . He decides to flee with a young prostitute named Sato . Unfortunately they are caught by the local magistrate and the nightmarish session of torture begins . . . " Shogun's Sadism " is an extremely brutal film loaded with shocking torture scenes and lots of sexual violence . We see women thrown into big vats of snakes , raped and , as in the title , ripped apart by oxen who each have a rope attached to one of the woman's limbs , tearing her apart when they run away from her . So if you liked Teruo Ishii's infamous " The Joy of Torture " series you can't go wrong with this sadistic spectacle . . Not for the squeamish or easily offended !
Pretty creepy and effective South Korean horror .	Wu Young-min , a former policeman who inadvertently brought about the death of his partner during a face off with a criminal , has quit the police force and now heads up security at Dreamapia Department Store as an employee of the security company SecuZone . Having been caught up in the situation at the department store Wu comes across his former rival and co-worker Ha Hyun-su , who now heads the investigation into the recent murders linked with mirrors . A mysterious woman Lee Ji-hyun is found lingering about the crime scenes . Without wishing it , Wu is drawn into the creepy mystery surrounding the murders . " Into the Mirror " is a creepy South Korean horror with some striking visuals . There is very little gore , fortunately the aura of distinctive mood is clearly visible . The acting is great and the climax totally creeped me out . All in all if you are a fan of recent slew of Asian horror give this one a look . .
Pretty good shocker .	Ovidio G . Assontis " Madhouse " is a pretty good shocker which offers plenty of mood and bloody violence . This obscure little gem appeared on the infamous ' video nasties ' list , but personally I don't know why . The film features some really gruesome moments , but nothing too shocking or memorable . The killings are actually pretty tame , but the power-drill scene is quite nasty . The finale is very gory and should satisfy fans of splatter . The score by Riz Ortolani of " Cannibal Holocaust " fame is decent as it provides some chills . The film is pretty tough to find , but if you like Italian horror give it a look . .
Ursula Andress + cannibal mayhem .	Susan ( Ursula Andress ) Stevenson's ethnologist husband has gone missing during an expedition in New Guinea . Susan goes after him with her brother Arthur enlisting his friend Edward Foster ( Stacy Keach ) as a guide . The missing man was last seen headed for a " cursed " mountain on an island . The trip there is fraught with peril from animals and natives as well as the prospect of betrayal by members of the search party with ulterior motives . Finally at the mountain the remaining members of the expedition must cope with a Stone Age cannibal tribe . " Mountain of the Cannibal God " is not as harrowing and disturbing as Deodato's " Cannibal Holocaust " or " Jungle Holocaust " . There are some strong gore scenes and brutal animal butchery including iguana slaying , unfortunately with relatively no cannibals in sight until the climax . Still there's a really nice decapitation , a guy who gets all cut up in some kind of cannibal mantrap , a native who gets devoured by an alligator and even a bestiality scene . It's great to see Ursula Andress ravishing body in the finale . .
Truly sick and repellent Belgian art-house zoophilia film .	A farmer ( Dominique Garny ) who may be the last man on earth , loves and makes love to a huge sow-pig . When the sow gives birth , he takes the piglets from her to keep her from eating them , and knits cute little infant things for them . When the piglets abandon him for their mother , he executes them by hanging , and the sow shows the first distress she has shown for the whole film . " Wedding Trough " , more commonly known as " The Pig Fuking Movie " is certainly one of the sickest films ever made . It's loaded with scenes of implied bestiality , coprophagia and insanity , so fans of unrelentingly grim , experimental transgressions will be satisfied . The action is set on a secluded rural farm and the film is completely devoid of dialogue . Still despite its truly repellent subject matter the action is slow , but the scenes of the farmer sodomizing his swine or eating his own excrement are sick as hell . Give it a look , only if you are into extreme cinema . .
Atmospheric slasher with crazy Evelyn killing her guests .	Evelyn has recently completed a three year stint in a psychiatric facility . She returns home to her quiet life as proprietor of the Mountaintop Motel . After she kills her occult-dabbling daughter Evelyn completely loses her sanity . Just around the time of Evelyn's breakdown a bad rain storm hits the area and the motel gets a whole bunch of patrons , including an alcoholic preacher , a wise old carpenter , a newly married couple and a businessman posing as a record executive , accompanied by two nubile co-eds . Unbeknownst to the motel guests , an underground tunnel allows Evelyn to access all of the motel's rooms through trap-doors in the floors and she engages in mischief such as placing rattlesnakes , roaches and rats in the guests ' rooms . Pretty creepy and slow-moving slasher with some sickle murders and suitably eerie moments . There is also a nice supernatural angle of the dead daughter walking around the property . Overall , this one differs from the other slasher flicks as we know who the killer is from the beginning .
Fun and sleazy Paul Naschy's black comedy .	Paul Marnac , the offspring of Alaric de Marnac ( of " Horror Rises from the Tomb aka El Espanto surge de la tumba " , 1973 ) takes his ill wife Genevieve on a vacation . Marnac family's manor hides an terrible history beneath and after awhile it seems that something evil has risen from the past . At the same time young woman Julie is going to have an affair with Paul . It looks like either a cruel plot against innocent Genevieve or something evil and unnatural . This mix of horror , sleaze and black comedy works for me . There is a little bit of gore and a decent amount of fill-frontal nudity , so my grimy exploitation heart was satisfied . Simple but stylish camera work combined with vivid colours is very close to 60's era of Hammer Films ' classics . But like Naschy in his lead role , the whole film contains fun and foolish camp tone in it and therefore cannot be taken seriously . .
Decent British mystery / slasher .	Performers auditioning for a British " Grand Guignol " show are murdered in mysterious ways in this deranged horror directed by Pete Walker ( " Frightmare " , " Schizo " , " House of Whipcord " ) . The film is pretty creepy and offers a nice amount of sleaze . There are decapitations , drownings , psychotic elderly tramps , naked women and some gruesome killings . The cinematography is pretty gloomy and the location sets are suitably eerie . A must-see if you're a fan of British horror !
Excellent Italian giallo !	A black gloved sex killer is on the loose , slaughtering women in Vienna . The American ambassador's wife ( Edwige Fenech ) begins to believe that he's targeting her when she receives a blackmail call and two of her friends get slashed . " Lo Strano Vizio della Signora Wardh " aka " Blade of the Ripper " is an interesting Italian giallo with plenty of suspense and some gruesome killings . The score by Nora Orlandi is truly beautiful and there are some interesting visuals . There is also plenty of sleaze and nudity to satisfy fans of Italian cult cinema . Check it out . My rating : .
Obscure Italian occult giallo gem .	Mark is a blind boy living with his sister Christine in Venice . During a funeral Mark has another in a series of recent visions of a man with a cane , only this time the man is with a woman and a dog that is eating a decayed arm . Christine is openly unsympathetic to these visions and resents having to look after her brother . Mark and Christine are orphans and are staying with their grandmother , but when grandmother is killed in a bizarre fire accident their mother's family , the mysterious Winters become their guardians and Mark and Christine go to stay at their house . " Damned in Venice " is a neglected gem . It offers some genuine shocks and a nice amount of female nudity . The Venetain location sets are gloomy , decayed and oppressive and there is a bit of gore including pretty nasty scene of child murder . It's great to see Lorraine DeSelle and Olga Karlatos of " Zombi 2 " fame in the small roles . .
Very colourful and experimental horror parody .	Oh man , " Hausu " is an extremely weird and grotesque horror parody . It is also supremely stylish and visually mindblowing . The plot of " House " is quite easy to describe : seven schoolgirls travel to visit grandmother at her spooky old house . It's not clear whose grandmother she is , as every character in the movie is referred to by a nickname and they all call the old woman Ojii . The house turns out to be a demon that wants to eat them and grandmother is apparently a cat . Words can't describe how positively bizarre this movie is . It plays like the cross between " Suspiria " and " Beetlejuice " . There are plenty scenes of kitschy humour plus some scares for example when one of the girls tries to sneak the watermelon out , she finds a human head down the well instead . One girl is even eaten by a piano in a very gory fashion and the dead victim's fingers are still playing the piano after being bitten off . .
Another violent Japanese pinku eiga flick .	A sexually frustrated office worker hit his boss in the night club . The next day he is told to be demoted to a different position in the company . He gets so disturbed and thus begins his rape rampage-he rapes a number of hard-to-get ladies in his company . Surprisingly the ladies are stimulated by his assault and finally help him in getting promoted . Yukihiro Sawada's " Flesh Target " is one of the countless pink rape flicks produced by Nikkatsu . The rape scenes are brutal and there are tons of sleaze for fans of Japanese exploitation to enjoy . The acting is fine and the cinematography is great . Overall , I liked this film and you should too , if you are into pinku eiga genre . Fans of " Beautiful Girl Hunter " or Yasuharu Hasebe's politically incorrect rape flicks should give it a try .
Castle of lesbians .	A dull road trip across France takes an unexpected turn when two sexy ladies Anna and Francoise stop in a creepy country village . They go into an abandoned barn where they have lesbian intercourse . When Anna disappears the next day her lover is scared . With the help of little hunchback Francoise soon finds her way to a mysterious castle ruled by spiritual vampire Morgana Le Fay and filled with ageless lesbians . " Girl Slaves of Morgana Le Fay " is an erotic fairy tale with soft-core scenes of lesbian sex and a little bit of silken bondage . The girls are sexy enough and the location sets including lovely castle near the lake provide plenty of splendid Gothic mood . . Another fine DVD release from Pete Tombs and Mondo Macabro .
Vastly entertaining horror comedy .	" Killer Klowns from Outer Space " ( 1988 ) by Stephen Chiodo is a horror movie so ridiculous that it's hard to dislike it . What makes it work so well is that it successfully toys with our expectations . Some people just hate clowns , and this movie exaggerates everything that makes them scary . The plot involves some really creepy aliens who look like clowns . They have come to our planet to turn people into food . The clowns capture their victims in cocoons made of cotton candy , their guns look like colorful toy pistols , their pies are acidic , their popcorns turn into snake-like creatures and their ship is a circus tent . Anyway , this crazy film is extremely entertaining . The make-up is beyond grotesque and the clowns look very creepy . The film received a cult status many years ago and it's easy to see why . So if you are a fan of twisted and bizarre horror films give this one a chance . .
Great horror film with lovely Joanna Pacula .	Black magic , possession and bizarre deaths turn a normal family's life into a non-stop nightmare . The terror begins in the Belgian Congo , as an unsuspecting young girl named Felice boards a train for what will become a strange , supernatural voyage . Twenty-five years later , Felice , a sensuous fashion model , suddenly appears in New York to visit her teenage niece . Although Amy is excited to meet her aunt , the arrival of this mysterious relative strangely coincides with a gruesome series of violent deaths . " The Kiss " by Pen Densham is a pretty decent horror flick . The acting is surprisingly good , the killings are creative and quite gruesome and the climax is reasonably effective , albeit a little bit goofy . Polish horror queen Joanna Pacula appears nude and looks incredibly hot . So if you like horror films with a sprinkle of eroticism give this one a look . .
A psychedelic exploitation .	Linda Westinghouse ( Ewa Stromberg ) travels to a small island in Turkey to help Countess Nadine Carody ( beautiful Soledad Miranda ) complete an inheritance from Dracula's . The Countess turns out to be someone appearing in her dreams . But the Countess is a vampire and seduces Linda and drinks her blood . " Las Vampiras " / " Vampyros Lesbos " is really a soft-core lesbian take on " Dracula " . The film is filled with hallucinatory atmosphere and sensuality , so fans of violent exploitation may be disappointed . Jesus Franco plays a creepy hotel worker who likes to take women down into the basement . The soundtrack is pretty groovy-I liked it a lot . Overall , " Vampyros Lesbos " is a masterpiece and a must-see for fans of sleazy horror .
Pretty creepy .	" And Soon the Darkness " is a slow-moving , but still surprisingly spooky horror film about a pair of women bicycling through rural France who run into a vicious rape-killer . Most of the movie is set on a sunny road , but the settings provide a claustrophobic atmosphere . The acting is okay , and Robert Fuest ( " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " ) directs with a sure hand . It's nice to see also horror regular Sandor Eles in the cast . . Recommended .
Interesting philosophical chiller .	George and Kim are traveling with their young son Miles to a remote cabin in upstate New York when their car hits a deer and swerves into a ditch . But what seems to be a mere occurrence of misfortune marks the beginning of a terrifying journey , where myth becomes reality and a flesh-eating spirit , half animal and half man Wendigo , haunts a small town . . . " Wendigo " by Larry Fessenden is a thought-provoking horror film that often tenderfoot's into a somber family drama . The acting is great , the characters are well-developed and there are some bone-chilling moments . The subtle glimpses of Wendigo are handled effectively and it's never clear what is real and what is imagined , or even if the story is taking place entirely in Miles ' head . Overall , " Wendigo " is my first contact with Larry Fessenden's work and surely won't be the last . Give this film a chance , if you don't mind watching something unconventional . .
More sleaze to please from Jesus Franco .	Being a fan of tasteless " Ilsa " series and Jesus Franco's sleazy filth I always wanted to see " Greta : The Mad Butcher " . Thankfully I just bought uncut DVD of this film and wasn't disappointed . The film , in which starred Dyanne Thorne , was later repackaged as an Ilsa movie and there was in plans a fourth official film under the title " Ilsa Meets Bruce Lee in the Devil's Triangle " , unfortunately it never got made . Thorne plays Greta del Pino , who runs correction centre for women somewhere in the jungles of South America . Women are tortured and degraded for her sadistic pleasure . However one of the inmates Abby leads the prisoners to revolt . . . " Greta : The Mad Butcher " is a sleazy and depraved exploitation pick that contains tons of full-frontal nudity and sleaze . A must-see for anyone into WIP cinema .
Effectively unsettling adaptation of Jack Ketchum's novel .	" The Lost " is basically a character study of a hot-headed loser named Ray Pye who gets away with the double murder in the prologue , then goes about his life filled with sex and drugs for nearly two hours of screen time before erupting into a homicidal orgy of violence for the final act . Ray puts crushed beer cans in his shoes to make himself look taller . As if this were not enough , a later scene underlines Ray's essential wimpiness when he converses with a convicted felon at a drug party . The most intriguing fact is that beautiful girls find him attractive as they fell for his bad boy charm . Ketchum drew the character of Ray Pye from the real-life figure of convicted serial killer Charles Schmid , who killed three girls , all in their early teens and buried their bodies in the desert . Marc Senter is very believable as Ray and the climax is bloody and disturbing . .
A perfect example of crazy Eurosleaze .	" Bestiality " was directed by Peter Skerl and co-written by infamous George Eastman of " Anthropohagus " and " Porno Holocaust " fame . This ultra-sleazy Italian thriller is about a young girl , who saw her mother having sex with the family dog . When the woman's husband returns home and sees this , he chains the dog to the house and sets it on fire . Years later this event turns little girl into a total nymphomaniac , who enjoys screwing various guests , who visit the island , where she lives with her dog . " Bestiality " is a totally sleazy and politically incorrect film that shouldn't disappoint fans of Italian smut . Tons of sex and nudity with a little bit of zoophilia thrown in plus a surprisingly bloody and off-beat climax . The scene of woman having sex with her black dog is obviously simulated , but the idea of such behavior left me speechless . So if you are a fan of trashy and sleazy Italian exploitation you can't go wrong with " Bestialita " . .
Perhaps my favourite killer ape flick .	A young Elizabeth Shue plays Jane Chase , an American student studying at the London Institute of Sciences , who accepts a holiday job as housekeeper for anthropology professor Steven Philip at his house on the remote Cornish coast . Steven has three trained chimpanzees named Link , Voodoo and Imp . When professor mysteriously vanishes Jane is left alone in the house with Link whose behaviour has become increasingly more menacing . " Link " is a surprisingly effective killer ape flick . It offers some great shocks and the monkey Link looks very sinister . The score by Jerry Goldsmith is splendid . Unfortunately the explanation of Link's murderous behaviour is not particularly clear . Director Richard Franklin has also made " Patrick " , " Road Games " and " Psycho II " . .
Very dark and violent film .	Matthew Hopkins was a self-proclaimed Witchfinder who started his ghastly career in 1644 in Essex , England . In a three year career he is estimated to have killed between 200 to 400 " witches " . Michael Reeves " Matthew Hopkins : Witchfinder General " is based on his success as a prosecutor of witches . Vincent Price is excellent as Matthew Hopkins in this British cult classic . He is cold-blooded and incredibly cruel . The torture scenes are all brutal and unnerving to watch and there is a lot of screaming in this movie . The film is beautifully made and interesting , so anyone who likes British horror won't be disappointed . Highly recommended-especially in pair with " Mark of the Devil " ( 1970 ) .
Great horror film .	" Dead End " is actually one of the best horror movies of 2003 . It's Christmas Eve and Frank Harrington and his family are heading to the in-laws , when for the first time in twenty years he decides to take a short-cut through the woods . What a mistake this turns out to be , as he drives onto a seemingly endless road , and into a creepy land where nothing is what it appears to be . " Dead End " is a truly intelligent and downright horrifying horror film . It offers some incredibly unnerving moments , unfortunately there is too much humour for my liking . There is also a fair amount of blood and gore , so I was satisfied . Anyway , if you are a fan of creepy low-budget horror films give this little gem a look . .
Very good South Korean horror .	Hyun-min is an expert at reconstructing faces of people from their skulls . His daughter undergoes a heart transplant and as her condition deteriorates , he quits his job to care of his daughter full time . Meanwhile , the police are dealing with a series of ghastly killings , where the victims have had all their flesh dissolved away with acid , leaving only the bones behind . A beautiful woman Sun-young shows up at his door with the skull of the fourth victim , hoping that he'll be able to reconstruct the face . Suddenly Hyun-min starts to see a creepy ghost of a young woman in a white robe . " Face " is a creepy South Korean horror film with some effective scares . The story is actually totally captivating and there is enough twists to keep the viewer interested . There is a little bit of grisly gore and the acting is top-notch . " Face " is not as good as " A Tale of Two Sisters " or " Tell Me Something " , but it's still better than most of American crap being churned out today . Give it a look . .
Very creepy horror film .	Kevin Tenney's " Night of the Demons " is an enjoyable horror film that reminds me a little bit " The Evil Dead " . On Hallowen night , a group of teens throws a party in Hull House , an abandoned funeral home on the outskirts of town . Lead by Angela , they perform a seance-like ceremony and accidentally awaken the evil spirits that inhabit the place . One by one , the uninvited evil force possesses the teens , turning them into bloodthirsty demons . " Night of the Demons " is a perfect horror film . It is scary , gory and pretty atmospheric . The characters are well-developed and the gore by Steve Johnson is pretty good . There is a gruesome impaling , a tongue being bitten off , fingers shoved into eye-sockets , etc . The scene , where Suzanne ( Linnea Quigley ) shoves a tube of lipstick through her nipple is a hoot . Give this one a look . Followed by two sequels .
Perhaps the best and most graphic adaptation of Erzebet Bathory's legend .	The aging Countess Erzebet Bathory discovers that the blood of a young maid can temporarily restore her youth and magnificent beauty . She becomes a female predator and is compelled to kill again and again to maintain her attractiveness and prevent the secret getting out . I must say that I enjoyed Jorge Grau's " Ceremonia Sangrienta " more than Peter Sasdy's " Countess Dracula " . This chilling Spanish horror film is much more grimmer and disturbing . The violence and gore is kept to minimum , but the atmosphere of dread and unease is well-developed . The acting is splendid and the climax is especially memorable . The Spanish DVD of " Ceremonia Sangrienta " runs 85 minutes and is heavily cut , however the picture quality is pretty remarkable .
A beautiful film .	Jorg Buttgereit's " Nekromantik " is one of the most taboo-breaking horror films ever made . Very few movies talk openly about necrophilia ( " Aftermath " , " Kissed " , " Buio Omega " , " Lucker " , " Love Me Deadly " , " Nekro " , " Mosquito the Rapist " ) , however this subject is quite fascinating because it draws links between sex and death . Rob ( Daktari Lorenz ) cleans different places and removes the corpses whenever there was a murder , or an accident . One day , Rob's girlfriend ( Beatrice M . ) has an idea to steal a corpse and to play with it . The corpse is treated like the third person and all of them make a perverted threesome . But one day Rob is fired from his work and his girlfriend dumps him , and leaves with the dead lover . For Rob it's a beginning of complete madness . . . " Nekromantik " is pretty gross-there is plenty of yucky gore on display . The ending is truly sick and memorable . So if you like extreme cinema give this one a look . .
I'm the Crimson Executioner !	A former actor named Travis Anderson lives in a castle with only his two bodyguards in tight white pants to keep him company . It just so happens that a book publisher and his crew sneak in to take some photos , thinking the castle empty . When they are discovered they are asked to leave immediately . But then Travis recognizes one of the girls as his former girlfriend Edith . He relents and lets them all stay the night . It isn't long before the evil spirit of a former resident known as ' The Crimson Executioner ' is released by accident . It possesses Travis , who then takes it upon himself to punish his unwelcome guests for their physical and spiritual imperfections . Surprisingly sleazy and completely bonkers Italian horror film with some fairly sadistic scenes of torture plus a bit of homoeroticism and narcissism thrown in . The plot is extremely silly and Mickey Hargitay's over-the-top performance as the Crimson Executioner simply defies description . " Mankind is made up of inferior creatures , spiritually and physically deformed , who have corrupted the harmony of my perfect body ! " . Hell yeah !
Great , exciting thriller .	" Deliverance " is one of the most influential movies of all time . So many movies were influenced by it-for example " Hunter's Blood " ( 1987 ) , " Just Before Dawn " ( 1981 ) , " Southern Comfort " ( 1981 ) , " Dominion " ( 1995 ) and many others , but of course none of them compare to the original . " Deliverance " is exciting , well-acted and features excellent banjo / guitar musical score . The characters are well-developed and the contrast between rich and poor is well-captured . Check it out ! The homosexual rape scene is pretty unpleasant though !
Not bad !	" B . Monkey " is the perfect example of a romantic thriller ! Asia Argento plays Beatrice / B . Monkey-the thief who wants to quit with her profession . She loves Alan ( Jared Harris ) , a teacher of small children . The film is really enjoyable and very well-acted-Asia Argento , a daughter of famous Italian horror maestro Dario Argento is really talented ! She provides also some great nude scenes ! The violence is kept to minimum , but there's a lot of cursing ! - worth checking out , especially if you're a fan of Asia Argento !
An enjoyable early 80's HK possession flick .	An insane man is shot dead by two cops , Kung and Hsiao , after he refused to listen to them and tried to kill a woman . After that , the two cops have to deal with the ghosts and Hsiao's girlfriend is haunted as well . . . " Possessed " by David Lai is an enjoyable HK possession flick . The film is not as intense and gruesome as " Flesh and the Bloody Terror " or " Calamity of Snakes " , but the skinning sequence is quite nasty and memorable . Throw in also some unwarranted sex scenes , ghostly rape and a requisite battling back against the spirits and you got yourself a fairly good time despite . " Possessed " is available separately or bundled together with the sequel , unfortunately the regarded " Possessed II " is quite heavily cut compared to other Hong Kong video versions . .
Gruesome and grotesque cannibal flick .	Gary Sherman's " Death Line " deals with a series of disappearances in the London subways . Short-tempered inspector Donald Pleasence investigates , finding the cannibalistic survivor of a 19th century cave-in noshing on unsuspecting passengers . Norman Rossington is his sidekick and Christopher Lee shows up as a nasty M . I . 5 man . " Death Line " offers some gruesome images of cannibalized corpses and a healthy dose of blood . The dank charnel-house production design adds chills to what is basically a rather leisurely police procedural and Pleasence is hilarious at times . The most interesting aspect is that " Death Line " was obviously the main source of inspiration for Christopher Smith's successful horror film " Creep " . Overall , " Raw Meat " is not as chillingly effective and gruesome as " Dead and Buried " , but fans of British horror should give it a look .
Gritty , savage and violent HK thriller .	Propane gas shop owner Cheung ( Kent Cheng ) lives a happy life until the day he finds his wife ( Lily Lee ) having sex with one of his workers . He simply walks away and goes out to get drunk at a city bar . In his drunken state he accidentally enlists a Vietnamese gang to murder his wife , an event that is just the beginning of a downward spiral into hell . Without enough money to pay for the fulfilled task , he takes refuge to the Mainland where he hopes a gang will help him solve the conflict between him and the Vietnamese . Amongst that Mainland gang is Ching Fung ( Simon Yam from " Dr . Lamb " ) who is about to make Cheung's life an even bigger living hell . . . " Run and Kill " is one hell of a dark and violent film . The execution of a small daughter of Fatty , which involves lots of rope and gasoline is among the most sadistic child murders I have ever seen on screen . Simon Yam is simply amazing as a merciless psychopath as is Kent Cheng . Overall , " Run and Kill " is a classic of HK Cat . III cinema . You can't go wrong with this brutal and evil film . .
Pretty effective psychological chiller .	An expedition team led by Choe Do-hyung marches on toward the Antarctic Point of Inaccessibility , one of the most difficult places to reach on the planet Earth and trodden upon only once by a Soviet team in 1958 . Min-jae , formally trained in mountain climbing at Switzerland and in awe of the charismatic Do-hyung , is joined by the bookish navigator Young-min , the rather thuggish but sharp communications expert Seong-hoon , the genial cook Geun-chan and the electronics specialist Jae-kyung . When Min-jae discovers an old journal left by a British expedition 80 years ago , he begins to notice odd parallels between the journal entries and his team's experience . " Antarctic Journal " is an impressive horror film that slightly resembles " R-Point " and " The Thing " . There are some genuinely unnerving moments and Kenji Kawai's score evokes the utterly cold and relentless atmosphere of Antarctica . Unfortunately the film leaves a lot of questions unanswered . Still it gets a solid from this viewer .
An enjoyable slice of HK Cat III sleaze .	Simon Yam of " Run and Kill " and " Dr . Lamb " fame plays mentally disturbed security specialist named Fred . He's obsessed with beautiful news reporter Kitty Wong and stalks her constantly . He even sleeps with a mannequin that he dresses up to resemble her . " Can't Stop My Crazy Love for You " is a pretty average Cat III flick which offers some shocks and disturbing moments . Yam is surprisingly amusing as a psychotic stalker . The film is not as graphic as the other HK shockers like " Red to Kill " or " Daughter of Darkness " , however it contains a few moments of absolute sleaze . You should add this movie without any hesitation to your lovely collection of exploitative filth . .
Nasty slasher with some amusing moments .	Buddy Cooper's " The Mutilator " is just another decent slasher film . Of course the acting is completely awful and the film is extremely predictable and unoriginal , but the gore effects made by Mark Shostrom are excellent . There is a bloody decapitation , a pretty good pitch forking and death by chainsaw . The scene where the girl is impaled with a huge fish hook through the crotch is pretty nasty and gruesome , but not particularly explicit . Overall , I enjoyed " The Mutilator " and you should too , if you like gory slasher films . My rating : . Check it out .
Truly dark and eerie HK horror obviously inspired by the work of Lucio Fulci .	Tom Lau Moon-tong directs this grim horror film about playboy photographer Mo Hsien-sheng , who while on a shoot steals a grotesque statue from an abandoned temple . That night , he gets drunk with model Shu Ya and the two wind up in the sack , passed out . In the middle of the night , a creature emerges from the statue and rapes the sleeping model . When she wakes up the following morning , she has no memory of the encounter . Later , when she learns that she is pregnant , she has Mo , who has since shacked up with another woman , take her to the abortion clinic . Yet when the procedure is about to take place , the fetus leaps out of the womb and slays the doctor and nurse . Months later , just before Shu Ya is about to give birth , she's killed in a horrible car accident . During the ensuing autopsy , the fetus again leaps out of the womb and runs for the hills . Meanwhile , Mo learns that the statue contains the ashes of a baby whose father killed it in an unlikely cure for asthma . " The Rape After " is loaded with plenty of dark and creepy atmosphere of impending doom . It reminds me a little bit " The Beyond " and " City of the Living Dead " . The zombies are Fulciesque and the autopsy of the charred corpse of a pregnant Shu Ya will surely give some of you nightmares . Not a great deal of gore , but fans of bizarre HK horror films should be pleased . .
Pretty good , but not as masterful as many people claim .	The story of " El Orfanato " begins with a family moving into an old orphanage with the intent of opening their own place for kids . As soon as they get there , their HIV + adopted son starts seeing " imaginary " friends . Then one day Simon goes missing and the parents don't know what to do , which starts a downward spiral for the wife . . . Very well-made ghost story that offers its share of creepiness . The ghost children are not particularly spooky or threatening and the film feels rather tame for a rated-R flick . The plot is also pretty predictable and influenced by Del Toro's " The Devil's Backbone " and Argento's " Suspiria " , " Deep Red " and " Phenomena " . Still the direction is splendid and the acting is believable . However if you claim that " El Orfanato " is the creepiest horror flick ever made you are clearly delusional .
A marginally better entry than the first " Subway Serial Rape " flick .	Shuji Kataoka's fourth part series " Subway Serial Rape " emphasizes rape of a young girls assaulted on a subway while passengers ignore their screams . " Lover Hunting " is the last part of this sleazy series and it tells the story of a woman gang-raped by four thugs on the subway . A TV news program tries to increase ratings by exposing this crime , unfortunately the female newscaster finds herself the next victim of subway serial rape . I enjoyed this film more than the first " Subway Serial Rape " . The two gang-rape scenes are surprisingly nasty and there is also plenty of hot sex on display . The film is a little bit less sleazy than its 1985's predecessor , though . Give it a look , if you are an aficionado of extreme cinema .
Nowhere nearly as powerful as the book , but still watchable .	A group of four college graduates are enjoying an exotic vacation in Mexico . When another traveler , German named Mathias , approaches Amy , Stacy , Jeff and Eric with a proposal to head into the jungle in search on an archaeological site where his brother has disappeared , they agree to go with him . Big mistake . Once there they quickly find themselves cornered in by tribesmen unwilling to let them leave alive . Unlucky for them the main danger is growing on Mayan temple . The vines are thirsty for human blood . . . Scott Smith adapts his own gruesome novel , but why he decided to change extremely pessimistic ending of the book is beyond me . Still the film is watchable and surprisingly bleak . It spills plenty of blood and gore and its characters are believable and care for each other . Of course they do some stupid things like exploring dark corners or descending through deep holes in search of a phone . Overall , " The Ruins " is a fine piece of survival horror that is much better than most of the crap being put out today .
A slow-moving but creepy South Korean horror .	" Acacia " stars Hye-jin Shim and Jin-guen Kim as a married couple unable to conceive a child . The husband is a doctor and the wife spends her time judging student art and knitting . Things change when the couple adopts six year old Jin-seong , a mysterious boy obsessed with drawing pictures of an acacia tree that he believes is the reincarnation of his dead mother . Soon the wife becomes pregnant and Jin-seong becomes more unhappy . On one rainy night he disappears mysteriously . . . " Acacia " is a slow-moving horror film with plenty of creepy atmosphere . It's a psychologically spooky little horror flick with a supremely dark score . The film delivers a few unexpected surprises and is wonderfully shot and photographed , so if you are a fan of Asian horror you can't miss it . .
Very stylish Spanish shocker .	" Cannibal Man " by Eloy de la Iglesia is a notorious Spanish shocker about slaughterhouse worker named Marcos . He works in a canning plant attached to the local slaughterhouse . One night , he kills a taxi driver in self defense and then strangles his girlfriend , the only witness to the crime . Desperate with fear , he murders several other people . " Cannibal Man " is a slow-paced Spanish shocker that contains some graphic gore . The film is also extremely stylish and the atmosphere of decay and frustration is simply overwhelming . It certainly gained some notoriety as a former video nasty in the UK , but it's nowhere nearly as explicit as for example Lucio Fulci's gorefests . However the most interesting fact is that Eloy de la Iglesia was one of the major directors to push Spanish censorship boundaries with this film and a number of powerful gay-oriented films like " El Diputado " or " Los Placeres Ocultos " . So if you are a fan of Spanish horror give it a try . .
Vastly entertaining pinku flick .	Ran Masaki plays a beautiful teacher who is transferred to a remote mountain school where she is gang-raped and abused by the male students . She is also turned into sex slave and subjected to sexual torture by bondage freaks . Masahito Segawa's " Beautiful Teacher in Torture Hell " is not as nasty as its lurid title suggests . Of course there is plenty of rape and sado-sexual violence , but the film never reaches the level of nastiness of " Captured for Sex 2 " or " All Women Are Whores " . The plot is interesting and offers some surprises and the acting is decent . All in all , if you are pinku eiga completist you can't miss it-just don't expect something totally depraved or disturbing . .
Very bizarre and surprisingly sleazy thriller .	Fernando Rey stars as Ivano , a wheelchair bound man with some strange perversions . He gets his sexual kicks by spying on Arturo , their tenant in the apartment next-door and forcing his sexy accomplice Olga to watch as well . To increase his perverse thrill , Ivano persuades Olga to seduce Arturo and to have sex him as he watches . Unfortunately for all involved , the sex game starts to get very deadly as it is learned that Arturo is a psychotic serial killer . " The Eye Behind the Wall " is a bizarre and very sleazy sexual thriller . Sadly writer / director Giuliano Petrelli never made another film after this . It actually reminded me Alfred Hitchock's masterpiece " Rear Window " . The film is atmospheric and features a good amount of nudity and sleaze . Check it out . .
Pretty good horror film .	The puritanical magistrate Edward Whitman puts the followers of the witch Oona to the death , although he deliberately spares her . She swears vengeance for this and calls up a manifestation of the Banshee in the guise of the young , handsome Roderick . He charms his way into Whitman's family and starts killing them off , as though to all appearances by a horrific demon . " Cry of the Banshee " is an underrated AIP effort that features plenty of nasty violence and gratuitous nudity . Director Gordon Hessler manages to create several genuinely spooky moments , so fans of atmospheric British horror won't be disappointed . Once again Vincent Price is amazing as a truly evil Lord Edward Whitman . The film is pretty obscure , but if you get the chance watch it . .
Great S & M torture flick .	Koyu Ohara , who directed hilarious nunsploitation flick " Wet and Rope " and shocking " Zoom Up : Rape Site " , made also this softcore torture film . Naomi Tani and Rei Okamoto play victims of the Japanese military's World War II Inquisition division , the Kempe . Sadistic Judge Murayama ( Hirokazu Inoue ) captures both and brings them to his private torture chamber for some sado-sexual humiliation . " Fairy in a Cage " is a stylish S & M oriented pink with plenty of sleaze and depraved Sadean atmosphere to boost . The direction by Koyu Ohara is crisp and the acting is great . " Fairy in a Cage " was followed one year later by slightly inferior and less interesting " Rope Hell " . Recommended .
Great horror film about The Blood Countess Erzebet Bathory .	" Countess Dracula " concerns itself with the mysterious events that slowly unfold around the time of the ascension of the witch-like Countess Elisabeth ( Ingrid Pitt ) , a corrupt and mysterious woman who discovers that by bathing in the blood of virgins , she can restore some of her former beauty . Attempting to not only reap the more favorable parts of her husband's will , but also marry the young Lt . Toth ( Sandor Eles ) , she manipulates the love-struck Captain Dobi ( Nigel Green ) into doing her dirty work . " Countess Dracula " by Peter Sasdy deals with Erzebet Bathory who bathed in the blood of young virgins to maintain her vitality . The film is well-directed and superbly acted and offers a little bit of nudity . Ingrit Pitt is excellent and she brings a lot of mystery to the role of the near-dead , rotting Countess who discovers the sanguine curative powers of life liquid . Give this Hammer classic a look . .
Great horror film .	Guddu Dhanoa's " Hawa " clearly takes an inspiration from " The Enity " ( 1981 ) and " Poltergeist " ( 1982 ) . The cinematography is excellent and the film is well-directed and acted . Tabu who has just taken a divorce returns to her bungalow in Manali . With her are her two daughters , a dog and her brother ( Imran Khan ) . Soon Tabu , her dog and brother begin to see an invisible spirit . The dog disappears and he returns only dead . The spirit falls for Tabu and rapes her . She meets a doctor ( Shabhaz Khan ) who doesn't believe that she is molested by an invisible spirit . Tabu is raped repeatedly . She desperately tries to find the truth about her invisible assailant . " Hawa " is a good piece of Hindi horror . The rape scenes are not graphic , but they are actually a bit disturbing . The film is creepy , so fans of Hindi horror won't be disappointed . Highly recommended . .
Brutal and harrowing war drama .	" Black Sun : The Nanking Massacre " is another harrowing piece of horror / war drama directed skillfully by Tun Fei Mou , the creator of two disturbing masterpieces " Man Behind the Sun " and " Lost Souls " . The film stays soundly rooted in the retelling of events that took place in 1937-specifically , those actions that took place in the Chinese city of Nanking , where a planned massacre was ferociously and flippantly facilitated by the invading Japanese . The stock footage of Nanking massacre and actual killings is genuinely disturbing and not for the easily offended . The scene where a pregnant woman has her unborn baby torn from her stomach and skewered on the end of a Japanese soldier's bayonet is absolutely revolting . The sequence of the bodies being burned on the riverbank is truly powerful-the sight of these enormous flames racing across an entire landscape of dead people is especially hard to forget . The film is well-made and acted , and the photography is simply stunning . Watch this one in pair with Mou's " Man Behind the Sun " - just avoid two Godfrey Ho's films " Man Behind the Sun 2 : Laboratory of the Devil " and " Man Behind the Sun 3 : Narrow Escape " . .
Great horror comedy !	" Serial Mom " is a wonderful black comedy about perfect housewife turned serial killer . The mom is played perfectly by Kathleen Turner in one of the best performances of her career . Matthew Lillard is very memorable as a young horror freak . There is a bit of gore and some scenes are rather tasteless , so some people may be offended . The short clips from " Blood Feast " , " Strait-Jacket " and " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " are also a nice touch . Highly recommended , especially if you like John Waters movies .
Pretty good horror film .	It's late afternoon on the Arizona desert as workers unearth an Indian body . Dr . Kay Foster ( Julie Amato ) , the director of anthropology at a local university supervises the dig . She finds the remains of an ancient Indian warlord known as Nahaluh . That sinister night an Indian scavenger , Aranjo ( Henry Bal ) creeps into the excavation and steals an Indian medicine bag . That's where the horror begins . Peter F . Buffa's " The Ghost Dance " is a bloody supernatural slasher flick with a nice Indian angle . The acting is surprisingly good and there is some suspense and gore , including throat slashing and spear impaling . The film is extremely obscure , so grab the copy and treasure it . Highly recommended . .
A wonderfully bizarre piece of art .	" Naked Lunch " is loosely based on William S . Burroughs novel of the same name . The film is excellently acted and filled with some truly bizarre characters : writers , drug addicts , mysterious strangers and homoerotic bugs . During 1950's in New York City bug exterminator ( Peter Weller ) gets introduced to injecting bug powder into himself by his wife Judy Davis . He gets addicted and starts hallucinating . He sees giant bugs which start controlling his life , as he sinks lower and lower . The bugs are well-created , especially the typewriter bug . The film features some excellent special effects , so if you like to see something different check out " Naked Lunch " . A must-see !
Pretty bleak Japanese drama about mental anguish .	" Raigyo " tells the story of an emotionally disturbed woman who meets amoral guy whose wife is just about to give birth . The man and woman have sex in a love hotel and after sexual intercourse he is murdered . The survivor goes on to meet a man still grief-stricken over the murder of his child-and this encounter will also conclude in yet another death . Surprisingly bleak and depressing little film that deals with such themes like mental distress and alienation . The script is fantastic and there is very little sex and nudity , thus it's hard to classify Zeze's film as pinku eiga . Still if you enjoy watching powerful Japanese cinema you can't miss it . .
Great bondage pinku .	" Image of a Bound Girl " by Masaru Konuma is about a professor named Keisuke who meets a suicidal girl and subjects her to shibari bondage and sexual abuse . Their relationship quickly become more and more intimate . The wife of professor tries to stop sadomasochistic love of these two souls and as a reward is also subjected to harsh S & M training . . . Hell yeah , I just love such Japanese pinku eiga flicks like Konuma's " Image of a Bound Girl " . The plot is intelligent and easy to follow , the sleaze is heavy including sexual torture and humiliation and the acting is fine . Masaru Konuma directed also an unquestionable classic of bondage pinku " Wife to Be Sacrificed " and two installments of nasty " Woman in a Box " series . .
Excellent horror film .	Rob Schmidt's " Wrong Turn " is a wonderful homage to " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " and " The Hills Have Eyes " and all backwoods thrillers from " Deliverance " to " Southern Comfort " . And it's quite grisly and gory , too ! There are some gruesome murder scenes and a great atmosphere . Best of all , it's not as self conscious as many crappy horror films that came after " Scream " . A highway traffic jam sends medical student Chris Finn ( Desmond Harrington ) onto the back roads of West Virginia in search of a shortcut . Soon he's stranded in the woods with five other people , all potential victims of mutated mountain cannibals . The acting is decent and there are some moments of genuine suspense like a treetop chase scene . In my opinion , " Wrong Turn " is the wet dream of a 70's horror fan . Highly recommended .
Violent and exciting survival thriller .	A group of National Guardsmen led by Hardin ( Powers Boothe ) and Spencer ( Keith Carradine ) get on the bad side of swamp-dwelling Cajuns while conducting maneuvers in the bayou . Bloodshed ensues . Hardin and Spencer must then go on the run through the Louisiana swamps if they're to survive . This violent and exciting survival thriller owes a lot to John Boorman's fantastic " Deliverance " . Walter Hill does a fine job of showing how an area as large as a bayou can be claustrophobic and the ultra-intense finale shows some top-notch editing . The acting is great and the script raises some serious questions about the behaviour of man . " Southern Comfort " can also be seen as an allegorical treatment of the Vietnam conflict . . A must-see !
Shocking and disturbing with heavy psychological context .	The depraved plot of " Snuff 102 " is easy to follow : three girls are kidnapped and subjected to sadistic torture and murder by a masked Snuff Maniac . One of them is pregnant . She is tied to a chair , beaten , her fingers are cut off , she is knocked to the ground and finally the killer stomps her head , stomps her pregnant belly then rapes her with a large knife . During this shocking sequence Mariano Peralta was beaten and injured by the angry viewers of Mar Der Plata Festival . " Snuff 102 " has also two shocking scenes of animal cruelty involving monkey and butchered pig . They are nasty and disturbing . The acting is fairly convincing and the atmosphere of total evil is well-captured . However the film asks several uncompromising questions about the evil side of a man . Give it a look , if you can stomach it . .
An enjoyable trash !	" The Outing " is a typical horror film from 80's filled with cheese and gore . The acting is pretty bad and the evil genie looks horrible . Still there are some good death scenes-a boy is cut in half and another is impaled with a giant spear . The gore is well-done and the film is fast-paced and highly enjoyable . Overall I liked this one so if you are a horror fan give this one a look . Recommended !
Extreme sadism from Japan .	" Red Room " series is clearly inspired by the reality TV craze . Four people are locked in a large ' red room ' with a jail cell like structure in one corner . They play a card game ( consisting of four cards only ) where it appears the winner of each game gets to choose which two players enter the cage and what they do with / to each other in the time allowed . . . " Red Room " has the production values of a porn film and indeed it looks to have been produced ( or at least distributed ) by some Adult Video company . The film is filled with scenes of extreme sadism , humiliation , gore , sexual violence and cruelty for example one guy is made to screw one of the ladies with a lightbulb and gets a little mad , shoving it too far inside her and shattering it . She passes out from the excruciating pain whilst pissing a river of blood across the floor . . . So if you are seeking an alternative to the " Guinea Pig " series give " Red Room " a look . The sequel is even nastier and sicker , so be prepared .
Tense , exciting and occasionally gory horror thriller .	The story of " P2 " is fairly simple : a businesswoman named Angela is trapped in an underground parking garage with a crazed parking deck security guard . He abducts Angela , changes her clothes , puts lipstick on her and chains her to a table so she'll share Christmas dinner with him and his dog Rocky . After particularly brutal murder of her co-worker Tom the girl manages to escape . Tom is insistent and wants to be Angela's friend . Angela just wants to escape from the psycho . The bloody battle of wills begin . . . Pretty exciting and occasionally very gory film with Wes Bentley as almost constantly talking psycho . Rachel Nichols is more believable . There are some truly intense scenes of violence and stalking , but you've see all the elements of " P2 " before for example check out two early 90's thrillers " Trapped " and " Lower Level " - they are pretty similar to " P2 " . .
Great anthology of British horror !	" From Beyond the Grave " is a typical horror anthology from Amicus . It's not very scary or frightening , but it still manages to raise a few chills and a few thrills . Cushing's performance as a creepy shopkeeper is simply fantastic . All the stories are intelligent , well-written and seriously memorable stuff-my favourite is the first one with David Warner , who buys an antique mirror . Anyway the mirror is haunted and demands blood , so Warner brings home a couple of women and proceeds to stab them to death ! Eventually the spirit behind the mirror is released , and changes places with hapless Warner . To sum up , if you like British horror give this one a look . .
Good suspense thriller .	I enjoyed this film as a mystery / thriller . It's excellently acted and very well directed . Audrey Hepburn is really convincing as a blind woman and I love Alan Arkin's performance as a cold-blooded killer . The ending is a real rollercoaster of thrills and suspense . So if you like this genre check out this atmospheric mystery / thriller .
Sleazy slasher .	" Sorority House Massacre II " is actually one of my favourite low-budget slasher flicks . It is extremely dumb , but it offers plenty of gore and nudity , so I wasn't disappointed . Five pretty girls buy a creepy old house which was the scene of brutal massacre some years earlier and decide to turn it into their sorority house . Soon they encounter their weird neighbour , Orville Ketchum , who tells them that he was the one who found the bodies . They also mess with a ouija board and the slaughter begins . . . " Sorority House Massacre II " is a much better film than the dreary original . The gore is plentiful and the girls look incredibly hot in their sexy nighties . Gail Harris is pretty memorable as the leader of the sorority house and Peter Spellos is wonderful as the fat , creepy neighbour from hell . Overall , I enjoyed this film and you should too if you like sleazy slasher films . Give it a look . .
Truly atmospheric .	" Nosferatu a Venezia " ( 1986 , Augusto Caminito ) is one of the better vampire movies I have seen . Klaus Kinski is truly memorable as Nosferatu , the prince of darkness and Barbara De Rossi is hauntingly beautiful . The film is very atmospheric and has an excellent orchestral score by Luigi Ceccarelli . Set in Venice during the carnival it provides plenty of eerie atmosphere . Highly recommended , especially if you're into vampiric horror movies !
Pretty effective British shocker .	Franka Potente plays Kate-a flirtatious young woman who finds herself locked in the London subway system after hours . After a sleazy colleague-who followed her in-is brutally murdered right in front of her , Kate must escape the clutches of a mysterious flesh eating creature that seems determined to kill anyone in its path . " Creep " is not original-in fact its premise is clearly lifted from the 1972 horror film " Deathline " . Both of them are based around the bloody exploits of a deformed cannibal killer who lurks in the shadowy abyss of the London underground transport system . Still Christopher Smith's grisly debut offers some effective shocks plus plenty of grue . The location sets are creepy and the film has a genuinely claustrophobic feel that gets under your skin . Give this grisly horror flick a chance . .
Great study of deadly obsession !	" Don't Go in the House " is an obscure early 80's horror film that seems to be forgotten by many horror fans . The film is well-made and slickly directed by Joseph Ellison , a talented musician and a screenwriter . Donny Kohler is a tormented young man . His mother tortured him by holding his bare arms over a gas burning stove . He grows up to be a psycho who delights in burning young women with a flamethrower inside his steel paneled bedroom crematorium . The film is filled with truly sick atmosphere and there is one of the most sadistic burning killings ever captured on screen . The underlying theme of child abuse is also taboo-breaking . " Don't Go in the House " is often trashed by some politically correct people-still it beats most of the crap being put out today . Highly recommended .
Great British horror film .	Peter Cushing stars as the evil Baron Frankenstein who , driven out of his homeland of Bohemia , has set up shop in an English boarding house , where he blackmails the lovely Miss Spengler , who has inherited proprietorship of the establishment from her ailing mother , and Miss Spengler's dashing young fiancé Carl into helping him with his diabolical experiments . Through Frankenstein's great good planning or great good fortune , Carl is a doctor employed at the mental hospital in which resides the infamous Dr . Brandt , Frankenstein's one time research associate and the very man Frankenstein came to England to see , now a hopeless madman . With Carl's help , Frankenstein plans to abduct Dr . Brandt and cure his insanity . . . " Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed " by Terence Fisher is brilliantly directed film . The script by Ben Batt is truly intelligent and Freddie Jones's creature is the most interestingly complex and well played of all the Hammer's Frankenstein monsters-indeed it is the only one to come anywhere near Mary Shelley's novel and her conception of an intelligent and literate creation come to taunt its creator for the condition inflicted on it . Give this one a look . .
Dark and depressing zombie flick .	" The Dead Pit " is one of the most depressing horror films I have ever seen . They don't show even a single moment of humour during the movie . Just gloom , darkness , pain , depression and gory violence ! " The Dead Pit " is very creepy and atmospheric , but simply unenjoyable for some horror fans . The acting is pretty good and believable , the zombies look terrific and the gore is well-one ( for example there's brain eating , eyeball violence etc . ) So if you're a real zombie fanatic , then enjoy this morbid movie !
Gorier and nastier sequel .	" Wrong Turn 2 : Dead End " provides a really amusing way for our latest victims to end up in trouble . They're the contestants on a Survivor-style reality series . Because our six contestants and a few poor producers are actually tramping around the lair of mutant inbred cannibals . . . This tongue-in-cheek horror flick is nastier than the original , but the violence is more cartoonish . " Wrong Turn " by Rob Schmidt was quite serious , in " Wrong Turn 2 " the gore flows more freely . Henry Rollins is fun to watch as the tough survivalist who kicks some cannibal ass . The pace is fast , the characters are well-developed and the mutants look ugly . Give it a whirl . .
Excellent documentary .	" Mau Mau Sex Sex " is an excellent documentary about Dan Sonney and David F . Friedman who made exploitation movies . Sonney and Friedman teamed up on countless nudies-nudist camp movies that were ultimate in sex movies in 1960's . Later they started making roughies like " The Defilers " . The splatter classic " Blood Feast " is also presented here with its memorable tongue ripping scene but curiously without any credit given to director Herschell Gordon Lewis . A must-see if you're into exploitation cinema !
A fine killer croc flick .	The film takes place in the Australian outback and follows an American journalist Pete , who joins a group of tourists on a boat tour of the Australian outback . The tour guide is the charismatic Kate and is joined by about a dozen tourists . As the tour is nearly over , the boat is rammed by a huge sour water crocodile and the group is left deserted on a small muddy island with the shore quickly rising . The group has to work quickly to get to safety before they are left in the water with the attack-prone crocodile . " Rogue " is an entertaining killer crocodile flick with some effective jolts of suspense . Thankfully McLean chooses to show as little of the crocodile as possible through the first three acts of his script . The finale which shows crocodile in its gruesome entirety is the best part of the film . The only thing that disappointed me is the lack of gore . .
Gory jungle shocker .	A special forces Sergeant named Wilson is sent into the Viet Nam jungle to find and hunt down an army of bloodthirsty cannibals headed by a demented war criminal . " Cannibal Mercenary " is one hell of a brutal and gory flick . The acting is quite convincing and the film offers plenty of war images including numerous shoot-outs and explosions . The actor who plays a broken anti-hero Wilson is especially good . The camera work is awesome and the gore is absolutely brutal . For example there are decapitations , throat slashings , castrations and lots of ultra-violent torture on display . The scene where one man is buried up to his neck and his unprotected head is cracked open with hammer and chisel has to be seen to be believed . Overall , " Cannibal Mercenary " is a very nasty Thai exploitation flick that should especially satisfy fans of Italian cannibal flicks . If you are not easily offended , give this gruesome shocker a look . .
Very enjoyable , but highly derivative South Korean horror .	Se-jin Oh ( So-young Ko ) , a lonely , single career woman who hasn't much of a social life . One day , while walking home from work Se-jin encounters a creepy woman in red who throws herself in front of an oncoming train ? while trying to drag Se-jin along with her . She survives , but the ghost of the woman come back to haunt her . It seems that people are dying in the apartment complex across from Se-jin's , all of the deaths coming precisely at 9 : 56 p . m . Admittedly " 9 : 56 " is highly derivative . It borrows heavily from " Ringu " , " A Tale of Two Sisters " and " Phone " and references Hitchcockian " Rear Window " many times . Fortunately the underlying theme of the film is surprisingly dark as it revolves around the physical and emotional abuse of beautiful crippled girl ( Hie-jin Jang ) . The film is impressive to look at and offers a few genuine scares . Oh , and Korean actresses are jaw-droppingly gorgeous . I'd love to visit South Korea one day . ; )
Passable , quite exciting thriller .	" Stalked " is pretty good . Of course it's nothing really special-you have seen it all before . However " Stalked " is a pleasant surprise : a low budget thriller that's well-acted , well-directed , and-above all is pretty scary . Jay Underwood is rather convincing as a lonely psycho , and Maryam D'Abo is also pretty good . The only drawback is a crappy ending , which ruins otherwise solid film . .
Another perversely entertaining Japanese nunsploitation flick .	After being brutally raped , Mikki attempts to commit suicide . A friendly priest talks her out of it and she decides to become a nun . Once inside the convent , she becomes again a victim of sexual abuse . " Wet and Rope " by Koyu Ohara is a truly fantastic piece of sleaze . It's not as beautiful and visually stunning as Norifumi Suzuki's exploitation classic " School of the Holy Beast " , but certainly offers everything a nunsploitation fan could want-beautiful and often nude women , a perverse priest , a nunnery full of lesbians and wickedly deviant finale . The acting is pretty good and the main actress Yuki Nokihara has a great body and beautiful eyes . A must-see for fans of nunsploitation sub-genre or exploitation cinema in general . . Highly recommended .
Gory and entertaining horror flick about murderous slugs .	Juan Piquer Simon's " Slugs " is a surprisingly gross horror film based on the book by Shaun Hutson . The action takes place in a small town in upstate New York , where some citizens are killed by tons of mutant flesh-eating slugs . The gore is nasty and quite excessive , particularly a memorable scene in which two nude lovers are literally ripped to bloody bits in a bedroom full of slimy horrors . Fans of gross-out cinema will still want to give it a try for a tasteless scene in which a restaurant patron's eye blows out , revealing swarming baby slugs . The special effects are gruesome , the acting is fine and the plot is easy to follow . " Slugs " is campy enough to be fun and one of my guilty pleasures . Check it out .
Great trash movie ! ! !	Atrocious acting , nonsensical script , very low production values : all these elements can be found in Alvin Rakoff's " Death Ship " . So why am I not going to trash this little movie ? It's simple , I really like this film for those very reasons . It is everything low-budget horror movie should be , yet still manages to tell its story and generate a considerable amount of unease and dread . A cruise ship is destroyed by another ship ( the Death Ship ) , killing most of the crew . The few survivors of the crash , who include the captain ( George Kennedy from " Creepshow 2 " or " Just Before Dawn " ) , a family of four and some others , decide that it would be a good idea to board the same ship that crashed their cruise ship . The death ship then starts killing its new victims . Despite so many bad comments " Death Ship " is still watchable . It has some really creepy scenes and memorable moments . Yes , the film doesn't make very much sense , but that's not what director Alvin Rakoff intended . Instead he puts together nightmarish sequences surrounded by an eerie sounds . You have to be a real horror fan to fully appreciate " Death Ship " . Check this one out , it's pretty good . Highly recommended .
Wonderful Japanese nunsploitation flick .	When a young woman named Maya ( Yumi Takigawa ) decides to investigate her mother's death by entering a convent school , she discovers a horrific den of pleasure and sadomasochistic activities . Encounters with a randy archbishop and a lesbian mother superior lead to episodes of torture , which include the poor girl being bound topless by thorny vines and beaten with long-stemmed roses . Norifumi Suzuki's " School of the Holy Beast " is a chock full of sleaze , violence and blasphemy . Still the film is visually stunning and the use of colors is execellent . The script pulls no punches in criticizing the hypocrisy of the Catholic church . The story is interesting , the nudity is expicit and there is plenty of symbolism . Overall , I enjoyed this film very much and you should too , if you are a fan of sleazy nunsploitation sub-genre . .
Fun with metacleaver !	In this blood-drenched gore-soaked slasher a group of businessmen try to buy an abandoned slaughterhouse owned by Lester Bacon ( Don Barrett ) and his son Buddy ( Joe Barton ) who enjoys playing with filthy pigs and butchering people with meatcleaver . After a radio station promo prompts curious college students out to visit the abandoned facility , Lester and Buddy proceed to dispatch victims , who end up on meat hooks . Rick Roessler's " Slaughterhouse " is grisly slasher punctuated with some moments of black humour . Buddy looks like a hidden brother of deadly twins from " Just Before Dawn " , the gore flows freely and Buddy seems a little more goofy and we get a hilarious moment where he is pretending to be a cop and drives around in the cop car . Its sequel " sLaughterhouse II " from 1988 actually doesn't exist .
Gloriously unsettling and brutal British horror film .	Loosely inspired by Fred and Rosemary West sick murderous activity " Mum and Dad " doesn't disappoint when it comes to brutality . Mum and Dad and their ' adopted ' children , Birdie & Elbie , work at the airport . The family live off whatever they scavenge from cargo holds , offices and hotels - including a steady stream of transient workers who populate the airport's soulless hub . When Lena , a young Polish office cleaner , is befriended by Birdie , she gets drawn into a nightmarish world of torture , murder and perversity . Imprisoned in a suburban House of Horrors and designated a ' Mummy's Girl ' , Lena's only options appear to be to become part of the family-and join them in their insanity-or die painful death . The film despite its general misanthrophy and unsettling violence plays like a black comedy . It certainly has plenty of humorous moments to relieve the tension . It's quite disturbing and torture-laden too . .
Hilariously bad slasher flick . Spoilers	This low-budget slasher flick is particularly tame and takes far too long to kick in , but it is somewhat likeable . A satanic cop Joe Vickers stalks a group of teens . He kills them one by one until only two are left to deal with the fiend . The acting is awful , the script is weak , but that's why this movie is so fun to watch . The psycho cop from hell Joe Vickers is one of the funniest killers ever . He mostly just laughs and shoots of one-liners with robot-like proficiency and tries to sound sadistic through some of the worst dialogue ever captured to the film . Absolutely no suspense , incredibly cheesy special effects , minimal pace-if you love trash horror movies , you'll enjoy " Psycho Cop " . The gore level is quite low , but there are some nice killings for example one guy gets an axe in his skull . No nudity or sex in this one , if you want some T & A check out " Psycho Cop Returns " , which is also more gory and sadistic . Overall , " Psycho Cop " is a thoroughly enjoyable entry in the teen hack-'em-up cycle , and while it isn't likely to win any awards , horror fans should be pleased .
Truly bizarre horror debut from Brian Yuzna .	17 year-old Billy Whitney feels alienated in his upper-class Beverly Hills home . He hears a tape that seems to indicate that his entire family are having secret orgies . People appear dead one moment but are alive the next and then Billy's girlfriend's body appears to twist into abnormal positions . His parents insist Billy is imagining everything and try to commit him to an institution . Billy slowly discovers that his parents and the people around him belong to a different breed of people , a secret inbred Society who are capable of melding and shifting their bodies . " Society " is one hell of a bizarre film . The conclusion scenes with gruesome and unsettling special effects by Screaming Mad George are truly startling and gooey . There is also some nudity and sex scenes . Check out this weird and surreal splatter flick .
Shocking and disturbing stuff .	" First Transmission " is a deeply unsettling compilation video that features several films made by The Temple ov Psychick Youth . It's about 6 hours long , it has the ' satanic abuse and murder ' on it , a bunch of interviews , some ritual pornography , footage of People's Temple leader Jim Jones , Psychic TV on BBC2 , and truly sick quasi-snuff film called " Castration Movie " . " Psychic TV Vol . 1 " for example contains " The Ritual ov Psychick Youth " which documents a brutal and sadistic TOPY initiation ritual . We see a bound man whipped , drugged , ritualistically mutilated with a knife and smeared with his own blood . Then he is given a blood enema . This forty minutes long video is truly disturbing as it's obviously real with no special effects involved . Its sheer power to shock and disturb resulted in labelling Genesis P . Orridge as a Satanist . On the other hand , " Psychic TV Vol . 2 " features incredibly upsetting ' snuff ' video " Castration Movie " . A disclaimer in which claims that the following footage is being investigated by the FBI for acts of actual violence and mutilation , as well as the exploitation of children . The video then begins and you can kind of tell it was made in the mid maybe late 70's by the clothing and cars . It is grainy mostly looking like it was shot on a home camera of some sort . Two men are apparently making the video , one a doctor of some sort and a cameraman whom we never see . " Castration Movie " documents the two men setting up shop in a local motel and eventually persuading young boys to come to the motel room where they have some sort of miniature steel rod inserted in their arms . This rod apparently acts like a conductor of some sort to which they can then apply live wires to , to achieve some sort of electrical induced orgasm . The video then cuts for about 20 minutes of clipped footage of these boys using the new implants in different locations . Finally one of them in the motel room uses it too much and dies . The doctor freaks out , starts waving his hands around for the camera to cut which it does . The next scene is the doctor driving and the cameraman filming the road , and they apparently are splitting town crossing the Mexican border . Finally it shows them setting up shop in a Mexican hotel then it cuts to graphic scene of a young boy surgically castrated . Personally I don't know what to think about this extremely disturbing video . It appears to be real , but I strongly believe that some parts of it are cleverly simulated . On " Psychic TV Vol . 2 " there is also a propaganda documentary " Disaptches " about the rise of Satanism in UK . It claims that Psychic TV's " First Transmission " tape was a Satanic ritual and TOPY was responsible for murdering children . According to Genesis P . Orridge himself , a fundamentalist lawyer in Liverpool had convinced a couple of mental patients to relocate to a Christian safe house in the North of England where , through various methods including sleep deprivation they would confess to involvement in a Satanic cult , in this case TOPY . Overall , as a collector of extreme cinema I was quite pleased with " First Transmission " videos . However this stuff is definitely not for the easily shocked .
Sleazy and pretty gross !	" Entrails of a Beauty " features a gang of Yakuza blokes gang-raping a woman and they drug her , and later on she dies and returns as this big slimy monster with a huge penis that has sharp teeth and also a big sloppy vagina . Crazy film , but not very good . The gore doesn't come until the last 20 minutes and most of the film is a standard soft core sex with lots of rape . Worth checking out , unfortunately heavily censored optically and nowhere near as much fun as " Entrails of a Virgin " .
Pretty graphic cannibal gut-muncher .	Ruggero Deodato's " Jungle Holocaust " is nearly as good as " Cannibal Holocaust " . This would be Deodato's first cannibal film and it's pretty entertaining . The film is filled with animal cruelty so sensitive horror fans should avoid it . Here , we see the natives kill a python , and kill and cut-open a medium sized crocodile . The camera work is solid and captures perfectly an ever growing sense of hopelessness . The direction is good and the gore effects are very graphic . The scene where Me Me Lai has her head chopped off and is cut open from throat to groin , and later has her guts pulled out , is very disgusting and memorable . The acting is very good-especially Foschi is quite believable as Harper . Overall , " Jungle Holocaust " is a surprisingly good cannibal film filled with animal cruelty , gratuitous nudity and plenty of gore . It's not as powerful as " Cannibal Holocaust " , but it's close . . . Highly recommended .
Andrea Bianchi's nasty giallo .	" Massacre " revolves around a series of murders that are happening around the filming of a horror film called " Dirty Blood " . The film opens with extremely gory murder and mutilation of a street prostitute by a hooded maniac . " Massacre " is a fine Italian gore film . There is plenty of sleaze and lots of misogynistic violence to satisfy fans of Italian cult cinema . The killings are mean spirited and gory as hell . The soundtrack is annoying and the acting is bad , but overlook that and we have an enjoyable piece of Italian splatter . Lucio Fulci actually used the gore scenes from this movie in his own " Nightmare Concert " / " A Cat In the Brain " ( 1990 ) . Give this one a look-you won't be disappointed .
Pretty good British horror .	Peter Cushing plays the doctor who needs bodies in this fine adaptation of the Burke and Hare grave robbing case . Donald Pleasance and George Rose are both excellent as the infamous grave robbers . The film is truly atmospheric-full of packed bars , foggy streets and deep shadows-and the performance by Peter Cushing is simply amazing-Cushing is probably one of the most recognizable faces in the horror genre . The film has an eerie cinematic style reminiscent more of films from the 1940's than 1959 . The first half of Gilling's story moves extremely slow , but the second half has some gruesome murder scenes . A must-see for fans of British horror !
Sleazy and extremely gory low-budget horror at its best .	Five young tourists ( Mike , Darren , Emily , Linda and Sarah ) are on vacation in an Asian city . First they visit a traditional Night Market , where they are shocked to see a butcher slaughtering a dog for meat . After this gruesome event they decide to relax and have some fun in a local Karaoke Bar , where Emily meets a handsome Japanese man named Miles . Unfortunately for them Mike insults the Triad Boss , who entered the place with his henchmen . Big mistake ! However Miles defuses the situation as he apologizes to the Boss and persuades the tourists to move on as soon as possible . Soon the action moves into a creepy porno theatre . The tourists buy tickets and enter this filthy place to forget about the evening's hostilities . Unbeknownst to them the Boss and his cohort have followed them to the Venus Theatre . The sadistically explicit bloodbath begins there . . . First of all I enjoyed Ryan Nicholson's nasty rape and revenge shocker " Torched " , but " Live Feed " is even better . It is also one of the goriest horror films I have seen . The gore is plentiful and truly extreme with dismemberments , decapitations , grisly tortures , sword impalings and geysers of grue to boost . The acting is great and the action is fast-paced , intense and bloody as hell . Stephen Chang is especially memorable as the Triad Boss with a taste for human flesh . So if you are a fan of gore or grindhouse exploitation flicks you can't go wrong with " Live Feed " . . Truly awesome stuff that will surely please genre fans !
Gory and tasteless German re-imaging of De Palma's " Sisters " .	Jennifer played by Fiona Horsey is pregnant and about to be married to Alan ( Andrew Southern ) , the man of her dreams . Unfortunately for her witnesses to a series of brutal castration murders point to Jennifer . A pair of detectives discover that Jennifer has a murderous twin sister named Norah , who enjoys butchering and castrating men during sex . " Twisted Sisters " is a pretty tasteless and wickedly funny exploitation film that offers some gore and a decent amount of sleaze . Horsey is great when playing the murderous Norah and equally good at conveying the innocent victim . The death by firework is easily the film's highlight . Overall , I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you liked " Penetration Angst " or " Lovesick : Sick Love " . .
Pretty creepy horror film .	Peter Medak's " The Changeling " is a highly entertaining horror film that truly creeps and this is not an easy thing to do . George C . Scott plays a widower , who moves into an antique Washington mansion . Unfortunately his new home hides a deadly secret that refuses to remain buried . . . " The Changeling " is easily one of the best haunted-house movies ever made . It mixes horror elements with mystery without relying on explicit gore . The acting is nothing short of perfect , the music is involving and curiously film-noirish and the frights are plentiful and effective . So if you like classy ghosts stories like " The Legend of Hell House " or " The Woman in Black " give this one a look . Highly recommended . .
Creepy and highly misunderstood horror classic .	" Wolfen " is based on the Whitley Striber novel . A police detective ( Albert Finney ) is investigating a series of brutal murders in New York City that point toward a wolf-like killer , or possibly a whole pack of them . Director Michael Wadleigh uses the horror movie backdrop as a venue for commentary on class , environmentalism , industrialization and Native American reality and myths . The mystery surrounding bloodthirsty creatures is excellent and there are some truly intense and bloody scenes of hunting . The use of a polarization effect and a steadicam to represent the wolves ' POV is stunningly eerie . The film is loaded with the atmosphere of urban decay and the score by James Horner is particularly memorable . Give this highly sophisticated horror film a look . .
Vastly entertaining Italian bloodbath .	On a Caribbean island , fashion models fall prey to attacks by a pint-sized creature spawned in laboratory experiments . Agren teams up with journalist Warbeck to find her sister , a model , in the jungle . I enjoyed this film-of course the plot is pretty dumb , but there is plenty of gore to keep gore-hounds happy . The definitive highlight of this film is Eva Grimaldi's shower scene . The direction is solid and the Rat Man is a genuinely scary and ugly monster . It's a crying shame that this Italian piece of horror is totally forgotten by fans of Italian cult cinema . So if you liked " Bloodsucking Freaks " or " The Sinful Dwarf " give " Ratman " a look . .
Vastly entertaining and surprisingly rare slasher flick .	" Blood Rage " starts with one twin named Terry who butchers Maddy's boyfriend with an axe when he's ten years old . He puts the axe in his brother's Todd hand so he'll get the blame and so the good brother goes to mental asylum . I guess the good brother never bothered telling his side of the story , because ten years later he's still locked up . One day he escapes though and the evil Terry picks that day to wander around his apartment complex hacking teenagers up with a machete . This obscure slasher flick is quite gory . It is loaded with gratuitous nudity and really bloody murders , so I'm not complaining . The premise of is far-fetched and pretty weak , but if you are a real slasher fan give this one a look . .
Creepy and effective horror flick .	David Fox is driving down a dark county road as his wife Amy sleeps in the passenger seat . He comes across a raccoon in the middle of the road , swerves to miss it and soon after some bickering about minor things , they are forced to stop at a service station in the middle of nowhere when the engine starts making weird noises . A mechanic just about to leave for the night helps them out , but a mile down the road , the car breaks down . They hike it back to the motel adjoining the service station and the manager Mason tells them the garage will open in the morning . The couple books a room for the night , discusses their soon-to-be finalized divorce and becomes quickly freaked out when the phone rings with no answer and someone begins pounding on the room's doors . David tells the manager and the disturbances stop . When finally settling down for the night , David finds some video tapes that show people being gruesomely murdered and after perusing some of them , he realizes the murders happened in the room they are in . " Vacancy " is an almost non-stop thrill ride . The main characters are sympathetic and there is enough suspense and violence to satisfy fans of horror . The snuff movies shown are actually quite disturbing , still the amount of gore is minimal . If you want well-acted and intense horror film look no further and give " Vacancy " a look . .
Pretty good South Korean ghost story .	" Voice " tells the story of Young-uhn , who one day wakes up dead . Her ghost haunts her high-school ground . Only her best friend , a school DJ named Seon-min can hear her voice . Aided by the school's resident psychic girl , Seon-min attempts to uncover the terrifying mystery behind her friend's death . The fourth installment of " Whispering Corridors " series is an interesting horror film . The film seriously lacks scares , but it more than makes up for it with relying on suspense , mystery and drama . The acting is great , the piano score is absolutely brilliant and the cinematography is flawless . " Voice " is basically just a sad and solemn story that attempts to show what a spirit might feel in the first days after its body has died . Give it a look . .
Mean-spirited Japanese rape extravaganza .	" Renzoku Boko " aka " Serial Rape " is a nasty and stylish pink rape film that is forgotten and extremely hard to find . Ren Osugi plays raping cinema projectionist with an unhealthy fixation on the female writer of pinku eiga shown in the cinema . The film offers some particularly vicious rape sequences-the opening scene of sexual assault in the woods is stunning . There is also truly erotic lesbian sequence between two Japanese beauties . The climax , which takes place in the empty room filled with mannequins , is gloriously brutal and unforgettable . The acting is convincing and the film is well-shot and lit . It's amazing that with so little resources Japanese film-makers can make such grim and nasty cinema . " Serial Rape " runs only 60 minutes , but is never boring . Check it out , if you can find it .
Immensely enjoyable horror flick .	The film opens in 1960 with a schoolgirl named Christine shooting up and torching a convent . We then jump forward 40 years to a bunch of high school kids deciding to go to the now deserted and condemned building for some sex and drugs and to see if the place really is haunted . Comic relief is soon provided by a hopelessly inept coven of Satanists . Unfortunately the cursed basilica is a dangerous place filled with bloodthirsty zombie nuns . " The Convent " is a fun little horror film with plenty of gore and explosive climax . The characters are stereotypes and the film actually reminded me " Night of the Demons " . Still the action is fast-paced and there are some scenes that managed to make me jump . Give it a chance . .
Very disturbing and morbid .	" August Underground " is about two serial killers who torture , rape , humiliate and kill their victims in a brutal fashion . The main psychopath is played convincingly by director Fred Vogel . The film is pretty much the equivalent to watching a snuff video . The atmosphere is raw and extremely nihilistic and the film pulls no punches with its sheer nastiness . The torture scenes are long , vomit inducing and incredibly shocking . For example Fred Vogel leads the cameraman into a basement where a girl is tied to a chair . She is naked , crying and covered with her own p and feces . After that both killers pick up a hitchhiker along the road . The woman is degraded and beaten to death . Another instance finds them assaulting and killing a convenience store clerk and two customers . In between they go to the slaughterhouse , a tattoo parlor and a rave where they are beaten up themselves . " August Underground " clearly looks like an amateur home video , but the story is tightly scripted . The gore is truly sickening and the special effects are quite realistic . So if you're a fan of " Cannibal Holocaust " , " Scrapbook " or " The Untold Story " give this one a look . Recommended only for fans of extreme cinema . .
Creepy , but unoriginal South Korean horror .	A young female college student Ji-won who has recovered from a serious accident , which led her to have amnesia . As she attempts to put her past together and get her current life straightened out , she slowly comes to realize that those she associated with in high school are now turning up dead and all are keyed to water . As fragments of her memories and the people she knew come together , she experiences weird visions of a girl drowning and what she thinks is a ghost following her around . Could there be a connection ? " Dead Friend " is obviously inspired by Hideo Nakata's " Ringu " and " Dark Water " , but it certainly offers some genuine scares . The most terrifying moments in " Dead Friend " come from the appearance of a ghostly girl with drenched hair and one evil eye looking out from the mass of hair . The climax is extremely creepy and surprising , so I was pleased . The cinematography is gorgeous with a lovely green look and the sound effects are awesome . Watch " Dead Friend " alone in the dark and it will creep you out . .
Very cool Japanese sleaze .	" Guts of a Virgin 3 " is certainly different than the previous " Guts of a Virgin " movies . The film plays like soft core sex comedy with some nasty bits thrown in . The film revolves around the female inquisitor Hiriko Ichijo and her Japan Inquisition Company . She and her gang of sexual deviants use sexual torture on people who steal their money . The plot of " Guts of a Virgin 3 " is slightly convoluted and hard to follow , but who cares . There are tons of sleaze and nudity for anyone interested in Japanese pinku cinema . The sex scenes are surprisingly titillating , the direction is solid and there's plenty of shocking graphics . If you are into Japanese exploitation you can give it a look . .
Truly overlooked gem of Italian horror .	Horror veteran William Berger stars as Dr . Slivak , who is murdered while undertaking a study of a Mayan pyramid . A number of bizarre supernatural murders follow , while Slivak's daughter and old friend attempt to solve the mystery . " Maya " by Marcello Avallone is actually an international production that was filmed in Venezuela . The film offers plenty of sex and blood and several truly atmospheric moments . There's even a cockfight and an exorcism which concludes with the victim vomiting live snakes . Marcello Avallone has to be one of the most underrated Italian horror directors . " Maya " is his crowning achievement-a masterful and highly innovative horror flick somewhat reminiscent to Lucio Fulci's masterpiece " The Beyond " . It is also very well made , with beautiful photography and plenty of good actors to match . Give this overlooked Italian horror a look . .
Truly nasty porno flick from Alex de Renzy .	A particularly nasty ' 70s roughie , the unedited version of this de Renzy's sickie is nearly impossible to find . The plot involves the monstrous Rocky DeSade running around San Francisco and brutalizing the local working girls ; they eventually take revenge on this creep by staging a fetish party and making him pay via pissing , hard-core S / M and even a little scat added for the good measure . This grainy and sadistic porno truly has to be seen to be believed , especially the sequence when Rocky sucks his own penis . The scat scene is very disgusting , albeit clearly fake . The porno scenes are well-filmed and the film is loaded with incredibly seedy atmosphere . " Femmes de Sade " is very hard to find as is " Animal Lover " with famous Danish bestiality performer Bodil Joensen , but if you get a chance watch them both . .
Bizarre , surreal and amazingly violent .	This is my first venture into Jodorowsky's territory and I can safely say that I'm highly impressed . " El Topo " is one of the most bizarre and impressive movies you'll ever see . It features plenty of interesting , weird characters , lots of religious symbolism and extremely violent gun-fight scenes . One of the producers of this one is Mexican horror veteran Juan Lopez Moctezuma ( " Alucarda " , " Mary , Mary , Bloody Mary " ) . I urge you to see this masterpiece right now . Simply breathtaking !
A very pleasant surprise !	When I found this film in my local videostore I expected it to be another cheesy American vampire film in the same vein of " The Lost Boys " ( 1987 ) . To my surprise " To Die for " is a really good movie . It's a little bit corny at times , but still there are enough stylish set-pieces and surprises to satisfy vampire enthusiasts . This is a perfect mix of romance and horror and it's surprisingly gory at times . Highly recommended .
American homage to " Suspiria " with a dash of " La Residencia " and " The Evil Dead " thrown in .	After Heather Fasulo sets fire to the front yard , her parents decide that boarding school is the best thing for her . As the story unfolds , we learn that Heather has an extrasensory ability ? not only can she hear the trees in the forest speak , which is cleverly presented as symptomatic of paranoid psychosis , but she can balance a pencil and small rocks in gravity-defying positions by simply concentrating on the them . Enmeshed with feelings of alienation and hormonal upheaval , her powers are a source of enormous anxiety until sympathetic school mistress Ms Traverse explains the nature of her special powers . However Traverse is not what she seems and has a sinister plan that involves the evil tree-dwelling sprites and the entire student population . " The Woods " is loosely based on the tree-dwelling female Dryads of Greek mythology . It's also highly influenced by " Suspiria " , Serrador's " La Residencia " and " The Evil Dead " . In " The Woods " Lucky McKee of " May " fame has fun with some dynamic CGI effects for the tree limbs , roots and branches that keep sleeping teens in stasis until the latest teen offering has been snatched from her bed , but the effects seem out of place in a film that's kept fancy visuals to a minimum . Still this surprisingly subtle horror is worth a look . .
Underrated slasher .	" Visiting Hours " is a forgotten slasher film which stars Michael Ironside as a murderer stalking TV journalist Lee Grant . The film is pretty slow , but there is enough violence to satisfy fans of horror cinema . Ironside is pretty believable as a misogynistic serial killer , the rest of the cast is also impressive . The film is pretty scary and suspenseful , so fans of slasher movies won't be disappointed . It was made the same year as similar " Halloween 2 " . Overall , I enjoyed this one and you should too , especially if you like slasher movies . My rating : .
Okay Japanese rape film .	" Angel Guts : Nami " is a third installment in Nikkatsu Studio's roman porno series . This time a young female reporter Nami tracks down women who have been savagely raped in the past . Unfortunately for her , she interviews a nurse who had been a victim of rape . Raping Nami and then brutally sodomizing her , the nurse has in fact shown Nami what she was looking for . Once again , like the victim she has interviewed , Nami herself becomes suicidal , unbalanced and feeling very dirty . " Angel Guts : Nami " is a pretty nasty Japanese rape film . It's a well-directed and superbly lit assault on viewer's senses . The rape scenes are rather brutal and will certainly leave some viewers disturbed , but anyone who likes Japanese pink movies won't be disappointed . The acting is quite good with Eri Kanuma giving excellent performance as Nami . So if you enjoyed other installments of controversial " Angel Guts " series you can't go wrong with " Nami " . .
Very enjoyable horror film from Hammer .	In a long pre-credits sequence , the men of Stettel finally summon up the courage to oppose Count MItterhouse . The vampire has gone too far this time , taking schoolteacher Mueller's wife as his lover and , with her help , luring little Jenny Shult to her death . The townsfolk storm Mitterhouse's castle and stake him . The Count swears revenge : " None of you will live . The town of Stettel will die . Your children will die to give me back my life . " Fifteen years later , Stettel is afflicted by plague and cordoned off from the rest of the world . The mysterious " Circus of Nights " arrives in town , come to " steal the pennies from dead men's eyes " . Having somehow got through the roadblocks , the circus seems to the townsfolk a welcome distraction from their plight . What they don't realize is that this is the Vampire Circus , come to avenge the Count . . . " Vampire Circus " is one of the strangest and most erotic vampire flicks from Hammer . The film is well-acted and surprisingly sensual . There is a good amount of blood , so I was pleased . The ' circus ' theme was well used ; the acrobats and dancers were superb , and the clown was pretty creepy . Give this one a look . .
Very good Paul Naschy's film .	A trio of witch hunters arrive in town to ply their trade . While this is happening , the daughter of the magistrate agrees to sell her soul to the devil for the ability to take vengeance on the man who killed her lover . " Inquisition " is a fine directing debut of Paul Naschy . There is plenty of gratuitous nudity and the torture scenes are fairly nasty and shocking . Scenes such as a rotating , spiked gyre approaching the bared breast of a female victim and the obscene pulling of another unfortunate victim's nipple are as unsettling and savage as any scene from competing films such as Adrian Hoven's classic 1969 witchcraft flick " Mark of the Devil " . Naschy's portrayal of the devil is fantastic as is his performance as a witch hunter Bernard . Give this one a look , if you are a fan of Jacinto Molina or Spanish horror in general . .
Beautiful .	Along with Dario Argento's " Suspiria " ( 1977 ) this is one of the most dream-like horror movies ever made . I love this one , although I still think that " Suspiria " is better . The cast is excellent , especially young Sarah Patterson as a Rosaleen , who simply steals the show . The transformation scenes are pretty gruesome and effective , and the film looks wonderful-great imagery ! More fairy tale than horror " The Company of Wolves " is a must-see for all horror fans , who doesn't mind something different .
Underrated slasher .	" Curtains " is a pretty good slasher . It's well-made and genuinely creepy . The scene with the killer coming across the ice with the sickle is extremely scary ! The film isn't as good as Bob Clark's brilliant " Black Christmas " ( 1974 ) , but still it has some very suspenseful moments . The killer wears an ugly mask which makes him / her even more menacing . There is not enough gore for my liking , but I'd still recommend this little gem to horror fans !
Truly nightmarish and disturbing SPK video .	SPK is an Australian industrial band which puts their music to autopsies and real photos of death . The grossest part of this tape is someone brought a video camera into the morgue and well liberties have been taken with the corpses . " Despair " mixes live performance of SPK with truly sick and bizarre imagery involving the mutilation of dead animals on stage . On the other hand , " Human Post Mortem " is simply a dupe from the original 1982 " Despair " tape . It's shows two incredibly graphic autopsies accompanied by SPK's industrial music . We see for example the mutilation of a dead cat , footage from death camps , foetal deformities , brain operations and grotesque corpses . In the most revolting sequence an individual manoeuvres a detached head to perform clumsy fellatio on a penis protruding from the severed , lower extremities of a corpse . In several ways " Despair " reminded me " The Way of Eden " by Robert Adrian Pejo-extremely disturbing documentary about death and dissection . The music of SPK will also give you nightmares for weeks-be sure to check out especially three of their early albums : " Leichenschrei " , " Information Overload Unit " and " Zamia Lehmanni " .
Fun and enjoyable Italian giallo with plenty of sleaze .	I saw " French Sex Murders " in the cinema during Dni Makabry festival in Warsaw and wasn't disappointed . This one has a truly bizarre murder plot involving a jewel heist , an all-knowing-all-seeing medium , a brothel , hooded killers , a mad scientist , incredibly sexy women butchered in gruesome ways , incest , human eyeball fondling and a professional Humphrey Bogart look-a-like brilliantly played by Robert Sacchi . The female cast is full of Italian beauties including Anita Ekberg , Barbara Bouchet and Rosalba Neri . The killings are surprisingly violent and gory in true giallo-style , including throat-slashings and decapitations , but most surprising is the innovative camera-work associated with the death scenes . Each murder is replayed four times in a quick and continuous sequence where the colour of the lighting is changed for each replay . There is also plenty of sleaze and nudity for fans of Eurohorror to enjoy . .
Great crime thriller .	16-year-old Candy Phillips is brutally abducted by a trio of amateur criminals hoping for a hasty ransom exchange . Burying their innocent captive alive in the hills of Southern California with only a small tube for air , the threesome-sultry blond Jessi , her sadistic brother Alan and maladjusted Army vet Eddy-suspect things aren't as they appear when Candy's father doesn't show at their agreed rendezvous . Growing anxious as paranoia sets in ' the kidnappers fear their meticulous plan is crumbling and begin a downward spiral into depravity , mutilation and cold-blooded murder-with Candy helplessly trapped in the middle . " The Candy Snatchers " is a classic exploitation flick . The script by Bryan Gindoff is surprisingly intelligent , the cast is great and there are some violent set-pieces . The film is obviously influenced by the Charles Manson murders , so if you are into 70's grindhouse exploitation cinema give it a look . .
Really bad slasher flick , but fun to watch . Spoilers	" Slaughter High " is a totally ridiculous slasher flick about a high school nerd Marty , who gets pick on all the time by some pranksters . The prank goes wrong and he ends up getting savagely burned . Five years later his tormentors all attend a reunion-just the ten of them of course , and low and behold Marty murders them one after another . British actress Caroline Munro ( " Maniac " ) leads the cast as the heroine ( who dies anyway ! ) . The acting is completely awful , there's also no suspense at all . Plenty of grotesque death scenes to satisfy the gore-freaks : a guy's stomach explodes , another female victim literally gets an acid bath , a couple having sex in bed get electrocuted , a guy is crushed by a tractor , one girl is drowned , and a doctor gets a hyperdermic needle in the eye . The killer wears a decent and rather creepy jester's mask and the setting ( a beautiful old English castle ) is really nice . However the dream finale is utterly pathetic . All in all it's true that " Slaughter High " is a piece of garbage , but I enjoyed it . Only for fans of truly bad slasher flicks .
Gruesome HK snake horror with hundreds of real snakes killed .	A luxury apartment complex is being constructed , unfortunately the team discovers a huge nest of hundreds of snakes on the site . The boss refuses to delay the construction just because of the snakes and orders them all to be exterminated despite being warned by his wife and her nightmares of the situation . Not all the snakes end up getting killed and the survivors seek revenge on the construction workers . It isn't long before a giant boa leads the rest of the thousands of snakes inside the building to kill all the new inhabitants . " Calamity of Snakes " by William Chang has to be seen to be believed . Literally hundreds of live snakes are butchered during the film . The climax certainly involves hundreds of snakes and wholesale slaughter of the animals . Snakes are chopped to pieces , burned alive , killed with shovels and gutted . So if you are an animal lover skip this film . However if you enjoy watching outrageous Asian horror films give it a look .
Sweet little short .	" Within the Woods " is largely known as the prequel to " The Evil Dead " . This 30-minutes film was created to sell investors on the idea of " The Evil Dead " . The film is extremely low-budget and the story is minimal . Still there is plenty of gore to satisfy fans of American horror . Bruce Cambell plays Bruce , who gets zombified . Ellen Sandweiss plays his girlfriend , Ellen . However she doesn't get raped by a tree in this film , though . The cinematography is grainy and the moving steady / shaky camera-a Raimi trademark-probably made it's debut here . " Within the Woods " is rather tough to find , but if you get a chance watch it . Highly recommended .
Great pinku eiga flick .	" Rope and Skin " is the last film of Japanese S & M queen Naomi Tani . It was directed by Shogoro Nishimura , once again based on an Oniroku Dan novel and had a part for fellow ' Pink queen ' Junko Miyashita . Tani stars as the tough yakuza card dealer named Okoma , who is subjected to sexual torture and S & M abuse by the rival clan leader and his people . There is plenty of sleaze and some pretty harsh scenes of sexual violence , but the film offers much more . The storyline is actually interesting and filled with several bloody fight scenes . I have only seen " All Women Are Whores " by Nishimura so far , but now I'm dying to see more . So if you are in the mood for some rough pinku eiga from Nikkatsu you can't go wrong with " Rope and Skin " .
Gore galore !	" The Gates of Hell " is another masterpiece directed by one of the best horror directors Lucio Fulci . Fulci , who sadly died in 1996 , was a real artist . Anyway this film concerns a priest committing suicide and opening the gateway to Hell , allowing the dead to rise from their graves and feed on the living . Christopher George ( " Pieces " ) tries to stop them . The gore effects made by Gino de Rossi are excellent ( maggots , rotting flesh , lots of squished brains etc . ) Giovanni Lombardo Radice gets an electric drill through his head , and there's also a notorious scene of woman ( Daniela Doria ) vomiting up all of her internal organs in a really nauseating torrent of blood and guts . The plot is weak , but the film is highly atmospheric and imaginative . Again brilliant director Lucio Fulci created a masterpiece of pure horror ! - not to be missed .
Truly raw and violent shocker .	" Her Venegeance " is easily one of the darkest HK films I have seen . The film is as great as I expected . Very dark and merciless and surprisingly anti-violent in its theme after all which is of course great thing and makes the film much more noteworthy piece of work . The violence is raw and the inhuman rape scene is shot in dark cemetery with incredibly dark blue lightning so the scene is as strong and intense as they come . Also veteran actor the late great Lam Ching Ying does a great role as a wheelchair bound uncle who first tries to make the protagonist forget her thoughts about revenge but after all starts to prefer revenge himself , too , and after that , the hell is on the loose and the final bloodbath is very insane again . Among the greatest HK dark thrillers of all time . So if you are a fan of extreme Asian cinema give this gem a look . .
Hilariously gory zombie comedy .	" Stacy " is filled with Japanese schoolgirls becoming flesh eating zombies . The film itself is not very good , because it's made extremely cheap ( concerning the technical equipment , it has been filmed on digital video , and probably not the best existing , I suppose ) . The gore scenes are exuberant and hilarious , and the main inspiration has been " Day of the Dead " , I'm quite sure , because there are elements clearly taken from it : a mad scientist making bizarre experiments with the zombies , soldiers that have to catch zombies and some of the gory sequences are also very similar to " Day of the Dead " . The film is quite entertaining for zombie fans , except for the kitschy and also very stupid climax . So if you like zombie films give this one a look . Recommended .
Welcome to redneck county !	" Trapped " is a fairly obscure rural revenge thriller in the almost same vein as William Fruet's earlier classic " Death Weekend " . It was penned by the late John Beaird , whose only other screen writing credits were slasher films " My Bloody Valentine " and " Happy Birthday to Me " . A group of college students accidentally witness a group of local rednecks killing another hillbilly . A deadly game of cat-and-mouse ensues , with the students trying to escape the area while the killer played by Henry Silva sets out to eliminate the witnesses who can tie him to the murder . Sleazy Canadian canuxploitation flick with enough nudity and violence to satisfy any self-respecting exploitation enthusiast . Recommended for fans of " Southern Comfort " , " Deliverance " or " Hunter's Blood " .
Pretty disturbing drama with very brutal rape / violation scene .	Robert Carmichael is a gifted but socially awkward schoolboy living with his mum in Newhaven , a coastal town in the south of England . Despite his musical and intellectual ability , Robert is ostracized by most of his peers hanging out with the recently expelled Joe and schoolmate Ben . Joe's cousin Larry , a small-time crook fresh out of prison introduces Robert to ecstasy and cocaine . Robert's journey into drugs culminates into truly horrifying rape and murder . . . " The Great Ecstasy of Robert Carmichael " is a very bleak and disturbing film . The acting of younger members of the cast is excellent as is the somber photography of Yorgos Arvantis . The climatic gang-rape / brutal violation and murder of a rich woman is quite graphic and truly disturbing . It rivals the anal rape of Monica Bellucci in " Irreversible " as being one of the most sadistic acts of sexual violence I have ever seen in a mainstream film . Still " The Great Ecstasy of Robert Carmichael " made me think after it was over and I applaud it for that . .
Effective tale of an urban rat invasion .	Clutch is a former boxer who lives in an apartment on Mulberry Street in New York . With his friend Coco they eagerly await for Clutch's daughter Casey to return home from Iraq . We also meet the other tenants in this dilapidated complex Charlie and Frank who are a couple of old timers and a bartender Kay and her teenage son . Unfortunately their place of living becomes hell , when New Yorkers mysteriously turn into bloodthirsty rat creatures . " Mulberry Street " is a pleasant surprise . It plays like the cross between " 28 Days Later " , " Feast " and Spanish horror hit " Rec " . Mickle uses quick shots , music video style editing and plenty of gore to make a surprisingly memorable and decent horror film . The action is fast paced and the creatures look creepy . .
Very extreme film .	" Subconscious Cruelty " has to be one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen . Still it's extremely grim and gory at times , so fans of politically correct mainstream horror garbage shouldn't bother . The film mixes many wonderful visuals with plenty of sleaze and gore . It is extremely odd , vicious and disturbing , so fans of bizarre cinema won't be disappointed . My favourite segment from " Subconscious Cruelty " is " Human Larvae " which shows us a twisted relationship between a young man and his pregnant sister . The birthing scene is particularly nasty and not easily forgotten . The last segment " Right Brain / Martyrdom " has to be seen to be believed . It's incredibly harsh and blasphemous with scenes of genital mutilation and grisly torture . We see Jesus Christ captured by three naked females who mutilate him , ripping flesh from his chest , licking a wound on his knee and pissing on him . There is also a Jesus statue with a projection of a swastika on it . " Subconscious Cruelty " is a truly memorable film that should be seen by fans of extreme cinema . Check it out .
Truly disgusting and misogynistic giallo . Spoilers	" Giallo a Venezia " is , without a doubt , one of the sleaziest movies ever produced in Italy . Along with " The New York Ripper " ( 1982 , Lucio Fulci ) and " The Killer Is Still Among Us " ( 1985 , Camillo Teti ) this is possibly the nastiest giallo ever made . The film begins with a double murder on the Venetian docks : architect Fabio ( Gianni Dei ) is stabbed with a pair of scissors , while his wife Flavia ( Leonora Fani ) is drowned . The fact that Flavia was pulled back from the water by the killer after being drowned , intrigues inspector DePaul ( Jeff Blynn ) and his assistant Maestrin . As they begin investigating friends of the couple , such as Marizia ( Mariangela Giordano from " Burial Ground " and " Malabimba " ) , they soon discover that Fabio was in fact a sex crazed cocaine addict , who could only achieve sexual gratification by violence and sick voyeurism put upon his wife . During the investigation Marizia begins to receive threatening phone calls from ex-lover and soon after that a series of brutal murders is set in motion . Director Mario Landi ( " Patrick Still Lives " ) fails to create any suspense or mystery . What Landi looses in mystery he more than makes up for with some of the most brutal violence and sex ever put on the screen . The violence in " Giallo a Venezia " is truly shocking . A prostitute is stabbed repeatedly in the crotch in one of the most sickeningly audacious murder sequences ever filmed . Another gory highlights include Giordano being tied naked to her kitchen table and having her leg cut off with a handsaw by the killer and Marizia's lover being doused in gasoline and set alight . The long sex scenes are pretty explicit and it's quite obvious that Landi's intentions were only to show as much sex and blood as he could . To sum up , if you like sleaze and extreme gore then you should check this one out . Recommended !
Surprisingly creepy British horror flick .	Amanda ( Susan George ) , a young babysitter is called to watch the child at an isolated British manor . The child's mother , Helen ( Honor Blackman ) , has had her husband committed after he tried to murder her and the child . Helen's psycho husband ( excellent Ian Bannen ) returns home and terrorizes young Amanda while Helen and her new boyfriend are out on the town . The film is pretty creepy-there are numerous false scares which work pretty well . The most surprising is the fact that " Fright " is pretty similar to " Halloween " - for example both movies take place mostly at night with a babysitter in peril . There is no gore and nudity at all , but like I said before , there are some effective scares throughout the film . I agree that " Fright " is pretty boring at times , but if you are a fan of British horror cinema give this one a look !
Brutal , bloody and shocking .	This 44 minute film is quite the nasty piece of filth . It starts with a woman getting raped and then soon after someone breaks into her home and attempts to rape her again . She awakens and manages to stop the attack before it begins and , believing her masked assailant to be her rapist from 5 minutes earlier in the film , she knocks him out with a stun-gun and sets about keeping him as her torture slave for the rest of the 30 minute running time , burning his bare testicles with a blow torch , sticking syringes in his penis and other horrid punishment ! " Torched " was actually made by Ryan Nicholson , one of the FX guys on the grim " August Underground " series . The film is obviously inspired by " I Spit on Your Grave " and Abel Ferrara's wonderful " Ms . 45 " . It's competently acted and the violence is extremely disturbing . The score by Necrophagia , Macabre and Necro is awesome and perfectly captures the nihilistic feeling of the film . " Torched " is even better than " August Underground's Mordum " , but you'll need an iron stomach to watch it . .
More amusing than the original .	The survivor from the " Hostel " Paxton is quickly decapitated and the film follows three young and supple female art students heading for a relaxing weekend at a Slovakian spa . And where better to stay than an inexpensive hostel ? Of course the three girls are finally abducted and taken to the torture house . Roth introduces the other side of the torture business as we follow two friends who have paid to maim and kill . In my opinion " Hostel 2 " is actually tamer than the original . There is some nasty gore on display including throat slashing via scythe and castration ( an obvious nod to Joel M . Reed's exploitation classic " Bloodsucking Freaks " ) , but Roth does show some restraint here , even cutting away to make one demise occur off camera . The film is also more funny and amusing than the first one . Overall , it's a pretty decent follow-up , so give it a look . .
Okay slasher !	" Happy Hell Night " is a typical slasher film filled with gore and gratuitous nudity . There are several creepy , suspenseful moments , and the killer Zachary Malius ( Charles Cragin ) looks really scary . The characters are one-dimensional , the acting is terrible and there are some huge lapses in logic . Still the film is enjoyable to watch and offers some gory deaths including throat slashing , numerous stabbings etc . Overall it's a pretty good slasher , so if you like horror movies give this one a look . Recommended !
Pretty good serial killer flick , but I didn't find it too disturbing .	Ted Bundy was one of the most infamous serial killers in the criminal history of US . He murdered numerous young women across the United States between 1974 and 1978 . His total number of victims is unknown . After over a decade of vigorous denials , Bundy eventually confessed to over 30 murders . Matthew Bright's " Ted Bundy " is based on his gruesome activities . Technically the movie is very good and on the most part , the actors are really convincing , but " Ted Bundy " is nowhere near as shocking and disturbing as " Henry : Portait of a Serial Killer " or my personal cult favourite " Angst " . Horror fans might get a kick out of this one because Tom Savini does the special effects makeup and has a small part in the film . Overall , I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you are into exploitation cinema . .
Deeply unpleasant and disturbing film .	" Salo : 120 Days of Sodom " is an extremely controversial film that is loosely based on the book " The 120 Days of Sodom " written by the Marquis De Sade . The plot concerns eight fascists who round up 16 teenage boys and girls and , in a secluded villa , submit their hostages to various sadistic ordeals including rape , mutilation and murder-in the name of libertine entertainment . The film works as a sickening exploration of victims as victimizers . " Salo " is a surreal , repulsive and depressing film that will stay in the viewer's mind forever . The way that Pasolini updated Sade's classic book is extremely impressive . The Dante's " Inferno " influence is most explicit in the way the film is divided up into a series of ' circles ' , an opening ' Antinferno ' , the Circle of Manias , the Circle of Sit and the Circle of Blood , all of which neatly characterise the content of the scenes within them . Unfortunately just before the release of " Salo " , Pier Paolo Pasolini was tragically and brutally murdered by a young prostitute , robbing world cinema of one of its most seminal artists . Overall , if you want a piece of brutal and nihilistic film you can't miss this one . .
Pretty good werewolf horror .	Neil Marshall's " Dog Soldiers " is actually one of the best horror movies made in 2002 . It's fast-paced , bloody and insanely violent . The body count is really high and the action is very exciting . A company of British soldiers on a routine training mission finds that they are being hunted by a pack of werewolves . The bloodbath ensues , and the few soldiers remaining after the first attack-Sergeant Wells ( Sean Pertwee ) , Pvt . Cooper ( Kevin McKidd ) and a few others . They are saved by a mysterious local girl , Megan ( Emma Cleasby ) and hole up in a remote farmhouse . " Dog Soldiers " is not as good as " Ginger Snaps " , but still delivers plenty of blood and guts . The acting is surprisingly decent and the direction is well-handled . Check it out . .
Extremely entertaining .	" The Brides of Fu Manchu " is the second of five Fu Manchu movies produced by Harry Alan Towers and starring Christopher Lee . The film is definitely the most entertaining of all the Fu Manchu films . The production values are top notch and the film is well-directed and acted . This time Fu Manchu wants to conquer the world ( " In a few moments , the entire world will capitulate to me . This is the destiny of Fu Manchu . " - Fu Manchu ) . Fu Manchu's new evil plan is to send explosive energy via sound waves to small receivers placed in various cities throughout the world . It's up to Nayland Smith ( Douglas Wilmer ) to stop him . . . Anyway I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you like British horror / crime cinema . All the actresses starring in it are beautiful , especially Tsai Chin , the evil daughter of Fu Manchu . Fu Manchu returns a year later in " The Vengeance of Fu Manchu " ( 1967 ) .
Very creepy horror film .	" Bhoot " is a supernatural horror movie set in urban jungle of Bombay . Vishal ( Ajay Devgan ) , a stock analyst and his wife Swati ( Urmila Matondkar ) move into a new apartment . The fact that the previous occupant died jumping off from the balcony doesn't deter Vishal . He doesn't inform his wife about that tragedy . Eventually , she finds out and then creepy things do happen . She loses sleep and begins to experience strange incidents , illusions and nightmares . The truth is horrifying . " Bhoot " is a wonderfully suspenseful horror film made by Ram Gopal Verma ( " Raat " ) . The cinematography is breathtaking and the atmosphere is so thick that you could cut it with a chainsaw . The climax is pretty disappointing , though . A must-see for fans of Hindi horror . .
Very atmospheric and visually impressive horror film .	The titular Dust Devil is an evil demon that preys only on those who have lost the reason to live . This includes Wendy , who has broken up with her husband and is now making her way aimlessly across the South African desert . Feeling lonely , she picks up a stray by the name of Hitch and the nightmare begins . . . Richard Stanley's " Dust Devil " re-interprets the true story of a South African serial killer , known among locals as " Nhadiep " . Bizarre ritualistic murders took place in the town of Bethany . The killer who inspired Dust Devil preyed on migrant workers and railways workers . " Dust Devil " is a creepy and hypnotic horror film . Richard Stanley of " Hardware " fame relies on the magical elements of the legend of Nhadiep , invoking tribal rituals , witchcraft and Namibian mysticism . There is also a good amount of gore splashed on screen . The cinematography of Namibian desert is absolutely fantastic and there are some striking visuals . A must-see for horror enthusiasts !
Amusing .	Dr Evan Rendell or Dr Giggles from the title wonderfully played by Larry Drake is , along with officer Joe Vickers ( Bobby Ray Shafer ) from " Psycho Cop " series , one of the funniest psycho killers ever created on film . " Dr Giggles " is an enjoyable slasher film filled with gore and black humour . The film is well-directed and acted and is simply fun to watch . It's quite suspenseful at times , and some of the killings are rather unpleasant ( like when he castrates one guy ) and grotesque . Recommended for horror fans .
Uwe Boll wins this time .	I must admit that I was never a fan of Uwe Boll's horrible adaptations of video games , but " Postal " managed to entertain me with its highly crude , offensive and politically incorrect content . The Internet's most notorious and loathed filmmaker is back with vengeance . The original ' Postal ' was a controversial shooter about a disgruntled USPS employee who goes on a killing spree shooting tons of people and massacring children in school . Boll's " Postal " is also about bloody mayhem which involves a heist of Krotchy Toys that bear a striking resemblance to genitalia and a fight against Osama Bin Laden and the Taliban . The President of US George W . Bush clearly enjoys the company of Osama . The film is full of anti-American sentiments and works well as an amusing self-parody . .
Surprisingly sadistic backwoods horror .	Abbey , Jackie and Trina have been close friends since their college days and they decide to celebrate their tenth class reunion by going camping in the woods of rural New Jersey ; however their vacation time quickly turns into nightmare filled with rape , abuse and terror as they are captured by two depraved thugs . Ike and Addley live in a garishly decorated house deep in the woods , where they strictly obey the instructions of their aged Mother-a vicious psychopath who goads her boys into acts of rape and murder . When one of the women is killed by Ike and Addley , the other two escape and they plot a gruesome revenge . This cult classic combines extreme violence with absurdist humor and offers its share of depravity including vicious beatings and rape . It's not as nasty as " I Spit on Your Grave " or " House on the Edge of the Park " , but still packs a punch . .
Great horror classic from early 30's .	" Freaks " is one of the most controversial horror films from the 30's , mainly because director Tod Browning hired as the actors real sideshow freaks . It does have a rather unsettling effect , but I think that really does work for the film . Browning builds up a great amount of suspense with the good use of locations , story and lots of atmosphere . The ending , where we see freaks crawling in the mud , is pretty creepy . Anyway check this one out-it's worth watching .
Strangely similar to John Carpenter's " The Fog " .	The title of " The Living Skeleton " is actually misleading , because there isn't living skeleton in the film . However the underwater sequence of meeting skeletons is truly unforgettable . The film opens with bang : there is a massacre on board of a ship which predates recent US hit " Ghost Ship " . There are striking similarities between Hiroshi Matsuno's film and John Carpenter's famous horror hit " The Fog " : a quiet coastal village surrounded by the fog , a local priest with a creepy secret and a ghostly ship with bleached skeletons on board , which haunts villagers on the land . There is also a bit of subtle necrophilia thrown in and a female ghost with long black hair . " The Living Skeleton " written by Kyuzo Kobayashi of " Goke Bodysnatcher from Hell " fame surely is delirious experience . It's a crying shame that it's currently out of print . If you liked it be sure to check out obscure Austrian horror film " Dark Echo " from 1977 , which may also inspired " The Fog " .
Poor basement girl .	" An American Crime " tells the unsettling story of Sylvia Likens . The girl was tortured to death by Gertrude Baniszewski , her children and other children from their neighborhood . Her parents , carnival workers , had left Sylvia and her sister Jenny in the care of the Baniszewski family three months before her death in exchange for twenty dollars a month . Her torture and murder were described by the prosecutor in Baniszewski's trial as " the most terrible crime ever committed in the state of Indiana " . Unlike the recent adaptation of Jack Ketchum's horrific novel " The Girl Next Door " " An American Crime " follows this shocking story more closely . It uses the actual court transcripts to paint the gloomy and horrific portrait of true human depravity . The film is not as disturbing as " The Girl Next Door " , but some scenes are quite upsetting and hard to watch for example when the words are being burned into Sylvia's skin . The use of suggestive violence is a wise choice . Ellen Page's leading performance is utterly believable , unfortunately the portrayal of Gertie is disappointing . She was a cruel and manipulative monster without compassion and empathy . Still I liked this film . .
Wild Japanese action !	Takashi Miike's " Dead or Alive : Hanzaisha " left me speechless . The opening sequence is incredible in its style-we have strippers at work , several bloody shoot-outs , a gangster getting his throat slashed while sodomizing a young man in a public toilet etc . The finale is also amazing-I was literally blown away ! The film is strangely amoral-check out especially the scene in which two punks making animal porn try feverishly to excite an Alsatian dog so it can mount naked girl in their presence . The film is not as violent and sadistic as the other Miike's works like " Visitor Q " , but there are some really strong images that will surely linger in the memory . The acting is very good , the direction is well-handled and the film is hallucinogenic at times . All in all if you're fed up with predictable Hollywood's action trash check this one out !
Politically correct remake of George A . Romero's classic .	Make-up maestro Tom Savini's color remake of Romero's 1968 classic follows the original almost shot-by-shot , but it's of course not better film . This remake was clearly made for younger viewers who refuse to watch black-and-white films , no matter how good they may be . The result is passable , but it lacks dark atmosphere and mood of the original . If this version has anything to offer , it is Patricia Tallman ( " Army of Darkness " ) in an engaging lead performance as a tough , independent heroine . This is only my opinion , but I'm really fed up with " strong female lead " concept that every new horror film seems to have . The next thing I dislike in this picture is the lack of gore . For God's sake this film was directed by gore wizard Tom Savini-the man behind such hard-core splatter flicks like " Maniac " , " Nightmare " or " The Prowler " . The violence is very tame-even by today's standards . However the acting isn't bad , the zombies are pretty scary and the film is never boring . Recommended for horror buffs all around the world .
Very good .	Attractive reporter ( Dee Wallace Stone ) is coming to a small health resort . What she doesn't know is that all the residents of this resort are werewolves . " The Howling " is one of my favourite werewolf flicks . It features some of the best transformation scenes ever filmed , excellent special effects and a bit of irony . The acting is pretty good , and Joe Dante's direction is well-handled . There's a nice amount of blood and gore too ! This shocker offers also some delicious sleaze ( sex and full frontal nudity ) . However I'm not going to waste my time writing about its sequels , because they pretty much suck ( still I haven't seen the fourth and fifth installments of this series ) . Joe Dante also made the kick-ass " Piranha " ( 1978 ) .
Psychedelic bloodbath .	" Guinea Pig : Lucky Sky Diamond " aka " Bloody Fragments on White Walls " is often considered as a part of infamous " Guinea Pig " series , unfortunately such claims are wrong . This has nothing to do with those Japanese sickies . " LSD " tells the story of a girl named Yoko who wakes up strapped to a bed in a strange clinic . She is injected with drugs and taken by the doctor and the nurse to an operating room for her brain surgery . Soon the bloody madness ensues . . . Izo Hashimoto , the director of perplexing " Evil Dead Trap 2 " , created also this unforgettable gorefest . Lots of gore and over-the-top visuals and wonderfully claustrophobic atmosphere of clinic with walls randomly dripping blood , bleeding flesh creating nauseating piles on white floors and surgical procedures carried out in an absolutely insane environment . The acting is hysterical and the sense of chaos is completely overwhelming . The film is filled with relentless Yoko's screams that are fairly difficult to stomach . " LSD " is among the most bizarre horror films I have ever seen . It truly reminds me a bad acid trip . .
Violent Umberto Lenzi's cop thriller .	Umberto Lenzi's " Napoli Violenta " is a first class cop movie that really shocked me . It's exciting and really memorable with some nasty bits of violence ( including a fence post impalement and bowling ball facial ) . Maurizio Merli is great as a veteran cop named Betti . He sets out to clean up a protection racket run by the Commandant ( Barry Sullivan ) . Along the way , Betti befriends a little boy whose father is murdered by the criminals . Since Merli passed away in 1989 , " Violent Protection " attained almost a cult status in some places . There are some great car chases and plenty of exciting gun-play . So if you're a fan of Italian crime genre give this one a look . Highly recommended .
Nasty porno horror .	The 70's were the times in which porn was very mean and ugly . Lots of so-called XXX roughies was made during those glorious years of cinematic filth . Among them was infamous " Waterpower " by Shaun Costello . Jamie Gillis plays here a notorious rapist called the Enema Bandit . He viciously rapes his female victims and before the rape he gives them an enema . The cops are trying desperately to catch him . . . " Waterpower " is certainly a shocking and dirty stuff , but the acting is pretty good and the cinematography is great . The film is filled with gritty atmosphere of urban decay . The scenes of sexual violence are hard to stomach and the misogyny is rampant through its projection time . Jamie Gillis is frighteningly realistic as the Enema Bandit . A must-see for fans of bizarre hybrids of porn and horror . .
Sleazy and hilarious HK monster trash .	Danny Lee plays a crippled guy who has polio . When he visits his uncle in prison , waiting for the execution , he gets a special spell thanks to the tattoo on his back . Since this day , the man can turn into the oily maniac super hero , who slaughters a bunch of criminals . " Oily Maniac " is one hell of a hilarious monster flick . The main idea is completely crazy : a man can turn into a pool of oil . The special effects are primitive , but the action is fast and there is a good deal of nudity . The plot is silly , but who cares . If you like to see cheesy monster rampage and lots of breasts this low-budget monster / super hero flick is a must-see . I'd give it just for the sheer pleasure of watching this trash .
Jemima is back !	Jemima is back in this gruesome and wickedly funny sequel directed with skills and resolution by Uisdean Murray . This time she dates with Raul , but little does she know that Raul hides an evil and sinister secret . I was in Warsaw during Horror Fiesta Film Festival where " Jemima : Photographic Trophy " had its world premiere . The film is even more memorable than " Jemima : Dating Is Murder " . Again , it offers some wonderful moments of black humour and a little bit of gore . Joy McAvoy is truly believable as a charming female-serial killer . The musical score is brilliant and the film is extremely well-made . Uisdean Murray is obviously a very talented director and I can't wait for his new projects . Recommended !
The goriest Sasquatch flick of ' em all .	The action opens at a hospital , where a bunch of doctors and a cop are talking to this guy with a cloth over his face to cover his hideous injuries . Apparently he's the only survivor of a recent massacre and the cop wants to know what happened . The guy on the hospital bed is a Professor Nugent from the local college and he tells of how he'd got interested in recent reports coming from the mountains-reports of bizarre murders linked with Bigfoot sightings . Intrigued he assembles a search party of willing nubile students to go with him and hunt for this Yeti . They go looking and the bloodbath ensues . . . " Night of the Demon " was originally banned in the UK , Germany and Norway due to its gore content . Sure , it offers lots of violence and gore including a notorious scene where a motorcyclist gets his penis graphically ripped off while urinating , but some of the murder scenes are downright hilarious . The film does have more than twice as many deaths as your average body-count flick . Overall , " Night of the Demon " is well made with reasonable acting , a competent storyline and an interesting monster . Give it a look .
Gory and stylish haunted house movie .	A television crew enter the sprawling Mamiya mansion to film the restoration of a fresco painted by the artist who lived there decades before . They discover not one but several frescoes including one that seems to depict the death of a young child in some kind of furnace . That night the temperamental presenter wanders out into the grounds of the house and digs up a coffin containing the charred remains of an infant . It soon becomes apparent that the child's mother , although dead herself has not left the house and is still angered by her loss . " Sweet Home " is obviously inspired by Tobe Hooper's " Poltergeist " and Robert Wise's " The Haunting " . The special effects made by Dick Smith are spectacular and there is a good amount of grue including dismemberments and melting faces . The action is fast-paced , the script is well-written and the characters are engaging . . A hidden gem .
Bloody survival horror .	Sean Pertwee stars as Jed , a warden at a Young Offenders ' Institute , who's assigned to take a group of dangerous inmates to a deserted island for an Outward Bound course after one of their dorm-mate commits suicide because of vicious bullying . Things look up when the group runs into a couple of girls but it isn't long before their numbers start rapidly diminishing , thanks to an unseen assailant intent on picking them off one by one . This insanely bloody survival horror is truly exciting and well-made . The characters are well-developed and some of the gory deaths are suitably shocking . The biggest problem with Wilderness is that it kills off its most likable characters too early on and the ostensible lead is underwritten so it's hard to really care about him . Still if you like survivalist horror cinema give this one a chance .
Early 80's slasher flick with a misogynistic streak .	A slumber party is invaded by a psycho slasher who kills with a large drill in this would-be satire of the hack-'em-up genre scripted by feminist author Rita Mae Brown . However the film becomes a prime example of the gratuitous sex and violence toward women which it hopes to mock . Horror fans will surely enjoy it particularly a jolting scene involving a pizza-delivery man who shows up at the door at the wrong time . The film has some genuinely inspired moments of sheer lunacy and offers tons of female nudity . The uncut version features also a good bit of tasty gore including some lovingly bloody electric drill killings . I haven't seen three sequels that followed , but maybe someday . . . for this crypto-feminist slasher flick .
Pretty good slasher flick .	Four students have to spend the night in the dark old mansion called Garth Manor only to be murdered by a deformed killer . Tom DeSimone's " Hell Night " is a surprisingly decent horror film . There is a little bit of gore and a nice amount of atmosphere , unfortunately the film is too darkly lit to be completely enjoyable . Still " Hell Night " offers some shocking scenes that will make you jump , but overall isn't scary . The acting is actually decent and the direction by Tom DeSimone is well-handled . The film has a dark , almost Gothic feel , which I liked . So if you like low-budget slasher films you can't go wrong with " Hell Night " . . Highly recommended .
Depraved Nikkatsu pink film .	The plot of " Woman in the Box : Virgin Sacrifice " is very simple . A young virgin played by Kizuki Saeko is captured by abnormal couple . The girl is quickly subjected to sexual torture and abuse . She is also locked in the wood box . Excessively violent Nikkatsu pink film loaded with lots of sex and misogynistic mayhem . The film was written by Kazuo ' Gaira ' Komizu , the director of outrageous " Entrails of a Virgin " and " Entrails of a Beautiful Woman " . The thin story is mainly an excuse to show tons of sleaze including sado-sexual violence and rapes . Unfortunately my copy of this film is heavily censored optically , so I didn't enjoy this obnoxious piece of filth as much as I wanted . A must-see for curious fans of Japanese exploitation , but I think that " Captured for Sex 2 " is better .
Nowhere nearly as creepy as the original - " Ringu " , but still pretty good .	" The Ring " directed by Gore Verbinski is based on the Japanese shocker " Ringu " ( 1998 , Hideo Nakata ) . The film actually has more dramatic elements than the original , which is pure horror ! Still Verbinski creates some really suspenseful moments-unlike many directors he realizes that what an audience imagines is far more frightening that what's on screen . The acting is excellent ( Naomi Watts is brilliant and really compelling ! ) , there are some very interesting visuals and eerie moments . Still this film is not as scary as Hideo Nakata's masterpiece . A nice try ! . Recommended !
Amusing sexual comedy with unflinchingly brutal climax .	A pair of free-spirited European girls played by Gloria Guida and Lili Carati hitch-hike to Rome in search of a commune where they can revel in the peace , free sexual love and happiness of the late 1960s . Instead they fall prey to bad vibes and unspeakable sexual violence . Fernando Di Leo's shocking tale is a coming-of-age tragedy laced with drugs , prostitution , sleaze and brutality . The film plays like a cheerful Italian sex comedy with some decent humor and plenty of nudity . However it all climaxes into unflinchingly brutal finale in the woods , where both girls are beaten , raped and murdered . The last sequence is truly ugly and disturbing in its cold depiction of sexual violence . It surely is unforgettable . .
Very entertaining and amusing film .	" Rapeman " is the first installment of hugely popular and politically incorrect series about a quiet and mild-mannered teacher who becomes secretly a leather-clad and masked superhero called Rapeman . You can hire him , if you want to get the revenge against someone through rape . This time a bar hostess hires Rapeman to rape the new wife of her former boyfriend and noted politician . The plot of " Rapeman " may sound offensive for some viewers , however the film is not as violent and sleazy as many other notable pinku flicks . In fact it's surprisingly funny and humorous . The rape scenes are very tame and there is only a little bit of nudity , so the film can be enjoyed even by the viewers who dislike pinku genre . A perfect flick to cheer somebody up !
Nasty and mean pink rape film .	" Rape ! 13th Hour " tells the story of a brutal gangster and rapist named Crimson . He is stalked by a trio of gay vigilantes . One night Crimson rapes a ballerina with the help of a young gas station worker . Crimson's accomplice can't climax , but his thoughts about rape are overwhelming . Soon the series of brutal rapes is set in motion . . . " Rape ! 13th Hour " by Yasuharu Hasebe is not as disturbing as 1976's " Assault ! Jack the Ripper " , however it features lots of rape and hard misogyny . This controversial pink film is perhaps one of the most extreme Nikkatsu rape movies . The climax which takes place in an empty swimming pool is truly nihilistic and evil . The acting is solid , the women are attractive and there are some tense moments . A must-see for fans of depraved exploitation cinema , but despite of its nasty reputation " Rape ! 25-ji bokan " is nothing in comparison to many pinku eiga movies which would follow . .
Absolutely nasty and extreme Japanese shocker .	" Red Room 2 " is a continuation of the same theme from " Red Room " albeit with new players . Again there are some truly twisted scenes of sadism , gore and sexual violence for example a guy gets his nasal passages scrubbed with a toothbrush for minutes on end until blood erupts everywhere or in a truly repulsive scene a guy who is fisting one of the females in the cage feels something inside her . He grabs hold and pulls with all his strength , wrenching a three inch long fetus and yards of umbilical chord ! So if you liked " Red Room " you won't be disappointed with this piece of nihilism . I still think that Daisuke Yamanouchi's " Mu Zan E " is a much better film . Give it a look as well .
A bad taste extravaganza .	Joel M . Reed's " Blood Sucking Freaks " is a pretty sick film . Sardu ( Seamus O'Brien ) and his dwarf sidekick Ralphus ( Luis De Jesus ) are white slave traders masquerading as theater performance artists . During their low-rent performance art / magic show they torture naked women before a live audience . The film is filled with blatant misogyny . Women are used as tables , torn apart on a rack , one is put in a guillotine and forced to hold the robe keeping the blade up her teeth while she is caned , another woman has her ass used as a dartboard etc . The special effects are pretty awful , so their impact equals zero . The acting is bad and the film is very boring . So if you're looking for a laughably bad exploitation film with lots of amateurish gore , then give this one a look . Still there are better and more disturbing horror movies out there . Really , " Blood Sucking Freaks " is nothing in comparison to " Cannibal Holocaust " , " In a Glass Cage " , " Bunman-The Untold Story " or " Last House on Dead End Street " . You have been warned !
Surprisingly good .	" Blind Dead " tetralogy ( 1971-1975 ) is among the best and most famous Spanish horror films of their time . These movies are surprisingly well-made and creepy . The best feature of the films is their title menace : the Blind Dead , mummified zombies which rise from their graves to drink the blood of their victims . " Night of the Seagulls " / " La Noche de las Gaviotas " is regarded as the weakest film of " Blind Dead " series ( the other three movies are " Tombs of the Blind Dead " , " Return of the Blind Dead " and " Ghost Galleon " ) . I think that this film is unfairly criticized-there is actually plenty of atmosphere here . Particularly effective is the sense of stoic dread that hangs over the village . Every seven years , these people must give up seven of their children , so that the others might live . Unfortunately the Templars are treated with far less mystery and awe than they are in other films . Still the climax is quite suspenseful and the Templars look terrifying . Overall I enjoyed this film , so if you liked this highly original and imaginative series give this one a look .
Sleazy and depraved Italian giallo .	A young model dies of a heart attack during a back-alley abortion . After her death a mysterious series of bloody murders take place . Each of the victims are connected to the same studio that Evelyn worked at and each are viciously murdered by the knife wielding killer . " Strip Nude for Your Killer " is a sleazy and violent Italian giallo that will surely please fans of Italian cinema . There is lots of nudity provided by Edwige Fenech , Femi Benussi and Erna Schurer . The jazz score by Berto Pisano is pretty good and the plot is actually very gripping . The killings are quite gory and sadistic and the cinematography by Franco Delli Colli is excellent . Check it out , if you like Italian giallos . .
Cold and detached bestiality pinku .	At heart , " Horse Woman Dog " is an extremely perverse rural pinku , in which a necrophiliac ( Kazuhiro Sano ) lives in a secluded house with a female amnesiac and a woman who murdered her sister . Sato centers his attention on the psycho-sexual deterioration of his protagonists . The film is quite unsettling with two graphic bestiality scenes involving a dog and a horse . There is also plenty of perverse sex on display , unfortunately the erotic scenes are heavily censored optically . The lack of subtitles on my DVD-R is the main reason of the absence of details in this review . Still Sato is a very interesting pinku director that tries to disturb the viewer and usually succeeds . .
Another bestiality pinku from Sato .	Yuu is living with her Ryusei horse on the edge of sea . One day a young researcher and three artists arrive and they disturb Yuu's quasi-telepathic relation with a horse . " Staple Girl " is less provocative and scandalous than " Horse Woman Dog " , but still offers some unpleasant scenes including the masturbation with a severed horse penis . One again Sato shows the world as the cold , morbid and unhealthy place filled with sexual pleasure and pain . There is a bit of extreme violence and the images of mannequins buried in the sand are strikingly haunting . Sato introduces a topic which will reappear in his most famous and goriest film " Naked Blood " that of the telepathic communication . .
Delicious horror film .	Antonia Bird's " Ravenous " is one of the finest low-budget horror movies of recent years . It's a brilliant mix of cannibalism , gruesome gore , sly black humour and quasi-philosophy . The script by Ted Griffin is absolutely stupendous . It's an irresistible blend of Native American legend ( you absorb the strength or spirit of who you eat ) , the Donner tragedy , and the story of Sawney Bean . Bean with his wife and his numerous offspring , dwelt in a cave in Galloway , Scotland , during the sixteenth century . The family cave was close to the sea and they lived by highway robbery : ambushing , killing and then eating passers-by . Any parts of the body which they were not able to eat once were pickled in brine or hung in their cave . Over a period of twenty-five years it was proved that Bean and his family were estimated to have killed and eaten more than a thousand people . The acting is wonderful-Guy Pearce shines in a difficult role as a Lieutant John Boyd . " Ravenous " was shot in the Czech Republic and Slovakia , and the landscape and climate is put to fantastic use . The score by Damon Albarn ( of British band Blur ) and Michael Nyman is very spooky and atmospheric . The film is loaded with brutal violence and gore , so if you're squeamish give it a miss . However if you're a horror fan with a taste for something dark and sinister , then you're in for a rare treat . Highly recommended .
Trippy Italian giallo .	A troubled rich woman Carol Hammond played by Florinda Bolkan is suffering from a series of bizarre sexual dreams where she indulges in lesbian activities with her neighbor Julia Durer ( Anita Strindberg ) . Unfortunately one morning after another perverse sex dream culminating in a gory knifing of Julia , Carol is shocked to find that Julia was murdered in her apartment the stormy night before . When all evidence points to Carol being the culprit she must not only investigate the crime but determine what is dream and what is reality . " Lizard in a Woman's Skin " is perhaps the most bizarre and puzzling Fulci's giallo . The cinematography by Luigi Kuvellier is splendid with some gorgeous visuals and the dream scenes are appropriately psychedelic . The eviscerated dogs sequence still shocks unprepared viewers drawn into the murder mystery aspect of the film . .
Very odd and convoluted giallo .	Aldo Lado's stylish 1971 giallo " Short Night of the Glass Dolls " is the story of Gregory ( Jean Sorel ) , a reporter who is found dead in a Prague park . However his brain is alive as we can hear his frantic thoughts . It appears that his beautiful girlfriend Mira ( Barbara Bach ) has vanished without a trace and Gregory , along with his reporter pal Jack ( Mario Adorf ) , work to uncover the secret of a mysterious group of Prague's wealthy elite who operate inside the mysterious Klub 99 . " Short Night of the Glass Dolls " is a fine Italian giallo . The plot is bizarre and rather unpredictable and there is a decent amount of sleaze . Ennio Morricone again provides the music . It should be noted that this film is pretty hard for me to classify as a giallo in the traditional sense as it contains no black-gloved assassin . Still it's worth checking out for fans of Italian horror .
Wonderful little Japanese horror film .	A mysterious letter , the only clue left for Kaoru to search for her missing brother and the reason behind his sudden disappearance . Her blind but relentless search leads the girl to ' Kozakuta-mura ' , a cursed and insane village where people are mesmerized by the power of the Kakashi ( scarecrow ) . Soon a series of strange things will be set in motion . . . " Kakashi " by Norio Tsuruta is a typically Japanese supernatural mystery that takes its inspiration from such great horror pictures as " The Wicker Man " and " Pet Sematary " . The film is pleasant to watch with some gorgeous cinematography and fine lighting . The soundtrack is minimal and haunting and the mood is well-captured . The main theme in " Kakashi " is the endless cycle of death and rebirth and this is cleverly paralleled with various social concerns throughout . So if you want to see a poetic and atmospheric piece of horror give this one a chance . .
Very atmospheric .	John Llewelyn Moxey's " The City of the Dead " is a wonderfully atmospheric and sinister witchcraft tale . There is a distinct air of dread over the entire film and the sets are all appropriately fog enshrouded . The acting is pretty good and the score is really nice . A young student Nan Barlow ( Venetia Stevenson ) goes to an old town called Whitewood that is recommended by her creepy professor , Alan Driscoll ( Christopher Lee ) . The town was the site where the famous witch Elizabeth Selwyn ( Patricia Jessel ) was burned at the stake almost one hundred years ago , and Nan thinks its a perfect place to do her research . Where Nan's family and boyfriend don't hear from her in almost two weeks , they organize a search that ends up revealing the truth about town and its mysterious residents .
Japanese ultra-gore ! !	" Biotherapy " is a fairly nasty Japanese gorefest about a group of Japanese scientists stalked and viciously butchered by a creepy-looking alien . This relatively unknown ultra low-budget splatter film is rather well-made and captivating . The gore effects by Osamu Miki are effective and suitably nasty for example the scene where a scientist has his eye pulled out is extremely graphic . There is also incredibly bloody moment in which a female scientist is sadistically murdered by having broken test tubes jammed into her body and the blood is spraying everywhere . " Biotherapy " is not as sickening as Daisuke Yamanouchi's " Red Room " series or Tamakichi Anaru's ultra-nasty " Women's Flesh " , but it certainly provides plenty of red stuff for fans of crazy Japanese splatter . Give it a look , if you can find it . .
Sleazy Japanese nunsploitation flick .	Japanese nunsploitation cinema is not as popular as Italian . Some entries in this genre include Norifumi Suzuki's very stylish " School of the Holy Beast " , Masaru Konuma's " Cloistered Nun : Runa's Confession " , Koyu Ohara's " Sister Lucia's Dishonor " and " Wet Rope Confession " , Hiroshi Mukai's " Nun : Secret " , Nobuaki Shirai's " Nun Story : Frustration in Black " and Mamoru Watanabe's " Rope Of Hell : A Nun's Story " and " Electric Bible : Sister Hunting " . " Nun Story : Frustration in Black " is a pretty perverse and blasphemous Japanese nunsploit . There is plenty of sex and whipping on display and even two scenes of nun rape . I have this Nikkatsu pinker in Japanese with no subtitles , so the plot went completely beyond me , but as a fan of Japanese exploitation I enjoyed it . .
Very gory low-budget slasher .	A bunch of college age kids stop at a roadside bar / restaurant and are asked by the manager if they can go up to his shed in the woods of Halcyon Ridge to take care of a few things for him because he can't do it for some reason . He agrees to give them some cash and feed them and take care of their first night of drinks on their first night of vacation . The teenagers agree to help out . While in the shed they come across a projector and decide to watch some films . The films however are explicit and graphic murders of campers in the woods . It appears that there is a fat butcher in the woods preying on unsuspecting campers . . . This independent horror flick is surprisingly well-made and acted . The story itself is not original , the lack of suspense is the main drawback , but " Carver " certainly delivers the graphic gore . Some kill scenes are actually very brutal and unpleasant and that's why I enjoyed this slick and highly unoriginal flick with the killer resembling fat hulking Buddy from " Slaughterhouse " . .
. . . The evil which will take flesh and blood from thee and turn all ye unto evil . . .	Woah , what a movie ! ! The plot is incredibly simple : a group of teenagers is devoured by bloodthirsty zombies . I agree that it's a total rip-off of Romero's earlier zombie epics . Yes , it has also bad acting , stupid dialogue and funny zombies , but you can't say that " Flesheater " isn't enjoyable or entertaining . Lots of blood is spilled and lots of people are eaten , the gore is plentiful and the main zombie played by director S . William Hinzman is really cool ! So if you like cheesy horror movies with plenty of bloodshed give this rather obscure film a look .
Spanish " Straw Dogs " .	A young married couple at the end of the 1970s , who come to visit a friend played by Gary Oldman who now lives in the Basque region because he has married a woman from there . Their tranquil summer turns to horror when they discover a girl with horribly mutilated hands hidden in the forest . They try to help her by taking her away from the home in which she is locked , but the local villagers , who have to protect the girl start a deadly pursuit in the forest they know much better than the visitors . This pretty intense Spanish survival thriller owes a lot to Sam Peckinpah's masterpiece " Straw Dogs " and John Boorman's " Deliverance " . As the film's violence spirals further and further out of control , the distinction between hunter and prey becomes wildly confused . The pace is slow , but the acting is great and the violence is harsh . Give it a look .
Sexually perverse Italian smut .	" Oscenita " is perhaps the most scandalous Renato Polselli's film . Banned for few years in Italy due to its transgressive sexual content and released in theaters in 1979 this piece of sleaze offers several sexually explicit scenes including masturbation with a candle , whipping , rape and sexual intercourse with a donkey . Unfortunately my copy of " Oscenita " is in Italian language , so the plot went beyond me , but if you are a fan of sleazy exploitation cinema you can't miss it . When it comes to Polselli I have only seen his giallo " Delirium " and Satanic sleaze " The Reincarnation of Isabel " , but after seeing " Oscenita " I really want to get his other more obscure movies . .
Sick Mexican exploitation trash .	Criminal Carlos " El Gato " is executed in the electric chair . Carlos is then resurrected by a creepy demoness called the ' Supreme Being of Darkness ' , but he has to renounce his religion , and spend his time raping and murdering people : each human sacrifice must be marked with a " 666 " . Soon the orgy of brutal violence and rape is set in motion . . . Very sleazy and offensive Mexican exploitation trash . The rape scenes are brutal and rather unpleasant , and the level of sexual violence is very high . Even a young homosexual man is viciously stabbed to death and raped by sexually insatiable El Violador Infernal , who then carves " 666 " on the corpse's buttocks . The special effects are inept and the acting is mediocre , however fans of strikingly nasty low-budget exploitation won't be disappointed . .
Another watchable entry in Japanese S & M pinku subgenre .	" Noble Lady : Bound Vase " is another bondage pink which is based on Dan Oniroku's novel and stars Naomi Tani . This time the direction was helmed by usually reliable Masaru Konuma of " Wife to Be Sacrificed " and " Woman in a Box " fame . Tani plays the wife of the wealthy land-owner . She is subjected to sexual torture and abuse by her husband . The film is not as rough as several pinku from 80's which I had an opportunity to see , but still offers some rape and shibari bondage . There is even a short dildo torture scene added for a good measure . Overall , if you are a fan of such fascinating genre like pinku eiga , " Noble Lady : Bound Vase " can't be missed . .
Surprisingly unsettling low-budget indie horror film .	A crazy freak named Luther is released from an insane asylum , rips off the throat of an old lady and the begins to terrorize a single farm mother , her teenage daughter and the daughter's boyfriend . " Luther the Geek " is a gory horror film strictly addressed to fans of cult exploitation cinema . Luther seems to be so obsessed with biting the heads off chickens that he himself thinks he's a chicken , thus we have him clucking like a chicken in various scenes , until he does his infamous chicken dance towards the end . " Luther the Geek " is almost entirely dialogue free and offers some nasty gore plus a little bit of graphic sex and nudity . The climax is surprising and as a whole the film is pretty grim . A must-see for fans of bizarre and off-beat cinema . .
Along with " Lokis " possibly the most famous Polish horror film .	" Wilczyca " by Marek Piestrak is arguably the most famous Polish horror film . Unfortunately this atmospheric flick is not well-known abroad . The action of " Wilczyca " takes place in Poland in the ninetieth century . Maryna dislikes his husband , a Polish patriot named Kacper . Before her death , she curses him . Her evil is transformed not only into a young countess Julia , but also into the wolf . . . " Wilczyca " is definitely a Polish horror classic that reminds me some Hammer productions . The film is loaded with traditional genre elements like tombs or silver bullets . The climax is surprisingly gory and the mood is quite sensual . Unfortunately its sequel " Powrot Wilczycy " from 1990 , also directed by Piestrak , is nowhere nearly as good as the original . So if you ever get a chance to watch this film , don't hesitate to do this . .
Effectively brutal Aussie survival horror .	" Storm Warning " is an intense and violent survival horror featuring some of the most inventive graphic blood-letting ever captured on celluloid . It plays like a mix of " Deliverance " and " Straw Dogs " . A married couple out boating off the coast of Australia get caught in a storm and end up lost on an isolated island , where they seek shelter in an empty , rundown house , which turns to have three rather unfriendly and sadistic inhabitants . The couple is captured , degraded and tormented ; the husband Rob's leg is broken and the wife Pia is targeted for rape . . . I can't believe that the director of pretty weak teen slasher flicks " Urban Legend " and " Valentine " made this delightfully gruesome and bloody survival horror . The atmosphere of helplessness is well-captured , the acting is remarkable and the parallels with Aussie horror hit " Wolf Creek " are clearly visible . .
Great slasher flick .	" Madman " starts with the typical scene of teens sitting around the campfire listening to scary tales . A head of camp , Max tells them the true story of Madman Marz . Marz was a brutal farmer who lived in the house by the campsite and who beat his wife and two kids . During one such fight he even had part of his nose bitten off ! One night the freaky farmer took his axe and chopped up his family as they slept , and for such a nasty deed the locals decided to whack him across the face with his axe and string him up from a tree . One their return they find Marz has vanished , taking the bodies of his family with him . Now it's said he roams the woods looking for people to chop and string up . If you say his name above a whisper . . . Madman Marz will get you ! " Madman " is a typical early 80's slasher flick that provides some genuine chills . The cinematography is surprisingly striking with some lovely blue tinged night scenes . Madman Marz is a really creepy psycho and there is plenty of gore including a messy throat slashing , a nasty axe in the chest murder plus a couple of severed heads . The ending is surprisingly downbeat and the action is fast-paced . Give this wonderful slasher flick a chance . .
Extremely gory Japanese seppuku film . Spoilers	" Lost Paradise " is directed by Masami Akita , who is also one of Japan's leading noise musicians under the name Merzbow . With a soundtrack by the director himself , this intense and ultra-gory seppuku film shows a young woman taking her own life by an act of ritual harakiri . Dressed in militaristic attire , the girl ( Asako Mochuzuki ) kneels , removes her jacket and opens her shirt to the waist , exposing her naked breasts and stomach . Lowering the waistband of her white panties , she caresses her belly before taking up a sacrificial knife , whose blade she wraps in a white bandage . Pressing the point into her left side she punctures the flesh , then slowly and deliberately pulls the knife across to the right . First blood leaks out , then as the gash widens her entrails start to ooze onto the floor . She continues to cut , her moans strongly reminiscent of those made by the actresses in porno films . Finally she collapses , still groaning , in a lake of blood and coiling viscera . Her death throes are extremely protracted . " Lost Paradise " is an extremely gory Japanese shocker which looks as real as possible . I was really shocked whilst watching it and that's a compliment . The suicide scene is extremely long and painful to watch , because it lasts 18 minutes . The soundtrack by Merzbow is truly disturbing and hard to forget . This film is not entertaining , so fans of mindless teen horror should not bother . Check it out , but good luck finding a copy .
Absolutely vile and sickening film .	Daisuke Yamanouchi's " Mu Zan E " is about a young journalist , who is searching for snuff movies . The film shows us a snuff / porn making underground industry ala " Last House on Dead End Street " or " Tesis " . It's extremely grim and gory and it pulls no punches with its sheer nastiness . There are some incredibly revolting scenes of gore and sexual violence , so fans of Japanese pinku eiga sickies won't be disappointed . It seems to me that Japanese culture is loaded with sadism and bloodletting and this carries over into the realms of cinema and literature . Anyway , if you're a fan of the " Guinea Pig " series or " Cannibal Holocaust " you can't miss this one . However if you're squeamish don't watch it !
Creepy religious horror .	" The Night God Screamed " is obviously inspired by murderous activities of Charles Manson and his ' family ' . The film is unavailable at this present time on DVD . It mixes relentless suspense and unsettling undertones of religious fanaticism . Jeanne Crain stars as the widow of a murdered preacher who is later systematically stalked and terrorised by the same crazed religious cult once led by twisted Jesus freak Billy Joe Harlan and responsible for her husbands death . Very effective suspense flick which easily maintains a nail-biting sense of tension . The central performance of Jeanne Crain is excellent . She plays the woman on the edge of total breakdown . All in all " The Night God Screamed " is a well paced , highly effective and suspenseful little shocker steeped in a chilling , uneasy sense of twisted religious mania .
Truly bizarre horror film from Hong Kong .	" Red Spell Spells Red " is one of the rarest HK horror films in my collection . I managed to get this extremely obscure piece of gory horror on VCD whilst being in Kuala Lumpur . In a big cave an evil dwarf sorcerer is performing a bizarre ritual . Suddenly four righteous sorcerers enter the cave and attack him . In the subsequent struggle they wound the dwarf sorcerer fatally and throw him into a stone coffin . They carefully seal the coffin . The present time : a group of photographers investigate the legend of the evil sorcerer . They enter the cave and break the seal . Red smoke gushes from the coffin and ghastly things start to happen . A young man is killed by an unseen force , another is killed by the woods that came alive . When dozens of scorpions attack the people in the village , it seems clear that village is cursed . An old sorcerer tries to remove the powerful spell . " Red Spell Spells Red " is a dark and suspenseful horror film that left me stunned . The tone of the film is serious , albeit there is a little bit of humor to be found here . The scenes of scorpions attacking people are creepy and horrifying . The film has some grisly scenes of animal cruelty thrown in for a good measure . Some pigs are killed with a knife and in truly disgusting moment a possessed man kills a hen by eating it alive in front of the camera . The gore effects are surprisingly effective for example a hand is cut off after the sting of the scorpion or a woman is attacked by a fishing net and wooden beams . The film is almost impossible to find , so don't hesitate to get a copy . .
Bizarre and entertaining .	" Uzumaki " takes place in a small Japanese rural town , where people are going mad . They go nuts over vortexes and spirals . The crisis is getting worse , because people are turning into snails and vortexes appear everywhere . " Uzumaki " has to be one of the most bizarre and original horror movies I have seen . The plot is really clever and the gore scenes are really funny as the film doesn't takes itself too seriously . " Uzumaki " is wonderfully photographed and the use of colors is top-notch . The characters are likeable and there is enough shocking surprises to satisfy fans of Japanese horror . Despite of some hilarious scenes , the overall tone of this film is pretty dark . " Uzumaki " is not as good as " Ringu " , " Ju-on " or " Audition " , but if you like Japanese horror movies you won't be disappointed . .
Surreal and bizarre porno masterpiece .	" Thundercrack ! " starts out as a horror flick with some people taking refuge in a ghostly mansion during a storm at the countryside . Their hostess is one of the weirdest female characters ever shown on screen . Dead drunk , horny , delirious : Marion Eaton plays the role with a vengeance . What is the secret with her dead husband ? Where is her son ? Why does she keep human body parts in the cellar ? It really doesn't matter much . Very soon , everyone gets involved in something much more interesting : having sex in every which way possible and impossible . Curt McDowell's " Thundercrack ! " is easily one of the most bizarre porno films I have ever seen . It's shot in a black and white and loaded with raunchy hard core homo / hetero sex . The script is supremely strange and the acting is fine . Marion Eaton is especially memorable as a creepy Mrs Gert Hammond . I can't wait to see a fully uncut 152-minutes long version of this film . .
Excellent Italian horror film !	I tracked this rarely seen Italian horror on Polish TV and I'm really glad that I taped it . This is a truly bizarre study of madness , which reminds me Polanski's " Repulsion " ( 1965 ) . The main character-a painter brilliantly played by Franco Nero is trying to run away from his strange visions . He visits an old mansion to find peace , quiet and inspiration , but it seems that this place is haunted by the ghost of a young girl . He slowly loses his sanity . . . This unjustly forgotten and rather disturbing horror film is a cinematic pleasure to watch for fans of bizarre Italian cinema . The characters are really weird , the musical score by Ennio Morricone is unforgettable and there are some genuine moments of insanity and creepiness . Elio Petri created an unique film , which should be seen by everybody ( not only by horror fans ! ) . Highly recommended .
A techno-horror masterpiece !	I watched this one yesterday and all I can say is : wow ! Very clever , intelligent and stylish horror / sci-fi with some memorable visuals and lots of suspense . Julie Christie ( " Don't Look Now " ) is excellent in the lead role , and Donald Cammell's direction is well-handled . The film is pretty hard to find , so if you get a chance watch it ! - a must-see !
Highly intense and criminally underrated Canadian rape and revenge shocker .	" Death Weekend " begins with a sleazy super rich dentist on the way to his country mansion with a buxom beauty in tow . The dentist has actually deceived Brenda Vaccaro into the country weekend foray-the sole purpose of the trip is to enjoy his latest conquest . On their way in their car the couple come across four hillbillies who start hassling the couple and chasing them in their car . Vaccaro manages to leave ' em behind . The enraged goons vows to extract revenge . The orgy of mindless violence begins in the dentists mansion . . . William Fruet's " Death Weekend " is an ugly and brutal rape and revenge flick inspired by " Straw Dogs " and " Last House on the Left " . The most surprising fact is that it was banned as the video nasty in UK . The acting is great , the atmosphere is suitably sleazy and there is enough violence to keep fans of grimy exploitation flicks entertained . Give this one a look . .
Jumping Chinese vampires = pure fun !	John Fasano , the man behind " Rock'n'Roll Nightmare " and " Black Roses " directed also this silly trash . This film is bad , but I found it to be genuinely enjoyable . The acting is horrible-James Hong's ( " The Vineyard " ) performance is actually the best ! Of course jumping Chinese vampires are laughable - " The Jitters " is the kind of a movie that certainly will leave you amused . Pure fun , if you like trash cinema !
Creepy as hell .	" Rec " starts with beautiful reporter Ni ? a Medeiros shooting a segment for the late night TV show " While You're Sleeping " at a local fire station . Finally a low priority call ? tenants in a apartment building are complaining about screams coming from one of the apartments . The police and the fire department are called in and Ni ? a and her cameraman Pablo decide to come along for the ride . When they arrive to the building , the neighbors have all congregated on the main level while the emergency staff-and the television crew ? investigate upstairs and find an elderly woman in her apartment in a rabid state . This is the beginning of the nightmare scenario filled with hysterical screams and animalistic fear . . . Slow-moving POV horror flick which has several moments of total dread and fear . The last 20 minutes are utterly intense and insane . The hand-held photography also allows a few jump scares that come naturally out of its jerky movements . The lack of explanation makes " Rec " even more creepy . .
Beautifully filmed early Argento's giallo .	" Bird with the Crystal Plumage " is a classic horror / giallo film about an American writer in Rome , who sees a woman being murdered in an art gallery . He can't make out the killer's face , but the police decide to garnish his passport , so he conducts his own investigation . Soon he becomes the killer's next target . Plenty of suspense , beautiful camera work by Vittorio Storaro , wonderful atmosphere and bizarre murders . As usual for a giallo , the plot is very convoluted and suspension of believe is called upon yet again . Typically flamboyant Argento touches include a subjective-camera shot of a man's view as he falls out a window to his death . Highly recommended for all those who admire giallo thrillers .
Interesting experimental vampire film .	Dracula's daughter Nadja wanders New York City , melancholy and driven by her need for blood . She seduces and drinks from the depressed Lucy . Meanwhile Lucy's husband Jim is asked to help his friend Van Helsing who has been arrested for staking Dracula . But then the two of them realize that Nadja is drinking from Lucy . As they try to hunt her down , Nadja and her self-described ' slave ' Renfield flee back to Rumania . " Nadja " is a post-modern vampire flick which is actually a black-and-white reworking " Dracula's Daughter " ( 1936 ) . The film was produced by David Lynch who also played a small cameo as a morgue attendant that gets hypnotized by Nadja . The film is splendidly photographed in a glorious black-and-white and offers tons of mesmerizingly dreamy atmosphere . Overall , " Nadja " is much better than overrated and too philosophical " The Addiction " . The soundtrack by Portishead and The Verve is fabulous too !
Classic and a real genre builder !	James Whale's " Frankenstein " is a must-see for everyone who is interested in the horror genre . The legendary performance by Boris Karloff is still effective even now . I love especially the sequence involving little girl , Maria and The Monster . Maria's death scene is very gruesome and the film contains truly creepy Gothic atmosphere . - see this masterpiece now !
Excellent !	James Whale's " Bride of Frankenstein " is surely one of the best horror movies ever made . The film contains some extremely funny moments and some horrifying ones . Again as in the original " Frankenstein " ( 1931 ) the performances are excellent-Colin Clive is really memorable as a Dr . Frankenstein , Ernest Thesiger is amazing as an evil Dr . Praetorius ! The sequence when The Monster ( Boris Karloff ) encounters a blind old man is so funny and touching ! Give this one a look-you won't be disappointed . A classic !
Very tasteless and exploitative slasher flick .	" Gutterballs " opens with tasteless and suitably disturbing gang-rape scene that will surely offend some viewers . It takes place in a bowling alley called the Xcalibur Bowling Centre . Its janitor lets two groups of teenagers for the big bowling match against each other . Soon the members of each group are being gorily dispatched by the frenzied killer BBK , who wears a bowling bag mask . . . " Gutterballs " is a sleazy blast obviously inspired by Italian giallo flicks and excessively violent slashers from early 80's . The death scenes are seriously sick and gory as hell and the graphic nudity is frequent in the unrated XXX version . The characters are obnoxious , vulgar and outlandish . None of them is likable . Several scenes of bloodshed put the smile of my face including the death of transvestite , who gets his penis sheared off . The double asphyxiation by fellatio and cunnilingus is also worth mentioning as is the stabbing with sharpened pin . To sum up , " Gutterballs " is not for the squeamish , so if you are a fan of tasteless and morbid horror grab the unrated version .
Refreshingly original French horror .	A prison cell . Four prisoners-Carrere , a young company director accused of fraud , 35 year old transsexual in the process of his transformation , Daisy , a 20 year-old mentally challenged idiot savant and Lassalle , a 60 year-old intellectual who murdered his wife . Behind a stone slab in the cell , mysteriously pulled loose , they discovered a book : the diary of a former prisoner , Danvers , who occupied the cell at the beginning of the century . The diary contains magic formulas that supposedly enable prisoners to escape . " Malefique " is one of the creepiest and most intelligent horror films I have seen this year . The film has a grimy , shadowy feel influenced by the works of H . P . Lovecraft , which makes for a very creepy and unsettling atmosphere . There is a fair amount of gore involved with some imaginative and brutal death scenes and the characters of four prisoners are surprisingly well-developed . It's a shame that Eric Valette made truly horrible remake of " One Missed Call " after his stunning debut . .
The snow is red around children .	" The Children " took me by surprise . It's effectively brutal and supremely moody horror film that managed to unsettle me . Christmas vacation turns into bloody nightmare of screams and murder , when the children of two families become merciless killers . The children begin showing flu-like symptoms including sniffing noses and vomiting . Their stares become cold and soon the blood of their parents begins to flow . . . " The Children " is surprisingly grisly and terrifying horror film from Tom Shankland . The child actors are extremely believable as aggressive sociopaths . The emotional impact of a parent faced with possibly having to kill their own child has just as much impact in the film as the children plotting the murder of their parents . There are some very disturbing scenes in " The Children " including three nasty child deaths . The first half of the film is pretty slow-moving , but the last act certainly delivers the goods . One of the best in the killer kid genre , compared only to marvelous " Who Can Kill a Child ? " when it comes to sheer intensity . .
Awesome horror flick .	Nell and Steven Burrows move to Los Angeles to start a new life together . When they move into the Lusman Building , a historic Hollywood apartment complex , Nell and Steven find themselves caught into a web of terrifying evil . A ruthless killer lurks inside , somehow moving sight unseen from apartment to apartment and using drills , claw hammers and saws to murder his victims . When Nell stumbles into the killer's hidden lair , she comes face to face with supernatural horror . " Toolbox Murders " is a highly entertaining remake of the original . The first " Toolbox Murders " ( 1979 ) was a fun but obvious rip-off of Hooper's masterpiece " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . This film stars Angela Bettis , the beautiful scream queen who is the best known from brilliant " May " . Hooper takes great joy in creating several red herrings throughout the film and it would be a shame to spoil the killer's identity . The film is loaded with plenty of gore and the killings are extremely violent , so fans of the original should be pleased . Bettis is surprisingly good-a strong , independent woman who still , for some reason , stays home all day and tries to solve the mystery all by herself . Her journey through the story is actually quite terrifying . Give it a look . .
One of the roughest S & M flicks I have seen .	" Captured for Sex 2 " tells the story of a young Japanese couple whose car breaks down in the woods . A passing local saves them , but he turns out to be a merciless S & M trainer . The young man and his girlfriend are bound , gagged and subjected to some cruel torture and punishment . The man quickly becomes the master's apprentice and the torturer himself . " Captured for Sex 2 " was directed by Ryuichi Hiroki , Genji Nakamura and Hitoshi Ishikawa under the collective pseudonym Go Ijuin . It's also one of the roughest pinku films I have ever seen as it contains tons of sexual torture and abuse . I was really shocked and disturbed after watching it . The climax , where the women are burned in web-like ropes outside the house is truly unforgettable . Fans of extreme cinema should give this one a look !
Sleazy thriller that owes a lot to " Last House on the Left " .	Paula and Sergio are married and own the small house in the mountains where they only travel to at weekends and Lillian is Paula's sister , who just happens to be having an affair with Sergio . Sergio is going hunting , Paula is going shopping and Lillian is staying home to sunbathe naked . Lillian puts on the radio and we hear a news report a thief and murderer who has escaped from jail and is on the loose after murdering farmer with a pitchfork . The criminal named Joe Brezy has stolen the car and is hiding near the house . He has buried 300million lira in the house ( from the previous robbery ) . Joe takes the three of them hostage whilst he digs for his loot . When he finally gets his loot he plays Paula , Lillian and Sergio against each other telling Paula about the affair her husband and sister are having . " Vacanze per Uno Massacre " is a cheaply made thriller highly influenced by rape and revenge sub-genre . Lorrainde de Selle provides lots of full-frontal nudity and the climax is violent and memorable . It's a crying shame that this nasty little tale of sexual tension is so obscure . .
A poetic horror flick from Jean Rollin .	" The Rose of Iron " is easily one of the most hauntingly beautiful horror flicks made by French maestro Jean Rollin . The film tells the story of a young couple , who venture into a very old and very large cemetery , eventually getting lost within it's walls . Throughout this time , a mind game between the two arises and begins to battle . Eventually Francoise Pascal's character adopts to her surroundings . " The Rose of Iron " is a wonderfully Gothic mood piece , which is primarily set in a cemetery . The film is loaded with hauntingly dark atmosphere of utter hopelessness and there are some surreal situations for example lonely clown walking through the cemetery corridors . Give this lovingly poetic horror flick a look . .
General weirdness + gore + tons of nudity .	" Sexandroide " is an extremely strange soft core porno / S & M horror which is literally splashed with gore . It simply has to be seen to be believed . The previous reviewers described well the plot of " Sexandroide " , so I won't bother doing it again . However the second short which features a naked woman who suffers torture at the hands of zombie is a must-see for splatter fans . She has her nipples pierced and is gorily stabbed in one of her eyes resulting in gouging it out . The third short is truly weird as it involves a naked vampire woman dancing near the coffin of the vampire to Tina Turner music . I laughed like crazy during this episode . So if you enjoy watching gore and nudity you can't go wrong with this piece of ultra-weirdness . The film is also known under the titles of " Les Sexandroides " and " La Dagy de Les Sexandroides " .
An erotic masterpiece of sexual humiliation .	Incredibly hot Aya Sugimoto stars as Shizuko , a bored and unfulfilled wife of a wealthy businessman . When her husband is blackmailed by the Yakuza , Shizuko is sold to Oyabun Tashiro as payment . Tashiro quickly places Shizuko in a private S & M show for an elite audience in order to satisfy his own unfulfilled sexual needs . Shizuko is then subjected to sexual humiliation in front of the masked audience . " Flower and Snake " is based on Oniroku Dan's highly successful novel . The film is perverse and sexually explicit , so fans of Japanese pinku eiga should get it as soon as possible . A famous Japanese singer and model Aya Sugimoto spends lots of her screen time naked and she has truly wonderful body . The story may be shocking for casual viewers , however if you are curious give this stunningly erotic masterpiece a look . .
Very graphic and sickeningly brutal film .	" Cannibal " by Marian Dora is based on a gruesome criminal case of Armin Meiwes . Meiwes , the self-confessed cannibal from Rohtenburg admitted that he had met a 43-year-old Berlin engineer Bernd Brandes , after advertising on the internet and had chopped him up and eaten him . Meiwes cut off Brande's penis and fried it for both to eat , then stabbed his in the neck with a knife and dismembered the body . Over the next few weeks he defrosted and cooked parts of Bernd Brandes in olive oil and garlic , eventually consuming 20kg of human flesh before police finally turned up at his door . " Cannibal " is very graphic and filled with scenes of rough homosexual activity . There are several truly revolting images including penis chomping and later castration scene that made me squirm in my seat . The evisceration and dismemberment of Brandes is shown in unflinching detail . The direction by Marian Dora is flawless as is the acting of two main characters . The minimalist score by Jim Thirwell creates truly oppressive atmosphere of darkness and despair . Overall , " Cannibal " is a grisly and very disturbing shocker that is recommended only for fans of extreme cinema . .
Worthy sequel to the great original .	Kirsty Collins ( Ashley Laurance ) lies in a psychiatric hospital , haunted by the night of unspeakable horror that destroyed her life . Now , only hours later , the nightmare is beginning again . From the blood-stained matress hidden in his home , obsessive psychiatrist Dr Channard ( Kenneth Cranham ) raises the remains of Kirsty's murderous stepmother , Julia ( Clare Higgins ) . Together , Channard and Julia unlock the secret of the Lament Configuration puzzle box to release the unlimited horrors and ultimate pleasures of Hell . For the second time , Kirsty must return beyond the limits to the Outer Darkness to confront the darkest desires of Hell and free her father's soul . " Hellbound : Hellraiser 2 " was obviously influenced by Lucio Fulci's masterpiece of gore and atmosphere " The Beyond " ( 1981 ) . The film is very well-made , the acting is alright and there are some good gross-out gore effects that will certainly please every splatter freak . Absolutely recommended . Note : Death metal group from Ohio Necrophagia recorded a song called " Children of the Vortex " on their brilliant album " Holocausto de la Morte " , which is loosely based on this picture .
Great horror film very loosely based on Lovecraft .	" The Resurrected " is very loosely based on H . P Lovecraft's " The Case of Charles Dexter Ward " . Basically it tells the story of chemical engineer Charles Dexter Ward who gets mixed up in the supernatural when he inherits some books and papers from his dead relative . His wife begins noticing changes in him , so she hires a detective to find out what he has been up to . " The Resurrected " , whilst far from being perfect , is a surprisingly creepy little horror flick . Dan O'Bannon who made excellent " The Return of the Living Dead " delivers plenty of gore and grotesque special effects . The characters are uncomplicated and well defined and there is enough creepiness to satisfy fans of Lovecraft's macabre tales . Overall , " The Resurrected " is a creepy and bloody horror flick that packs a healthy dose of suspense and surprises . Give it a look . .
Very bleak , disturbing and depressing film .	Jeremiah is a seven-year-old boy torn away from his loving foster family to be forcibly reunited with his selfishly drug-addled mother Sarah played by Asia Argento . Jeremiah is fed cold Spaghetti-Os and given baby toys and has to endure an endless heaping of verbal , physical , emotional and sexual assaults from not just his mother , but also her numerous male companions . " The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things " is a depressing adaptation of a book written by mysterious writer JT LeRoy . This is an ugly and brutal film that sometimes plays like the bone-chilling documentary . The cinematography is stylish , the direction by Asia Argento is excellent and there are some truly disturbing and heartbreaking scenes of child abuse . Overall , this is a sickening , utterly relentless portrait of abuse and mental illness that I strongly recommend for anyone brave enough to watch .
Pretty good slasher .	Don Gronquist's " Unhinged " is a pretty good slasher film . A trio of young girls ( led by Laurel Munson as Terry ) head off to a rock concert , only to end up knocked unconscious during the car accident on a desolate country road in the middle of thunderstorm . The girls wake to find themselves recovering in the isolated estate of weird spinster and her equally weird invalid mother . Soon some creepy happenings will begin . . . Director Don Gronquist generates a fair amount of suspense and there is some pretty graphic gore on display . The film is grainy and dimly-lit , so fans of early 80's low-budget horror won't be disappointed . The acting is horrible , but the climax is pretty shocking and unexpected . To sum up , " Unhinged " isn't a great slasher film by any means , but if you're looking for obscure horror give this one a look . Recommended .
Another great rape-themed violent pink from Yasuharu Hasebe .	A Japanese policewoman is raped by a black-gloved truck driver in a very stylish and unsettling rape scene . After the sexual assault the woman becomes obsessed with rough sex and rape . " Attacked ! " is not as vicious as " Assault ! Jack the Ripper " or " Rape ! 13th Hour " , but sleaze comes quick and heavy in this misogynistic exploitation classic . The classical score is awesome and welcome change from usual jazz scores of Hasebe's violent pink flicks . For fans of Nikkatsu's Roman Pornos or pinku eiga cinema in general " Attacked ! " is a must-see . Finally big thanks for fertilecelluloid for giving me an opportunity to watch this unfairly forgotten and ignored violent pink . .
Excellent and totally captivating giallo !	This superbly stylish giallo and gripping precursor to " Don't Look Now " ( 1973 ) about a child murderer is one of the finest Italian thrillers I have ever seen . George Lazenby shines in a lead role , while wonderful Anita Strindberg more than makes up for it with charm and gusto . It's also very nice to see Nicoletta Elmi ( " Demons " , " Deep Red " ) in a small role . The killings are well-handled and fairly gory and the score by Ennio Morricone is simply masterful ! Highly recommended .
Totally crazy and bizarre HK horror film .	Ko plays Xiong , out to avenge his brother , crippled in a kick-boxing fight by Bolo Yeung . His hallucinations lead him to a temple and his karmic twin priest ; their fates are inextricably linked , and that's bad , since the priest was killed by a black magician . Xiong initially sceptical is eventually convinced-the graphic scene of eel-vomiting seems to do the trick - and agrees to become a monk in order to take on the forces of darkness and save both the priest's soul and his own . This surreal and completely over-the-top HK trashy horror flick has to be seen to be believed . The special effects are weak , however you will laugh until it hurts watching several totally weird moments . The action is fast and the film is loaded with hallucinatory imagery straight from Jodorovsky's works . for sheer pleasure of watching this surreal madness .
Dark and disturbing HK Cat III thriller .	Wu Chien-Lien plays Yan , a wanted criminal who flees from Taiwan to Hong Kong by killing a prostitute and assuming her identity . Once in HK , she meets a perfect victim played by Lai Yiu-Cheung . She proceeds to take him hostage in his own home , and prepares for the arrival of her also-wanted murderous husband . " The Intruder " certainly packs a punch . It's a gritty and evil film filled with enough brutal violence and gore to put a smile on the face of any self-respecting HK Cat III fan . Wu Chien-Lien is reasonably effective as a remorseless female serial killer , who murders hookers , dogs , grandmas and men . The climax is suspenseful and horrifying . The film lacks sleaze of its nasty Cat III predecessors , but fans of violent and disturbing Hong Kong cinema should give it a look . .
Creepy and disturbing chiller .	This chilling horror film made by Bob Clark deals with a Vietnam soldier who returns home as a decaying vampiric zombie . John Marley and Lynn Carlin are very good as the boy's bewildered parents and there are some effective sequences which will raise goosebumps on all but the most jaded horror fans . And even they might still want to catch it for some of gore-makeup icon Tom Savini's earliest work . " Deathdream " follows the emotional destruction of an American family left to deal with the death of their son in Vietnam . The acting is fantastic and there is a strong anti war message throughout the film . Of course " Black Christmas " will always remain my favourite Bob Clark's horror film , but " Deathdream " is pretty close in the terms of greatness .
Beautifully sad and melancholic vampire tale about loneliness and longing for love .	" Let the Right One In " is a Swedish romantic vampire horror about love , despair and loneliness . It's based on the best-selling novel by John Ajvide Lindqvist , which I bought today to read . When a strange girl moves in next door , introverted boy Oskar may actually find that elusive friendship . Eli ( Lina Leandersson ) and Oskar's relationship exists only at night , under the untarnished luster of the moon and a bracing wintry wind . The nightly rendezvous disclose an indefinable connection between the two protagonists as they sit in silence on a barren playground configuring a Rubik's Cube . The girl is an ageless vampire and she needs fresh human blood to survive . When townspeople turn up murdered , the trail seems to follow a mysterious man back to Eli's apartment . Very intimate and exquisitely tragic love story , which lacks sexuality . The sound design is especially remarkable as is marvelous acting . Watch original " Let the Right One In " before American remake destroys it . .
Classic !	George A . Romero ( " Dawn of the Dead " , " Day of the Dead " , " Martin " ) after huge success with " Dawn of the Dead " directed his another masterpiece-an anthology of five short stories called " Creepshow " . The script was written by Stephen King , and the special effects were made by F / X wizard Tom Savini ( " Martin " , " Maniac " , " The Prowler " ) . The first story " Father's Day " is so-so-nothing special , but the zombie looks terrific ; the second story " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verril " is the funniest , Stephen King steals the show as a Jordy , a goofy farmer , who finds a strange meteor ; the third story " Something To Tide You Over " is my favourite-it's ghastly , creepy , funny and a little bit disturbing , again great make-up of the drowned zombies ; the fourth story " The Crate " is the longest and goriest-there's a lot of suspense and plenty of gore mixed with black humour . Finally we are getting to the last story " Creeping Up On You " - an enjoyable story about cockroaches with some rather gross special effects . Overall I must say that I love " Creepshow " - surely they don't make them like this anymore . This is a REAL horror , not a teen-oriented garbage like " Scream " or " Urban Legend " . Check it out .
Memorably perverse Italian giallo .	Fabio Testi plays Enrico Rossini , a married professor who is having an affair with one of his students , lovely Elizabeth ( Cristina Galbó ) . One afternoon on a boat she sees a woman on the shore running in fear . She subsequently witnesses the lady's murder , though Enrico doesn't believe her . When he hears the crime reported the next morning on the radio , he visits the scene . The police become suspicious and then more girls are killed . After discovering a secret cabal among a group of girls , the professor and his spouse do some detecting of their own and discover the secret of Solange ( Camille Keaton ) and what it has to do with the series of crimes taking place . Beautifully shot and misanthropic Italian giallo with copious amounts of suggested sexual violence and female nudity . The performances are surprisingly good and Ennio Morricone's score is strikingly haunting . One of the best in its genre . .
Pretty shocking and very bleak stuff .	Following the life of a murderer and paedophile , " Divided Into Zero " juxtaposes three important stages of a diseased mind : aged 10 , as a disturbed boy who suffered the loss of his parents ; a dangerous 30-year-old leaving behind hellish tableaux , attempting to wash away his sins among the company of whores ; and a twisted old hermit of a man who ? at the age of 70 ? kidnaps a girl whom he nails to a wall . " Divided Into Zero " is a cold and deeply disturbing horror short which features plenty of unsettling violence with lashings of paedophilia on display . The killer ? or Wanderer ? defines his tortured feelings in remarkable and passionless detail . Despite knowing the extent of his problems , he performs them with religious conviction . Like " Subconscious Cruelty " , " Divided Into Zero " is a bleak and transgressive film . Recommeded only for more open-minded viewers . .
Creepy and sad .	Mercy Falls Children's Hospital on the Isle of Wight is about to close down for good . With a train crash filling up the intended transfer hospital , the remaining eight children and skeleton staff are forced to wait for a few days before they can leave . Barely holding on to her self-control following an earlier , devastating case of alleged negligence , night shift nurse Calista Flockhart is alarmed by an unusual number of cases involving broken bones among the children . The kids themselves talk ominously of a " mechanical girl " on the abandoned , apparently haunted second floor . " Fragile " is another creepy horror winner from Jaume Balaguero of " Darkness " and " The Nameless " fame . It relies on uneasy atmosphere of dread instead of gore and shocks . Lingering shots of darkened , empty corridors and carefully timed moments of genuine alarm totally creeped me out . Give this eerie and depressing gem a look .
Pretty spooky South Korean slasher .	" Gawi " / " Nightmare " is obviously inspired by " Prom Night " and Japanese hit " Ringu " , but director Byeong Ki-Ahn managed to generate a wonderfully creepy atmosphere throughout it . The film is extremely well-made and photographed . Ha Ji-weon gives a genuinely unnerving performance as a Kyung-Ah . The scene , where she walks through the busload of corpses with bloodied face , is truly eerie and memorable . The film is pretty standard , but it managed to scare me , so I'd recommend it to anyone interested in horror . There is also a fair amount of blood and gore , so gore-hounds won't be disappointed too . My rating : .
Wonderfully twisted horror / black comedy .	" May " is actually one of my favourite American independent horror movies . It's wonderfully original and twisted film that will leave the viewer stunned . When May was a little girl , her mother made her wear an eye patch to cover her lazy eye . Unable to make friends , she had only a sad little doll . But with contact lenses to improve her appearance , May ( wonderful Angela Bettis ) earns the attention of her lesbian co-worker ( Anna Faris ) and the handsome man down the street ( Jeremy Sisto from " Hideaway " and " Wrong Turn " ) . May , however , proves to be too strange for even the oddest of her companions and once people get to know her they soon start to avoid her . Lonely and rejected May kills everyone who offended her . The character of May is truly bizarre . The acting is pretty good and there is plenty of gore , especially in the second half of the film . The climax is very haunting and memorable . Overall , I'd highly recommend this film for fans of horror . .
Japanese depravity at its best .	Two bondage sadists kidnap , rape and torture a female singer in their apartment . They invite also a weird S & M woman to join the sexual torture . She tubes the boa constrictor's head with a vaseline and shoves it up the victim's vagina . " All Women Are Whores " is a very disturbing and sadistic pinku eiga flick . The director of countless S & M pinku rape films Shogoro Nishimura delivers tons of sleaze in this sexually violent masterpiece of misogynistic mayhem . The film contains the usual whipping , raping and humiliation common to this kind of sick exploitation cinema . The scene where one of the rapists cuts off the penis of his companion while it's still inside the female singer has to be seen to be believed . I have seen a good amount of pinku eiga and " All Women Are Whores " is certainly one of the nastiest . A must-see ! .
Creepy ! Spoilers	After watching such overrated horror movies like " The Blair Witch Project " , " Scream " or " The Sixth Sense " finally here is the film which really delivers the goods . Of course it's quite similar to " The Shining " ( 1980 ) , but honestly I don't care . The atmosphere is really creepy , the acting is excellent and the ending literally blew me away ( I love that Fulciesque zombies in the basement ) ! There is no gore-just a well-constructed mystery that is best viewed late at night . Check out this truly eerie film !
Very interesting experimental horror .	Virgil Manoven is an old man who lives alone in his remote rural farmhouse . Chasing his beloved cat one morning into the woods around his property , Manoven glimpses what looks like the murder of a young child in the middle of the woods . He reports the crime to the police but there's no body to be found . Troubled by disturbing visions , he investigates further and eventually is guided to a spooky orphanage where events take a supernatural turn ? " Soft for Digging " is a fantastic experimental horror with lots of creepy atmosphere to spare . This minimalist film is almost completely devoid of dialogue . Some scenes are genuinely nightmarish and the acting is excellent . The location sets provide plenty of creepiness : the eerie Maryland woods rival those used in " The Blair Witch Projcect " . Give this strange horror film a chance . .
One of the most erotic and sensual horror movies ever made .	This masterpiece of lesbian horror comes from exploitation master Joseph W . Sarno . It features plenty of soft core sex , really hot lesbian sequences plus a lot of naked women . The acting is pretty good and the film is quite atmospheric and well-made . Marie Forsa is one of the hottest chicks I have ever seen in a horror movie-it's a visual pleasure to see her wonderful body . Sarno really knows how to pick up hot looking ladies . A must see for fans of sexploitation !
Dark and unsettling film .	First-time director Yasuo Inoue tells the story of a troubled young psychopath named Juzo Murasaki , who was tormented through school by group of his classmates , led by Toru Akai . This leads to the young boy to create a split personality , where his other half is on the psychotic side and apparently only comes out when he feels bullied or angry . " The Neighbor No . Thirteen " is slow and deliberate horror film laced with heavy psychological tones . It's obviously influenced by " All Night Long " series and Takashi Miike's works . The film offers a few moments of brutal and highly disturbing violence , so fans of Japanese transgressive cinema should be pleased . The finale is quite disappointing , though . My rating : .
A memorable experience in extreme sleaze and violence .	Hung and Ann ( Pauline Chan and Rena Murakami ) are down-on-their luck prostitutes trapped in Hong Kong . Pauline's boyfriend , Sam back in China , who is under the impression that she is away working at a factory , is double-crossed by Billy Chow , and while looking to escape ; flees for Hong Kong and winds up at the brothel where Pauline is employed . He is crushed when he finds out the truth . . . " Escape from the Brothel " combines plenty of gory fighting , romance , sleaze including several violent and unpleasant rape scenes and comedy , all into one . There is plenty of full-frontal female nudity and I'm not complaining about that . The violence is rather brief until the full-blooded finale , although one scene where a woman is strung up and has her nipples wired to a portable electric generator is strong stuff even for Cat III sleaze . A must-see for die-hard fans of smut !
Surprisingly gruesome and unsettling horror film .	A once gifted surgeon Dr . Chaney has never managed to overcome the painful memory of a tragic car-accident that left his young daughter Nancy blind . Lost in his own private hell of insanity , he kidnaps young people and makes them involuntary donors in an operation attempt to restore his daughter's eye-sight . The real horror begins when the people he disfigured rise up from the dungeon where he keeps them captive to get revenge . This gruesome Charles Band production has real-life footage of actual eye surgery and some gross makeup effects ( supplied by Stan Winston ) . The cinematography by Andrew Davis is pretty good and the film is as dark and creepy as they come . The suffering of the eyeless victims stored in the basement is truly disturbing and effective . Give it a look , if you are not easily disturbed . .
Certainly twisted horror / anthology .	" From a Whisper to a Scream " is an excellent horror / anthology which takes place in the small town of Oldfield , Tennessee . Julian White ( as always brilliant Vincent Price ) relates four hideous stories to the news reporter Bess Chandler ( Susan Tyrrell ) . In the first one for example , a horror veteran Clu Gulager gives an immensely entertaining performance as a mild-mannered , but suitably creepy old bachelor who takes care of his pathetic sister and who also happens to have necrophiliac intentions toward younger women . The last story is truly disturbing-it has a group of Yankee soldiers during the Civil War who run into a group of psychotic Rebel kids , whose parents were all killed in the war and all hell breaks loose ! ! Despite the emphasis on gore and some pretty vile subject matter , the film is well-made and interesting . Highly recommended .
Sleazy and gruesome HK Category III psycho flick .	A sadistic killer with the penchant for female legs is murdering women . A female cop Cheng Hsuen ( played by Jade Leung ) becomes the killer's unwitting target after he catches her ( or more precisely , her legs ) on camera during a gun battle . The murderer boldly enters her life , stalking her at work and hiding out in her home , before eventually kidnapping and assaulting her sister . A distraught Hsuen is forced to take the law into her own hands and sets out for justice , using the killer's infatuation with her as bait to lure him in . " The Peeping Tom " is a fantastic HK Cat . III fare filled with sleaze and brutal violence . The rape scenes are quite unpleasant to watch , but the film is stylishly made and twisted enough for my liking . There is also a fair amount of nudity on display , including an incredibly long shower scene , so I wasn't disappointed in that aspect too . Give this one a look .
Gory and exciting horror film .	A bunch of women drop into a cave system in the Appalachian Mountains and the bloody nightmare begins . Trapped by a rock fall , they are hunted and attacked by slimy humanoid predators . As the women fight for their lives , the fault lines within the group are exposed : betrayals surface , tensions explode and loyalties disintegrate . Neil Marshall's " The Descent " is a fast-paced and very exciting horror film that offers plenty of blood and guts . This movie plays on every primal fear : of darkness , claustrophobia , deformity , drowning and being savagely ripped limb from bloody limb by creatures with very pointy teeth . " Dog Soldiers " was intelligent and vividly gory . " The Descent " is a much darker , more intense horror flick . The atmosphere of fear and panic among six females is well-captured and the acting is great . The gore effects are spectacular with bodily dismemberment and geysers of blood to boost . I strongly recommend this film to fans of the genre . .
Superb horror film from Hammer .	A small village in England which is terrorized by a horrible creature : part woman-part reptile . A captain Harry quickly discovers that several locals have been killed by mysterious snake bites , something which is also found to have been the cause of his brother death . It seems that Dr Franklyn's daughter Anna was abducted by a snake cult Franklyn was researching in Borneo and now periodically transforms into a snake creature . " The Reptile " was actually shot back-to-back with another John Gilling's horror classic " Plague of the Zombies " . The reptile attack pattern is even identical to the vampire's and the random killings are creepy enough . The film is quite moody and very subtle , so don't expect any gore . The plot moves swiftly and the direction is effective in creating suspense and menacing atmosphere . .
Gruesome film that stays with the viewer .	Mena Suvari plays Brandi , the overworked nurse's aid who , on the verge of a promotion , crosses the line when driving drunk and drugged after a night out partying she hits a homeless man ( Stephen Rea ) and ends up more concerned about her promotion than his life . Stuck in the windshield of her car badly injured homeless man is along for the ride as she drives home and parks the car in the garage with the hope that he will finally succumb to his injuries . Fantastic horror film from always reliable Stuart Gordon . The gore is quite disturbing with the emphasis on broken bones and physical pain . The story is well-constructed , the acting by Rea and Suvari is strong and there are several moments of black humour to relieve the tension . Very erotic sex scene with Mena Suvari too !
Very dark and ugly thriller .	When the corpses of a gangster and his pregnant crack whore girlfriend surface-he brutally mutilated , she electrocuted-it remains a mystery why ' WAZ ' was carved into the girl's belly after her death and when a second pair of bodies is found , one of them marked with the same cryptic letters , the hunt for a serial killer begins . The cynic cop played by Stellan Skarsgard tries to find the tormented serial killer . . . " W Delta Z " aka " WAZ " is so bleak , hopeless and utterly dark that it's almost suffocating . Its theme of moral emptiness and the scenes of graphic torture will no doubt upset some unprepared viewers . The film is shot almost entirely at night by Morten Søborg of " Pusher " fame . The script by Clive Bradley is intelligent with its central theme of non-existence of altruism and is completely devoid of any light . I simply can't wait for Tom Shankland's bleak survival horror " The Day " ( 2008 ) . Finally I live for such gritty and ugly cinema like " WAZ " .
A masterpiece of lesbian vampire horror .	Delphine Seyrig plays the Countess Erzsebet Bathory ( a real historical figure who murdered hundreds of young women in her quest for immortality ) . In the film , Bathory and her young female companion ( Andrea Rau ) cross paths with a young couple , Valerie and Stefan who are honeymooning during the off-season in Europe . At first the couple seem fairly normal , but things quickly sour , as the woman is shown to be emotionally unstable and the man is very violent and turned on by death . Their relationship is also undermined by homosexuality on both sides . There are intimations that Stefan is in thrall to an older man back in England and Valerie soon falls under the spell of the ageless and beautiful Countess Bathory . " Daughters of Darkness " is a mesmerizing and hypnotic masterpiece of lesbian vampire film . The use of color is extremely stylish , the mood is fantastic and the atmosphere is chilling and sexually tense . The visual beauty of this film is simply phenomenal !
Surprisingly comical rape extravaganza .	" Raping ! " is another very rare pinku eiga rape film made with gallons of style by Yasuharu Hasebe . It's ultra-sleazy and surprisingly comical as the main heroine is raped constantly on her way to Tokyo . The rapists are for example a trucker , an owner of love hotel , a mechanic , a doctor , even the cops . There is also a homosexual gang-rape scene of a would-be rapist by three leather-clad bikers . Despite of its short running time " Raping ! " looks terrific . The acting is fine and the jazz score is brilliant . Of course " Yaru ! " is not as upsetting as Yasuharu Hasebe's earlier pinky violence flicks , however fans of cinematic filth should give it a look as soon as possible . Highly recommended , especially for pinku eiga newbies .
Wonderful Italian giallo .	Umberto Lenzi's " Seven Blood-Stained Orchids " is a surprisingly well-made and captivating giallo . A black-gloved killer is murdering beautiful women and one of them survives , but her assailant thinks that she is dead . So her hubby decides to look for the killer . The film is never boring and there are some tension-filled moments . The murders are pretty tame , but the power drill scene is quite gruesome . The women here are absolutely gorgeous and there is a nice amount of nudity . The opening with the black gloved figure driving at night is a terrific scene . So if you're a fan of Italian giallos you can't go wrong with " Seven Blood-Stained Orchids " . Highly recommended . .
Not the best Argento's giallo , but worth a look .	Karl Malden stars as a blind man with a talent for solving puzzles who teams-up with reporter Carlo Giordani ( James Franciscus ) to launch a private investigation into a string of peculiar murders , all of which seem to involve a dubious genetic research facility . The killer soon becomes wise to the duo's plans and will do whatever it takes to stop them from reporting to the police . " Cat's Nine Tails " is the second giallo made by Italian maestro Dario Argento . The film is well-acted and very suspenseful . Karl Malden is awesome as the blind puzzle designer . " Cat's Nine Tails " is even less bloody than Argento's stunning debut " The Bird with the Crystal Plumage " , so gore-hounds expecting vicious murders in the vein of " Deep Red " or " Tenebre " will be disappointed . Still there are some truly unnerving stalking sequences and subjective killer's view camera shots . The score by Ennio Morricone is as always splendid . .
Gritty and violent Italian crime thriller .	Giulio Sacchi is a violent criminal scumbag who kills several cops in the course of some petty crimes . After being kicked out of his gang for murdering a police officer , Sacchi is forced to scrape out a living by robbing cigarette machines . He decides to kidnap Mary Lou , the daughter of a wealthy businessman . Enlisting the help of two of his friends , the trio not only kidnaps the girl but also massacres a house full of rich people in an unflinchingly brutal scene . It's time for Inspector Walter Grandi to catch this vicious criminal . . . Violent and sadistic Italian polizioteschi flick with memorable central performances of Henry Silva and Tomas Milian . The pace is relatively slow , but there is enough sleaze and brutal violence to keep fans of Eurocult entertained . .
Severe sexual abuse of Japanese schoolgirls .	While stopping off for a toilet break , a busload of 35 high school girls on a study trip and their teacher find their vehicle hijacked by three armed thugs , who start systematically degrading , raping and then discarding their victims onto the roadside where they are picked up and rescued by a sympathetic trucker following in pursuit of the fleeing bus . " White Rose Campus : Then Everybody Gets Raped " has to be seen to be believed . It's so ridiculously over-the-top that it's hard to take it seriously . Still the misogyny is rampant through its projection time and the scene of rapist inserting the bloody tampons up his nose totally cracked me up . Fans of pinku eiga should give it a try . .
Crazy !	" Chinese Ghost Story " is one of the most amazing Hong Kong films I have ever seen . It's a brilliant mix of fantasy , comedy , romance , horror and martial arts . The film has some wonderful visuals and amazing fights . I love especially the fight scene between Wu Ma and the tree demon tongue . Truly original and refreshing film and another Embalmer's fine recommendation .
Another horror classic from Hammer .	Frankenstein escapes the guillotine and flees to Carlsbruck where he passes himself off as Dr Victor Stein and makes a living as a general practitioner . Three years later , while working in the town's hospital for the poor where he carries on his experiments , he is recognized by a visiting physician , Dr Hans Kleve and the two decide to work together on creating a new artificial man . Using donors from the hospital , Frankenstein has built a new body into which he agrees to transplant the brain of his hunchbacked assistant Karl . Once completed and given life , the new creature is left in the care of the poor hospital where a well-meaning nurse releases it . As the new Karl tries to destroy his old body , a sadistic janitor savagely beats the creature and his brain is badly damaged , triggering cannibalistic urges . . . " The Revenge of Frankenstein " is one of the best horror films from Hammer . It has many of the components of traditional Hammer horror ( secret labs full of bubbling beakers , foggy streets and of course another great performance by Peter Cushing ) , but it also has a surprisingly gentle monster whose story is as much sad as it is horrifying . Recommended . .
Pretty creepy Norwegian horror .	" Villmark " is a pretty good Norwegian horror . It manages to be both interesting and suspenseful , so I enjoyed it . A five people go along on a trip with two leaders into the wilderness . One day , two of the guys are sent out by the group leader Gunnar to go fish in a stream . In a nearby lake they find a drowned body of young woman . Soon they are all stalked by something evil lurking in the dark woods . " Villmark " is a creepy and suspenseful horror film . The photography of dark Norwegian woods is astounding and creates a feeling of total dread and hopelessness . The soundtrack is really eerie and the acting is excellent . There is not much gore , but I don't care . Overall , " Villmark " is an enjoyable piece of horror that creeped me out . Highly recommended .
Excellent stuff !	Paul Verhoeven is the genius behind " De Vierde Man " ( 1983 ) and " Basic Instinct " ( 1992 ) . His " Flesh & Blood " belongs also to my all-time favourite movies . This film is definitely not for the squeamish : there's plenty of violence , brutality and nudity . Especially the scene when a young Jennifer Jason Leigh is raped is quite nasty and disturbing . The acting is really good and the medieval times are realistically shown . - check it out , just be prepared for some disturbing stuff contained in this 80's classic !
Surprisingly morbid and unpleasant horror film .	A young couple Bob and Wendi Peterson moves into a desolate neighborhood as a part of Bob's new job in the company called Zeecor . However their neighbor Adrian seems a little bit strange . He brings them a box of poisoned home-made chocolates as a welcoming gift . Soon the couple are spending most of their time on the toilet with a heavy diarrhea . After this poisoning attempt Bob and Wendi realize that something is very wrong with Adrian and tell him to leave them alone . Such unkind behavior of young couple makes Adrian furious and all hell breaks loose . . . " Neighborhood Watch " is a nasty and disturbing horror film that left me speechless . The cinematography is excellent as it captures perfectly the atmosphere of isolation and madness . The film is not as gory and disgusting as some people claim , but several scenes are truly sick and bizarre . We see Adrian masturbating by sticking his finger in a half-sewn hole in his stomach while stabbing himself in the testicles with a hypodermic needle or incredibly yucky self-taught surgery performed on Wendi . The main characters are well-developed , the direction by Graeme Whifler is excellent and the special effects are very realistic . Overall , " Neighborhood Watch " is a hauntingly morbid and upsetting indie horror flick that teaches us one thing : never take candy from a stranger . .
Arguably the first Australian horror film .	" Night of Fear " tells the story of a young woman terrorized by a crazy drifter , who lives in the abandoned hut with his colony of rats . This grisly , grainy and unsettling horror is the first part of never completed anthology series called " Fright " . The film was banned by Australian censors on the grounds of being indecent and obscene and is pretty close to an exploitation cinema . The most interesting aspect of " Night of Fear " is the lack of dialogue . The pace is uneven , although there are some moments of unrelenting terror . Terry Bourke's little shocker in many ways reminded me Tobe Hooper's " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , however it was made two years earlier . Give it a look , if you like early 70's psycho flicks . I'm quite sure that the makers of " Wolf Creek " were also influenced by it . .
Very creepy ghost story .	" The Imp " was made by Hong Kong film-maker Dennis Yu , who also directed nasty " I Spit on Your Grave " rip-off " Flesh and the Bloody Terror " / " Beasts " ( 1980 ) . The film is extremely creepy and offers some wonderful visuals . There is a distinct air of claustrophobia and impending doom over the entire film . The final scene is extremely disturbing . " The Imp " is filled with truly chilling and ominous atmosphere , so fans of atmospheric horror won't be disappointed . There is almost no gore , but the zombies / evil spirits are very creepy . Highly recommended .
The ultimate gross-out melting movie .	A group of bums that live in a junkyard start drinking an alcohol called Viper which the local liquor store is selling at knockdown prices . Unfortunately Viper is very dangerous and has the unfortunate side effect of causing them melt down into putrescent goo . " Street Trash " has to be seen to be believed . It's an unpleasant exercise in filth and bad taste . There is gang rape , necrophilia , urinating on dead bodies and one incredibly moronic sequence involving a chase for a severed penis . The camera-work is surprisingly slick and Jennifer Aspinall's psychedelic meltdown effects are excellent and really gooey . James Lorinz cameo as a busboy who starts insulting his Mafia boss before finding he can't get into a witness protection program truly made me laugh . " Street Trash " deserves to be called cult classic .
Very creepy and spooky Nazi zombie flick .	The movie opens with some sailors recovering an insane woman in a rowboat from the open sea ; the remainder of the film is told in a flashback . The body of the story commences with Captain John Carradine berating a sailor about the importance of accurate navigation on the open sea . The boat first encounters a strange yellow light and then collides with a ghost ship while under the guidance of the First Mate . The boat grounds out near and island and the occupants of the boat go ashore in a glass-bottomed rowboat to look for John Carradine , who has vanished . He stays on the MIA list a very brief time when we see him float under the boat dead as a stump . After finding an old hotel once ashore , the boat occupants meet Peter Cushing . Cushing explains in his creepy German accent that he was the head of a secret underwater Nazi zombie project during World War Two and the zombies have returned . The scenes of Nazi zombies emerging from the water are very creepy and effective . The film drags in some places , but the acting is great and the location sets are terrific . .
Very stylish and moody thriller .	" Identity " is a clever thriller with wonderful concept . Ten very different strangers , including a chauffeur ( Ray Liotta ) , an actress ( Rebecca De Mornay ) , a prostitute ( Amanda Peet ) and a cop ( Ray Liotta ) escorting the prisoner ( Jake Busey ) become stranded in an isolated motel . Soon the guests start dying . The film is obviously inspired by Agatha Christie's novel " Ten Little Indians " . The acting is good and there is a good amount of suspense and violence . The ending is totally surprising and unexpected . The concept of multiple personality is nothing new , but it works very well here . So if you liked " Identity " , try to find Daniel Keyes excellent book " The Minds of Billy Milligan " about serial rapist , who had 24 different personalities . Highly recommended .
Wonderful Gothic horror .	In 1765 , evil warlock Joseph Curwen ( Vincent Price ) is lynched by the villagers and burnt alive for performing sorcery and for abducting some of the local women . Before he perishes , he puts a curse on the inhabitants of Arkham and their offspring . One hundred and ten years later , his kind descendant Charles Dexter Ward ( Price again ) , visits Arkham with his beautiful young wife to claim the inheritance of Curwen's castle . The spirit of Curwen begins to possess him " . The Haunted Palace " is actually based on H . P . Lovecraft's story . The film relies heavily on Gothic atmosphere with plenty of fantastic , cobwebby and shadowy sets . Price is amazing in the dual role and Curwen is one of his most despicable characters . The film offers some creepy scenes and is simply great . Give it a look . .
Pretty good horror film with plenty of splatter .	" Rejuvenatrix " by Brian Thomas Jones positively surprised me . It's quite original , well-directed and acted and there are some great gore scenes like brain eating etc . The photography is pure class , and the special effects made by Edward French are excellent . The transformations scenes really made me squirm . And yes , the film is quite gory , but not just plain gory-vividly gory . All in all I really liked " Rejuvenatrix " and I'm glad that I have it on VHS . Highly recommended , if you are a fan of gruesome horror movies . The plot is as follows : a rich old actress wants to be young again , so she takes a serum which turns her into hideous monster with an urge to kill .
Gorgeous sadomasochistic pinku eiga .	" Sex Hunter " is a gorgeously photographed adaptation of manga . A Ballerina diva runs a dance school from a secluded castle hideaway . One day she brings in a young lovely ballerina upstart to show her the ropes . And that is what she gets - tons of sexual abuse , bondage and rope discipline . " Sex Hunter " is a marvelous piece of steamy Japanese ero guro erotica . The cinematography is stylish , the acting is remarkable and the catalogue of sexual debauchery on display includes forced lesbianism , rape and golden showers . Toshiharu Ikeda is very much a genre filmmaker ? first working for Nikkatsu in the 1970's as an assistant to his mentor Konuma and then later on his own . He directed a few pinku films such as " Blue Lagoon " and then the fourth in the " Angel Guts " series before later shifting to films with more a gore and horror bent with his most famous shocker " Evil Dead Trap " , which is considered one of the keystones of gory Japanese horror .
Excellent shocker !	A concentrated evil power coming by an evil mirror wreaks havoc with the inhabitants of a small American farming community . " The Boogeyman " directed by Ulli Lommel ( " The Devonsville Terror " ) isn't just a generic slasher film . It borrows some elements from " Halloween " ( 1978 ) and " The Exorcist " ( 1973 ) , but it's very creepy ! There are some gruesome death scenes , the film includes also mirror symbolism , childhood trauma etc . This is pure horror without any humor , so check it out ! Recommended !
Very good adaptation of a stunning Stephen King's novel .	" The Mist " originally appeared in the 1980 horror anthology " Dark Forces " and was later reedited and included in the Stephen King short story collection " Skeleton Crew . " Before making the leap to the silver screen , " The Mist " was also released as a fully dramatized audio version and served as an inspiration for the successful video game franchises " Half-Life " and " Silent Hill " . A large group of people is trapped in a big shopping mall . Shortly after arriving at the packed supermarket a local runs through the doors screaming that " something in the mist took his neighbor . " It seems that something very dangerous is hidden in the fog . . . Of course the trapped in a building formula is nothing new , but the idea of not knowing what has them trapped is utterly fascinating . " The Mist " is atmospheric , incredibly well-acted and the use of " Host of Seraphim " by Dead Can Dance during the depressing climax is absolutely wonderful . .
Truly mind blowing epic of sleaze and violence .	" Caligola " stars Malcolm McDowell as the Emperor and chronicles his rise and fall as the brief ruler of the Roman Empire . The film focuses heavily on Caligula's infamously deranged sexual practices , as well as those of his contemporaries . It's surly a pretty controversial piece of work which was heavily censored in several countries . I own the original 156 minutes long version which was cut down from the Cannes 210 minute version , which may still exist somewhere as a bootleg . The film is not as bad as it's reputed to be , unfortunately both Peter O'Toole and Malcolm McDowell have since expressed regret in participating in the film . It's clear that " Caligola " was directly inspired in look and theme by the vastly superior and even more controversial 1977 Pier Paolo Pasolini's " Salo : The 120 Days of Sodom " . Still this is a strong film guaranteed to offend the prudish and the squeamish . The sex scenes are as intense as most of your standard hard core porn , with rampant fellatio ( male / female plus homosexual ) and actual sexual penetration featured throughout . The film also boasts some fine grue including a castration ( with the penis fed to dogs ) , numerous decapitations and disemboweling , so fans of sleaze and gore won't be disappointed . The lesbian scene between Anneka Di Lorenzo and Lori Wagner is truly arousing as is the imperial orgy sequence . Overall , I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you are a fan of exploitation cinema . A must-see !
Violent , intense and unforgettable revenge thriller .	Major Charles Rane ( William Devane ) , a Vietnam War veteran who was a prisoner of war in Hanoi , returns home to a hero's welcome . He is awarded 2 , 555 silver dollars , one for each day of his captivity . A gang of ruthless thugs seeking the money terrorizes Rane ( forcing his hand down a garbage disposal ) and kills his wife and son . After recovering from the attack Rane enlists his buddy Corporal Johnny Vohden ( Tommy Lee Jones ) to help him exact bloody revenge . I'm a big fan of 70's and 80's revenge flicks like " Death Wish " , " Open Season " , " Day of the Woman " , " The Exterminator " or " Ms . 45 " to name only a few and I must say that " Rolling Thunder " has the special place in my heart . It's grim and powerful with some shocking bursts of violence . The Peckinpah-esquire conclusion has to be seen to be believed . The characters are developed very well as the film slowly turns into highly compelling character study . I would have gladly paid to buy a legitimate DVD along with another forgotten revenge classic " The Farmer " .
Exploitation in its finest form !	Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne ) and her two lesbian guards-Satin and Velvet run a harem for depraved sheik ( Victor Alexander ) Of course women are tortured and abused in front of the audience ! This film is much more campier than " Ilsa-She Wolf of the SS " and not nearly as shocking . Still there are some torture scenes and a good amount of sleaze and nudity to satisfy exploitation freaks ! Check it out !
Stylish piece of Polish fantasy horror .	A pastor stays at the home of a young nobleman when he comes to study folklore in Lithuania . A local doctor tells the pastor his host may be the union of a bear and the man's addle-brained mother . When the young noble is married , he disappears into the woods while his wife remains behind suffering from bite marks . Out of sheer boredom the doctor had perpetuated the story to alarm visitors of the small village and the pastor questions his faith when he believes him . . . " Lokis " is a slow-moving and suitably creepy Gothic horror film that carefully builds the air of menace and dread . It's also one of the most famous Polish horror films-even reviewed in remarkable ' Fear Without Frontiers " by Steven Jay Schneider . Check out Polish DVD , if you have a chance .
Great !	It's really strange that being a huge horror / gore fan I was never interested in " Phantasm " series . I haven't seen other " Phantasm " movies , but " Phantasm 2 " is excellent ! It features creepy atmosphere , nice location sets ( cemetery and mortuary ) and lots of gore and violence . I love especially scenes of mayhem by flying spheres . Angus Scrimm is great as The Tall Man-one of the best villains ever created in the horror genre history . Recommended for all horror fans-I'll go through hell to see the other " Phantasm " movies . My rating : .
Disturbing and compelling .	Another disturbing documentary about the World Trade Center tragedy . It's really sad-I cried when I saw poor people jumping out from both Twin Towers . The film is full of emotions-there's sadness , pain and anger . Why in our world there's need for terrorism and death ? Why can't we live in peace all together ?
Pretty atmospheric .	After reading some negative comments on this film it seems to me that many of those reviewers hate horror movies . If you don't like horror , then leave this genre alone ! ! ! Go back and watch some Hollywood big-budget trash ! ! " Children of the Corn " is an enjoyable horror film with a few creepy scenes and some good shocks . The acting is decent enough , and the atmosphere of an isolated town ( Gatlin ) is well-captured . I've seen the first four parts of this series and they are not really bad ( want some crap-check out " Witchcraft " series ) Enough said-try this one if you enjoy watching horror movies . Very atmospheric score too !
Awesome Spanish horror film .	Claudia Gifford is traumatized after police find the brutally murdered body of her daughter Angela . But five years later she receives a phone call from Angela , saying she is alive and that ' they ' only wanted Claudia to believe that she was dead . Joined by retired detective Bruno Massera , Claudia follows a trail of clues that Angela urges her to take . But in so doing they realize that Angela is an innocent that has been chosen for sacrifice by a cult that practice ecstatic salvation through ultimate perversion . " The Nameless " by Jaume Balaguero is based on Ramsey Cambell's novel " The Pact of the Fathers " . The film actually won various awards at Sitges , Fantasporto and Brussels fantastic / horror film festivals . Balaguero easily creates extremely dark atmosphere and the use of light and shadows is certainly impressive . The acting is great and the climax is shockingly effective . Overall , I'd highly recommend this film for anyone interested in horror genre . .
Very brutal war / action film from John Woo .	This film is amazing . It's loaded with extreme violence-thousands of bullets fly and the blood flows freely ! Again the action scenes are breathtaking and the violence is truly brutal-stabbings , impalings and head explosions . One of the best John Woo's films he ever created . Check it out and enjoy the violence !
Outrageously perverse piece of HK exploitation .	" The Killer Snakes " is surely one of my guilty pleasures . This incredibly sordid horror film mixes gore , perverse sex , torture and animal cruelty . Chen Zhihong lives a miserable existence in a rundown hovel next to a snake emporium ( where the owner removes and sells the live animals ' gall bladders as an aphrodisiac ) . His only friend is Xiujuan , a pretty and sympathetic girl who sells toys in the local outdoor market . One evening Zhihong receives a most unusual visitor who becomes his closest confidant . A mutilated reptile from the neighboring shop slithers in and allows the youth to nurse it back to health . Naming the snake Xiaobiao , Zhihong soon finds that he has gained the trust of several other reptiles as well . However , his troubles with humans continue unabated , as he is beaten , robbed and humiliated by a prostitute and her cohorts . Even his faith in Xiujuan is shattered when she stands him up one evening for a date ( though , unbeknownst to Zhihong , it is for a legitimate reason ) . With the help of his snakes he decides to take a gruesome revenge on everybody , who humiliated him . " The Killer Snakes " is an ugly little film with several unpleasant characters . The atmosphere is incredibly sleazy and there is plenty of nudity , bondage and perverse sex to keep fans of exploitation happy . .
Creepy as hell .	Vietnam , 1972 . A troop of South Korean soldiers are urged by a mysterious radio signal to locate a missing patrol unit in the location called R-Point . Finding far more to fear than snipers , these carefully conceived characters , each with his own involving emotional history , discover that the miseries of war aren't confined to the physical territories of the jungle-they also resonate throughout the dark depths of the unknown . " R-Point " totally creeped me out . It features some truly scary moments that will linger in the memory of viewer for a long period of time . " R-Point " scores most of its points in the last half hour , when the situation escalates into full-blown bloody madness and the final desperate stand-off is a perfect end to the film . Highly recommended . .
Surreal , grotesque and wickedly humorous film .	Karl Horak and his wife Bozhena are unable to have a child ; the man carves a stump of wood into something that resembles a baby , and little Otik comes to life . Bozhena loves it with all she has and they name Otik . But Otik's appetite grows and grows , it soon devouring the cat , the postman and neighbors . Only the neighbor's inquisitive daughter realizes that the Horak's have given birth to an Otesanek , a creature from fairytale that supposedly grew in size devouring everything around it . " Little Otik " by Jan Svankmajer is a wickedly humorous film . Svankmajer's traditional obsession with rampant consumerism and folk tales is clearly visible . Veronika Zilkova gives an absolutely hilarious performance , treating the piece of wood as though it were a baby with steadfast certainty-bathing it , clipping its nails , changing its diapers , rubbing cream on its butt . A must-see for fans of surreal world of Jan Svankmajer .
Fantastic Italian ultra-sleaze .	" Play Motel " is a very rare giallo that features Ray Lovelock in a tale of a Motel that has a playroom designed for more interesting sexual liaisons . The place also makes a habit of photographing the sexual encounters and blackmailing the parties involved . Add to this a black gloved killer and some hard core inserts and you have one of the weirdest giallos your ever going to see . " Play Motel " by Mario Gariazzo mixes giallo , crime and comedy with plenty of hard core sex . The music is pretty bad , however the addition of black gloved killer is a nice touch . Ray Lovelock and Annamaria Rizzoli are very enjoyable as the two lovers . Overall , I loved this ultra-sleazy giallo and you should too , if you are into Italian smut . .
Easily tops the original .	The plot of " 28 Weeks Later " goes like that : survivors start arriving home in ' District One ' , a safe zone established on the Isle of Dogs in London . Engineer Don , who survived the Rage plague in ways that haunt his sleep meets his kids as they return from Spain , where they'd been fortunate enough to be vacationing when infection broke out ; the family reunion is uneasy . Army doctor Scarlet is deeply troubled about what she's seeing in the blood samples in her microscope . American sniper Doyle is uncomfortable with this strange duty babysitting returnees in this desolate city . Soon all the hell breaks loose , when the freshly arrived carrier starts spreading infection in ' District One ' . . . Very bleak , action packed and bloody sequel to apocalyptic hit " 28 Days Later " . The escape through the pitch black tunnels , shot partially through the night vision lens of a sniper rifle compounds the feelings of fear and dread . The use of helicopter blades as a weapon , shot from the pilot's vantage point adds to the desperation . And without a doubt , the sweeping shots of London deserted and desolate are unnerving and eerie . .
A nerve-shredding experience .	I saw this incredible horror / short during Horror Fiesta Film Festival in Warsaw as a part of three short horror films made by Douglas Buck called " Family Portraits : A Trilogy of America " . The first short " Cutting Moments " ( 1997 ) simply blew me away . It's an incredibly depressing and cold journey into into family alienation , murder and masochistic self-mutilation . A young wife Sarah played convincingly by Nica Ray desperately wants to be loved , but her husband Gary Bettsworth has no remaining feelings for the woman , so he turns his jaded sexuality onto his son , whom he abuses . She dresses up in red to become more appealing to her husband ( unsuccessfully ) and after that Sarah horribly mutilates herself . She scrubs her lips bloody before cutting them off , the final act of utter desperation that encourages her husband to indulge into obscene act of feeling . A truly masterful short filled with despair and horrific gore . The second film " Home " ( 1998 ) plays almost like a remake of " Cutting Moments " and has similarly disturbing tone without relaying on excessive gore . We see another dysfunctional family living in their own private hell and that makes the climax more bleak and depressing . " Home " is not as good as " Cutting Moments " , but it surely left me emotionally drained . The last film " Prologue " ( 2003 ) tells the story of a young teenage girl , who was brutally attacked and raped one year earlier . She emerges from the hospital in a wheelchair and arrives back home with her parents . Soon the emotional horror begins as a young woman decides to confront her attacker , a local artist called Benjamin Miller , who draws obscene sexual pictures of a young girls . Still " Prologue " seems to be the most optimistic film of the trilogy and I really recommend it . Douglas Buck is certainly one of the bravest directors around and I can easily say that I liked " Family Portraits " . My rating : .
Hilariously funny , grisly and bizarre horror comedy .	" Motel Hell " has loads of style and rural atmosphere , plenty of laughs plus a little bit of gore . The film was somewhat influenced by " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " ( 1974 ) and " Eaten Alive " ( 1976 ) , but there are some original ideas floating here like planting ( ? ) people in the garden . Rory Calhouln is amazing as a Farmer Vincent , and the finale when he wears the pigface is a hoot ! Highly recommended .
Gloomy Argento .	Horror maestro Dario Argento's daughter Asia Argento portrays Anna Manni , a beautiful detective in pursuit of a savage serial killer-rapist who has been terrorizing Italy . When his trail leads Anna to Florence's famed Uffizi Museum , the investigation takes a violently psychotic turn . Anna is struck by the bizarre phenomenon known as the Stendhal Syndrome , a psychological reaction to artwork that forces Anna into a mysterious trance . " The Stendhal Syndrome " has to be one of the nastiest films ever made by Dario Argento . Asia Argento is perfect as a street-tough , confident cop . The score by Ennio Morricone is also excellent . The rape scenes are particularly brutal , so if you are easily offended avoid this film . The story is intriguing and well-developed , and there are some gruesomely surreal moments including Alfredo waving at Anna through the hole he's blown in another woman's cheek and the messy puncturing of a man's gullet with a pair of rusty springs . So if you are a fan of Dario Argento give this one a look . It's certainly much better than " Trauma " , " The Card Player " or " Phantom of the Opera " .
Fantastic bad ass gore flick .	When patrons at a local tavern ( including Balthazar Getty , Krista Allen and Henry Rollins ) are attacked by a swarm of bloodthirsty gargoyle-like beasts , they are forced to work together to fight for their survival . " Feast " by John Gulager is fast-paced and bloody as hell . The film , whilst clearly inspired by Sam Raimi's legendary gore classic " The Evil Dead " , offers tons of gore and violence . A face is literally sliced off in one stroke , entire bodies are eaten , an eyeball is slowly pulled out of its socket and one unlucky character begins rotting alive after being puked on . The monsters themselves are pretty creepy looking too . The cinematography is simply fantastic and the acting is fairly good . I enjoyed this insanely violent slice of monster movie and you should too , if you are a real horror fan . .
Fun splatter flick !	The plot is simple : film goers at a mysterious premiere of a new horror film are infected by a statue which carries a zombie virus . The virus transforms members of the audience into hideous zombie-demons with an appetite for blood ! " Demons " directed by Lamberto Bava ( " Macabro " , " A Blade in the Dark " ) and produced by Italian horror maestro Dario Argento is an enjoyable , fast-paced gore-fest . The film features an 80's style heavy metal soundtrack by such groups like Saxon , Motley Crue , Accept and Pretty Maids which is fun to listen to . One of the lead characters , Hanna , is actually played by Argento's eldest daughter Fiore . Director Lamberto Bava also makes a cameo as one of the train passengers . The masked man seen giving away the movie tickets at the start of the film is played by the assistant director Michele Soavi ( " Deliria " , " Cemetery Man " ) . It's also very nice to see Nicoletta Elmi ( a little girl who pins lizards in " Deep Red " ) in a horror film again after so many years . Here she plays a sultry usherette and is really gorgeous . Plenty of suspense and action plus lots of gore and violence including a nasty scalping , throat rippings , decapitations etc . Overall " Demons " is a highly energetic horror film that should be seen by every horror fan .
Pretty good horror !	A group of creepy monsters terrorize San Francisco . Now it's up to a group of kids to stop them . " Neon Maniacs " is a fun and pretty fast-paced flick that I dug quite a bit . It has plenty of violence including decapitations , an axe to the face , a guy cut in half etc . The film ends rather abruptly and it leaves the door open for a sequel , which will never happen I suppose . All in all " Neon Maniacs " is an underrated little flick that surely needs more recognition . One of the best horror movies of the 80's-a must-see for true horror buffs !
Wonderful and totally overlooked Italian giallo .	" Pensione Paura " is a brilliant and a little bit surreal giallo from director Francesco Barilli , whose " Perfume of the Lady in Black " was one of the genre's most haunting and original films . The film takes place in 1945 somewhere near a lake . Some guests are staying in the " Pension of the Sirene " led by Marta with the help of her daughter Rose . The girl knows that the mother has a lover hidden away in the attic . She waits for the return of her soldier father and cultivates a simple friendship with the guide , the grandson of the parish priest . In the pension stays also a violent criminal named Rodolfo who lays a trap on Rose . One day Marta is murdered and the girl is assaulted and raped by Rodolfo and his companion . Both are dispatched by a mysterious black-gloved killer . . . " Pensione Paura " is a stylish and overlooked giallo . There is enough violence and wonderful visuals to satisfy fans of Italian cult cinema . The film is finally available on Italian DVD without English subs .
Truly sickening gorefest .	A painter named Hayashi ( Shigeru Saiki ) finds a wounded mermaid ( Mari Somei ) and saves her . He takes her home and puts her into his bathtub where she keeps decomposing , the spreading disease spurting blood and pus . Hideshi Hino's " Guinea Pig 4 : Mermaid in the Manhole " is easily one of the most disgusting horror movies I have ever seen . The make-up effects made by Nobuaki Koga are incredibly revolting . The character of Hayashi is pretty sympathetic and the film has a mood of a very sad romance . The mermaid represents painter's wife and " all the beautiful things " he has lost , so she is bound to rot and vanish too . " Mermaid in the Manhole " works as a piece of extreme art , so anyone who loves Japanese horror should give it a look . However if you're easily offended avoid this one like the plague .
Very creepy and underrated Candian slasher .	A prologue of " Humongous " is set in 1946 . It shows a rich guy throwing a party on the island , in which his daughter was raped by her drunken boyfriend , who is then eaten by dogs . Nearly thirty years later some unlucky teens are trapped on an island with a 7-foot humongous creature with a taste for human blood . Unjustly trashed by almost everybody " Humongous " is actually one of the best Canadian horror films I have ever seen . I enjoyed it much better than slightly overrated " Prom Night " . Sure , the film is dimly-lit and we don't really see the creature at all , but there is enough suspense to keep slasher fans entertained . " Humongous " is not as gory as " Antropophagus " or " The Slayer " , but if you enjoy watching murky slasher flicks from early 80's give it a chance . .
Truly bizarre Italian giallo .	" Death Laid an Egg " by Giulio Questi is a wonderful giallo full of surrealism . Mark only married his wife Anna because of her chicken fortune . They run a chicken farm between the two of them . Mark has been having several affairs including one with Gabriella . Things start to complicate when Gabriella moves in with Mark and Anna . Gabriella and Mark continue their affair and plot Anna's death . " Death Laid an Egg " is a psychedelic giallo that has to be seen to be believed . The acting by Gina Lollobrigida and Jean-Louis Trintignant is excellent and the score by Bruno Maderna fits the mood perfectly . So if you like weird Italian cinema give this one a look . My other recommendations : " Autopsy " by Armando Crispino and " A Quiet Place in the Country " by Elio Petri .
Pretty good horror film .	The Read family take over an old doll factory in Mexico . Unbeknownst to them some of the remaining dolls have been possessed by the spirits of Sanzia demons . When their young daughter is given one of the dolls all hell breaks loose ! " Dolly Dearest " is a surprisingly well-made and enjoyable horror film filled with some good scares . The acting is okay and there is a little bit of gore . Candy Hutson , as a doll's best friend is reasonably creepy herself . So give this movie a chance and you'll not be disappointed .
Violent and exciting survival thriller .	Three Vietnam war buddies have been given a taste for violence and make a game of torture , rape and hunting humans . They abduct a couple and imprison them in the lodge . After sexual degradation of the woman both victims are set free and hunted down . A father of one of their victims decides to take revenge . " Open Season " is a taut and disturbing survival thriller with enough nastiness to satisfy fans of early 70's exploitation cinema . The screenplay was adapted by author David D . Osborn from his own novel of the same name . The film is exciting , brutal and suspenseful . The characters are well-developed and the scenes of violence are pretty hard hitting . Why this cult classic is not on DVD is beyond me . The same can be said about criminally underrated " Wolf Lake " . .
Surreal , nightmarish and disturbing head trauma .	" Visions of Suffering " is a vast improvement over " Nails " in every way possible . The plot of this complex surreal piece is pretty hard to follow , but the film is loaded with scenes of hypnotic beauty which contrast with ugly and disturbing horror . I was torn apart from reality and found himself in the world full of nightmares , murders and drugs . The visual effects are very well done and extremely grotesque . The acting is natural and Alexander Shevchenko is outstanding as the tormented main character . I can't believe that such genuinely trippy film was made in Russia , where independent filmmakers are not respected . A hallucinogenic nightmare . .
Insanely violent action thriller .	" Running Scared " is an excellent and truly violent action thriller that left me stunned . I'm a big fan of gritty and exploitative Italian and American cop thrillers from 70's and early 80's , so I enjoyed this intense spectacle . It deals with a small-time criminal who is assigned the task of dumping firearms used by his hoodlum pals in various crimes . He fails to dump a revolver used in the murder of a cop . A kid steals it from his basement cache and uses it to shoot his abusive father . . . and the chase is on . The characters are degenerate and one-dimensional , but who cares . Still the most memorable villains are a pair of paedophile child killers and they are truly evil . Actually the scenes in their house are suitably disturbing . The violence is bloody and brutal , the action is fast-paced and the climax is literally splashed with grue . .
An enjoyable gorefest from trash master Andy Milligan .	I remember reading wonderful Stephen King's book " Danse Macabre " about horror movies-and this famous writer totally trashed this film . He called it " an idiot's delight " or something like that . I wouldn't go so far to call " The Ghastly Ones " a masterpiece , but I found it immensely enjoyable . Of course the acting is rather bad and the budget is extremely low , but the gore scenes are amazing . I loved especially the scene when one guy is butchered in the cellar-I suppose Hershell Gordon Lewis would be proud . What else I liked ? Hmm , the hunchback is an extremely funny and grotesque character . I laughed my ass off when he killed a rabbit . - check out this cheap and gory horror , if you like low-budget grindhouse fare .
Interesting and pretty brutal experiment on the viewer .	The main character of " The Devil's Chair " is a drug-dealer Nick West . He takes his girlfriend named Sammy to an abandoned asylum , when they discover the devil's chair which is the gate to the dimension of blood and despair . Sammy is brutally assaulted and killed by an unseen force , Nick becomes a suspect and is taken to the psychiatric ward . After four years he is released and joins Dr . Willard and his three companions to confront his demons where the supposed murders occurred . " The Devil's Chair " is clearly influenced by Clive Barker's horror classic " Hellraiser " . Like " Broken " the film is well-made and extremely unnerving . The way some sequences are shot will make your skin crawl . Some scenes are truly bloody and violent as all hell . The main demon of flies which smells blood looks impressive and very Lovecraftian . I can easily say that Adam Mason and Simon Boyes are the new masters of gruesome British horror . .
Classic of pinku eiga genre .	Kunisada's wife , Akiko ( Naomi Tani ) , left him three years ago due to his violent temper . Unfortunately for her Kunisada suddenly returns and kidnaps her . She is brought to a hidden cabin in a remote wooded area . The husband subjects her to a variety of sexual humiliations , slowly breaking her will until Akiko becomes totally submissive . " Wife to Be Sacrificed " is perhaps one of the most famous Japanese S & M pink films . The cinematography is lovely and the acting is stunning . There is plenty of sleaze and sexual degradation on display , but later Masaru Konuma's pinku films like " Woman in a Box " series are even more extreme in their depiction of sexual violence . Overall , I enjoyed this stylish and harrowing film and you should too , if you are into Japanese erotic cinema . .
Great Canadian horror film .	Dr Samantha Goodman ( Kate Greenhouse ) , an attractive psychiatrist in her thirties joins her husband and sister for a weekend at a winter cottage when an unexpected guest arrives . Harlan Pyne ( Aidan Devine ) , a violent sexual offender is convinced that Samantha conducted unethical experiments on him while she was his doctor . With the assistance of his troubled yet eager protégé Harlan forces Samantha and her family to participate in a series of nightmarish games . " The Dark Hours " pleasantly surprised me . The script is tight and the violence is pretty brutal and ugly . Aiden Devine's portrayal of Harlan deserves special mention for being wickedly understated and menacing . The cinematography is dark and moody and the finale is surprising and thought-provoking . Give this harrowing film a look . .
Very creepy horror gem .	Jessica ( Zohra Lampert ) , her husband and their friend start a new life in the country , but Jessica , who has a history off mental illness , starts to believe the area is haunted and grows suspicious of the young woman who has joined them at their house . . . " Let's Scare Jessica to Death " is an excellent low-budget horror film loaded with eerie atmosphere of rising paranoia . Zohra Lampert does a terrific job showing us Jessica's growing desperation and there are some fairly gruesome gore effects at the end . The photography is gritty and the climax is extremely haunting . The viewer is never sure whether Jessica is really onto something sinister , or whether she's just going insane . There are some subtle touches of eeriness : Jessica's husband drives a hearse , and she decorates their new home with tracings she made from a local cemetery . So if you are a fan of old-fashioned spooky horror films give this overlooked gem a look . .
Excellent mix of sadistic violence and humour .	Takashi Miike's " Ichi the Killer " is a masterpiece of insane cinema . This film is surely challenging-filled with enough sadistic violence and rape to satisfy fans of Japanese harrowing cinema . It's based on the popular manga by Hideo Yamamoto . The character of Ichi is truly amazing-he is a mysterious figure who slices various individuals into numerous bloody pieces with razor sharp blades strapped to his boots . The gore is pretty extreme as Ichi literally slices people in half with his razor-sharp boots . The acting is surprisingly good-Nao Omori and Tadanobu Asano are impressive as Ichi and Kakihara . Highly recommended , especially if you have strong stomach . .
A perfect movie to vomit !	Joe D'Amato's " Beyond the Darkness " / " Buio Omega " is one of the most transgressive horror movies ever made . Regarded as Joe D'Amato's best film " Buio Omega " certainly delivers some of the most disgusting gore ever put on screen ( fingernails are ripped off with pliers , a body is dismembered with a butcher knife and its pieces are thrown into a bath of acid etc . ) The infamous embalming sequence is truly revolting . Kieran Canter is perfect as a young taxidermist Frank Wyler and Franca Stoppi gives excellent performance as Iris . The film is certainly twisted , so if you're a fan of Italian extreme horror you can't miss this depraved mastepiece . Check it out . .
Brutal , disturbing and wonderfully audacious film .	A woman ( Susanne Hausschmid ) refuses to sell the property at any price to the land developers . Her ex-business partners turn her lifo into pure hell . Her husband is beaten to death , her lesbian lover is raped and murdered , her son is also killed and she herself suffers a brutal rape / murder at the hands of her tormentors , before she is resurrected and exacts her bloody revenge in the tradition of " I Spit on Your Grave " . " Defenceless " is a brutal and evil film . There is truly sickening knife rape scene that may certainly upset some unprepared viewers . Also the rapist is castrated and has the genitals stuffed in its mouth in graphic detail . Susanne Hausschmid's performance is stunning and the cinematography by Mark Savage is beautiful . So if you are a fan of transgressive horror you can't miss this brutal assault on the viewer's senses . My highest recommendation .
A brutal and sleazy piece of entertainment .	Rob Zombie's " The Devil's Rejects " is heavily influenced by such horror classics like " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " The Hills Have Eyes " , " Last House on the Left " or " I Spit on Your Grave " . Still this is is a sadistic and politically incorrect piece of horror that will make fans of grindhouse exploitation smile with joy . The plot follows a Texas clan called the Devil's Rejects who kidnap , torture , rape and viciously kill people . The family is tracked by an obsessed policeman named Wydell whose brother was one of their victims . Sheriff Wydell finally captures and tortures the Devil's Rejects for revenge . So homicidal brother-sister duo-Otis Driftwood ( Bill Moseley ) and blond Baby Firefly ( Sheri Moon Zombie , Rob Zombie's wife ) - is back for more bloody mayhem , as well as Mother Firefly ( albeit played by a new actress , this time by Leslie Easterbrook ) and of course Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) . " The Devil's Rejects " is a surprisingly mean horror flick that manages to be both horrifying and amusing . This filthy little movie looks like it came straight from 70's . The cinematography is grainy and the use of old Southern rock on soundtrack is a nice touch . The film is also populated by several cult genre actors including Ken Foree , Michael Berryman , Mary Woronov , Danny Trejo , Geoffrey Lewis , P . J . Soles , Priscilla Barnes and Ginger Lynn Allen . " The Devil's Rejects " is notable for it's unflinching brutality , foul language and general aura of nastiness . The scene where Priscilla Barnes is sexually violated with a pistol by Otis is especially memorable . Give it a look only if you enjoy watching grindhouse exploitation flick-fans of cute PG-13 horror will be offended . .
Truly disturbing and sickening giallo . Spoiler	Along with " Giallo a Venezia " ( 1979 , Mario Landi ) and " The New York Ripper " ( 1982 , Lucio Fulci ) this is possibly the nastiest Italian giallo ever made . It is based on the still unsolved series of murders in Florence and that lack of closure makes its over-the-top sexual violence all the more unsettling . A criminology student named Christina Marelli decides to write her thesis about a mysterious serial killer terrorizing couples in lover's lane . As she starts searching around she gets obscene phone calls . Is the killer her boyfriend Alex or maybe someone else ? This forgotten Italian giallo is truly shocking . The scenes of sexual violence and mutilations are extremely well-done ( brilliant special effects by Roberto Pace ) and disturbing . A young couple is murdered in a tent . The boy has his throat cut open , while the girl is shot several times . The killer then slowly slices off her right nipple and cuts apart her vagina in close-up . This sequence is so graphic and sick that I almost threw up during it . The film is also suspenseful and bizarre in some scenes ( check out the Devil's Bar moments ) . " The Killer Is Still Among Us " is certainly not for everybody , but if you like extreme cinema give this one a look . Highly recommended .
Great Italian Gothic horror with the queen of blackness Barbara Steele .	Italian queen of Gothic horror Barbara Steele portrays the wife of a deranged scientist played by Paul Muller whose latest experiments involve electro-stimulation of human blood . When the mad doctor discovers that his wife is unfaithful , he tortures , disfigures and kills her alongside her gardener lover , then removes and preserves the hearts of the victims , using their blood to restore youth and beauty to his own lover Solange . When the madman discovers that his late wife left all her wealth to her mentally unstable sister he quickly sets about courting and marrying the poor girl , then proceeds to drive her completely mad in order to inherit her fortune . " Nightmare Castle " is an essence of Italian Gothic horror . It takes place almost entirely in castle interiors , frequently in utter darkness . There are some scenes of depressing violence and the visuals are rich and beautiful . The hypnotic eyes of Barbara Steele are not easy to forget . .
Phantasmagoric nightmare .	A young woman named Arletty moves back home to find out what happened to her estranged father an artist . However as she arrives in the California beach house she runs into some decidedly odd behavior . Her father is gone but the house is full of his paintings . She meets an aristocrat played by Michael Greer and his two sexy groupies when they are asked to leave town they remain staying at her father's house . Things get completely crazy as the moon turns red with the townspeople turning into flesh-eating ghouls and the dead coming back to life as the Messiah of Evil , a former minister turned cannibal and Satan worshipper rises from the darkness to claim the town . Rarely seen and rather unknown zombie flick with strange surreal atmosphere and some strikingly eerie moments . The whole movie is a flashback from a foregone conclusion . The film is highly influential : it somehow reminded me " Dawn of the Dead " , Fulci's " City of the Living Dead " and " In the Mouth of Madness " several times . Check out this extremely effective mood piece .
Brutal and criminally underrated Norwegian survival horror .	Four young people travel by van through the forest grown inland of Norway in 1974 . During their stay at a gas station frightened girl asks them for a lift . The driver agrees without hesitation . Bad choice ! Soon the entire group is hunted and systematically murdered in the deep Norwegian woods by three crazed rednecks . I'm a big fan of backwoods survival horror and " Rovdyr " doesn't disappoint . The violence comes thick and fast and is brutal . The film is surely influenced by " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , " Rituals " and " Deliverance " , but the pace is fast and the acting is strong . The look of " Rovdyr " captures well the backwoods terror cinema of 70's . So if you want your horror fast and furious then " Backwoods " delivers the gore in spades . .
Very clever sequel with lots of blood .	" Ginger Snaps : Unleashed " is a pretty smart sequel to my beloved werewolf horror " Ginger Snaps " . Brigitte is an addict . After mixing blood with her sister Ginger she has been infected with the virus . Each day the curse grows stronger and she must increase her dosage of injections . When she is found lying face down in the snow after the near escape from another beast , she is thrown into drug rehabilitation-locked behind the doors without her life-saving antidote . " Ginger Snaps : Unleashed " is almost as good as the first one . The soundtrack is awesome and creates a creepy atmosphere of desperation and isolation . There is plenty of gore and violence and some really vicious werewolf attacks . The acting is excellent with outstanding performance by Emily Perkins . The film is really tense , so if you liked the original you won't be disappointed . Highly recommended .
One of my favourite turkey movies of all time !	" Empire of the Ants " is an astoundingly silly film in the ecokill subgenre . This adaptation of H . G . Wells ' novel features a fun 70's B-movie cast menaced by cheesy-looking giant ants . It is pure trashy fun , so don't take this movie seriously . Director Bert I . Gordon went on to make such films as " The Food of the Gods " , " Satan's Princess " , " Burned at the Stake " . Recommended if you like cheesy horror movies !
A massive bloodshed .	John Rambo is leading a near-isolation life as the cobra hunter near the Salween River near the Thailand-Burma Border . In the neighborhood Burma there is a civil war where the Burmese Military is fighting with the Karen people who comprise of poor laborers and farmers and the fight has been going on for over 60 years with lots of bloodshed and genocide . A group of human right activists headed by Dr Michael Burnett along with volunteer Sarah approach Rambo to give them a safe passage to Burma so that they can give medical assistance . When he does take them to a neighboring village , the militia brutally attack the villagers and take the activists hostage . A rescue mission is sent to get the hostages alive . But they need the support of only one man-John Rambo . One hell of a violent flick ! The action is fast-paced , the violence is brutal and bloody and Sly Stallone looks more stronger than in his previous Rambo movies . .
Truly grisly and relentless shocker .	Two friends Marie and Alex drive into the remote countryside to visit Alex's mother , father and little brother . Soon a vicious madman ( Philippe Nahon ) attacks the isolated farmhouse , violently murdering the entire family except for the girls . " Haute Tension " is an unsettling and grisly shocker with plenty of gore and violence . The killings are extremely bloody and graphic and the atmosphere of intensity and desperation is well-captured . The gore effects made by Gianetto De Rossi are disturbingly realistic - there is for example a very gory decapitation , a nasty throat slashing , an axe in the chest . So if you're a fan of gritty horror films like " Maniac " or " The New York Ripper " you can't miss it . Highly recommended . .
Very creepy Italian horror film .	Ivan Zuccon's " The Shunned House " has been made quite cheaply and has Italian actors talking in English with partly atrocious accents . Still I enjoyed it very immensely and I'd recommend " La Casa Sfugitta " to anyone interested in Italian horror . The film is based on three short stories by H . P . Lovecraft and it features really haunting sequences and some disturbingly violent moments like throat slashing with a razor . Another plus is that " The Shunned House " is visually stunning and easily captures extremely dark atmosphere that Lovecraft is so famed for . Many horror fans trashed this eerie flick , but I really don't understand why . Give this movie a chance and you won't be disappointed . My rating : .
Excellent Italian sleaze / shocker .	Aldo Lado's " Night Train Murders " aka " The Late Night Trains " is a " Last House on the Left " ( 1972 ) rip-off . Unlike Craven's shocker this one is very serious-there is no comedy here . The film is extremely suspenseful and pessimistic . For thirty minutes Lado creates a slow burn of quiet menace , eventually uniting very sadistic Macha Meril ( she played the psychic in Argento's " Deep Red " ) , two thugs and and the two girls ( Irene Miracle and Marina Berti ) . When the terror begins , it's cold and unmerciful . The scenes of sexual humiliation and violence are pretty hard to stomach , even though they are often suggested off camera or hidden in the darkness of the train carriage . The knife rape scene is very disturbing . The score by Ennio Morricone is extremely beautiful and haunting . The acting is very good , particularly from Macha Meril . The film is pretty tough to find , but if you like sleazy and nasty Italian cinema give this one a look . .
A blood-soaked classic !	Debut outing for Stuart Gordon provides a very entertaining film with a big helping of good special effects and quite a large amount of gore for an R-rated feature . Great touches of humour shine through the gore although the gore , which there is a lot of , is always excellent . Jeffrey Combs as a scientist / doctor Herbert West is simply amazing . " Re-Animator " is visually interesting to look at , it is also quite creepy at times . It just can't get any better than this ! In my opinion Stuart Gordon should be worshipped by all horror fans for producing such fine films like this one . OK , I admit that his another horror flick " Dolls " is pretty lame , but " From Beyond " , " The Pit and the Pendulum " , " Castle Freak " are all great . If you like " Re-Animator " check out its sequel " Bride of Re-Animator " , also highly recommended .
Excellent , overlooked horror .	Bibi Besch is raped by a monster on a Southern road , and 17 years later , her son ( very convincing Paul Clemens ) begins showing signs of change . Pretty soon , he's rampaging through a small town of Nioba killing people , and ( in an excellent transformation scene ) changing into a slimy fanged beast . The acting is great , the music is really spooky , and the special effects by Thomas R . Burman ( " Prophecy " , " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " ) are simply outstanding . Tom Holland ( " Fright Night " ) wrote the screenplay from an Edward Levy novel . Director Philippe Mora creates a fair amount of suspense and atmosphere , and there's enough gore and violence to satisfy all the gore hounds . So if you like horror genre , check out this gory shocker . Cult classic indeed !
Sick and disturbing , yet wickedly humorous .	Takashi Miike is one of the most creative directors from Japan . " Visitor Q " is about a family with some seriously messed up issues that comes together when a stranger-who introduces himself by smashing a rock into the head of the father character-descends upon their household and inspires in them their basest urges . This film is seriously twisted : it contains prostitution , drug-use , sexual assault , incest , asphyxiation , defecation , an incredible amount of lactation , rape , murder , necrophilia , and just plain insanity . Some scenes are so over the top that you'll scratch your head in a total disbelief . Highly recommended , especially for fans of Japanese cinema . - what else ?
Authentically original and twisted little gem .	" The Ugly " is one of the best horror / thrillers I have ever seen . I think that it ranks up with such terrifying genre classics like " Maniac " or " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " . Paolo Rotondo plays Simon , a psychopathic serial killer who , having been abused by his domineering mother as a kid , decides to murder lots of people . " The Ugly " is a really suspenseful , psychologically disturbing film which has to be seen to be believed . It's also very violent , even by today's standards-the killings ( mostly razor slashings ) are cold blooded and brutal . Sure , the blood is black , but it goes well with dreamlike atmosphere of the film . The acting is excellent , especially the performance by Paolo Rotondo is amazing . Simon is the guy we worry about finding hiding behind our doors when we come home late at night . The guys like he really exist in our world . All in all I'd wholeheartedly recommend " The Ugly " for those who want something much more intelligent and unsettling than any mainstream slasher flick . .
The best adaptation of Jack Ketchum's novel so far .	Jack Ketchum's brilliant novel tells the story of an elderly man Avery Ludlow , who has a dog named Red he loves more than life . A simple lonely man he has few good things in his life after losing family members tragically years before . On the day he takes his dog fishing with him , three young boys come along , rob him and shoot his dog for no reason . After this cold-blooded murder he tries to seek justice , but two of the boys are coming from a rich and powerful family . Each thing he tries is thwarted until he takes matters into his own hand . The climatic outburst of violence is inevitable . . . " Red " is a slow-moving and meditative drama punctuated with sudden explosions of violence . The acting by Brian Cox is phenomenal , the supporting cast is also splendid . Overall , " Red " is a sad and beautiful story about a man and his dead dog . Thank You very much Lucky McKee and Trygwe Aliester Disen for such powerful piece of work . I have seen " The Girl Next Door " and " The Lost " , but " Red " is the best adaptation of Ketchum to date . I'm glad that I saw it in the cinema during 2008 Warsaw Film Festival .
A truly bizarre stuff !	Lynn ( Toni Lawrence-the daughter of Marc Lawrence ) stabbed her father to death after he raped her . She believes that her daddy is still alive . She escapes from the asylum-stealing a car she flees into backwoods America , ending up at Zambrini's roadside diner . Zambrini ( Marc Lawrence ) has twelve pigs-he butchers people to feed his animals ! " Daddy's Deadly Darling " / " Pigs " is another overlooked classic from early 70's . The script is wonderfully bizarre , the acting is pretty good and there is a bit of gore . The photography is grainy , even ugly looking at times-the film actually reminds me " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , " Last House on the Left " or " Eaten Alive " . Some scenes are pretty creepy , so if you like horror movies give this little gem a look !
Martyrdom through extreme suffering .	" Martyrs " has to be one of the most brutal and mind-shattering horror films I have ever seen . It is awashed with extreme cruelty , human suffering and despair . Lucie is found running half-naked down a country road after having been missing for over a year . During this time she had been held captive and subjected to mental and physical torture before she was able to make her escape . She was imprisoned in the abandoned slaughterhouse , but the building had been evacuated and her abusers were never apprehended . Lucie is placed in an orphanage where she eventually forms a bond with another young girl named Anna , who resides there . The first half deals mostly with Lucie , Anna and the events that lead up to finding the people Lucie feels are her past abusers . The film pulls no punches when it comes to delivering extreme violence and cruelty . It leaves the lasting impression on the viewer when it's over . The acting by both young ladies is exceptional and their bond is believable . Pascal Laugier seems to seek the meaning in the human pain through repetitive acts of violence and transgression . Despite being vile and misogynistic there is philosophical meaning in all this suffering galore . " Martyrs " is the film that makes the viewer uncomfortable and I applaud it for that . An opus magnum of extreme horror . .
Outstanding Italian horror from Dario Argento . Spoilers	My review is based on uncut Italian print , which runs 110 minutes . A young Jennifer Connelly can communicate telepathically with insects . The area she arrives in is being terrorized by a psychotic killer , who has been murdering coeds and making off with their decapitated bodies . Desperate for clues , a police inspector visits an entomologist Donald Pleasance ( " Halloween " , " Death Line " ) and eventually Pleasance and Connelly team up to find the killer . It all has something to do with Daria Nicolodi and the deformed creature she keeps chained in the basement . Wonderful atmosphere , gorgeous cinematography and plenty of gruesome gore make this one a must-see . Argento goes totally over the top in " Phenomena " with a swimming pool full of maggots and rotting corpses , a mad dwarf , a razor wielding monkey and grisly decapitations . Great heavy metal songs by Iron Maiden and Motorhead plus a nice musical score by Goblin . .
Deeply disturbing horror film .	" All Night Long R " was released on DVD only in Japan , but I managed to track it down . The film is not as savagely violent as the previous two movies " All Night Long 2 " and " All Night Long 3 " , but the tone of it is definitely disturbing and depressing . It tells us about obviously disturbed Japanese individual named Yuuki who captures two Japanese girls . One of them , Reika , is brutally murdered and her captor cuts her up and takes her body parts like ears and breast . The second girl is chained to his bed and he performs a hideous experiments on her body . " All Night Long R " is a rather slow-moving horror film that offers plenty of shocking violence . The acting is excellent and the killing of a Japanese boy is extremely vicious and cruel . Sometimes the film has a mood of a very sad romance . So if you're a fan of Katsuya Matsumura's works give this gem a look .
Extremely funny and fast-paced !	Chiu Man Cheuk is sent out to rescue Anthony Wong's son from an illegitimate father before Wong himself , who is holding a school hostage , kills a bunch of people . Plenty of humour and crazy fight scenes , but the movie is relatively non-violent . This is not a perfect film , but it still manages to be entertaining . It's simply one long chase sequence with fighting interspersed . The bad guys manage to show up at every turn without any explanation . However I enjoyed it and you should too , if you're a fan of Hong Kong cinema !
Brilliant movie !	Otto Preminger's " Laura " is one of the best murder mysteries ever made and a classic Film Noir as well . It's funny and suspenseful movie filled with memorable characters-the mystery is well-handled and the viewer will be surprised who the killer actually is . The acting is excellent-great performances by Gene Tierney , Dana Andrews and Vincent Price . - I'm sure that this brilliant film will be remembered forever ! My highest recommendation .
Quentin Tarantino's masterpiece .	Quentin Tarantino's " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " ( 2003 ) is one of the best movies I have seen this year . Tarantino perfectly mixes beautiful imagery with highly stylized violence . Wonderful Uma Thurman shines as The Bride . She is seeking revenge for horrible atrocities she has suffered at the hand of mysterious Bill . The fight choreography by Yuen Wo Ping is amazing . Still the film is not as violent as some people claim . In actuality , the violence is so cartoonish and over-the-top it can only be seen as amusing . The film is clearly a homage to Japanese samurai cinema , Hong Kong's kung fu movies and Italian spaghetti westerns . I think that Tarantino was inspired by such movies like " Thriller : A Cruel Picture " ( 1974 ) , " Lady Snowblood " series , " Sleepy Eyes of Death " series , " Shogun Assassin " ( 1980 ) , " Battle Royale " ( 2000 ) plus various Sonny Chiba and Bruce Lee flicks . Anyway , I enjoyed this film and you should too , especially if you're a fan of exploitation cinema .
A disturbing masterpiece .	Takashi Miike's " Audition " has to be one of the best Japanese horror movies I have ever seen . Ryo Ishibashi plays Shigeharu Aoyama , a lonely middle-aged man . After many years of being loyal to his deceased wife is the right time to begin dating again . His friend Yasuhisa decides to set up a fake casting audition in hopes that his friend can find new wife . Aoyama then goes through countless portfolio's looking for women to audition , but as soon as he sees the beautiful Asami's picture he knows that she is the one . Soon they begin dating . Everything seems perfect at first , but is Asami all that she seems ? " Audition " isn't as violent and outrageous as " Fudoh " or " Ichi the Killer " , but it certainly delivers some of the most harrowing scenes of violence ever captured on screen . The film is atmospheric and artistic , so if you're looking only for gore and violence avoid this one like the plague . However if you're a fan of Miike's works this masterpiece is not to be missed . .
Jaw-droppingly powerful and truly disturbing Russian war drama .	" Come and See " has to be one of the most powerful war movies ever made . It left me emotionally drained . The film tells the story of 12-year-old Florya ( Alexi Kravchenko ) , whose desire is to join his countrymen in the battle against the fascists . His enthusiasm is written all over his face : in the opening scenes , which show Florya's recruitment by partisan soldiers , he wears the blissed-out smile of a hopeful child . After a bombardment , which leaves him temporarily deaf , he is left behind and stumbles across Glasha ( Olga Mironova ) , who has also been abandoned . Together they return to his village , the atrocities witnessed there anticipating horrors to come . " Come and See " is a deeply unsettling film . It's hallucinatory , hellish , traumatizing and uncompromising . There's an aura of profound sadness here , as Florya ages dramatically over the course of the story's events . The film's most disturbing sequence revolves around the raising of one village and the slaughter of most of its inhabitants . The acting is excellent , the cinematography is stunning and the use of Mozart on the soundtrack is particularly effective . . A must-see !
Top notch South Korean horror .	" A Tale of Two Sisters " is a brilliant South Korean psychological horror that left me speechless . The film offers some delicious moments of ghastly horror and is extremely creepy . The small cast of actors is truly excellent , with lead Im Soo-jung being especially memorable in the lead role . The direction by Kim Ji-woon is well-handled and the cinematography is absolutely gorgeous . The plot is slightly confusing , but some scenes are wonderfully eerie . The action is rather slow , but I was not bored in the slightest ; I was extremely curious and intrigued . The house , where the film takes place looks incredibly menacing and isolated . " A Tale of Two Sisters " is along with " Ringu " and " Kairo " one of the most original Asian horror films I have ever seen . Watch this masterpiece as soon as possible . My rating : .
Wonderful Japanese horror film .	Toshiharu Ikeda's " Evil Dead Trap " was really popular in Japan , spawning at least two sequels . Nami ( Miyuki Ono ) , a late night TV show host , receives a strange tape . It shows the brutal murder of a young Japanese woman . Nami launches her own investigation , taking four of her crew to an abandoned Army base . However somebody , or possibly something is waiting for them . . . " Evil Dead Trap " is obviously influenced by the works of Dario Argento , Lucio Fulci , Sam Raimi and David Cronenberg . It has even Goblinesque soundtrack which reminds me Argento's " Suspiria " . Still the film has some wonderful surprises-it's atmospheric and very gory . The death scenes are pretty graphic and gruesome , so gorehounds won't be disappointed . I really liked the use of booby traps to kill some of the victims . The ending is also very surprising . All in all I enjoyed this film and you should too , if you're a fan of Japanese extreme horror !
Brilliant !	I am very surprised to see all of the negative complaints towards this film . Like " I Spit on Your Grave " or " I Stand Alone " , " Irreversible " is only rubbish to those who don't understand it , or don't want to understand it . Gaspar Noe tells us the story about love and revenge-a pregnant young woman ( outstanding Monica Bellucci ) is violently raped and tortured in the underground passage . Her boyfriend ( Vincent Cassel ) desperately tries to find her rapist to kill him . The infamous Monica Bellucci's anal rape scene is truly brutal and sickening , but at least the film can't be accused of eroticizing , trivializing or glamourizing rape , something many mainstream movies are guilty of . It actually shows that rape is a brutal and disgusting act . Congratulations should go to this stunningly beautiful actress for her brave performance . It's obvious that women should be treated with respect , unfortunately this is the kind of a sexual violence women are dealing with everyday and everywhere . In that case Cassel's savage behaviour is completely justified . The scenes in " Rectum " are genuinely nightmarish and infernal . The film will leave you shaken and desolated , so if you want to see something totally mind-shattering , then " Irreversible " is a must-see . An absolute .
A breathtaking cinema !	In France in 1572 , Queen Margot ( brilliant Isabelle Adjani ) , a catholic , marries Henri of Navarre ( Daniel Auteuil ) , a protestant , in an arranged marriage that neither wants . Two religious camps hate each other and the war is about to break out . The cinematography in " La Reine Margot " is amazing-it's dark and grainy , and the set design is very good ! The acting is excellent-Adjani is really believable , it's also really nice to see Asia Argento , the daughter of famous Italian horror master Dario Argento in a small role ! The film is packed with bloody scenes-there is a lot of violence , rape , sex , nasty throat slashings etc . - definitely not for the squeamish ! A must-see !
Incredible masterpiece made by Kinji Fukasaku .	" Battle Royale " is one of the most controversial and challenging movies ever made . The film is very gory and violent , but it's also witty , satirical and thought provoking . The concept of " Battle Royale " is pretty simple . The act of Battle Royale decrees that once a year a class of 9th graders is chosen at random , stranded on a small island , and armed with random weapons . The kids are also outfitted with strange necklaces that monitor their locations and life functions , and explode if more than one student is alive at the end of 72 hours . The kids are forced to become savage killers , and the movie provides them with interesting personalities and human reactions to the horrible situation in which they find themselves . The acting is brilliant and the violence is horrific and merciless . The film is very exciting and well-photographed . A masterpiece that needs to be seen by every fan of wonderful Japanese cinema !
One of the best independent horror movies ever made . A true cult classic !	" The Evil Dead " ( 1981 , Sam Raimi ) was my first ever video nasty viewed in the early 90's , and for that reason it shall always have a special place in my heart . It has an excellent story , completely believable acting and lots of gruesome gore including axe dismemberment , decapitation and eyeball violence to keep horror fans entertained . The camera work is incredible , the action is fast-paced and the atmosphere is truly creepy and evil . - don't call yourself a horror fan if you haven't seen this one !
Finally something fresh and original .	" Le Pacte des Loups " is an original and visually impressive action / horror and one of the best movies of the year . Incredibly beautiful photography by Dan Laustsen ( " Mifune " ) , great acting and wonderful location sets . Plenty of wonderfully choreographed fights ( Philip Kwok - " Hard Boiled " , " Tomorrow Never Dies " ) and lots of suspense . Christophe Gans is a great , highly underrated director and I loved his earlier movies - " Necronomicon " - part 2 , and brilliant actioner " Crying Freeman " also with Mark Dacascos . And lovely Monica Bellucci ( " Malena " , " Doberman " ) is also here-Man , she is incredible ! Definitely my favourite actress of all time ! So if you like French cinema , check out this exciting film !
Creepy masterpiece of erotic horror .	Jose Ramon Larraz's " Vampyres " is easily one of the best erotic horror movies ever made . This is surely a cult classic and should be treated with respect . A pair of sexy bisexual vampires played by Marianne Morris and Anulka live in an abandoned castle . Both stunning beauties lure passing motorists to their lair . " Vampyres " is a very remarkable horror film that perfectly mixes creepy atmosphere with delicious sleaze . There is also a nice amount of blood and gore , so I was pleased . The acting is great and the sex scenes are truly arousing . There is nothing overtly supernatural about the ' vampyres ' for example they lack fangs and go about freely in daylight . So if you are a fan of erotic horror you can't miss this masterpiece . .
Very creepy horror film .	" Tourist Trap " is a genuinely spooky low-budget horror film that will surely satisfy horror fans . It contains extremely strange atmosphere and there are some quite unnerving moments of total dread and fear . Some scenes are downright bizarre for example there is one scene when Chuck Connors sits down to have dinner with a mannequin that comes to life and starts conversing with him before its head falls off . There is very little gore , but the violence is quite strong for PG-rated horror film . The mannequins look very sinister and the climax is horrifying . David Schmoeller returned to make several other genre films including " Crawlspace " , " Puppet Master " and " Netherworld " . Still " Tourist Trap " is definitely his best horror film , so if you want to be scared give this little gem a look . .
Lucio Fulci's cult classic .	Lucio Fulci's " Zombi 2 " is by far his most famous contribution to the genre . The make-up effects by Gianetto de Rossi are amazing and the direction by maestro Fulci creates unremitting vile monsters and a real sense of decay , horror and hopelessness . The gore in some parts is extreme ( I love especially the scene when Auretta Gay has her throat torn out ) , but this is not the goriest Italian zombie flick ever made . Andrea Bianchi's " Burial Ground " is much more gorier . However I must agree with Trooper8-2 that mainstream American zombie flicks like " Return of the Living Dead " or similar politically correct garbage are nowhere near as explicit as Italian gorefests . The plot is simple : Tisa Farrow and Ian MacCulloch travel to the island of Matool in search of her missing father . Unfortunately for them and their two companions ( Al Cliver and Auretta Gay ) they are thrown into a nightmare of undead . Many people say that " Zombi 2 " is a " Dawn of the Dead " rip-off , I absolutely disagree because other than the presence of the zombies there is nothing in common between the two . Check it out if you're an Euro-horror fan , but if you like American trendy " horror flicks " like " Scream " then stay away . Highly recommended .
Stupendous !	I've never been a fan of fantasy ( not read Tolkien's books ) , but Peter Jackson's " The Lord of the Rings : The Fellowship of the Ring " totally blew me away ! This masterpiece is simply amazing ! Everything here is excellent : the acting , the sets , the special effects by Richard Taylor etc . The film was shot in New Zealand for example in Matamata ( Hobbiton ) , Kaitoke Regional Park ( Rivendell ) , Glenorchy ( Lothlorien ) etc . My favourite characters are : Aragorn ( Viggo Mortensen ) , Frodo Baggins ( Elijah Wood ) , Galadriel ( Cate Blanchett ) and Boromir ( Sean Bean ) . The film is full of incredibly beautiful images ( the Dark Riders galloping on their horses etc . ) , some scenes like a fight with a huge Troll in Moria are literally unbelievable . I still can't believe that Peter Jackson , who was responsible for such excellent ( and extremely gory-I might add ! ) horror movies like " Bad Taste " ( 1987 ) and " Braindead " ( 1992 ) created this masterpiece . I only hope he'll return to his splatter origins . - what else ? I am waiting impatiently to see the following two parts .
Very amusing French porn with lovely Brigitte Lahaie .	" Parties Fines " is a truly arousing French porn in which Brigitte Lahaie plays a Baroness who , while her husband is out playing his games , is raped and used as a toy by two men who break into her estate . The tone of the film is definitely comical , still there is lots of hard core action including oral sex , anal sex , masturbation mixed with lashings of lovingly decadent atmosphere . Of all of the first-rate French XXX directors Gerard Kikoine had the best eye for the telling erotic detail . He was a fan of variation for its own sake . This guy was an excellent cameraman and seems to have shot about half the top-flight French adult films that he didn't direct . Surprisingly he also directed two horror movies " Edge of the Sanity " and " Buried Alive " . I'd like to recommend them too for my fellow fans of vintage smut .
Absolutely brilliant .	Richard Blackburn's " Lemora : A Child's Tale of the Supernatural " is one of the most atmospheric horror movies I have ever seen . It is filled with incredibly haunting and hypnotic atmosphere that left me speechless . This wonderfully uncanny horror film was filmed in 1973 and released in 1974 only to be banned by the Catholic Film Board . The acting is excellent-Lesley Gilb is especially memorable as a hooded and pale Lemora . She is a haunting and sinister character , who reminds me the myths of Lamia and Lilith , vampires who drink the blood of children . Cheryl Smith is also outstanding as a young 14 year old Lila Lee . " Lemora : A Child's Tale of the Supernatural " is a masterpiece of atmospheric horror-for example the scenes with Lemora's vampire children are extremely eerie . A must-see for horror fans . .
Finally something fresh and original .	I'm so happy that I watched this brilliant gem of a horror movie two days ago . In those politically correct times where idiotic MTV-oriented teen slashers and comedies are made in the US , it is really good to see such original film like " Ginger Snaps " . Why ? Because it has some excellent suspense sequences and a rather high amount of blood and gore . The werewolf is really cool looking , the acting by two lead girls ( Emily Perkins , Katharine Isabelle ) is excellent and the direction is well-handled . " Ginger Snaps " is a pure horror film , that is to be taken seriously . I think it ranks up there with Daniel Attias " Silver Bullet " and Joe Dante's " The Howling " . - a perfect film for the jilted generation !
Truly eerie and atmospheric horror film .	Roddy McDowall heads the cast of this extremely creepy chiller about four psychic investigators and the dark , brooding mansion called Hell House . It's already destroyed one team of researchers . Now this brave quartet ventures in for another try at unraveling its ghastly secret . With a screenplay by Richard Matheson , adapting his own novel " Hell House " , " The Legend of Hell House " is a very creepy piece of horror that contains enough shocks and surprises for the dedicated horror buffs . The film has strong characters and a compelling story . The acting is excellent and the atmosphere of dread and fear is simply overwhelming . The house itself is a truly scary place filled with dark shadows , creepy corridors and spider webs . " The Legend of Hell House " contains almost no gore , but it scared the hell out of me . Highly recommended . .
Nasty and disturbing thriller .	" Born for Hell " / " Naked Massacre " takes place in Belfast , Northern Ireland during civil war and IRA terror . A group of eight young innocent nurses are sharing a house with no men to protect them . Mathieu Carriere is an ex-Vietnam soldier , with a pathological hate for all women . In a night of bloody horror he stalks the nurses , murdering them one by one until all meet their demise at the hands of this madman . The film is truly unsettling with some nasty scenes of misogynistic sexual violence . It is apparently based on actual events ( Richard Speck - mass murderer of eight innocent nurses in 1966 ) , what makes it even more disturbing and grim . The acting is very good and it's nice to see Leonora Fani ( " Giallo a Venezia " - 1979 ) as Jenny . The film is extremely hard to find , so grab the copy and treasure it . Still it's a pretty strong stuff and definitely not for everybody .
Still undiscovered slasher / mystery gem .	" Communion " - the second film by Alfred Sole ( after porn " Deep Sleep " - 1973 ) is one of the most underrated horror movies ever made . Not many horror fans heard about this gem , so if you find it you'll not be disappointed . Young Brooke Shields is killed in church , and the prime suspect is her creepy sister Alice ( brilliant Paula Sheppard of " Liquid Sky " ) . With its oppressive religious atmosphere , gory as hell murders and nerve-wracking tension , this is surely one of the best horror movies of the 70's . Alphonso DeNoble ( " Bloodsucking Freaks " ) is particularly memorable as a fat pervert landlord , and there is really gruesome staircase slashing which shocked me beyond belief ! - find this low-budget chiller and prepare to be scared !
Amazing slasher flick with lots of humor and grisly gore .	The plot of " Hatchet " centers on friends Ben and Marcus , who decide to join a haunted bayou cruise . Led by maverick guide Shawn the doomed group of tourists sails into the darkness . The boat sinks in waters known to be haunted by Victor " Hatchet Face " Crowley ( Kane Hodder ) , who aims at butchering his guests piece by piece . " Hatchet " is amazing . It perfectly blends humor with stomach churning gore . The violence is so gruesome that it quickly becomes comical , Victor Crowley looks wonderfully campy and the gore flows freely . The best part of Green's film is its comic pacing . Due to its frenetic action the film often reminded me Sam Raimi's splatter classic " The Evil Dead " . So if you are a fan of crazy early 80's slasher gorefests give it a look .
One of the best zombie flicks I have ever seen !	" Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things " is a very creepy and atmospheric zombie film about a group of hippie actors who go to a small island to practice satanism and succeed in raising the dead ! The only problem is , the dead wants to eat them all . Surely one of my favourite horror flicks this one contains really cool zombies and dark , brooding atmosphere . The acting is surprisingly good , the location sets are spooky and there's also a sprinkle of black humour added for good measure . Only a little bit of gore , so fans of Italian zombie gut-munchers may be disappointed , but if you like scary horror movies this one is perfect for you . Anyway , check this movie out-you'll love this ! And the ending is the most edge-of-your-seat ever . A must see ! Highly recommended .
Jose Ramon Larraz's mysterious horror film .	First of all I love pretty explicit and audacious lesbian vampire flick " Vampyres " ( 1974 ) , but more rare and obscure " Symptoms " is even better and certainly different in tone . It's a very subtle , calm and restrained horror film with plenty of mysterious atmosphere . Helen Ramsey arrives back from Switzerland to her old-fashioned family home , accompanied by a friend Ann West . It quickly becomes clear that Helen suffers from a nervous disposition . At night both Helen and Ann hear voices in the house and Helen seems convinced that there is something in the attic , a trap door to which is in the ceiling in a corner of her room . " Symptoms " is a genuinely frightening horror film about a woman slowly slipping completely into madness . The cinematography is striking , the interior sets are terrifyingly dark and the acting by Angela Pleasence is fantastic . I fell in love with this film and can't praise it enough .
Impressive vampire flick .	" Near Dark " begins with young man named Caleb , who wants more than anything to leave Texas-until he meets beautiful yet mysterious Mae . Predictably , Mae is a vampire-and after Caleb attempts to score with her , she accidentally brings him across into the world of the undead . Now , while being hunted by his worried father and young sister , Caleb is forced to join a band of evil vampires , of which Mae travels with . Here it is-possibly the best modern vampire film ever made . I absolutely loved it ! This film is amazing in every aspect-it has brilliant acting , truly mesmerizing score by Tangerine Dream and lots of gore . Bill Paxton is amazing as a sadistic vampire Severen . I love the scene in the bar-a total killing spree . " Near Dark " is an excellent horror and I can safely say that Kathryn Bigelow never made a better film . Highly recommended . .
A morbid masterpiece of gut-wrenching horror !	Tobe Hooper created one of the most terrifying , disturbing and realistic films in horror genre history . There's a very little visible violence in this film , but the atmosphere of sheer dread and terror is simply overwhelming . " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " is loosely based on activities of Wisconsin serial killer Ed Gein . Gein , a necrophiliac serial killer and devotee of the wartime Nazi concentration camp medical experimentalists is thought to have inspired the Alfred Hitchcock thriller " Psycho " ( 1960 ) and two low-budget horror movies " Deranged " ( 1974 ) and " Three on a Meathook " ( 1972 ) by his macabre deeds in the late 50's . On one occasion he plundered a Wisconsin graveyard by night for edible body parts , and flayed one corpse to fashion a waistcoat souvenir . Some time later , when police called at his house to question Gein about a missing elderly woman , they discovered the gutted torso of one of his earlier female victims hanging from the beams . In the basement of his house parts of human bodies hung from hooks on the walls , in the kitchen the refrigerator contained frozen body parts . Oh , and there was an armchair . . . with real arms . So it's really obvious that Leatherface brilliantly played by Gunnar Hansen was influenced by Ed Gein . The cinematography is grainy , even ugly-looking at times , the music composed by Tobe Hooper is genuinely creepy and the acting is brilliant . " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " is a REAL horror , and also an overwhelming assault on the viewer's senses . - surely they don't make them like this anymore . Along with " Last House on the Left " ( 1972 ) and " Cannibal Holocaust " ( 1979 ) this is one of my favourite horror movies from the 70's .
Truly amazing !	Words can't describe how brilliant this movie is ! " Malena " is simply one of the best Italian movies I have ever seen . Monica Bellucci ( Malena ) is truly gorgeous : her ethereal beauty is incredible . For me she is is the most beautiful woman on this planet ! I'd love to see her in more movies-especially in some stylish Argentoesque giallo / slasher . Giuseppe Sulfaro is outstanding as a young boy Renato , who falls in love with Malena . The supporting cast is also fabulous and the cinematography is excellent . The score by Ennio Morricone ( " The Bird with the Crystal Plumage " ) is fantastic , and the scene in which the women of Sicilian town brutally beat Malena is pretty powerful . All in all this is rather sad film , which can be also funny at times . An absolute masterpiece-and the first non-horror movie I actually reviewed .
Totally crazy and awesome .	Hsiao and his family move into a big apartment which is surprisingly cheap . When they get settled , strange things start to happen . In the 50s , a bar waitress , Lucy lived with her boyfriend Tim in the same apartment . Tim was a US sailor and he had to leave Hong Kong after the holiday . He abandoned Lucy after she was pregnant . Out of rage , Lucy committed suicide and killed her baby boy too . She swore to kill Tim after death . Hsiao's wife and daughter have been possessed by Lucy and her son and Lucy wants to kill Hsiao on his birthday . . . " Possessed II " is far more bizarre and entertaining than its predecessor . The plot is not easy to follow , but some scenes are utterly crazy and left me rolling on the floor with laughter . The werewolf woman is so funny that she truly has to be seen to be believed . . My highest recommendation .
Raw and compelling .	I finally caught " Requiem for a Dream " in a small independent cinema and what can I say ? - this film is absolutely brilliant , because it really grabbed me and left me speechless at the end . It's probably the best drug drama ever made and it is totally different from every other drama you'll ever see-it's an unique picture in many ways and boosts astonishingly brilliant and believable performances ( especially Ellen Burstyn is amazing as a pills-addicted Sara Goldfarb ) , breathtaking visuals and a masterpiece of a film score . " Requiem for a Dream " is definitely disturbing , but it makes you think which is more important than pure entertainment . Sometimes I don't want just to see the film-I want to feel it ! ! ! This masterpiece is a pure rollercoaster of emotions-it's sad ( some scenes made my cry a little bit ! ) , horrifying , depressing , sometimes even repulsive and yet hauntingly beautiful . The music made by Clint Mansell is also awesome ! - a must see !
Cult classic ! ! ! Spoilers	" Night of the Living Dead " - a low-budget , black & white zombie movie changed the face of the horror film . It was a widely seen film in 1968 featuring graphic cannibalism and an ending in which black hero Ben ( Duane Jones ) is shot dead and thrown on a bonfire . Its effect was instantaneous , as a wave of similarly bloody films quickly began to dominate the horror scene . After 33 years " Night of the Living Dead " still has the power to frighten . Thank You George A . Romero for this classic . .
Extremely creepy .	" Ju-On " has to be one of the creepiest horror films I have ever seen . Essentially the ghost story , it tells four interconnected stories that are all tied to the same house and the events that happened there . The film is extremely moody as it has almost dream-like atmosphere . The manifestations of spirits in " Ju-On " are so sudden and bone-chilling that it will surely make your skin crawl . Personally I think that the idea of the blood curse of the house ( the grudge ) is well-developed and the acting is decent . It's nice to see also Chiaki Kuriyama as a schoolgirl Mizuho Tamura . So if you are a fan of creepy Japanese horror you can't miss it . Highly recommended .
Fantastic Japanese splatter film !	Eiji , a young scientist invents serum called Myson which transforms the pain into pleasure . His mother is conducting medical experiment on three young women . Eiji decides to mix his serum with the experimental product that his mother is working on . Soon the girls start to hurt and mutilate themselves with a strange pleasure at doing it . The three main female actresses are truly interesting characters-one is obsessed with eating and her obsession later results in incredibly graphic and shocking self-cannibalism scene , another is obsessed with her image . The third , Rika Mikami suffers from extreme form of insomnia-a condition brought by the trauma of her first period . " Naked Blood " is a slow-moving film filled with moments of totally extreme gore . The scene where one of the girls slowly eats her own nipple and eye has to be seen to be believed ! Still the film is pretty difficult to understand , so fans of mindless Hollywood's horror should avoid it . A must-see for fans of Japanese extreme cinema . !
Very sensual and atmospheric horror film .	" The Vampire Lovers " is easily among the greatest Hammer's productions ever made . This movie as well as " Lust for a Vampire " is based on J . Sheridan Le Fanu's often filmed novella " Carmilla " . The last film of the trilogy " Twins of Evil " is less closely related to these two wonderful horror movies . Polish-born Ingrid Pitt plays Mircalla Karnstein alias Carmilla who , with the connivance of her mother , arranges to stay in a series of homes of young women with single fathers : first General Spielsdorf , and then Mr . Morton . The daughters , Laura Spielsdorf and Emma Morton each slowly becomes deathly pale and subject to bizarre nightmares as the vampiric Mircalla seduces them . " The Vampire Lovers " offers a good deal of sensuality and lesbianism , so fans of classy exploitation films will be pleased . The few gore effects are effective and the visual look of the film is absolutely stunning . The location sets are shrouded in fog and the interiors of the various castles are genuinely impressive . So if you are a fan of erotic horror give this gem a look . Recommended .
" This is . . . an illusion ! "	Another amazing masterpiece from excellent illusionist David Lynch ( " Blue Velvet " , " Eraserhead " ) . Great acting ( two lead actresses Naomi Watts and Laura Harring are simply gorgeous ) , incredibly complex and mysterious plot and very dreamy atmosphere . The music by Angelo Badalamenti is also amazing ! ! ! If you like Lynch check out movies by Dario Argento ( especially " Inferno " and " Suspiria " ) , E . Elias Merhige ( " Begotten " ) and Andrzej Zulawski ( " Possession " ) - three other great illusionists of the cinema ! ! ! Absolutely recommended ! !
Just another great giallo thriller . Spoilers	" Opera " is a great film with some wonderful , imaginative imagery . An opera singer ( Cristina Marsillach ) is being stalked by a killer who forces her to watch him murder everyone she knows by tying her up and taping needles under her eyes . This idea of the needles comes from the fact that Argento doesn't like it when people cover their eyes while watching his movies . " For years I've been annoyed by people covering their eyes during the gorier moments in my films . I film these images because I want people to see them and not avoid the positive confrontation of their fears by looking away . So I thought to myself ' How would it be possible to achieve this and force someone to watch most gruesome murder and make sure they can't avert their eyes ? ' The answer I came up with is the core of what " Opera " is about . " - says Argento . Plenty of suspense , wonderful cinematography and brutal , gory murders . One guy is stabbed in the throat with a knife causing a gushing wound , Daria Nicolodi gets shot in the eye while looking through the peephole , etc . For anyone who hasn't caught this one yet , give it a try . Highly recommended .
Unique and totally brilliant .	" Valerie and Her Week of Wonders " is a wonderfully surreal and hallucinatory horror / fantasy tale made by Jaromil Jires . This poetic film looks like a curious mixture of " Alice in Wonderland " and " Nosferatu " . The pubescent Valerie is awakened one day by a pasty-faced , Nosferatu-like vampire who steals her earrings ( which , we later learn , are imbued with magical powers ) . She pursues him , but he manages to vanish into a crowd . She spots the vampire again later , feebly disguised behind a mouse-head mask , and points him out to her ( alarmingly pale ) grandmother . As it turns out , the earring thief has vampirized Valerie's grannie , along with much of the town , and furthermore has set up shop in the dark , cobwebby basement of Valerie's house ! Matters aren't helped by the presence of a lecherous priest with an eye for Valerie , but things really come to a head when Val's young , pretty ' aunt ' moves in and tries to take Valerie out of the picture . The aunt is in fact Val's vampirized grandmother looking to further the head vamp's nefarious aims . Luckily Valerie's one true love , a dashing young man , is there to help her escape her grandmother's clutches and defeat the vampires , which inspires a mass celebration among the townspeople , ending with them all surrounding Valerie as she climbs into an outdoor bed and goes to sleep . The film itself is loaded with incredibly dreamy atmosphere as it mixes perfectly fantasy with reality . The main actress Jaroslava Schallerova is stunningly beautiful . A must-see for fans of poetic horror . .
Fantastic giallo .	Sergio Martino's " Torso " is one of the most underrated giallos ever made . A series of sex murders shock a college campus , and four young beautiful girlfriends ( Jane , Daniella , Ursula and Katia ) head for the safety of an isolated country villa . Soon a mysterious black-gloved killer begins to kill them one by one . " Torso " is filled with plenty of sleaze and graphic violence , so fans of Italian exploitation won't be disappointed . The murders are stylish and properly gory , and Martino has populated the film with several strikingly beautiful women , all of whom , with the exception of Suzy Kendall , take off their clothes . Martino managed to generate a fair amount of suspense , especially during the breathtaking climax as Jane and the masked murderer engage in a chilling contest of cat-and-mouse . The score by Guido and Maurizio DeAngelis is pretty effective too . A must-see for fans of Italian giallos !
A masterpiece of atmospheric horror .	Mariano Baino's " Dark Waters " ( also known as " Dead Waters " ) is one of the most surprising horror movies I have ever seen . This is surely a powerful film in terms of visuals and style . The film is extremely eerie and the visuals are stupendous . " Dark Waters " is pretty slow-moving , so fans of Hollywood's crap like " Scream " should avoid it . However if you're a fan of Italian horror you can't miss it . The plot is as follows : Elizabeth ( lovely Louise Salter ) decides to venture to a remote island called Crimean . She has chosen this island because her father funded monastery on the site . The nuns at the place are not friendly and soon Elizabeth will be in a real danger !
Brutal , gory and intense horror film .	" Broken " by Adam Mason and Simon Boyes tells the story of a single mother named Hope and her six year old daughter who are kidnapped by the nameless maniac called The Man and kept in the middle of woods . Hope is subjected to brutal humiliation and is treated as a slave . She becomes more and more resistant and finally extracts the revenge on her captor . " Broken " is an extremely violent and intense horror film that certainly provides plenty of sickening gore and general nastiness for fans of extreme survival horror . The small cast is great , the cinematography is fantastic and the gore effects are disturbingly realistic . The opening sequence is definitely not for the squeamish-we see a poor woman , who is tied around the neck to the tree and the only way for her to escape is by using a razor blade sewn inside her stomach . The climax is also incredibly vicious and violent as hell . " Broken " formerly known as " Heart Eater " centers very much on the character of Hope . Nadja Brown delivers a strong performance and Eric Colvin is excellent as the nameless survivalist . Give this film a look-it's a truly bleak , cruel and strikingly memorable experience in survival horror .
Brutal , savage and unrelenting - the way horror film should be .	A family on their way to California come across a rundown gas station in the middle of the New Mexico desert . They then think they're taking a shortcut through the hills , thanks to the kindly suggestion of the gas attendant , but find themselves stranded in the middle of no where . And to make things worse , the whole thing was a trap so a group of deformed mutants can butcher and eat them . " The Hills Have Eyes " remake was made by Alexandre Aja , the guy behind " Haute Tension " . It offers plenty of nasty violence and gore , several scenes with nail-biting tension and a few solid scares . One of the most radical departures from Wes Craven's original is to give the cannibals back-stories . In the 2006 movie , they are miners who were deformed by the radiation fallout from 1940s and 1950s nuclear testing . The trailer attack sequence is wonderfully audacious and the violence is brutal and bloody . Aja manages to unsettle the viewer few times , such as when he intercuts the burning alive of the family matriarch Bob with the suggested rape of younger daughter Brenda . The mutant and gore effects by Howard Berger and Gregory Nicotero are excellent and the photography of the desert landscape is great . A must-see for fans of intense survival horror !
Very creepy .	This scary and rather gory adaptation of Stephen King's great novel features outstanding central performances by Dale Midkiff , Fred Gwynne ( who sadly died few years ago ) and Denise Crosby and some really gruesome gore effects . Director Mary Lambert has a wonderful sense of visual style , and manages to make this one of the few versions of King's work that is not only worth seeing , but genuinely unnerving . The depiction of the zombie child Gage ( Miko Hughes-later in " New Nightmare " ) is equally noteworthy , as what could easily have been a laughable character is made menacing and spooky . As for the people , who think that this one isn't scary-watch it alone in the dark ( eventually with your squeamish girlfriend ) and I guarantee you that " Pet Sematary " will creep you out . Some horror movies like this one or " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " shouldn't be watched in group . Recommended for horror fans !
Truly mind-blowing action flick .	Director John Woo has a powerful and explosive style that will leave you breathless after watching this extremely violent action flick . The camera is everywhere flying from place to place . And there are people everywhere . All of them firing a gun or two . I have never seen such energy before . The violence in " Hardboiled " is very brutal and well directed . The last half hour of this film , which take place in the hospital is full of inventive action sequences . Chow Yun-Fat is really good as a tough policeman and it's also very nice to see Anthony Wong ( " Bunman : Human Meat Pies " , " Dr Lamb " , " Bullet in the Head " ) - what a great performance ! I like Hong Kong-action films by John Woo . Anyway , if you're tired of Hollywood's action trash , then this one is a must-see . Recommended !
Wonderful thriller with plenty of surprises .	" Koma " is a wonderful thriller that is as intense as they come . The two leading ladies are not only stunningly beautiful , but extremely talented as well . Karena Lam of " Inner Senses " fame stars as Ling , a young woman who may be the kidney thief . Angelica Lee plays Ching , a frail woman who suffers from renal failure . She becomes a witness of kidney stealing and Ling may be involved into it . It quickly turns out that Ling had an affair with Wai , Ching's boyfriend . Ling gets cleared of the kidney thefts by the police and she starts to harass Ling . " Koma " is filled with enough surprising twists to satisfy fans of suspenseful mysteries . The direction by Law Chi-Leung is flawless , the cinematography is astounding and the script is fresh and original . The film is stylish and offers plenty of mood and nail-biting tension , so I wasn't disappointed . Give it a look . .
Excellent horror / thriller !	I've seen earlier Brett Leonard's horror film " The Dead Pit " ( 1989-check out my comment of it ! ) and this director is incredibly overlooked and talented . " Hideawy " is excellent-fast-paced , violent and really dark . The visuals ( especially the vision of Hell ) are really impressive , and Jeremy Sisto as a satanic killer Vassago is outstanding-he is pure evil ! Great soundtrack bu such industrial / metal bands like KMFDM , Fear Factory , Godflesh ( " Nihil " - I love this song ! ) and Front Line Assembly . My absolute recommendation .
A masterpiece of Italian horror !	Pupi Avati's " House with the Windows That Laugh " is certainly one of the best Italian horror movies ever made . Set in a small Italian village the film concerns an artist named Stefano ( Lino Capolicchio ) who has been commissioned to restore a fresco in a little church : the fresco portrays the suffering of Saint Sebastian , and is the last known work of mad painter Buono Legnani . Our protagonist quickly realises that there is a sinister and ominous atmosphere in the village . " House with the Windows That Laugh " is a pretty slow-moving film which offers plenty of creepy atmosphere . The conclusion is so extremely surprising that it truly knocked me out of my seat . The acting is excellent and there is enough tension to keep horror fans intrigued . A masterpiece that easily gets !
Excellent British chiller .	" The Woman in Black " is easily one of the creepiest British ghost stories ever made . A young solicitor , after arriving in a small town to handle a dead client's estate , is haunted by a mysterious woman dressed all in black . The film is loaded with extremely eerie atmosphere and the frights are calculated for and deliver the maximum effect possible . The action keeps the viewer deeply involved and the finale is quite disturbing . The acting is excellent and the tension is almost unbearable at times . So if you want to see a truly creepy horror film give this one a look . I dare anyone to watch " The Woman in Black " alone at night with the lights off . Highly recommended . .
Truly brilliant sequel .	" Chinese Ghost Story 2 " is almost as amazing as the first " Chinese Ghost Story " ( 1987 ) . Again the film is incredibly energetic , atmospheric and filled with incredibly well-choreographed fight scenes . Of course the special effects may be a little bit cheesy at times ( especially the monster is funny looking ! ) , but the film is extremely entertaining for horror , fantasy and even comedy fans . So don't wait any longer-check it out now . Highly recommended . .
Brutal to the bone .	" The Exterminator " is a one hell of a vigilante thriller . This legendary flick obviously influenced by Micheal Winner's " Death Wish " has Robert Ginty as a Vietnam vet , whose friend is badly injured by street gangs . James Glickenhaus ( " Suicide Cult " , " The Soldier " ) creates an ultra gritty atmosphere of wonderfully seedy New York . " The Exterminator " is extremely brutal : the double murder in the whorehouse really stands out-you can see a half naked fat guy getting shot in the kidney at point blank range with a pistol loaded with poison bullets . Grisly and unforgettable ! Add also one of the most brutal decapitations ever captured to film and you have a winner . All in all , I'd strongly recommend this film to everyone interested in vigilante flicks - " The Exterminator " is surely an unforgettable experience . .
Sick and disturbing , yet wickedly funny .	A mother and a daughter live in a large home , playing games of sexual domination and re-enacting the murders of various servants that they have hired and then killed . A private detective called Singapore Sling comes searching for Laura , a woman he is fixated on but whom they have killed . They imprison him , using poor guy as a sex toy and torturing him . " Singapore Sling " by Nikos Nikolaidis is easily one of the most demented horror films ever made . This extremely weird piece of film-noir is loaded with erotic regurgitation , cannibalism , incest , lesbianism , bondage , bizarre sex and sadistic violence . The relationship between the mother and her daughter is extremely bizarre to say the least . The acting is absolutely awesome and the performances are incredibly real . The atmosphere is simply insane and wonderfully nightmarish . There is also a good amount of sickening violence and gore including the most nerve-wracking dinner sequence I have ever seen . " Singapore Sling " is shot in exquisite black-and-white and classical music plays on the soundtrack and this makes it even more unsettling . In one truly demented scene the male lead is tied down to the bed , ETC paddles jammed against his forehead and he is left convulsing in shock while the mother rides him and then moves up to urinate on his face . So if you are a fan of twisted cinema like " Visitor Q " , " Salo " or " Sweet Movie " give this gross-out masterpiece a look . .
Another Brian Yuzna's masterpiece .	Doctor Feinstone is a dentist . He has a beautiful wife and a huge house with a pool . Suddenly he discovers that his wife is making out with the pool attendant-he realises that behind everything clean , there is decay . He starts to torture his patients . . . Corbin Bernsen is brilliant as the deranged dentist-he is completely believable . There is surprisingly little gore but the scenes of dental torture are quite nasty and grotesque . Highly recommended . " The Dentist 2 " is also worth checking out !
Tobe Hooper's masterpiece of rural horror !	" Eaten Alive " ( 1976 ) , director Tobe Hooper's second and less successful stab at backwoods horror following the success / notoriety of his brilliant " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " ( 1974 ) is one of the most bizarre horror movies ever made . The plot revolves around demented motel owner Judd ( Neville Brand ) who likes feeding his guests to his pet alligator in the swamp outside . With its gory set-pieces and gratuitous nudity , and Neville Brand's over-the-top performance as Judd " Eaten Alive " is a truly visceral experience . Great location sets : the dilapidated hotel at the edge of the swamp is so bizarre , that it may as well exist on another planet , or in some alternate insane reality . The acting is very good , Marilyn Burns once again proves that she can emote hysterically and Robert Englund is really convincing as a local-yokel Buck . The film is grainy , even ugly looking at times , so don't expect any polished crap from Hollywood . For me this the best ( along with his debut of course ! ) Tobe Hooper's horror film . A must see for horror fans !
Pretty powerful and disturbing .	" The Killing of America " is a brilliant mondo documentary about the rise of violence in the USA . Much more moving and provoking than " Faces of Death " series it features a real footage of assassinations ( John F . Kennedy , Ronald Reagan , Robert Kennedy ) , senseless murders ( the scene with a cashier is very disturbing ) and many other violent events . It shows also the rise of serial killers in the US like Lawrence Bittaker , Ted Bundy , David Berkowitz-Son of Sam , John Wayne Gacy , Ed Kemper-The Co-ed Killer etc . Definitely not for the squeamish or easily offended , but for fans of mondo madness it's a real treat . Highly recommended .
Brian De Palma's masterpiece . ( Spoilers )	" Dressed to Kill " is surely one of the best horror / thriller movies ever made . It's taut , stylish and extremely suspenseful mixture of sex and violence . The acting is pretty good , the orchestral score by Pino Donaggio is unforgettable and there's plenty of surprises to keep thriller fans intrigued . " Dressed to Kill " is a murder mystery that involves a sexually frustrated housewife ( Angie Dickinson ) , her teenage son ( Keith Gordon ) , her psychoanalyst ( Michael Caine ) , and a high price call girl ( Nancy Allen ) . The murderer in the film is a transsexual named Bobbi who is also one of Caine's patients . The film is full of breathtaking moments : the infamous elevator murder scene is extremely stylish and pretty gory as well . Highly recommended .
Hauntingly beautiful and disgustingly gory . Spoilers	A family ( Paolo Malco , Giovanni Frezza and Catriona MacColl ) moves into an old house near Boston inhabited by a psychotic walking corpse of a doctor named Freudstein ( Giovanni De Nava ) . Whoever strays into the house when Freudstein is on the hunt is brutally butchered . Why ? Because doctor Freudstein needs human blood to survive . Great atmosphere , lots of graphic gore and marvelous soundtrack by Walter Rizzati . The ending is very intense and creepy as hell . Almost everyone complains about Giovanni Frezza , but he plays a terrified child very well . The special effects by bloody maestro Gianetto De Rossi and his brother Gino are simply top-notch . The scenes of gory mayhem include a knife through a girl's skull , a babysitter who gets her neck slashed many times then decapitated , the maggots inside of Freudstein's rotting corpse , very nasty flesh ripping etc . There is also a truly nerve-wracking moment when Freudstein pushes a young boy's head up against a door while Paolo Malco ( " The New York Ripper " ) attempts to chop it down with an axe . Some people don't appreciate this film and call it trash , but they're not a real horror fans . They love probably a new mainstream crap like " Scream " or " The Mummy " . So if you are a part of mainstream society don't rent this one , better watch again " The Mummy " or similar MTV-influenced garbage . However if you like Fulci or extreme gore-you won't be disappointed . Who really cares about holes in the plot ? If it's gore you want " Quella villa accanto al cimitero " has plenty of it . What more could a self-respecting Euro-horror fan want ? All in all , this is simply a masterpiece . Highly recommended .
Mario Bava's masterpiece !	Mario Bava's " Bay of Blood " is a gory , early 70's mystery which has creepy atmosphere and plenty of gruesome gore . Feuds over who has the rights to a bay , following the murder of a town matriarch who controls most of the property , results in a massacre of almost every character in the story . It's easy to see where the first two " Friday the 13th " movies got many of its ideas of creative killings . But unlike " Friday the 13th " series , " Bay of Blood " has a complicated plot , interesting characters and plenty of suspense . The scenes of bloody carnage are still shocking : people are dispatched via axe , knife and spear . A must-see for fans of Italian horror !
Surprisingly spooky slasher / mystery .	" Dementia 13 " - Francis Ford Coppola's black and white shocker is certainly one of the creepiest horror movies of an early 60's . It predates all the slasher films made in 70's and 80's . Surprisingly spooky and atmospheric it contains plenty of axe murders ( the decapitation of the hunter is especially memorable ) . The underwater scene is extremely creepy and the climax is well-handled and surprising . The film seems to be forgotten by many horror fans-it's a classic and should be treated with respect ! - if you want to be scared check out this creepy gem !
Very gory slasher flick . Spoilers	" The Prowler " ( 1981 , Joseph Zito ) is a lot better than many other slasher flicks . The film is about a WW2 veteran who first kills his girlfriend who left him and her current boyfriend and then goes on a rampage years later , brutally killing teenagers . There are some truly creepy moments and the gore effects made by maestro Tom Savini are truly gruesome . Yes , there are some boring scenes , but who really cares ? The killings are unique and extremely bloody . A young guy gets a knife through the top of his head and then out of his jaw , a girl , while seen swimming neo-nude , has her throat slashed , a woman is brutally stabbed in the throat etc . The killer's demise is also great-he gets his head blown off with shotgun ( this sequence is very realistic and reminiscent to the one in William Lustig's " Maniac " ) . Besides the gore , the acting is surprisingly decent and Vicky Dawson plays a really likable heroine . " The Prowler " is rather hard to find , so if you get a chance watch it . I can safely say that it's ten times better than stupid and politically correct teen slasher movies of the 90's . Highly recommended .
A masterpiece of depravity !	Terry Hawkins is out of prison and he desperately needs some money . Tired of making porno movies for a small group of wealthy perverts , he decides to make snuff films ( " I wanna make some films , really weird films " ) . He enlists his old porno cameraman and a couple of girls-Nancy and Suzie-in anticipation of his next project . Then he abducts his backers and films their graphic torture and death . " Last House on Dead End Street " is one of the most notorious horror films ever made . The general misanthropy displayed throughout the film is simply overwhelming . There are some scenes of sheer sadism and depravity , especially the torture of a young woman ( Janet Sorley ) on a table by her surgical masked captors . Both her legs are sawn off above the knee while she is kept conscious with smelling salts . Then she is cut open and disembowelled using a pair of wire-cutters , her entrails being held a lot for all to admire . My copy runs 77 minutes , but I'm not sure if my version is the uncut one : some people claim the operation scene has the woman being disembowelled , but the disembowelling takes place in the first two minutes of the film , and the torture scene late in the film fades to black as the killer starts to cut in to the sheets-I doubt they would repeat the same gore sequence twice . . . Lots of people hate this film , personally I loved it and would recommend it to any fans of cool trashy exploitation cinema of the seventies . To be honest , it's not very gory film , but the pure nastiness of the murders will certainly shock you !
Great slasher flick . Spoilers	" Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter " is a poorly underrated horror film and I find it to be the most neglected installment by fans of the " Friday the 13th " films . It is definitely one of the best in the series . The film begins with Jason's escape from the morgue and subsequent return to Crystal Lake , where a new group of partying teens has rented a house . Young Corey Feldman plays a monster-obsessed boy named Tommy . As for the plot it is mainly an excuse for a series of graphic murders . Knives , scalpels , hacksaws , spears , corkscrews , axes and garden harrows are utilized along with the customary machete . This is probably the best of the early sequels and definitely better than any of the subsequent sequels that followed . Whilst part 2 was arguably better because it had a tendency to make you jump more often , I enjoyed part 4 because it was faster paced and the killings were more gory and shocking . After extremely bloody " The Prowler " Joseph Zito manages to create another excellent slasher flick . Highly recommended . Check out especially the scene when Jason grabs the surgical hacksaw and saws off the head of the chief mortician .
Disturbing and artsy shocker .	" Boy Meets Girl " is not as nasty as I expected , but still we have here a pretty disturbing stuff . A man meets a woman in the bar , the two go back to her home and there they decide to watch a porno film . The guy passes out and wakes to find himself strapped to a dentist chair . The woman starts to torture him . . . This artsy shocker is full of brilliant color schemes and there is a lot of atmosphere through out the film . The torture scenes are pretty tame in comparison to " Guinea Pig : Devil's Experiment " ( 1988 ) , but still there is enough shocking scenes to satisfy fans of extreme stuff . Recommended !
An absolute masterpiece of pure horror . Spoilers	" Suspiria " is the most beautiful , dreamlike horror film ever made . Jessica Harper stars as Suzy Banyon , a young ballet dancer studying at prestigious Tanzakademie in Freiburg , Germany . On the night of her arrival , a fellow student is chased by a demonic killer who stabs her repeatedly in the chest , finally piercing his knife into her exposed , still-beating heart . He then ties his victim with rope and she falls through a glass ceiling , hanging from her neck as a large shard of glass bisects another student standing below . The next morning Suzy meets the school's head Madam Blanc ( Joan Bennett ) and one of the teachers Miss Tanner ( Alida Valli ) . Upon making friends with a girl named Sara ( Stefania Casini ) , Suzy learns that all is not quite as it seems and the final truth is horrifying-the academy is a front of a coven of witches , headed by mysterious Mater Suspiriorum . The photography by Luciano Tovoli is brilliant , the musical score by synth rock group Goblin is simply outstanding . Dario Argento creates an atmosphere of horrific dread . Plenty of suspense plus some of the most shocking scenes of violence you'll ever see . Truly a masterpiece " Suspiria " is necessary viewing for anyone interested in horror movies . An absolute 10 .
Truly harrowing film .	" La Pianiste " aka " Piano Teacher " is very strong psychological terror tale about destructed mind , feelings and the reasons behind that . " La Pianiste " doesn't explore violence like " Funny Games " did , but these are very important films and tell about real life and real people . The film is very disturbing psychological study of female who has very severely damaged mind and extremely sick sexual life and habits . Occasionally almost unbearably powerful and extremely harrowing ; the final scene made me cringe . Isabelle Huppert is jaw-droppingly excellent as the main character-her performance is only comparable to Suh Yung's performance in " Seom " / " The Isle " ( 2000 ) . Highly recommended-Michael Haneke is a genius !
Sadistic nightmare !	" Forced Entry " is a very low budget hard core rape / porn / horror which contains some of the nastiest and ugliest rape scenes ever filmed . Truly the rapes are filmed in hard core and are very uncompromising . In the film , the rapist played convincingly by Harry Reems makes the first victim to give him a blow job telling her that he won't torture her to death , too badly if she does as he says-she'll die anyway , but if she messes with him she'll suffer . He cuts her throat-the second victim is dragged from a shower to a bedroom , thrown on the bed and forced to give a blow job with a gun against her head . He then rapes her from behind and tells her " I didn't enjoy that . . . " and starts cutting her body with a knife and then stabs her in the breast . This murder scene is really nasty and cruel-not for the faint of heart . The dialogue is the worst aspect of the film : what he says is really dirty and unbelievable for example : " Is it starting to bleed in there a little hun ? You don't know what bleedin ' is do you , I'll show you some , I'm gonna ' show you a lot of bleedin ' ! " . Anyway , this film is extremely brutal and vulgar , I was really shocked and disturbed when I first saw this . Nothing is left to imagination , everything is shown in unflinching detail . I can't believe the fuss being made over " I Spit on Your Grave " when this film exists . Meir Zarchi's infamous video nasty is really tame in comparison to this one . Not a film for all tastes , but it pulls no punches with its sheer nastiness . Check it out , if you can handle it .
Very gritty and unpleasant thriller .	" Code of Hunt " is an extremely rare Spanish thriller that left me disturbed and speechless . This is one of the hardest to come by titles that existed in only two video releases , one Spanish ( it's country of origin ) and the other Greek . Both are now long deleted many years ago and both are ultra-rare . A famous Spanish actress Assumpta Serna plays Adela , a defender of poor criminals . Unfortunately her latest defendants steal her car and find the keys to her country villa . During the robbery her husband is killed and three of the criminals run away . The youngest criminal ( who is the brother of one of the villains ) is captured by the police and dies in prison . For Adela this is the beginning of pure nightmare . . . " Code of Hunt " is a very gritty and bleak film that has to be seen to be believed . The acting is excellent and the violence is ugly and brutal . The climax is incredibly vicious and sadistic in its cold depiction of sexual violence and revenge . This little gem seems to be forgotten by fans of European cult cinema , but if you get a copy treasure it . .
Wow-what a great film !	David Cronenberg is one of the most amazing directors ever . All his movies are incredible , and " Crash " is simply no exception . Some people don't get it , but in my opinion it's pure brilliance on screen ! Of course it's quite shocking and unpleasant at times , but I always enjoy watching controversial movies . The depiction of sexuality in " Crash " is pretty strong , and the sex scenes are rather graphic . The acting is great , and I especially like the performance of Deborah Kara Unger-she is simply gorgeous ! Too many people trash this masterpiece-I'll give it - what else ? Excellent job-mr . Cronenberg .
Very nasty and sexually violent pinku eiga shocker .	During the mid-1970s and early 80's , Nikkatsu-the most important of the pinku eiga studios-launched a series of pink films which were progressively more extreme in their level of sexual violence . " Assault ! Jack the Ripper " is certainly one of the nastiest pink films I have ever came across . It tells the story of a young waitress and a cook , who after incidentally killing a young woman on a street ends up sadistically raping and murdering women via stabbing them in the crotch . The scenes of rape and sexual violence are truly unsettling , but the film is well-made and acted . Yasuharu Hasebe directed a series of very extreme Nikkatsu pink movies including brutal " Rape ! " and horrendously offensive " Rape ! 13th Hour " . In 1979 came Koyu Ohara's " Zoom Up : Rape Site " , notorious for a scene in which a rapist shoves a light bulb inside a woman's vagina , then stomps on her stomach until it breaks . " Assault ! Jack the Ripper " is not easy to find , but for fans of misogynistic Japanese exploitation this sleazy sickie is a must-see . .
Excellent horror film !	Renny Harlin's first American film was one of the best of a slew of prison-set horror films ( like " Death House " or " The Chair " ) in the late 80's . Twenty years before , guard Lane Smith had wrongfully executed a condemned man . Now , he is the warden of the newly re-opened prison , and the man's ghost is back for bloody revenge . This atmospheric and very moody film features lots of gruesome gore and violence . Viggo Mortensen , Tiny Lister , Tom Everett and Kane Hodder are onhand for the entertaining carnage .
Jason Voorhees isn't in this one . . . come on people , so what ?	" Friday the 13th : A New Beginning " isn't as bad as those above me keep saying it is . I'm not entirely sure why so many people hate this entry-OK so Jason wasn't there , but there's plenty of violence to satisfy b-horror movie fans and nobody acts any worse than before . Of course this one isn't as good as the previous ones , mainly because it lacks the first four films mean spirited edge , but it is still a pretty enjoyable slasher flick . There's also no real blood or gore as most of the killings appear to take place simply off-camera , but I don't mind that . If I want to be sickened by extreme gore I'll watch again " Guinea Pig : Flowers of Flesh and Blood " instead of this , but if I want to see an enjoyable slasher with plenty of nudity I'll choose this one . The plot is simple : the traumatized Tommy Jarvis ( John Shepherd ) , who killed Jason in the previous entry arrives at the Pinehurst home for disturbed teens run by Matt ( Richard Young ) and Pam ( Melanie Kinnaman ) , soon befriending a good-natured young boy named Reggie ( Shavar Ross ) , whose grandfather works as the institution's cook . Not long after his arrival , Tommy sees an angry patient named Vic ( Mark Venturini ) hack a fat teen ( Dominick Brascia , the same guy who directed forgotten 80's slasher " Evil Laugh " ) to death with an axe . Over twenty more murders follow , but who is the killer ? All in all I enjoyed this one , so you should check it out for yourself .
Wonderful horror film .	I saw this lovely piece of low-budget horror during Horror Fiesta Film Festival in Warsaw . This neat little horror flick is wonderfully entertaining and provides plenty of creepy atmosphere . Three teenage girls arrive to the Necropolis cemetery . Pearl and Lisl are the members of the so-called Crypt Club . The third girl , fifteen year-old Julie , tries to pass the test to become the member . As a midnight initiation to the Crypt Club she must find the grave with the sinister statue and put the stake deep into it . Soon all hell breaks loose . " The Crypt Club " is a lovely little horror indie with some creepy shots of the Necropolis cemetery . The soundtrack is extremely atmospheric and the film is well-made and acted . I can easily say that I enjoyed it very immensely , so kudos should go to its director Miguel Gallego . Three main characters ( the girls ) are convincing and the climax kept me on the edge of my seat . Check out this wonderful little indie . Recommended !
Excellent Italian giallo .	" Blood and Black Lace " is a stylish Mario Bava's giallo . It combines wonderful colour visuals and violent murder set pieces with the iconography of the genre such as the trenchcoated , masked and black gloved killer . The film is extremely atmospheric and the killings are fairly brutal and intense . Bava's incredible use of colours and the beautiful sets and costumes are also visible here . The acting is very good and the music perfectly captures the mood of this film . " Blood and Black Lace " is surely one of the most important giallos ever made . A must-see for fans of Italian horror . .
Surprisingly brutal and horrifying horror flick .	" Wolf Creek " is very loosely based on a true story of the real-life serial killer Ivan Milat , who was convicted of killing 7 backpackers and dumping their bodies in the Belangalo Forest , Australia . One of his intended victims , a young British guy , managed to escape and was instrumental in identifying the killer . The filmmakers have used a lot of key points from this case for the movie , for example the physical description of Ivan Milat , the fact that he used a hunting knife and was a gun fanatic . Also he sliced through the spinal cord of most of his victims , paralyzing them before stabbing , shooting , beating and or sexually assaulting them . The personal belongings of his victims were eventually found in a police raid on his home , sleeping bags , tents , backpacks , etc . So the actual story of Wolf Creek isn't true , but the psychopath is a reality . That's why " Wolf Creek " is so terrifying and intense . Director McLean perfectly uses the environment to create an atmosphere of total dread and hopelessness . The film is grainy and offers some fairly brutal scenes of violence and torture , especially towards the female characters . John Jarratt is perfect as Mick Taylor , a sadistic psychopath who stalks tourists . The story is pure , uncluttered and horribly believable , gripping the viewer and never allowing for one second any doubt that the horrors we are witnessing could indeed happen to anyone . Overall , " Wolf Creek " is an intense , decidedly visceral experience that should satisfy fans of relentless horror . .
Twisted and perverse .	Nico Mastorakis " Island of Death " has to be one of the most mean spirited movies ever made . A young couple , Christopher and Celia , arrive from London to spend some time on Mykonos , an island off the coast of Greece . Soon the series of brutal murders is set in motion . " Island of Death " is a sleazy exploitation film which contains some of the most disturbing and downright degrading moments in the history of cinema . All the sex scenes end in death . This picture is pretty notorious due to its gore and sexual violence , not to mention the sequence involving the rape of a young goat and its simulated killing . So if you like exploitation cinema give this one a look . My rating : .
Excellent stuff !	" Der Todesking " - Jorg Buttgereit's second full-length feature film ( the first one was notorious " Nekromantik " ) has no central character or characters , but instead thematic continuity in the act of suicide . Divided into days of the week , it comprises of a series of set-pieces , each of which featuring the self-destruction of a complete stranger . Yes , the production values are low and it's disturbing , but in many ways " Der Todesking " is extremely effective . It makes you think which is sometimes more important than pure entertainment . Unlike the other Buttgereit's works it isn't very gory , but there are some unpleasant images like castration scene in the Tuesday episode , a decomposing corpse and various acts of suicide . The last ( Sunday ) episode is so depressing and full of pain ! - just amazing if you want my opinion . - check out this post-modernism shocker ! Disturbing art in the purest form !
Creepy as hell and unsettling backwoods slasher / survival film .	Five doctors go on a vacation in the Canadian forest and are hunted and killed one by one by a crazed serial killer . A man's leg is graphically caught in a bear trap ; one is beheaded and another is hung from a tree and set on fire . This almost completely unknown Canadian slasher is one of the best low-budget horror films ever made . Often compared to " Deliverance " , it certainly has a similar theme . The film brilliantly conveys an atmosphere of total dread and fear , the feeling of losing control of the world around you . The climax is extremely eerie and haunting . There are some truly unsettling moments like the scene where one of the doctors is strung up , pleading for help whilst getting burned alive . " Rituals " features some striking shots such as the killer's lone silhouette watching from the horizon which elicit an ominous and almost unbearable sense of dread . This obscure horror flick is even better than " Just Before Dawn " , so if you are a fan of slasher flicks you can't miss it . Just beware : there are two main versions available , the easily obtainable but edited TV version and the extremely rare complete version that has nearly ten minutes of extra footage . Be sure to get an uncut print !
Nasty Italian rape and revenge flick .	With " Cannibal Holocaust " ( 1979 ) being one of my favourite horror films , I looked forward to seeing this film the second I heard about it . And finally the search is over ! " House on the Edge of the Park " is a truly shocking film , which makes other of its kind ( like " Last House on the Left " ) tame in comparison . Here's the plot : David A . Hess plays Alex , a rapist / killer who rapes and murders a young woman in the car . After that , he and his buddy Ricky ( Giovanni Lombardo Radice ) go to a high society party . The orgy of violence begins there . . . Beware : this film contains some of the most shocking and disturbing scenes ever put to film . Especially the scene , when a young Cindy ( Brigitte Petronio ) is humiliated and tortured with a razor by Alex , is really sick and hard to forget . The musical score by Riz Ortolani is perfect ( pretty funky-I might add ! ) and there are some memorable lines here . The cast is pretty good ( Lorraine de Selle from " Cannibal Ferox " is almost likable as Gloria ) and the film is well-written and cleverly-made . Definitely one to avoid if you don't like strong stuff . However if you're fed up with boring Hollywood's trash , then this exploitation gem is not to be missed .
" This house is ours . "	This creepy and uncanny horror movie has to be one of the best horror films of 2001 . It's an old-fashioned haunted house film which reminds me such movies like " House on Haunted Hill " ( 1958 ) , " The Haunting " ( 1963 ) , " The Turn of the Screw " ( 1992 ) or " The Woman in Black " ( 1989 ) . The acting is excellent ( kudos for Nicole Kidman-she is brilliant ! ) , the music by Alejandro Amendbar perfectly sets the mood , and the atmosphere is deliciously creepy . Add to this a number of really effective shocks and we have a winner . Instead of computer graphics and gore we get suspense and incredible tension . The ending is extremely surprising ! - a masterpiece !
Extremely brutal , disturbing and nihilistic serial killer film .	Gerald Kargl's " Angst " is one of the most depressing and disturbing serial killer movies ever made . It's loosely based on an actual crime case-in 1980 Werner Kniesek from Salzburg horrendously murdered three people . Later he told the judge " I just love it when women shiver in deadly fear because of me . It is like an addiction , which will never stop " . " Angst " is often compared to John McNaughton's " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " , but it's even more unsettling and hopeless . The film is shot with a strong use of high-angle shots and hand-held camera-work . It tells the story of disorganized serial killer , who is released from prison . First he tries to strangle the female taxi driver , but she manages to kick him out of the car and escapes . The killer flees through the forest until he reaches a huge villa , where the family of three lives . In the orgy of extreme violence he murders them . A disabled and mentally retarded son on wheelchair is slowly drowned in a bathtub in a truly agonizing sequence , a middle-aged mother is strangled in her bedroom and finally her adolescent daughter is stabbed to death with a bread-knife . The killer viciously mutilates her corpse and rapes her post-mortem . All of this is shown in unflinching detail that made me squirm . " Angst " is a hauntingly realistic portrayal of disorganized serial killer on the loose . This disturbed guy is a serious threat to every human being crossing his path . Erwin Leder as the killer is incredibly convincing . The murder sequences are so savage and shocking that you'll need an iron stomach to watch them . The camera work by Zbigniew Rybczynski is simply stunning and the film looks like semi-documentary . " Angst " is easily one of the most gut-wrenching serial killer flicks I have ever seen . It makes " The Silence of the Lambs " and " Seven " look like kindergarten stuff . Highly recommended , but not for the easily disturbed . .
Brilliant film !	" Stand by Me " is one of the best films ever made . It's a movie about childhood-it tells you how things do change , how friends do come and go . The acting is excellent-the four main performances by Wil Wheaton ( Gordie ) , River Phoenix ( Chris ) , Corey Feldman ( Teddy ) and Jerry O'Connell ( Vern ) are extremely believable . " Stand by Me " manages to catch the essential tone of being a kid . There are some scenes in the film that remind me my childhood . To sum up , this one is a must-see for cinema fans ! My favourite quotes from " Stand by Me " are : Gordie : " Do you think I'm weird ? " Chris : " Definitely . " Gordie : " No man , seriously . Am I weird ? " Chris : " Yeah , but so what ? Everybody's weird . "
Painfully moving documentary .	" Executions " is one of the most disturbing documentaries ever made . Broken down into chapters , the film tells about the major forms of execution-stoning , hanging , shooting , decapitation , lethal injection etc . It is certainly interesting and very moving discussion about capital punishment . The film has no fake scenes-it's certainly real . The final scene of the execution of Mohamadine Salar is so painfully moving and disturbing that I have a tears in my eyes during this scene-these shocking images will haunt you forever . They provide a chilling proof that most of these executions are not quick , clean or humane . The film may be extremely hard to take for some , but if you're not easily offended give this one a look .
Brilliant necro-horror ! Spoilers	Thanks to my friend Mark I've got my hands on the copy of this brilliant movie . With a run time of only thirty minutes " Aftermath " will leave you feeling truly disgusted for watching it , but certainly you'll watch it again and again . This movie takes place in an autopsy room where there are two morticians slicing up bodies , removing organs and sewing the bodies back up again . One of them ( Pep Tosar ) decides to lock himself in a room with a female corpse . After cutting off her clothes he grabs a knife and really starts jamming it inside the dead woman's vagina . Then he has sex with the corpse . The film was shot in a mortuary of Barcelona . The special effects are extremely well-done and disgusting . Spanish director Nacho Cerda describes a meaning of " Aftermath " : " The theme of it is about death , and I think people one way or another at one point in their lives , worry about death . They realize they are going to die , they are conscious of it , and some people may accept it , some people may not accept it " . Highly recommended for all who have an iron stomach . Fans of extreme gore will love this !
One of my favourite horror films from Hammer .	I love all Hammer horror films simply because they are a part of my childhood . " Frankenstein and the Monster from Hell " is great-the acting is really good and the film is quite scary in a subtle way . Peter Cushing as a Baron Victor Frankenstein / Dr Claus Victor is as always amazing , and Dave Prowse is very believable as an ugly monster . There's a bit of gore , which is quite unusual for Hammer horror . Fans of " Scream " and similar teen-oriented garbage won't like this one-you have to be a true horror fan to fully appreciate this film . However if you like old-fashioned horror , give this one a look .
Possibly the best backwoods slasher ever made .	Jeff Lieberman's " Just Before Dawn " is definitely one of the most underrated horror movies ever made . The film , whilst a little bit influenced by " Deliverance " and " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , is extremely creepy and memorable . The suspense almost never lets up and the atmosphere is genuinely eerie . The cast is excellent , Deborah Benson and Jamie Rose are great female leads . The inbred twins are truly frightening and remorseless killers . The film is beautifully shot-it was actually filmed on location at Silver Falls State Park in Oregon . There is very little gore , but one killing , when Verchel is stabbed in the groin , is pretty nasty and unpleasant . A must-see for slasher fans . - what else ?
Roman Polanski's masterpiece . Spoilers	" Le Locataire " ( " The Tenant " ) is without a doubt one of the most important horror movies ever made . Polanski stars as a Trelkovsky , a timid file clerk living in Paris , who answers an advertisement for an apartment , only to find that the previous tenant attempted suicide by leaping from the apartment window . Trelkovsky is compelled to visit her in the hospital and there he meets Stella ( Isabelle Adjani ) . Trelkovsky immediately moves in when the previous tenant dies and , at first , is quite pleased with having found such a nice apartment . His happiness is soon replaced by waves of paranoia as he becomes increasingly suspicious of his neighbours , who seem to be trying to provoke Trelkovsky into repeating the previous tenant's suicide . This film is great . Polanski manages to create a surreal atmosphere of dread and paranoia . Plenty of brilliant moments such as the classic scene where Trelkovsky discovers the previous tenant's tooth in a hole in the wall , or the fever dream where he wanders into the building's bathroom to find the walls covered with hieroglyphics . The photography by Sven Nykvist is truly beautiful . " The Tenant " is a neglected gem . It may be difficult to track down , but it is more than worth the effort .
Funny as hell !	Usually I don't like horror comedies and I hate mainstream movies , but " Addams Family Values " completely cracked me up . It was so immensely enjoyable and funny as hell ! Especially the first Thanksgiving Day performance , where Wednesday Addams ( Christina Ricci ) as a Pocahontas , and other Indians took a revenge on American colonists-I almost cried with laughter during that scene ! I wonder what Americans think about it ? As for Christina Ricci , she simply steals the show in this one ! I'm looking forward to see this talented , young actress in more movies . The other actors are also excellent , and the film is filled with wonderful touches of black humour . Highly recommended .
Wonderfully twisted horror masterpiece .	" Shivers " / " They Came From Within " is a wonderfully twisted horror film directed by Canadian maestro David Cronenberg ( " The Fly " , " Rabid " , " The Brood " ) . It certainly works as a gory shocker ( it actually managed to make my skin crawl ) , but there's not enough tension for my liking . There are some great gross-out moments and the parasites are suitably disgusting . The plot is simple : bizarre parasites lead the inhabitants of a high rise apartment building to go on an orgy of sex and violence . The film is delightfully disgusting , so if you like horror movies check out this masterpiece . Highly recommended . .
Brilliant portrayal of the Holocaust !	" The Pianist " is the story of Wladyslaw Szpillman , a Jewish pianist who lived with his family in Warsaw . When the Germans took over Warsaw , they started to build the Ghetto . All the Jewish people were placed there-among them Szpillman and his family . His will of life is the main concept of the film . Directed with flair and skill by Roman Polanski ( " Rosemary's Baby " , " The Tenant " , " Chinatown " ) " The Pianist " is based on a true story-Wladyslaw Szpillman is an authentic character ! The film is well-made and excellently played-Adrien Brody shines as a Szpillman . I think that this is the role of his life ! There are a lot of emotions , some scenes like the picture of completely destroyed Warsaw are truly heart-breaking . The atmosphere of Warsaw during the Second World War is well-captured and believable-the viewer almost feels that he is there ! - along with " The Schindler's List " ( 1993 ) this is possibly the most realistic portrayal of the Holocaust ever made !
Creepy as hell !	Prepare yourself for an unforgettable experience as you watch this film . Everything until the last few minutes is masterfully orchestrated , combining skillful direction by Hideo Nakata with chilling cinematography , not to mention a score by Kenji Kawai which is truly haunting . " Ringu " works so well as a horror film because we are actually spared bloody carnage . Nakata manages to create a totally overwhelming atmosphere of dread and fear-the final scenes are almost unbereably intense . The mystery element is well-developed , the acting is excellent and the climax will blow you away . The video itself , shown early in the movie has to be one of the creepiest paranormal moments ever put to film . A masterpiece of Japanese horror - ! The plot : a mysterious video has been linked to a number of deaths in Tokyo . Those who see the video receive a phone call moments later informing them that they have exactly a week to live . Asakawa ( truly beautiful Matsushima Nanako ) , a journalist and single mother , investigates , finds the video , and watches it . She receives the phone call . And the chilling terror begins . . .
Wonderful thriller .	Brian De Palma's " Body Double " is one of my favourite films made in early 80's . This memorable thriller obviously borrows some elements from Alfred Hitchcock's " Verigo " and " Rear Window " , but it's still entertaining and delightfully sleazy . There are some wonderful moments of style-particularly the Indian's attack on stunningly beautiful Deborah Shelton seen through the binoculars . This scene is truly nerve-wracking and gruesome . The acting is excellent and the score by Pino Donaggio is great . " Body Double " carries the audience through a convoluted plot , making the story quite believable and captivating . It's surely not as good as De Palma's earlier releases like " Sisters " , " Carrie " or " Dressed to Kill " , but I wasn't disappointed . Check it out , if you're a fan of murder mysteries .
Excellent zombie film .	Jorge Grau's " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " is a very stylish and atmospheric zombie film that chooses quality over quantity . It has only 7 or 8 zombies , but it's still one of the best zombie flicks I have ever seen . The film may be pretty slow-moving for some horror fans , but there are several exciting set pieces . The acting is excellent and there is some nasty gore on display . I liked especially the scene where one of the nurses has her breast ripped off before being ripped to shreds . The film is set in the English countryside and there is enough suspense to satisfy fans of horror . " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " is pretty much considered a classic by some , so if you like zombie films give it a look . A must-see !
Pretty good sequel . Spoilers	In my opinion , " Psycho Cop Returns " is a lot better than its predecessor . It's more gory and sadistic than the original " Psycho Cop " . This sequel pits a group of after-hours partying yuppies against satanic cop from hell Joe Vickers . Gore galore ensues until only a couple of yuppies are left alive . " Psycho Cop Returns " features more sex and nudity than usual slasher flick . The director Adam Rifkin delivers also on the gore-the killings are more brutal as well . There is an eyeball violence , one guy is shot in the mouth etc . The party scene is pretty entertaining and gore-hounds should be satisfied by the lively death scenes . All in all , " Psycho Cop Returns " is a really good sequel and deserves a spot on any collector's shelf . I'm glad I picked up a copy as it was well worth the money spent . Highly recommended .
Brilliant !	" Sip si 32 doe " / " Beyond Hypothermia " totally blew me away . Not only it is one of the best action dramas I have ever seen , but it is also one of the best action dramas ever made ! Wu Chien-lien plays nameless assassin without a past . She and her Aunt ( Shirley Wong ) are partners in the killing game . Lau Ching-Wan plays the humble noodle seller that falls in love with this pretty girl , who stops for noodles after each kill . " Beyond Hypothermia " contains lots of bloody violence , so it's definitely not for sensitive viewers . The acting is excellent , the imagery is wonderfully stylish and the ending is incredibly tragic . The performance by Wu Chien-lien is breathtaking-the viewer almost feels her sadness . - my highest recommendation !
Extremely disturbing and nihilistic film .	Katsuya Matsumura's " All Night Long 2 " , known also as " Atrocity " is perhaps the most extreme in the series . The film appears to have been shot on video ( like the " Guinea Pig " films ) . The main protagonist of the film is a young Japanese boy called Shinichi , but this time the other main character is an evil , misogynistic and homosexual sadist ! The maniac and his gang of sadistic hoodlums have been harassing Shinichi . Shinichi makes some internet friends who he hopes will help him to escape the gang's attentions , but things don't work out quite that way . As in " All Night Long " ( 1992 ) , the film ends in a sadistically explicit bloodbath ! Some reviewers compare " All Night Long 2 " to Pasolini's " Salo " ( 1975 ) and I think that such comparisons are pretty close and realistic . Still " All Night Long 2 " is much more brutal and disturbing than " Salo " - the violence seen in it is extremely graphic and sadistic . The utter degradation of a young Japanese girl is especially hard to stomach . She is tortured , abused and reduced to an animal state . Anyway this film is extremely dark and nihilistic , but if you're a fan of Japanese extreme horror give this one a look . .
Very dark and disturbing film .	Katsuya Matsumura's " All Night Long " trilogy must be the darkest and most disturbing film series ever made . Unlike the " Guinea Pig " series , the " All Night Long " films have a clear message and don't exist purely to shock the viewer . " All Night Long " ( 1992 ) is the easiest to watch even though it includes one of the most vicious and cold blooded murder scenes ever at the beginning when innocent girl gets stabbed to death . This scene is extremely violent , with blood spurting everywhere . The rape scene is quite tame for a Japanese genre movie-still the film has truly powerful and almost anarchistic feel to it . " All Night Long 2 " ( 1995 ) is perhaps the most extreme in the series and comparisons to Pasolini's " Salo " ( 1975 ) are pretty close and realistic and the films are very similar in themes , telling about man's barbarity and sadistic instincts . " All Night Long 3 " ( 1996 ) is pretty much on the same level with " All Night Long 2 " , and has the most pessimistic tone of the whole series as it suggests that humans are nothing but filth and garbage . The theme in this horrifying trilogy is as mentioned about man's barbarity , wickedness and willing to dominate , torture and crave for sexual pleasure and violence . So if you're a fan of Japanese extreme cinema check out this highly disturbing trilogy .
Brutal , intelligent and effective survival horror about chavs on the loose .	Kelly Reilly plays Jenny , a primary teacher of small children , who goes goes off camping for the weekend with her boyfriend Steve to the shore of titular Eden Lake . They swim , sunbathe and enjoy the peace of the lake , but not too long . Their fun is spoiled by a bunch of arrogant teenagers playing their music loud and failing to control their Rottweiler . There is evil in mind of these children : they are ready to stab , torture and burn a young couple to death . The escalation of violence quickly turns into bloody fight for survival . . . Worryingly authentic and very unsettling survival horror with several gut-wrenching moments of total terror . Jenny and Steve behave with complete plausibility and a tragically unrequited sense of kindness and social responsibility . Some scenes of violence are hard-hitting even for true horror fans . The sight of someone bleeding to death from stab wounds is horrifying as is the ringleader's girlfriend recording acts of extreme violence impassively on her mobile phone . People everywhere are capable of barbaric cruelty and " Eden Lake " clearly shows that . The film is highly believable and the final twist is extremely bleak and truthful . I can't praise Peter Watkins stunning debut enough . .
Supremely dark and disturbing horror film .	" In a Glass Cage " has to be one of the most disturbing horror films ever made . The film is extremely intense and so incredibly depressing and powerful in its honest depiction of mankind's failure and instincts towards violence and sadism . The soundtrack is outstanding and the music alone will make the viewer speechless , not to speak the sound of an iron lung that has to be among the most disgusting sounds I've ever heard . The acting is excellent , but there are several truly disturbing scenes of pedophilia and child murder . " In a Glass Cage " is a very difficult movie to watch , however you'll also walk away mesmerized by the disgusting beauty of this film itself . Nazi doctor Meisner abused and killed many young boys during war . After a suicide attempt he is now paralyzed and confined to an iron lung . One day , his former victim Angelo comes to work for him as a nurse . However , the revenge he has planned for the cripple is dominated by traumatic perversion . Give this overlooked masterpiece a look . .
People are just imperfect corpses .	Katsuya Matsumura's " All Night Long 3 " is pretty much on the same level with " All Night Long 2 " ( 1995 ) , and has the most pessimistic tone of the whole series as it suggests that humans are nothing but filth and rubbish . Kikuo is a Japanese boy who works in a sleazy hotel where men bring women for sex . One day he takes bag which contains a woman's personal items that she has thrown away . Becoming increasingly interested , he starts obsessively collecting her refuse . " All Night Long 3 " is by far the most extreme of the three films and the hardest to watch . The violence is extremely graphic in this part and comes sudden and shocking to hit the viewer numb . Some scenes like a brutal torture , murder and dismemberment of a young Japanese girl are truly sickening . All in all if you liked the first two " All Night Long " films give this one a look . Recommended !
An " Alien " rip-off-so what ? ? ?	" Creature " is an overlooked classic . It's scary , exciting and really gory in places . The plot is somewhat similar to " Alien " , but I don't care . I'm not asking about highly original script , I just want to be scared and entertained . Klaus Kinski is simply amazing , and he even becomes a zombie ! There's plenty of gore and violence plus a little bit of sleaze . All in all if you like gory sci-fi horrors check out this forgotten bloodbath . My other recommendations : " Alien " , " Humanoids from the Deep " , " Star Crystal " , " Alien Predator " , " Galaxy of Terror " , " Alien Contamination " etc .
Italian gore classic .	Joe D'Amato's " Antropophagus " is a classic piece of Italian splatter . It boasts no less than three major veteran genre actors like Tisa Farrow ( " Zombi 2 " - 1979 ) , George Eastman ( " Absurd " - 1982 ) and Zora Kerova ( " Cannibal Ferox " - 1981 , " The New York Ripper " - 1982 ) . D'Amato manages to create some moments of genuine tension , including a deadly encounter in cannibal's macabre lair . There is also a nice amount of gruesome gore , including a legendary scene where George Eastman rips out woman's fetus . To sum up if you consider yourself a fan of Eurohorror you can't miss this film . Highly recommended .
Classic exploitation stuff !	Here it is : the nastiest and the most notorious " Ilsa " installment . Dyanne Thorne shines as a Nazi bitch Ilsa . It's a real pleasure to see her naked in several soft core sex scenes . There are also some nasty torture scenes-the film is so beyond any taste that it's impossible not to like it . The most disturbing sequence is definitely the infamous dinner scene . There is a party which includes killing a female prisoner by tying a noose around her neck and placing her on a block of ice . Of course some people may consider this film sickening , but fans of extreme stuff will certainly enjoy this exploitation classic . 10 out to 10 . Hail Ilsa !
Authentically scary and totally original .	Dario Argento's " Profondo rosso " ( " Deep Red " ) is one of the best giallo thrillers ever made . When a psychic Helga Ullman ( Macha Meril ) threatens to unmask a serial killer during a public exhibition of her talents , she is brutally murdered in her apartment . Composer Marc Daly ( David Hemmings ) is the only witness to the slaying , and is the first on the scene . Unwittingly , he has seen the killer , although he doesn't know it yet , which makes him the murderer's next target . Hemmings is joined by reporter Gianna ( Daria Nicolodi ) . The trail leads Hemmings to an old house , reportedly haunted , and from there he unravels a ghastly tale of murder and fetishism , where no one is safe . " Deep Red " is a powerful , frightening murder mystery that will leave you breathless . The plot contains a number of twists that demands the viewer's attention . " Deep Red " is a wonderful film to watch in the dark as it contains many quiet moments that play on your nerves . The killings are gory enough and the music score by Goblin is great . Argento creates a mood of sustained dread , damaged only by some funny lines . If you love watching Italian giallo thrillers this one is a must-see . My other recommendations : " Tenebre " , " Opera " , " The New York Ripper " , " Bloodstained Shadow " , " Torso " , " Giallo a Venezia " , " Aquarius " , " The Killer Is Still Among Us " and " Watch Me When I Kill " .
Another George A . Romero's masterpiece .	The living have lost the war and now the dead have taken over . A small pocket of survivors consisting of a military and scientific team staying in a secure underground bunker doing research , trying to find an answer to why the dead are walking , and also trying to find any other survivors , but without much success . The sequence of events that follow ultimately lead to their self destruction . Plenty of gore including usual gun-shots to the head , decapitation , amputation , bodies ripped apart , entrails eaten , throat rippings etc . The special effects by Tom Savini are truly outstanding and these scenes where Dr Logan ( Richard Liberty ) tries to train a zombie are simply amazing . If you love gore you must see " Day of the Dead " . Highly recommended .
One of the most perverse horror films ever made .	" Mosquito the Rapist " is a gross , creepy and disturbing horror film that truly has to be seen to be believed . This strange necrophilia shocker offers few haunting moments and contains truly eerie mood throughout . Werner Pochath plays a nameless deaf mute accountant , who is still recovering from horrific child abuse . He has a weird fixation with blood spilling across his skin . One night he breaks into the local mortuary and ravages really pretty female corpse . Now addicted , he raids the tombs of the dead and drinks blood from their throats via a glass straw . This seriously twisted and perverse piece of sleazy horror was apparently a major influence on Jorg Buttgereit's " Nekromantik " . There is some gore and plenty of sleaze , so fans of exploitation cinema won't be disappointed . Unfortunately this obscure gem is rather hard to find , but if you get a chance watch it . .
Truly nasty and sadistic Lucio Fulci's thriller .	Lucio Fulci's " The New York Ripper " ( 1982 ) is a very sleazy and nasty thriller filled with sadistic sexual violence and gore . A sicko killer is on the loose in New York City . He enjoys slicing up young and beautiful women , preferably naked ones . He also talks like a duck and likes to taunt police . Lieutant Williams ( Jack Hedley ) tries to find him . Like all good gialli " The New York Ripper " is an uniquely crafted mystery with plenty of red herrings . The film is extremely brutal-women are graphically gutted , Zora Kerova ( " Cannibal Ferox " ) has a broken bottle rammed into her vagina , another woman has her erect nipple , then eye slowly slashed by a razor blade . It also features more sex and sleaze than any other Fulci film I can recall for example one scene takes place in a 42nd Street strip club , where a man and woman engage in live sex on stage in front of an audience . All in all " The New York Ripper " is a cult classic and a must-see for fans of Italian giallos . So if you liked this one I'd recommend " Giallo a Venezia " , " The Killer Is Still Among Us " , " Born for Hell " , " House on the Edge of the Park " , " Maniac " , " Terror Express " and other nasty movies from the golden times of exploitation !
Incredibly graphic and sadistic .	" Guinea Pig : Flowers of Flesh and Blood " deserves to be called one of the sickest horror films ever made . This notorious pseudo-snuff sickie is about a guy who dressed as a Samurai warrior kidnaps beautiful Japanese woman and hacks her up in excruciating detail , occasionally pausing to recite some hai-ku . This part of " Guinea Pig " series does contain some very convincing gore effects of hands , arms and legs being cut off in unflinching detail . The worst scene for me is the eye-gouging which is the most realistic . The series received a great deal of publicity when American actor Charlie Sheen , believing this one to contain actual murder gave the copy to the FBI . I've seen only this one and " Devil's Experiment " and I enjoyed both of them . So if you like extreme gore and cruelty you won't be disappointed . Even the most-hardened gore-hounds will wince ! Also recommended : Nacho Cerda's " Aftermath " .
Excellent zombie film-one of the best of its kind !	" Burial Ground " is perhaps the sickest and sleaziest of Italian zombie gut munchers of the eighties ! Andrea Bianchi's film is filled with extreme gore , bad acting and lame music , but the most outrageous thing is the small boy character of one of the elders , as these two , mother ( played by beautiful Mariangela Giordano ) and son ( Peter Bark ) have a very unusual relationship together . The boy has a sexual lust for his mother and it results in one of the nastiest death scenes in the history of zombie movies . The gore is extreme with lots of gut munching-for example one victim has her head slowly pulled towards a broken window to have the shards of glass stick into their face . Still my favourite gore scene is near the end-after the young kid Michael is killed , he returns as a zombie and bites off Mariangela Giordano's nipple ! The dialogue is extremely funny-like the classic lines " Mother , this cloth smells of death " and " Hey , stop [ the zombies ] , I'm your friend " among others ! A must-see for fans of Italian cult cinema . !
Shocking and disturbing .	The first installment of this notorious horror series presents a woman being kidnapped by a gang of black-clad men who torture her for several days before finally killing her . She is beaten savagely , spun around in the chair endlessly , has her finger nails pulled , animal guts are thrown at her , hot boiling water is poured on her and finally her eyeball is punctured with a needle ( really sick and nasty scene ) . The makers of this unforgettable torture show tried to make it as real as possible and for me this one is the closest thing to a snuff film you can get without committing murder on tape . Of course some of the special effects are rather poor but the idea of making a snuff is pretty gruesome . I have seen also " Flowers of Flesh and Blood " which is more gory and sadistic , but less disturbing . Anyway , this one is a must-see for horror fans !
Pretty good .	I was a bit skeptical to see this film , mainly because Burt Reynolds plays a psycho killer ! I was wrong - " The Maddening " is very good . Reynolds performance is just scary and flawless , and the film has its share of surprises . It's creepy , mildly disturbing at times , but still manages to be entertaining for horror / thriller fans ! The acting is surprisingly good and there are some violent scenes like nasty throat slashing ! Check it out-you won't be disappointed ! .
Another seriously underrated slasher flick .	" Happy Birthday to Me " is a fabulous mystery / horror film . Melissa Sue Anderson stars as one of the members of an exclusive club at her high school . As her birthday approaches someone starts killing the members of the club ( in gory and inventive ways ) one by one . This movie has enough gore and suspense to satisfy most horror fans . The ending , in which the killer is revealed , is very surprising . Lush photography and above average acting set this excellent 80's slasher apart from its other 80's counterparts . The key to enjoying this movie is remembering that nothing is what it seems . All in all , it's a satisfying slasher / mystery film . Good , gory fun for the whole family . Turn off the lights and enjoy this creepy flick . Highly recommended .
Pretty good horror film .	Kay together with her husband , her brother and her sister in law fly out to an isolated house on a remote island for a holiday . Since her childhood Kay suffered terrible nightmares featuring a malevolent creature called ' the slayer ' . Soon after their arrival Kay realizes that she has been there before in her dreams and she becomes convinced that ' the slayer ' is ready to stalk and kill them all . " The Slayer " is a pretty good horror film . It predates " A Nightmare on Elm Street " by several years and shares some notable similarities . The film is very atmospheric and the locations sets are excellent . The island is rugged and windswept dotted with creepy looking ruins . The acting is pretty good and there is enough gore to satisfy fans of low-budget horror . The killings are well staged and suitably gruesome . The scene where the woman gets a pitchfork through her chest is pretty nasty and memorable . The final appearance of ' the slayer ' is grimly effective . " The Slayer " is often trashed by some horror fans , but it's surely better than most of the crap being churned out today . Give this film a chance and you won't be disappointed .
A masterpiece of sci-fi / horror !	" The Thing " has to be one of my favourite movies of John Carpenter . It's filled with great acting , moody lighting and jaw-droppingly excellent special effects . Carpenter's direction is great and the tension builds well . There is also plenty of stomach-churning gore to satisfy fans of splatter cinema . Finally there is no love story here ( no female characters ) , no silly humour-just good clean horror ! So if you haven't checked this one yet go and see it now ! A must-see !
David Cronenberg's masterpiece of grueling horror !	" The Brood " is one of the best horror movies ever made . Oliver Reed is really memorable as a Dr Hal Raglan who preaches the radical therapy of psychoplasmics which encourages patient's bodies to manifest their suppressed angers . The script is very intelligent , and there are several really creepy scenes . The gore is pretty mild-the scene where Samantha Eggar opens her gown to reveal the sores and baby sac attached to her body and then proceeds to bite into the sack and lick the bloody afterbirth off the baby , is actually the most disgusting bit ! All in all if you haven't checked this one yet , try to find it ! Higly recommended . !
Brilliant movie rendition of H . P . Lovecraft's " The Call or Cthulhu " .	" The Call of Cthulhu " is a silent film made by director Andrew Leman of the H . P . Lovecraft Historical Society . The film is shot in high-contrast black-and-white that recalls the best German expressionism . The result is an almost vintage tale of hair-raising mystery full of truly bizarre dreams , murderous Eskimos and bloodthirsty cultists that culminates in the revelation of an unspeakable horror . The orchestral soundtrack is captivating , the special effects are surprisingly well-made and the sets for the sunken city of R'leyh look creepy . " The Call of Cthulhu " is easily one of the best adaptations of Lovecraft adaptations I have seen to date . Check it out along with Ivan Zuccon's massively underrated " The Shunned House " . .
Easily Argento's most violent giallo .	" Tenebre " stars Anthony Franciosa as a novelist Peter Neal who finds himself embroiled in a series of grisly murders , as one of his readers starts to imitate the killings in his latest novel Tenebrae . This Dario Argento's bloody thriller is full of startling plot twists and shocking bursts of gory violence . Plenty of serious shocks and a wonderful musical score by Goblin as well as incredibly gory finale that is among Argento's greatest sequences . As usual , there are some stylish killings , particularly a gruesome arm chopping near the end-definitely one of the bloodiest murder scenes I have ever seen . Argento uses some of the most vivid colors imaginable and like his 1977 effort " Suspiria " , he uses these colors to enhance the atmosphere of the film . I'll end this review by saying that " Tenebre " is indeed excellent , thrilling , scary , well-acted and anything else I can think of-simply amazing if I have to say the least ! Highly recommended .
A really cool and exciting mix of action flick and drama .	Claudio Fragasso , an Italian director who made bloody zombie gut-muncher " Zombie 4-After Death " in 1988 is also responsible for this brilliant action / drama . Usually I don't like action stuff , I prefer watching horror genre , but this one is not to be missed . The acting is excellent , the characters are well-developed and sympathetic . Unlike in American action stuff these people know that they're not immortal , they desperately fight for their lives , finally they show fear and emotions . They are just ordinary people like us . When my favourite character-Tarcisio-was killed I had tears in my eyes . The music by Pino Donaggio is also brilliant . Overall I must say that I love this film-it's surely one of my favourite action films . . Thank You Claudio Fragasso .
A pleasant surprise from Hammer .	Captain Kronos rides across nineteenth century Europe accompanied by his associate Professor Grost , seeking out evildoers . His travels lead him to the hamlet of his old army friend Marcus , who tells him that local girls are being found mysteriously drained . . . not of blood , but of youth . Kronos and Grost immediately suspect a vampire , but how to destroy it ? And who is the vampire , anyway ? " Kronos " is an excellent horror film . I'm quite sure that " Blade " was influenced by it . Horst Janson as a vampire hunter Kronos is really good and very young Caroline Munro ( " Maniac " , " Slaughter High " ) isn't bad as well . Lots of suspense , plenty of exciting sword fights , atmospheric sets and lots of beautiful women . Overall , I really enjoyed this one , so if you like British horror you can't miss it . .
Tense and exciting horror / science fiction classic .	" Invasion of the Body Snatchers " directed by Don Siegel is a classic horror / science fiction experience . The acting is great , the action is fast paced and the film , unlike many other horror films from early 50's and 60's , is never boring . Hell , even the special effects are amazing , considering the year the film was made . Easy to follow and lots of fun ! - " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " is a tour de force of good cinema .
Excellent !	" Possession " is a weird horror film by Polish art house director Andrzej Zulawski . Isabelle Adjani and Sam Neill ( " Event Horizon " , " Omen 3 " ) star as a couple who's marriage is on the rocks . Adjani claims to have a lover-she has a surreal affair with an octopus creature . First of all this movie is great , so every horror fan should check it out . Obviously some people don't get it-maybe they were expecting some cheesy horror bloodbath , who knows ? Of course there's some exceptional gore including where Adjani slices into her own neck with an electric carving knife and a scene where she has a miscarriage on the metro which is quite disgusting ( and possibly due to this scene the film was classified as a video nasty ) , but the atmosphere is really creepy and weird . The acting is awesome-especially an incredible performance by Isabelle Adjani . Watch this film with an open mind and an open heart , and I guarantee you will love " Possession " .
Strong stuff !	" Baise-Moi " is one of the most shocking movies ever made . The film is truly ugly in its depiction of sex , brutality and rape . The story is simple : a rape victim and a hooker join together to trek Paris leaving trail of bloody corpses behind them . The two leads ( real porn stars Raffaella Anderson and Karen Lancaume ) have graphic sex and they also do a lot of drugs and kill plenty of people in many gory and bizarre ways . The film is extremely violent-the rape scene at the beginning is very ugly and uncompromising . Many viewers sitting with me in the cinema left the theatre offended . This is strong stuff and definitely not for everybody , but it still has some kind of a social impact , so I wouldn't go so far to call it mindless exploitation . It is raw and convincing when when it shows women being abused by men or when it shows women working in the sex trade . Highly recommended . .
Possibly one of the most brutal and disturbing horror movies ever made . Spoilers	" Cannibal Holocaust " is a very shocking and powerful movie . A documentary film crew goes into the jungle of South America and is never seen of again . A search and rescue team is sent , but find only their remains and their stock of film they had shot about the last remaining cannibal tribes . The video footage is later screened in America . As shown in the footage , the film-makers found horrible death by the cannibal tribes after messing with them and committing crimes such as raping their women and killing their animals . Brilliant photography by Sergio d'Offizzi , great musical score by Riz Ortolani and some of the most horrifying scenes of cruelty ever captured to the film . Truly the violence is graphic as hell-lots of brutal animal butchery , rape , dismemberment , castration etc . One scene that I shall always remember is a part when the film-makers drag a giant turtle ashore and proceed to hack off it's legs , one by one , with a large machete , finishing up with beheading the beast . I like the other cannibal films I've seen , but they don't come close to " Cannibal Holocaust " . Recommended only for Deodato fans and those who want something much more disturbing than any mainstream slasher picture-all others stay away . A masterpiece .
A genuinely creepy horror classic .	Bob Clark's " Black Christmas " is a horror classic . It's obvious that it was clearly an influence on the slasher films of the late seventies and early eighties . " Black Christmas " takes place in a sorority house . Most of the sorority sisters go home for the holidays , while Barb ( Margot Kidder ) , Jess ( Oivia Hussey ) and Phyl ( Andrea Martin ) stay behind . At the outset of the film , we see a mysterious killer enter the house and hide in the attic . He then begins to kill the sisters one by one , with each murder being followed by a disturbing phone call . Bob Clark managed to create a startling atmosphere of total dread and fear . The finale is extremely creepy and memorable . The soundtrack , particularly the killer's voice on the phone is frighteningly effective . So if you want to be scared give this gem a look . Highly recommended .
