" Freddie , there are two kinds of people in this world - - and you ain't one of ' em ! "	Never mind that " Rhinestone " already looks like a dated relic from another century . . . it was a very poor picture in its day , and time has not been kind to it . Country crooner Dolly Parton takes a bet ( singing five more years at sleazy Ron Leibman's rowdy roadhouse ) that she can turn obnoxious cab-driver Sylvester Stallone into a " Rhinestone Cowboy " . That's the whole plot , really ; the rest of it ( ogling bar-owner Liebman , the budding romance between the two stars ) is inconsequential . Bob Clark directed , shamefully . There's practically no action - - just mouthing off - - and even Parton's grounded , natural effervescence is discarded for the sake of extremely cheap laughs . It's a movie purposefully targeted at yahoos ( who else would even want to see it , aside from Dolly-addicts ? ) . Still , it's an insulting come-on to crowds of even the lowest denomination , and the smugness ( especially on Stallone's part ) is insufferable . NO STARS from
Robert Stigwood strikes again !	Music-biz impresario Robert Stigwood , head of the now-defunct , mostly-disco label RSO , produced several glitzy or garish movie musicals in the 1970s , this one being the very worst . Half-hearted attempt to turn music by the Beatles ( including the songs and mod look of their album " Sgt . Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band " ) into some kind of screen story ranks right up there with the most ill-fated ideas to leak from Hollywood . George Burns turns up as the Mayor of Heartland , narrating this " plot " about a resident rock group and their struggles with fame and fortune . Bringing together the Bee Gees with Peter Frampton may have seemed like a good idea when this was in pre-production ; truth is , 1978 saw a decline in both acts ' popularity , and the movie was pretty much dead on arrival ( the soundtrack sold better , but wasn't the blockbuster expected ) . Not showcasing the Bee Gees ' best attributes ( doing their sultry mix of disco and soul , and performing it live ) and instead trying to make the three of them actors almost killed their career . A few stray engaging moments , but mostly just embarrassing . NO STARS from
Was Blake Edwards sleeping in his director's chair ?	Lifeless suburban-comedy has Blake Edwards ' name on it , but nowhere is there evidence of his comedic spirit or comic timing ( true , he's an uneven filmmaker , but this is way off the mark ) . Debbie Reynolds plays a virginal secretary holding strong to her virtue while working for handsome actor Curt Jurgens ; John Saxon plays a neighbor boy who befriends her . Blake Edwards adapted the screenplay from the theatrical piece " For Love Or Money " written by a fellow named F . Hugh Herbert - - HIS name alone is funnier than anything in Blake's script ! Is this material supposed to be sophisticated ? If so , it's about as satirical and sparkling as dinner theater in the Amazon . from
Rank Golan-Globus production ; a good director's worst film . . .	Filmmaker Bryan Forbes , who once displayed a light , sardonic touch with beguiling material such as " Whistle Down the Wind " and the original " Stepford Wives " , completely bottoms out here . Not only is his direction inept , he also sloppily adapted Sidney Sheldon's early novel ; the results are atrocious . Roger Moore plays a psychiatrist framed for the murder of one of his patients ; Rod Steiger , chewing the scenery , is a hot-under-the-collar cop ( it's easily his most embarrassing performance ) . The only actor here to exhibit some life is Elliott Gould , who knows a thing or two about enlivening a bum script . Bland , choppy , and produced on the cheap . NO STARS from
Jeff Fahey and Sean Young : a nightmarish twosome !	Jeff Fahey has such alert eyes and a smudgy , insidious smile that every character he plays seems villainous ; therefore , it doesn't really work to cast him as the good guy of the piece , the audience is just waiting for his character to crack and start blowing people away . Drew Barrymore , fresh off her acclaimed role as " Poison Ivy " , must have done this film simply as a favor to director Phedon Papamichael ( he was the cinematographer on " Ivy " ) ; playing a character named Daisy Drew ( ! ) , she's bumped off right away , which leaves us with no one to look at but Jeff Fahey and Sean Young ( who hasn't had a single subtle moment on camera since " Blade Runner " ) . This witless script , by Michael Angeli , concerns a police sketch artist who draws his own wife's face from a murder witness's testimony , and while that's not a bad idea for a plot , it would be much better suited to an hour-long TV series . This cable-made movie is short on inspiration ( beginning with the casting ) and shorter on surprises . from
Sick-minded mayhem made me wince . . .	Linda Blair is good in just about everything she's in - - yes , even " Roller Boogie " . As for " Grotesque " , well . . . Rarely have I seen such a sick , twisted piece of sludge . At her parents ' mountain abode , Linda and family are attacked by a gang of punks so disgusting they'd give Sid Vicious the shakes ! After watching her mother and best friend dragged off to their deaths and seeing her father beaten to death with a log , Linda escapes into the snow wearing pajamas . I almost gave up on " Grotesque " right here . What kept me watching ? The identity of the mutant in the basement ? The " F / X " - styled subplot about the dad being a Hollywood make-up man ? No , it was Linda herself , keeping her dignity throughout all this grotesque-ness . It's a horrible , wretched movie ( and I was surprised to learn that Blair served as co-producer ! ) , however it IS better than " Savage Island " . NO STARS from
Low spirits . . . low returns	Writer-director Neil Jordan ( on a roll after the critically-acclaimed " Mona Lisa " ) nearly took his name off the credits of this low-level whimsy , saying the final result had been altered by outsiders . Perhaps they were hoping to find ( or save ) the center of Jordan's muddled plot , but in the end it's still a wash-out . Jaw-droppingly poor , heavy-handed comedy has tourists in an ancient Irish castle mixing it up with the ghostly apparitions residing there . The cast ( including Peter O'Toole , Steve Guttenberg , Daryl Hannah , Liam Neeson , Beverly D'Angelo and Jennifer Tilly - - a highly uneven troupe if there ever was one ! ) cannot get a grip on their characters and flounder ( they should've threaten to remove their names as well ) . Romantic and comic shenanigans lands with a big thud . NO STARS from
Pushy , ugly disenfranchised youth flick disguised as a thriller . . .	Young boy with a perplexing , unexplained medical condition - - blacking out at crucial points in his life , only to wake up later confused about what has transpired - - grows into a rambunctious college student proud that he hasn't had a black-out in seven years ( I would think the fact he has avoided jail-time after his run-ins with delinquency would count for much more ) . After re-reading his childhood journals , he finds he has the ability to go back in time and change the past , which gets him into more trouble . Written and directed by J . Mackye Gruber and Eric Bress , " The Butterfly Effect " is a supremely crass , supremely empty movie . It wants to be audacious and button-pushing , but for whom ? Disenfranchised , multiplex kids with bad manners ? It presents its supernatural hook only to dress up a much more familiar issue : why unsupervised , anti-social teens turn to violence . In the lead , Ashton Kutcher , also an executive producer , walks through the picture hunched over , rolling his eyes ; if its possible that the movie represents anything - - such as , say , a lobotomized society of young people - - Kutcher's non-acting does nothing to give us hope . Kutcher is not rebellious , nor alienated , nor intrinsically smart . He's not a funny wise-ass . His vacuousness is used for guilt - - not shame , just boring old guilt - - and yet his expression barely changes in between ghastly episodes . The film is targeted at audiences of the lowest common denominator ( much like the characters depicted on-screen ) . They will surely praise it . . . to put the movie down would be admitting self-defeat . NO STARS from
The pits . . .	Not long after losing one of his two daughters in a car accident , family man and antique store owner Jeff Goldblum suffers his own car trauma and literally dies momentarily ; a doctor brings him back to life , but it seems Goldblum has brought good and evil powers back with him from the other side : he is now telepathically entwined with a psychopath who hunts young women . Based on a Dean Koontz novel , this low-grade thriller has one of the laziest screenplays I've ever come across . Writers Andrew Kevin Walker and Neal Jimenez don't seem to have a shred of verisimilitude when it comes to writing dialogue for their equally unreal characters - - nobody behaves the way regular people would . Christine Lahti is Goldblum's ineffective wife , Alfred Molina is Goldblum's ineffective doctor , Kenneth Welsh is an ineffective detective . They're all walking contrivances in this half-cocked adaptation , which allegedly embarrassed best-selling author Koontz ( if it didn't , it should have ) . Just back from the hospital , Goldblum begins having nightmares that look like bits and pieces of a heavy metal video ; the viewer is cued up for the obligatory waking - up - with - a - jolt - from - a - nightmare close-up ( and the movie doesn't disappoint ) . Turns out there's a killer in town ( Jeremy Sisto ) who gets around from place to place with effortless , alarming accuracy ; when he's not hanging out at a sleazy motel - - which isn't even listed with information - - he's holed up at a derelict amusement park ( seems he conveniently has the place all to himself ) . Of course , nobody takes note that Sisto's latest victim looks like Goldblum's other daughter ( Alicia Silverstone , who does nothing but whine ) , nor does wife Lahti take into account that just maybe her husband knows what he's talking about when he says their kid is in danger . The movie makes absolutely no sense from a logical stand-point , though all of this is rendered inconsequential once Jeff and Christine arrive for a showdown with Sisto near the park's Big Slide ride . The results of this stillborn finale are so shameful , one can only hope Goldblum and company were well-paid for not looking outraged . NO STARS from
Jaw-droppingly bad	Whoopi Goldberg gets a great character-name here ( Vashti Blue ) and perhaps had an opportunity to really cut loose in a movie like she used to do on-stage in her pre - " Color Purple " days , but " The Telephone " is out-of-order ( to be charitable ) . Goldberg plays an actress with a pet owl ( ! ) who spends her time arguing on the horn . She's neurotic , but not funny . Director Rip Torn was apparently in way over his head ( didn't he do his homework and research Goldberg's style ? If so , he didn't use a smidgen of it here ) . There's nothing wrong with a plot less movie - - just so long as it provides something of interest , like , say , some good jokes . The screenplay ( by Harry Nilsson and Terry Southern , of all people ) doesn't even offer any promise . Whoopi's mere presence gives the movie an edge , but it's as shapeless and static a film as I've ever seen .
Ridiculous , mean-spirited comedy wastes good cast	Witless follow-up to " Meet the Parents " is full of slapstick chaos with poor continuity , strained gags , pets used as vulgar visual jokesters , and a screaming toddler . Worse than that , the film has some of the worst writing , directing , and cinematography I've seen all year . Ben Stiller , his lipsticked-mouth always open and his wide eyes rimmed in black , like a raccoon , makes certain his overly-pancaked face is in close-up at all available times ; this must have been contagious , because the cameraman plasters the screen with everybody's mug , which wouldn't be so bad except that their confusion over the stupidity of the plot is magnified . Jokes are flayed around desperately in the hopes of hitting a target ( even the end-credits reel fails ) . Loud instead of funny , everything is underlined and then milked for a chuckle . There are terrible sequences and running jokes in this movie , jokes that are even out of character ( like Robert De Niro and the strap-on breast ) . It doesn't work . As for that bawling infant , who gets HIS share of close-ups too , he learns to talk dirty , which really cracked up the audience I saw " Meet the Fockers " with . from
Bottom-dweller David Lynch-wannabe co-starring Martin Sheen's brother . . .	While at a wedding reception for another couple , a self-doubting groom-to-be spies a platinum blonde in a white satin dress giving him the eye ; intrigued , he follows her into the ladies room , but she vanishes . Later , out on the road with his fiancée , the young man apparently hits the girl with his car , only to learn that she's a ghost - - the legendary jilted tramp from years gone by who perished with a doomed soul ! What might have passed muster as a short-subject from a student filmmaker is elongated here to an excruciating length , filled with amateur performances , crass dialogue , flashy editing which serves no purpose except to confuse , T & A interludes , and bright red blood . Star Jason Ryan Lovett has the granite jaw and solemn manner of a misunderstood hero from a 1960's B-flick , but he isn't given the proper material to showcase a personality . Low-budget film isn't ghastly , though it shows no imagination , no style . Hopefully for Lovett , better projects are around the corner . NO STARS from
" It doesn't make sense ! Not any of it ! "	Hilariously awful star-studded turkey , an apparent do-gooder drama concocted by Ian Fleming , sponsored by Xerox and directed by Bond-filmmaker Terence Young , details the United Nations ' efforts to stop the trafficking of opium out of the Middle East . Bungled ingredients include star-cameos , an introduction by Grace Kelly ( ! ) , and Yul Brynner ( misspelled in the credits ) as a fez-topped Colonel who rides out to meet his enemies on horseback as if this were a Samurai western . The curious , sloppy over-dubbing leaves some of the actors looking like foreigners in a spaghetti spy-drama , while Kelly implores us to remember that . . . yes . . . Poppy flowers are attractive and innocent-looking , but their seeds are producing drugs that are destroying our young people ! Not as fast as films like this . E . G . Marshall's somewhat bemused performance is the only asset the picture has to offer . Also known as " The Poppy Is Also a Flower " , " The Opium Connection " and ( my favorite ) " Danger Grows Wild " . NO STARS from
" Carol Anne ? . . . Carol Anne ? ! . . . Carol Anne ! ! "	A dreadful excuse for a thriller , ending the once-popular " Poltergiest " trilogy on a shameful note . A young child , continually dogged by evil spirits , brings her reign of bad luck to a Chicago high-rise when she goes to live with her aunt and uncle ( apparently her real parents had had enough ) . There was nothing in the original " Poltergeist " that suggested Heather O'Rourke's character Carol Anne was the reason the spirits were taking over that house . She was just a pawn in their plans . This movie makes it seem like Carol Anne was the sparkplug to the whole thing ! Actually she's the pawn in a new game : that of sleazy filmmakers hoping to squeeze more money out of the public with an obviously-inferior product . Effects , script and acting are all atrocious . NO STARS from
Shame on Dana Andrews !	Handsome , square-jawed Dana Andrews - - star of such classics as " Laura " , " Elephant Walk " , and " The Best Years of Our Lives " - - finds himself in tragic circumstances here . It's a jaw-droppingly tasteless , would-be horror-thriller about frozen members of the Third Reich being revived by a Hitler-loving scientist . Oh yes , there's also a sub-plot about a woman's severed head that is either gruesome or hilarious depending on your point of view . Written and directed by Herbert J . Leder , who shows a tiny bit of competency behind the camera but absolutely no class . Why else would Andrews and the other cast members appear in this dreadful Nazi garbage other than for money ? Tacky and exceedingly crass ; view at your own risk . from
A thriller on life-support . . .	Writer-director Paul Golding's abysmal , completely forgettable thriller distributed by a major studio ( Columbia ) but filled with low-rent talent . Story has a young boy ( Joey Lawrence ) attempting to save his dad and stepmother from evil , unseen forces within their home . As the stubborn father , Cliff De Young once again gives his usual knucklehead performance ; he has made a specialty out of playing impatient grown-ups who have no ear ( or use ) for the truth , and yet we're supposed to care what happens to the guy ? Lawrence is kept near the verge of hysteria throughout , but this begins to look pretty silly - - especially when there's not much happening plot-wise . from
Recommended only to those who find elephant destruction awe-inspiring	It took four - - count ' em , FOUR - - screenwriters to conjure up this adaptation of Chris Van Allsburg's book about a man imprisoned in a supernatural board-game , freed by two precocious tots , setting off a chain-reaction of incredible disasters . Muddy , confused sideshow is mindlessly busy , held together for the most part by the special effects . The film is slickly designed to appeal to hyperactive kids , yet it hasn't an ounce of brains - - or any sensitivity to the humans or animals involved . Directed in a soulless , sledgehammer style by Joe Johnston and starring Robin Williams , sadly at his lowest ebb . from
A head-splitting farce	New York family is the last in their neighborhood to get a television set , which nearly ruins David Niven's marriage to Mitzi Gaynor . Bedroom comedy that rarely ventures into the bedroom ( and nothing sexy happens there anyway ) . Gaynor as an actress has about as much range as an oven - - she turns on , she turns off . Film's sole compensation is a supporting performance by perky Patty Duke , pre - " Miracle Worker " , as Niven's daughter . She's delightful ; " Happy Anniversary " is not . from
Only for viewers into cheap , ugly thrillers . . .	Ghastly horror item , which may have represented a dead-end for the slasher genre before Wes Craven revived it in the ' 90s , has cult-suicide survivor Jennifer Rubin spending thirteen years in a coma , only to awaken to a bizarre rash of deaths in her hospital ward . Although Jennifer shows promise in her role , and Susan Ruttan does well in a small part as a mental patient , this cruddy-looking B-flick is far more unpleasant than scary - - what with tasteless asides , cheap effects , and googly-eyed Richard Lynch attempting to pull a Jim Jones . Good supporting players E . G . Daily , Damita Jo Freeman and Harris Yulin are sadly wasted . NO STARS from
Disney ought to leave the lost colonies alone . . .	Awful Disney adventure , puny in scope and grandeur , about a professor from England who is reluctantly recruited into leading small search party across the Antarctic in search of a missing youngster . Jules Verne-like tale is actually based upon Ian Cameron's book " The Lost Ones " , but resembles a poor man's " In Search of the Castaways " . It offers absolutely nothing of merit ( David Hartman cast in the leading role should tell you enough ! ) . Aside from Mako , the supporting cast is completely unmemorable , and the poor writing and dull presentation will most likely put most children to sleep . No Stars from
Josh Hartnett finds sex an empty void . . . the basis for any hilarious comedy	Sniggering , nauseous interplay between the sexes , as block of wood Josh Hartnett , pining for his ex-girlfriend who is now engaged to another man , decides to give up all-things-sexual for Lent ( what connection this has with his former flame is never made clear , except that intimate relationships with all other women since has provoked panic ) . Soon , the kid's co-workers at an internet company are taking bets on whether or not Josh will " spread his seed " . And it gets even funnier from there : a quirky new chick at the laundromat , who washes her clothes every Friday night at the same time , has caught Josh's eye , but all he can do for now is blow flower pedals across her exposed torso . Excruciating film was apparently some people's idea of a good time ( it was a substantial hit in theaters ) , although Rob Perez's screenplay seems extended ( badly ) from a " Seinfeld " episode . Strictly for non-discriminating Cineplex teenagers who are apt to giggle over words like " penis " and " masturbation " . Once Hartnett's roommate goes through his bedsheets with a blue light , adults may want to check out early . NO STARS from
Teen rubbish	Just when you thought movies in the 1990s couldn't get any worse , along comes this lumpy stew of a teen romance . I wasn't sure the picture could actually sink any lower from the ludicrous opening sequence ( scored with an abominable rock song ) ; unfortunately , it does . Boy meets girl at school , they flirt , they date , they run off together . The conceit here is that she's mentally unbalanced . It isn't a fresh spin , although the filmmakers and the cast proceed like they're doing something new , and who knows ? Maybe the young audience targeted for the picture actually believe in its sentiments . To all of us over 30 it's pretty excruciating , not to mention terribly irresponsible , and not quite the " wild and sexy adventure " advertised . NO STARS from
Comic inanities served up to families as something unique and gut-busting . . .	Mind-bogglingly bad Disney comedy pits middle-aged sweethearts Chevy Chase and Farrah Fawcett against Fawcett's prankish pre-teen son Jonathan Taylor Thomas ( that smug Keebler elf from the TV sitcom " Home Improvement " ) . After single mom Farrah brings new love-interest Chevy home to meet her kid , Taylor resorts to juvenile tomfoolery to scare the suitor away . . . sound familiar ? Taking its cue from " The Parent Trap " , but blessedly giving us only one child at the helm , this lame-duck script has nowhere to go after the initial set-up . Nice to see Chase and Fawcett together ( the original choices for " Foul Play " ) , but the comic chaos which erupts here is only for undiscriminating viewers . from
Rupert Everett in old-man's make-up provides the only laugh in the picture	Unrelievedly stuffy and bland true-life account of homosexual prep-school boy in 1930's London who later became a spy for the Russians . Told colorlessly in flashback , with aloof Everett posturing and pursing his modulated lips in continual pensiveness ( he has one expression to express every dulled-out emotion ) . Based on a popular British play , I found this extremely cold and rather indifferently-made .
Belated sequel with a beleaguered cast . . .	Awkward disaster mishmash has a team of scavengers coming across the overturned S . S . Poseidon , hoping to loot it before it goes under for good . Irwin Allen's sequel to his 1972 blockbuster " The Poseidon Adventure " arrived in theaters SEVEN YEARS LATER ! Never mind that nobody cared anymore , why give us such a shoddy production , filled with dim characters and miscast actors , only to trash the memory of your biggest hit ? One might end up feeling really sorry for Michael Caine , Sally Field , Peter Boyle , Jack Warden , Karl Malden and Shirley Jones were it not for their lost-at-sea expressions ( good for a few stray laughs ) . There's a moment when saintly Jones is tempted into taking some treasures just for herself and she timidly starts stuffing her pockets that is an unintended hoot . The film was a career bungler for all concerned , most especially Allen , who never quite recovered from this . from
Superhero romantic-comedy hasn't anything romantic or funny in it . . .	It's easy to see how this below-average screenplay got by in the early sales-pitch meetings at Regency Films ( and later with Fox ) : cross the superhero genre with a comedic take on " Fatal Attraction " . . . voilà ! I don't know how on earth a talented director like Ivan Reitman got involved , unless the pay was just too tempting . A dateless employee at an architectural design firm in N . Y . C . meets a girl on the subway and asks her out ; despite the fact she's distracted and unpleasant , he eventually gets her into bed - - only to find out later she's the Big Apple's resident superhero , G-Girl . This distaff Superman , with powers bestowed upon her by a fallen meteorite , isn't a fantasy heroine , however . . . screenwriter Don Payne has conceived her as a needy , possessive , vindictive bitch ( he telegraphs this to us from miles away , though Uma Thurman still plays the role for sassy laughs ) . This is the kind of worthless movie that can't let an insult slip by . Our introduction to leading man Luke Wilson , talking with Rainn Wilson on the train , is accompanied by a sour dig at gays ( it prods at us to be assured these two buddies are strictly ladies ' men ) . After being approached by G-Girl's nemesis , who wants to zap her powers , Wilson is told this will make her just an ordinary woman scorned . . . and isn't that better after all ? Thurman's early performances in films like " Henry & June " and " Jennifer 8 " showcased an intelligent woman with angular grace and hypnotic poise ; her films with Quentin Tarantino helped expose her sinewy hardness and intensity , but that came at a price ( the actress has seemingly lost her graceful touch ) . The picture is exceedingly well-produced and shot , with expensive-seeming special effects , yet nobody bothered to find the humor in this scenario . It's pushy , leering , ugly , and badly-cast . Bloated , frozen-faced Wilson can't tell any of his co-workers that he's dating G-Girl because she made him swear he'd rather have a chainsaw stuck up his rectum . I wonder if writer Payne actually thought that was hilarious . . . or , indeed , if anyone involved did ? from
Straight-to-tape " sequel " sans every iota of talent from the predecessor . . .	1992's " Poison Ivy " played like an art-house sleaze-piece with an eye on the cult-movie market ( and , at this , it succeeded , despite a herky-jerky narrative ) . But since the heroine perished in that film's final moments , a sequel would seem unlikely . Not so , as Alyssa Milano's Lily finds out . After discovering and reading a diary written by the doomed Ivy ( played in ' 92 by Drew Barrymore ) , Milano revamps herself , takes on a seamier personality , and causes sexual havoc . Quite a stretch trying to connect the two films , but at least the first movie had an interesting direction and some B-movie style . This dud has neither , nor is Milano the next Drew Barrymore . Followed in 1997 by " Poison Ivy : The New Seduction " . NO STARS from
Another teen tragedy . . .	Laughably awkward teen-opus , filmed on the cheap in black-and-white , concerns young male and female college students battling each other over the rights to a swanky beach-house . It's the boys against the girls ! ( Wouldn't it makes things more interesting for these kids if the pad were co-ed ? ) Worth a quick peek for the musical cameo by Sonny & Cher down at the local hot-spot ( they sing the growly slow-burner " It's Gonna Rain " ) , but their bit comes early - - at the 22-minute mark - - leaving nothing but godawful acting and teenage contrivances for the next hour . Positively painful ! " Wild on the Beach " makes the A . I . P . " Beach Party " flicks seem Oscar-caliber by comparison . from
Greed-inspired Universal time-waster	Sad to see the Larry Talbot character resurrected in such a ridiculous fashion . This gets " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " off to a bad start , although the production certainly looks better , more expensive than " The Wolf Man " . Patric Knowles returns , but in a different role ( this leads to some confusion ) and Maria Ouspenskaya is back as the gypsy , but she has nothing much to do . Poor Lon Chaney , Jr . has to sweat this whole thing out again , and although the transformation scenes are much better this time , the whole plot is a house of cards . Leading up to the battle between the monsters , the filmmakers waste time on hoary details and fancy talk . And what about Bela Lugosi as the Frankenstein monster ? Eesh ! Calling Ed Wood . . . from
Ursula Undressed as AYESHA . . . ( gazuntite ! )	Laughable adventure from England's Hammer Films , based on H . Rider Haggard's book , about Army soldier in 1918 Palestine who is sent on a mission across the desert by curvaceous woman of Eternal Life . Dreadful fantasy rates a big zero . Script , performances , production - - all second-rate . Everyone in the cast sounds dubbed , or perhaps they were channeling spirits of the dead ? from
Just appalling . . .	" Laughter is a state of mind " says the tag , and I hesitate to comment on Barry Levinson's . What could he have been thinking during the making of " Toys " ? When he watched the rushes , did he see a successful , funny fantasy ? If so , then he's working on a different plane than I . This is an excruciating picture , one in which the production design is 90 % of the thing ( and even the cartoon colors are a disappointment ) . Robin Williams and ( most especially ) Joan Cusack are humiliated as brother and sister of a toy mogul who are bypassed as inheritors of the factory when their dad dies . There's nothing remotely funny ( satirical or slapstick-wise ) on display here . It is uniformly draggy , ugly , and one of the very worst " big " movies ever made . NO STARS from
The ' chick flick ' comes a cropper	Kissless wedding co-ordinator ( who is into Scrabble matches and vintage movies ) meets the guy of her dreams ( a doctor , no less ! ) , only to find out he's the intended groom of her latest client . Designed to make ladies swoon , but if they do they are easy targets . Completely toothless script is like a Julia Roberts or Sandra Bullock reject , and Jennifer Lopez can't carry it off ; she sparkles , she twinkles , but it's a fairly transparent put-on . This just about scrapes bottom . from
A candidate for the worst movie of the 1990s	Thoroughly repugnant and wretched melodrama has the foster couple to a little girl terrorized by the child's psychopathic biological parents , who are on the lam from the police . Warped , irresponsible picture with thriller aspirations is more stupid than suspenseful . Director Wesley Strick seems to have fallen asleep at the wheel , how else to explain the piling up of one ludicrous situation atop another ? Stars Daryl Hannah and Keith Carradine can't even scrape together the semblance of believability within this context , and both are at a loss ( as the " innocents " , Moira Kelly and Vincent Spano have it even worse , but their general lack of charisma puts them at a disadvantage regardless ) . Tiresome , unsubtle junk . NO STARS from
Whoopi Goldberg is almost always worth watching . . . almost	From the What Was She Thinking ? file : Whoopi Goldberg plays a cop in the future who is teamed with a talking dinosaur ( ! ) for a crime case involving a madman who wants to start another ice-age . Straight-to-tape oddity is embarrassing and ridiculous , a high-concept in search of itself . Apparently this was a labor of love for its writer-director , Jonathan Betuel ( who also served as one of the producers ) ; sadly , the end results are anemic , to be charitable . Goldberg's mere presence on-screen can often spark good will and laughter no matter how poor the script , but here she's drowning and you can see the unfunny results . NO STARS from
" Quit your blubbering ! "	Rightfully atrocious . " Orinoco-Prison Of Sex " ( a . k . a . " Escape From Hell " ) was an Italian-Spanish women - as - slaves - on - a - South - American - island - who - revolt thing , brought stateside in 1985 , christened with a new title and spiced with fresh footage of Linda Blair as a vengeful " ex-employee " . Those looking for some hot nude scenes and / or violent confrontations between sexy women in loincloths are bound to be disappointed ( the Italian footage is dark , muddy and unerotic , not to mention coy - - it cuts away at the best parts ) . As for Blair , she's amusing packing heat , ordering her ex-captor around with a snarl , " Quit your blubbering ! " But , alas , Linda is once again stuck in a turkey . NO STARS from
Chump-comedy with beleaguered leads . . .	Two nudnicks ( Chevy Chase and Dan Aykroyd ) think they're being trained as spies for the United States government when actually they're being used as guinea pigs against the Russian defense . Fans of TV's " Saturday Night Live " may never have guessed that one-time rivals Chase and Aykroyd would end up starring in a picture together , or that " Blues Brothers " filmmaker John Landis would be directing , however they may be the only audience for this type of slapstick silliness . The script is threadbare , and Landis relies heavily on hammy gags and scenery-chewing . Shapely Donna Dixon ( Mrs . Aykroyd ) has a funny , sexy bit , but Steve Forrest and Bruce Davison get trampled in the sloppy action . Hopelessly out-of-touch star vehicle . from
Scarrrry !	It's ' Arabian Nights a Go-Go ' when movie star Elvis P . tours the Middle East , getting mixed up in an assassination attempt ( don't worry - - flick is a piece of fluff , not " The Manchurian Candidate " ! ) . Elvis looks great in a turban , a la Valentino in " The Shiek " , but his usual stony expressions for once cannot belie his embarrassment here . One of Presley's weakest efforts , with a cramped MGM studio substituting for the Land of the Sands . from
Aldo Ray wins Best Actor . . . at the Adult Film Awards ? ?	I rented this low-budget sex-western to see one of my favorite actors , Aldo Ray , playing the villain in one of his last movie appearances . But Ray is featured on-screen only minimally ; the other " performers " are made up of unattractive amateurs undressing rather self-consciously for the camera ( I read that one of the females here was also in " Deep Throat " , which doesn't bode well for that flick ) . The outdoor locales are OK , and the attempt is made to include some sort of plot , but it isn't one that will involve anybody . Ray doesn't strip , but he gets to ogle , and he does that rather well . In his later years , Aldo looks a little paunchy , but he's very energetic and apparently unashamed ( he won an Adult Film Award as Best Actor , after all ) . Unfortunately , the filmmakers don't have any respect for an actor of Ray's caliber and he's given a sour send-off . That's more pathetic than erotic . . . Good porno shouldn't make you feel dirty .
Writer-director Jake Kennedy has a good time . . . he may be the only one	While sweetheart campers are up in the mountains , a deadly comet is making its way around Earth ; by morning , with a strange dust covering the ground , the kids quickly learn nearly everyone has been turned into raging cannibal zombies - - the male members of which have had an asexual embryo implanted in their groin , soon to elicit an alien race . Director Jake Kennedy also scripted , probably after an all-night binge of Ridley Scott and George Romero movies . His cheeky dialogue between a group of survivors holed up in a rural outpost catches one off-guard , but the flippant tone doesn't match the splatter action . No doubt this mangy gross-out flick was distributed by Lions Gate , who have become the unofficial kings of horrific outings designed to test the gag-reflex . Although a few of the characters are curious , original creations - - with Kennedy taking an odd tack on their sexual proclivities - - I bailed out of " Days of Darkness " with about 30 minutes to go . It promises zombies and gore , and it delivers on those promises , but the heavy emphasis on autopsy scenes and detached genitalia was too specific a twisted bend for my liking . It's the movie equivalent of pulling wings off flies , with a half-cocked plot concocted around the extreme make-up effects . Kennedy may indeed be a talent to watch for fans of this genre , but first he needs to grow up a little . from
Full of tacky T & A interludes - - but hey , it has Cherie and Marie Currie !	A comedy in nearly every sense , " The Rosebud Beach Hotel " is at odds with itself whether to be a goofy , screwball frolic ( with surprisingly old-fashioned overtones ) or a sniggering T & A fest à la " Private School " . Colleen Camp inherits a fifth-rate hotel by the beach and hires second-hand help to run it , but does she know the bellhops are hookers ? Fran Drescher has a riotous scene with a customer , and Cherie and Marie Currie provide a fine rock soundtrack as the maids-turned-singers ( too bad they have no dialogue however ) . Eddie Deezen falls into the pool . Apart from all this , there are some nervous young ladies disrobed for the camera . The picture is so awkward it provides some unintentional laughs , but mostly it's a bore , and Camp's nervous-brand of insecure / in-command humor is just thrown away . from
Grimly unfunny " satire " of Reagan-era greed . . .	Another misfire from director Wes Craven , here concocting an unappetizing scenario concerning a modern black family menaced by their white landlords , despicable people who have imprisoned various poor souls underneath their mansion . Craven has said the hissable , wealthy white folk were based on Ronald and Nancy Reagan , which may make the narrative play as dark comedy ( while also giving the flaccid proceedings a racial and social undermining ) , but if so the lousy writing doesn't allow for much satire - - or even a clever pay-off . It's indeed twisted , askewed , but it isn't funny , what with grimy atmospherics and just-OK performances from the cast , including Ving Rhames and Sean Whalen , overworking his inherent smarminess . from
Sleek titillation mixed with teenage angst . . .	The drawing card of " Reckless " in 1984 was in seeing its sexy young stars sans clothes . What . . . you thought it was the plot ? The script is a relentless rip-off of every teen-angst drama from " Rebel Without A Cause " on down . Misunderstood high schooler ( Aidan Quinn ) , whose brooding manner derives from an unhappy home and has alienated him at school , falls for the class sweetheart ( Daryl Hannah ) , who is unhappy but doesn't know it yet . Yes , we get to see Quinn and Hannah partly nude , but their characters are clichés , as are the roles played by Kenneth McMillain ( Quinn's surly pop ) and Cliff De Young ( overdoing it as an unsympathetic coach ) . Lots of gritty , industrial-town atmospherics , fine ' 80's rock on the soundtrack , but the leads don't act or speak like high schoolers - - and he looks far too old to still be cracking the books . from
Burton brings down a cathedral . . . and his career	If 1977's " Exorcist II : The Heretic " did him no favors , it's hard to imagine what thespian extraordinaire Richard Burton saw in this drab exercise in non-thrills . You've seen it all before : Burton plays a writer who discovered at an early age he possesses the power to move inanimate objects through force of his mind ( and you thought " Carrie " had no impact on Hollywood ! ) . Though adapted from a novel by Peter Van Greenaway , " Medusa " plays like recycled goods , though the special effects in the cathedral finale are solid ( if typical ) . Lee Remick is somewhat present as a doctor , but otherwise the supporting cast is extremely weak . Burton is hammy but weary . . . not even telekinesis could save him at this point . from
The ' Force ' isn't with these two . . .	Ben Affleck , about to be married , is shaken up by a plane accident and gets involved with one of the other passengers ( Sandra Bullock , forcing herself to act insane ) . Who is to blame for this inept , ugly morass ? It is so badly edited , when I looked in the credits it wasn't to read the editor's name - - it was to see if the person actually took the credit ! Rife with clichés , contrivances , and Sandra Bullock in raccoon eye-makeup , the movie doesn't even concern itself with creating chemistry between the two main characters . Laughs are non-existent : the scene in the gay bar with Affleck might have gotten a big laugh if it weren't so stupid ( the bar patrons - - a big rowdy bunch of them ! - - shout for Affleck to strip and start digging out their cash ) . It's not supposed to have any significance other than getting Ben to loosen up a little , but the direction of the whole scene is wrong-headed , and the outcome is unseen because the idiot editor cuts away . . . or was that all the film he had ? It's a small moment but it's typical of this film , an amateurish piece of pop-goods that wants to be an edgy modern comedy but doesn't have any guts . It is tailor-made for the bottom shelf at your video store . from
Crash-and-burn all-star comedy . . .	Flaky , flippant substitute-bellhop in a run-down Hollywood hotel encounters a coven of comely witches , a psychotic man and his wife involved in sexual , violent role-playing , a gangster and his wife who need a babysitter for their precocious kids , and a wire-strung Hollywood auteur who proposes a bloody game of winner-take-all . Hinging on the unfunny results of Tim Roth's performance as the uniformed bellboy , this poorly-made , inconsistent , off-putting collage of eccentrics falls completely flat . Roth , who is not a rubber-faced comedian ( but who hopes to be here ) , attempts a bon vivant air of light-hearted smugness that just seems perverse . The rest of the talented cast is either humiliated ( Ione Skye , as a half-naked witch ) or used for decoration or as a punch-line . Antonio Banderas ' sleek , oily gangster is amusing , and the little kids are quite good , but their segment ends on an odious , completely inappropriate note - - and yet nobody behind or in front of the camera wants to show any responsibility . The feeling is one of ' anything for a laugh ' , yet the writing is wincingly unfunny , and the four different directors are simply not in sync ( not with each other nor with the material ) , particularly Quentin Tarantino , who stars in and directed the final segment and appears to be winging it . from
Well-trodden scenario gets a gay twist , but film can't decide which audience to target . . .	40-year-old gay teacher has a car accident and dreams he's back in high school again - - only this time , gay is ' normal ' and he's attracted to a comely female student . Silly , low-budget , under-populated comedy-drama is more ambitious than its thin production or straight-seeming cast can handle . The script is stuck in a revolving closet - - the teacher has to come out all over again - - and it's never clear to whom the picture is meant to appeal , straight or gay audiences . The filmmakers ' idea of a novel twist is to have the homosexuals be the unyielding bashers , but is the movie preaching tolerance and acceptance or is it a treatise for heterosexuals in need of reassurance ? ( after all , their side wins ) . A less ' colorful ' take on this material might have made for a funnier and perhaps thought-provoking comedy , but " Almost Normal " doesn't even scratch the surface of those possibilities . from
Psychological study . . . with S & M overtures	Jennifer Jason Leigh is a consistently unsurprising actress . As the years go by , the virginal teenager she played in " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " appears to be the anomaly on her resume . Specializing in characters on the proverbial brink , Leigh becomes rudderless in ' ordinary ' roles , such as her corporate's assistant in " Backdraft " . That said , Leigh fits right in with this cockeyed character study-cum-thriller about an unstable girl who inherits a nightclub with a shady past . The narrative is so gummy , at first I couldn't figure out if the building was also used as a hotel , or if Leigh's character was planning on living there full-time . A few jagged bits of delusion stand out ; otherwise , the ingredients of this stew fail to come together cohesively . Leigh plows through all the silliness as if it really means something - - as if her life depended on it - - but her conviction in being the ultimate square peg says more about the actress than this character ever gets to express . from
Not a good vehicle for Keaton . . .	Dreary , rather annoying film-adaptation of Sue Miller's book ( directed by Leonard Nimoy ! ) has Diane Keaton in one of her weakest roles as a single mother sued for custody of her child by her ex-husband . Seems mom's new Bohemian boyfriend ( Liam Neeson ) is a bad influence , and after Keaton's little girl sees Neeson undressed and begins asking grown-up questions about sex , any viewer might understandably side with the ex ( who is made to be the villain of the piece ) . Beginning with a puzzling prologue which hopes to show the different ways in which we view sexuality , Nimoy's take on this material is just confounding . Keaton never really develops a character , and I presume we're supposed to empathize with her simply because she's lovable Diane Keaton . Aside from some OK technical merits , the film is muddled beyond repair . from
Expectations high , results poor	A spy satire from Joseph Losey ? Losey's films are always rich in texture but are completely alienating . His askewed vision - - usually defended by the intelligentsia set - - leaves viewers out of the mix , and one is left to ponder what the hell he was trying to say . " Modesty Blaise " is , sadly , no different . Loosely-structured ( to say the least ) , the plot has something to do with curvy thief-turned-secret agent protecting diamond shipment from a mama's boy villain . James Bond fanatics won't find much to bond with here : film's trick cuts and mod settings cannot detract from limply-staged , perplexing puzzle of a " comedy " . In the lead , Monica Vitti is an intriguing presence but she has no music in her voice ( in fact , she sounds dubbed ) . Director Losey was in way over his head here , and he drags everyone down with the ship . from
" ' Hip ' isn't hip anymore . . . " ( it's not ? )	Trouble at home has caused high schooler Christopher Collet to become embittered , rebelling at school and battling with his mother , but instead of seeking advice or aid from adults who may just be a bit more knowledgeable than he , Collet takes matters into his own hands . Pricelessly overripe piece of juvenalia - - designed to get kids in the audience cheering - - backfires when it becomes apparent that this teenage rebel has nothing up his sleeve but worn-out solutions . Illogical suburban melodrama wastes some fine actors ( Peter Weller , Teri Garr , Sarah Jessica Parker ) on tepid material . Clueless screenwriter Ron Koslow eventually shows his hand ( and true intentions ) once the scenario is turned into a lowbrow psycho-in-the-house thriller . Definitely not hip . from
Star-laden dud on a TV-movie budget . . .	The trailer for this comedic scare flick was much more successful than the actual movie ; delineating sort of a " Ten Little Indians " scenario , it quickly highlighted a passel of imaginative deaths , such as two kissing lovers crushed to death in a shower stall . Unfortunately , this tacky turkey with name-players hasn't the snap ( or brevity ) of its own coming attraction . The recipients of a deceased millionaire's will die one by one in colorful ways , with Roddy McDowall's comeuppance - - squeezed to death in a purple velvet suit - - being the most ridiculous . Produced on a TV-movie budget , with stars Stella Stevens , Farley Granger , Jamie Farr , Victor Buono , and McDowell looking properly embarrassed . The only cast member who gets to shine a bit is Elsa Lanchester , hamming it up as dead Arnold's sister . from
Joan Jett's misspent youth	Two years before her solo career took off , Joan Jett was without a band ( The Runaways had just split ) and she was contracted to do a low-budget B-flick called " We're All Crazy Now " , a Beatlesesque look at a day in the life with The Runaways . Since the band was no more ( and guitarist Lita Ford had the good sense not to sign on the dotted line ) , Joan was the only band member to appear . The movie shut down after only half was completed , yet here it is - - resurrected with a framing story starring Ray Sharkey - - and it's of great interest to Jett-fanatics . Sharkey plays a filmmaker under pressure to complete his latest opus ( a rock movie starring . . . Joan Jett ! ) while a group of unseen people comment on everything that's going on ( and this includes belittling Joan so badly , I'm surprised she didn't sue ) . I felt really grimy after watching this sludge-fest . The footage of Joan is indeed terrific ( she's beautiful in her short hair , jeans and cowboy hat or running around the streets of Hollywood ) , but you have to sit through some disgusting , degrading material just to catch the Jett moments . Thankfully , the bootlegs of this video made the rounds in 1988 and ' 89 , and seemingly have everyone who cares satisfied . Fester in peace . from
William Beaudine strikes again !	While residing in a village in Mexico , the granddaughter of Frankenstein meets Jesse James . Director William Beaudine , who handled mostly low-rent westerns and TV serials , suffered an illness in the 1950s and nearly dropped out of sight , only to rebound in the ' 60s with drive-in western-horror flicks like this one . His movies usually had poor plots and B-grade actors , but great titles to lure camp aficionados . This " Jesse James " however never lives up to its silly ingredients . It is so tame and sleepy and lethargic , viewers might have a tough time laughing at it since everyone on-screen looks ready for a nap . Hardly any action , but lots of inane chit-chat . from
Diana Ross as a spinster Dorothy ? ? Still , she's the only good thing in " The Wiz " . . .	Underwhelming black-rendering of " The Wizard Of Oz " , with Dorothy re-conceived as a Harlem schoolteacher without a man who learns the true meaning of happiness after she's whisked off to Oz ( which mostly looks like a Harlem playground ) . Sidney Lumet was probably the worst choice for a director of an all-black musical they could have gotten ; his heavy-handed touches , like having the Scarecrow crucified on a TV antennae , are excruciating throughout . Other seemingly good ideas , like casting Lena Horne as Glinda the Good Witch and Richard Pryor as The Wiz , don't come off either ( Horne responds to her role as if it were the Second Coming ) . Nearly everything here has been misjudged , and Lumet's timing is perpetually off . As for Diana Ross in the lead : she's too young to be convincing as an old maid schoolteacher ( and dressing La Ross down was a fundamental mistake ; who wants a spinsterish Dorothy ? ) . However , Ross has made glitter out of garbage before and she works hard at the poorly-written dialogue . But Lumet has her crying all the time , and whining about wanting to go home . Someone should have simply directed Dorothy down the block , it certainly doesn't look as if she traveled all that far . from
Almost worth seeing for Sandy Dennis . . .	The scant few teenagers who went to see " 976-EVIL " in 1989 probably had no idea who Sandy Dennis was ( just as the kids who first saw " Carrie " didn't know who Piper Laurie was ) , but the veteran actress manages to bring a few minutes of class to an otherwise lousy , fifth-rate screamer about a nerdy high school kid acquiring demonic powers from a satanic phone number . Amateurish mishmash , derivative and grimy , marked the directorial debut of Freddy Krueger himself , Robert Englund . Englund offers precious little originality , but he does let Dennis strut her stuff in an amusing , fanatical supporting bit heavily reminiscent of Piper Laurie's religious mama from " Carrie " . from
A good director's worst film . . .	Talented filmmaker J . Lee Thompson stages this musical version of Mark Twain's " The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn " with artificial verve , and nothing in it looks quite right or plays at the appropriate tempo . Stolen from his guardians by his own delinquent father , Huckleberry Finn stages his own death and hits the Mississippi River with his friend , Jim the Slave ( why the two don't return to the sisters whom Jim works for is never made clear - - both he and Huckleberry would certainly benefit from their generosity ) . Songwriters Richard and Robert Sherman , who also adapted the screenplay , seemed to lose their way musically once their mentor , Walt Disney , died ; here , their songs are like leaden chapter stops in the narrative , not that the actors have much musical range . Teen star Jeff East doesn't even have music in his speaking voice , and he crawls through the picture lethargically , talking through his nose as if he had a cold . Paul Winfield fares better as Jim , though this pictorial , phony journey must have seemed quite a comedown after his " Sounder " . Cinematographer László Kovács gets some beautiful shots of the raft on the water , but the limp direction and editing makes nearly all of Kovács ' compositions look poorly framed . The color schemes are gloppy , with day scenes appearing as dusk and vice-versa . Director Thompson , who makes the white folks look like doddering scoundrels and the black folks look like grinning simpletons , can't work up a cohesive pace for the picture , and it jostles about from one poor vignette to the next . This was a follow-up by financiers Reader's Digest to 1973's " Tom Sawyer " ; as with that film , a TV-version was right on their heels , in this case 1975's " Huckleberry Finn " starring Ronny Howard and Donny Most . from
Blandly pleasant	Divorced single mom in picturesque seaside town finds an anonymous love letter and allows it to spur into action her dormant love life . Pet project for actress / co-producer Kate Capshaw , who gives a warm , nicely-modulated lead performance , yet this story is so slim and the direction and editing so erratic that a faint dissatisfaction creeps in . Initially , Capshaw's Helen envisions several of her friends reading the love letter to her ( an interesting visual joke ) but the first person they do this ploy with is Ellen DeGeneres , who doesn't play a lesbian but who comes off as one because of this gimmick . Different ideas are flayed about in the hopes that one would stick , and the continuity is extremely choppy . Supporting cast ( including Tom Selleck and Tom Everett Scott , who mostly acts with his shirt off ) is very good , but they can't save the final act , which is disappointing . Low-keyed , in a quirky , pleasant way , but it is blandly good-natured , nothing more . from
Just what Madonna wanted to be - - the latest Sharon Stone knock-off	Trashy sex-melodrama might've been much more fun had it the slightest sense of humor ; alas , all the laughs here are unintentional , and the straight-faced actors just end up looking foolish . Willem Dafoe seems on auto-pilot throughout , cast as a Defense Attorney opposite Madonna , playing a woman who is suspected of killing her wealthy older lover with too much rough-housing in the bedroom . Grubby nonsense with a cliché-ridden script , B-movie characters , and a silly finish . For camp-addicts , a hoot ; all others beware . Released to video in R , NC-17 , and Unrated versions , none of which managed to improve on the ludicrous screenplay . from
Recreation of the series or just a dumb action-comedy ?	Misguided theatrical version of the hit TV series from the ' 70s , this " Starsky & Hutch " isn't well-equipped with the right materials to make it successful as updated nostalgia ( it's just another brainless cop flick with comedic asides ) . One thing is certain , the tough-yet-tender-hearted TV cops never engaged in sexual shenanigans like this , nor did they ever freak out on cocaine ( at a disco ! ) . This film ( with Hutch initially playing both sides of the law ) is deliberately cheesy and does manage to get some details right , but it is also muddled , offensive , overlong , and not big on genuine laughs . Ben Stiller does commendable work , Snoop Dogg is good as Huggy Bear , but Owen Wilson is just winging it . It's hard to blame the actors anyway , street-tough crime fighters being way out of fashion . from
It's nakedly dead . . .	From Norman Mailer's celebrated book about kill-happy Army sergeant in the Pacific , 1943 . In the lead , handsome Aldo Ray gets a chance to show his swagger portraying a man doing battle with the enemy as well as with himself and his own men ; otherwise , this glum effort is War-is-Hell routine . Bernard Herrmann's score sounds suspiciously like the one he turned in for " Taxi Driver " in 1976 . Hmmm . . . .
Perfectly stupid . . .	Another let-down for Tony Curtis fans . Here , he's an Army Corporal stationed at an Arctic outpost who gets a Parisian furlough with sexy Argentine movie actress Linda Cristal , who is secretly pregnant . Would-be bedroom romp never does get saucy . Director Blake Edwards bides his time with his usual padding and gimmicks : slapstick brawls and frantic chases . This was one of six movies Curtis made with then-wife Janet Leigh , wasted here as a prim Lieutenant . Despite lots of Hollywood gloss , these are grueling comic antics indeed , not helped by an interesting supporting cast which includes Elaine Stritch and Keenan Wynn . from
Teen sci-fi does the Watusi in the mud !	Juvenile swingers get a dressing down after growing to gigantic heights . 20 years ago , our local TV channel 9 used to show this dreck every other month - - and even as a kid , I wondered why everyone's reactions were sooo slooow ( the drowsy actors seem as though they're underwater ) . Tommy Kirk ( the only teenager with a receding hairline ) attempts a ' Samson and Goliath ' with cocky giant Beau Bridges ( looking a might square , and struggling to hide his embarrassment ) , yet even the rocks which fly from his sling-shot are in slow-motion ! It's possible to get a momentary kick from these tacky antics , but the ugliness of the entire concept is self-defeating . It's hard to laugh at something so utterly cringe-worthy . from
Exotic title for low-rent goods	Trashy , trashy Esther Williams drama , made in Italy and financed for about fifty bucks , has Williams playing surly American model working abroad whose light plane crashes on a small island near Sardinia ; there , she butts heads with handsome , reclusive playboy who is hiding from the world . A pretty pathetic soaper , but give Esther credit : even in the wilds , she manages several changes in her hairstyle and goes through a myriad of colorful outfits . from .
Woody Allen-scripted vehicle for the two Peters is completely out of gas	Surprisingly flat comedy about a girl-crazy fashion magazine editor and his eccentric psychiatrist , and their adventures with mini-skirted birds . Peter O'Toole is game but miscast ; Peter Sellers , in an exaggerated Beatles wig , seems constricted by the mostly unfunny screenplay , his personality never coming to a full boil . Glossy , pseudo-naughty , but unfunny picture , which doesn't even capture the Swinging ' 60s with much appeal . Directed by Clive Donner with assistance from Richard Talmadge ; written by Woody Allen , who also makes his movie debut . The title song , sung by Tom Jones , may be the most memorable thing in it . from
" Beach Party " on wheels	As silly as those " Beach Party " movies from the mid-'60s could get , at least they had energetic casts and funny screwball comedy . " Roller Boogie " does have a curly-topped Linda Blair , but backs her up with a bunch of long-in-the-tooth teen-nobodys and awful disco music on the soundtrack . Jim Bray , real-life skater and debuting romantic lead , works well with Linda and they have a few engaging scenes , but the romance is so shallowly presented that one can only scoff , and the film's big climactic chase is botched by sloppy editing . This one is truly hell on wheels . from
The original " Showgirls " . . .	John Travolta's career slump in real-life must have precipitated this resurrecting of the Tony Manero character from 1977's " Saturday Night Fever " . Actually , aside from Travolta's return as Manero , there's little connection between the two films , with director Sylvester Stallone ( ! ) turning the scenario into another variation on his " Rocky " theme ( underdog-dancer-makes-good ) . Tony is now a struggling hoofer on the Great White Way hoping to make his mark on the professional stage , juggling his attentions and affections between two different ladies . It's a parched , beleaguered picture relying on nostalgic good will to carry it through . The sojourn back to Tony's old neighborhood is surprisingly evocative , but little else here rings true . Travolta's dancing is encumbered by the lousy choreography , and the finale is blazing cheese . from
Claustrophobia sets in by reel two . . .	Frightfully dull , colorless comedy-drama about an Army sergeant in WWII France who hopes to preserve combat morale by impersonating the recently-killed General Officer . One-idea script is shot just like a play , with unimaginative camera set-ups and a stodgy , static direction . In the leading role , Glenn Ford is amiable as always - - though , once again , hardly spectacular ; supporting work from Dean Jones , Red Buttons and Taina Elg is underwhelming . A forgotten relic of 1950's cinema , and what exactly possessed these talented actors to take part in such banal material is a question which may never get answered . from
A dynamic duo with only one weakness . . . bullets	Masked Los Angeles crime-fighters Rat Pfink a ( nd ) Boo Boo come to the rescue after Rat Pfink's alter-ego , rock ' n roll singer Lonnie Lord , finds out his sweetheart has been kidnapped by hammer-and-chain link wielding street thugs . Director Ray Dennis Steckler wastes a lot of camera film ( and probably a bundle of cash ) filming rear-ends bouncing and cars driving . . . driving . . . driving . He shows unexpected talent with the rock music montages ( especially the first , " You're Running Wild " , where Lonnie and his gal-pal scamper , twist , and play basketball ) . Unfortunately , his sense of humor doesn't match the chilly black-and-white photography ( also by Steckler ) , nor the violent original plot about teenage delinquents . The opening scene of a bar-broad mugged and left for dead on the deserted , early-a . m . streets of L . A . actually has some edge to it ( apart from one of the goons jumping - - surprise ! - - out of a trashcan ) ; but Steckler didn't trust his instincts , and turned the low-budget project into a " Batman " satire . He lacks the verisimilitude to cover his own callow tracks , and the acting , sound effects , over-dubbing , pacing and narrative are each atrocious . from
Uninspired raunch . . .	A group of horny young guys get dressed up in drag to invade a girl's dormitory . . . boy , there's an original idea , and there's more limp sleaze to come in this collection of teen-raunch clichés . Has a decent cast for this type of fare ( I always enjoy Phoebe Cates , although she tends to visibly struggle without the help of a good director ) , yet there's absolutely no talent behind the camera . In fact , it is so awkwardly handled from start to finish , the poor actors are often funny unintentionally . Soft-core star Sylvia Kristel , playing a sex-educator teacher ( natch ) , gets attacked by a hormone-crazed nerd in possibly the film's most embarrassing moment , but the sheer bumbling amateurishness of this scene managed to get a laugh out of me . from
Lackluster dud from Sundance . . .	Undistinguished , straight-to-tape comedy-drama about a group of young people in New York hoping to find true love , apparently made by a gang of Hollywood friends just out to have a little fun . It's a competently-made but forgettable trifle financed by Miramax and developed by The Sundance Institute , none of whom could get this thing into theaters . Written and directed by Adam Park , who has a sitcom sense of humor and sense of timing to match . The cast - - including Jennifer Beals , Drew Barrymore , James LeGros and . . . Jon Stewart ( ! ) - - tries hard , but they aren't given anything of interest to say or do . from
Will Ferrell gets stuck in Formula Movie hell . . .	" Kicking and Screaming " must have been made for moviegoers suffering from short-term memory loss . How else to explain the basic pandering of parents - bonding - with - kids - over - sports scenario that has been done a million times before in one sports format or another ? This time it's pee-wee soccer , and the movie doesn't so much reignite the clichés as it does Xerox them . Will Farrell plays a clumsy vitamin salesman who has a love-hate relationship with sports-nut dad Robert Duvall ; they both have sons the same age , on competing soccer teams with their dads as coaches , and Farrell decides this is his golden opportunity to finally beat the old man at something . Aside from a few bits of bright dialogue ( and a really funny sequence where a newly-aggressive Ferrell gets himself kicked out of a coffeehouse ) , the film is groaning , occasionally moronic , simplistic and , above all , fraudulent . from
What went wrong ? ?	Completely lackluster comedy , the fourth ( and hopefully the last ) in the financially successful " Vacation " pantheon has Chevy Chase back as goofy dad Clark Griswold , taking his family on another adventure , leaving the suburbs for the lights of Las Vegas . A couple of big laughs - - and a game attempt to keep it afloat by Chase , still working very well with Beverly D'Angelo - - but the direction is limp , the gags are blown time after time , and a sub-plot involving trailer-trash cousin Randy Quaid is painfully gratuitous . This movie series needs a permanent vacation ! Nice ( if obvious ) cameos by Siegfried & Roy and , in the movie's best bit , Christie Brinkley . from
An unattractive idea , given an unfocused treatment	Rarely have I seen a major motion picture that looked as awful as this one does . We get the fact that modern suburbia is supposed to look like a plastic paradise out of a TV commercial , but the colors here are tepid , the camera set-ups dull and unimaginative , and the direction mechanical and without a hint of inspiration . Jim Carrey , playing Truman ( whose life is a TV show though he doesn't know it ) , shows off his dreaded " range " as a performer ; he's always on-camera a second too soon and stays there seconds too long . This is also the fault of the director ( Peter Weir ? ! ) and the editor , who hope we in the audience don't miss any of their tricks . How could we when the whole set-up of this story is as plastic as the town's inhabitants , or when every gesture is as subtle as a pack of stampeding elephants ? from
Excruciating Nancy Meyers-Charles Shyer hokum . . .	Smarmy , downright unnecessary Disney remake of their own 1961 classic about separated eleven-year-old twin sisters who meet for the first time at summer camp and devise a way to bring their divorced folks back together . Young Lindsay Lohan ( playing both girls , as did Hayley Mills in the original ) is a perky , but trite and innocuous tyke , and this camp where the kids meet is ridiculously " Hollywood " ( the girls fence and play poker on the side . . . what world are screenwriters Nancy Meyers and Charles Shyer from ? ) . Meyers , who also directed , does well by the adults ( Dennis Quaid and Natasha Richardson ) , but her scenario is so loaded with sticky-sweet sentiments and happy endings that the end result is weighed-down with false , heavy treacle . from
The 2 , 000th version of " Dracula " ?	Put the blame on executive producer Wes Craven and financiers the Weinsteins for this big-budget debacle : a thrash-metal updating of " Dracula " , with a condescending verbal jab at Bram Stoker ( who probably wouldn't want his name on this thing anyway ) and nothing much for the rest of us except slasher-styled jolts and gore . Christopher Plummer looks winded as Van Helsing in the modern-day - - not just a descendant of Van Helsing but the real thing ; he keeps himself going with leeches obtained from Count Dracula's corpse , which is exhumed from its coffin after being stolen from Van Helsing's vault and flown to New Orleans . This is just what New Orleans needs in the 21st Century ! The film , well-produced but without a single original idea ( except for multi-racial victims ) , is both repulsive and lazy , and after about an hour starts repeating itself . from
Hapless comedy , proving even Hawks and Grant can have an off day . . .	Incredibly weak wartime farce . Army Captain Cary Grant and his sweetheart , Lieutenant Ann Sheridan , get married overseas , but they soon discover they cannot return to the States together because of his French citizenship . The solution ? Dress the captain up as a woman and take advantage of the Immigration of War Brides Act ! Slight stuff , with a screenplay seemingly written around the title ( and the commercially comic idea of placing a peculiarly butch and graceless Grant in drag ) . Howard Hawks directed , with none of his usual skill ( he's graceless , too ) . Supporting cast ( including Marion Marshall and Bill Neff ) is colorless . from
Subscriptions to Rolling Stone magazine must've taken a hit after this one . . .	John Travolta tries his best as writer for Rolling Stone magazine hoping to finish an unflattering piece on the faddish California health club scene , but complications arise after he falls in love with a sexy , sensitive aerobics instructor . Perfect-ly awful drama , shallow and dated , is surprisingly cynical about Rolling Stone and its ethics ( this despite the fact the producers had the magazine's input and even cast its editor , Jann Wenner , in a supporting role ! ) . Film does get a tiny bit of class from Jamie Lee Curtis , and supporting players Anne De Salvo as a photographer and Laraine Newman as a wallflower are more than respectable in clichéd roles . from
Kubrick's cop-out : there's no sting in the writing , and hardly a chill in the air . . .	" Eyes Wide Shut " looks great but never comes together . It has an impossibly long build-up which strives to tell us that a wealthy , seemingly happy married couple have cracks in their facade , which sends the husband " out into the night " . Filmmaker Stanley Kubrick has shown tremendous talent with his actors , but even this auteur can't break through Tom Cruise's candy-coated shell ( the movie is all about masks , but Cruise is wearing the biggest one , that of a movie star who can't escape his own inhibitions ) . Nicole Kidman is perhaps better , but her role is extremely weak ( Kubrick has never had much affinity for his women ) . Does the picture hope to shock ? To provoke ? Is it a psychological thriller or a voyeur's fantasy ? It seems to struggle with all these ingredients . In the end , it is mostly just dull and slow , one final glimpse of Kubrick revering himself and the potency of the heterosexual male . from
Sell it on its size - - the rest will take care of itself . . .	Clumsy , elephantine monster-movie remake of a 1954 Japanese cult classic ; an overachieving , multiplex-equivalent of a drive-in theater quickie . Mass hysteria grips the world after a mysterious terror causes destruction and death near Panama ; biologist Matthew Broderick is lured away from his Chernobyl earthworms to help determine the cause and effect of an Atom Bomb-created modern day dinosaur . What could be worse than Godzilla in New York City ? Maybe a dinosaur-sized Hollywood blockbuster designed to break the bank but engineered without a trace of nostalgia ( the picture pretty much throws out the campy fun of the original at the outset , instead replacing it with smarmy " wit " and actors forced to scream at each other ) . Broderick , as Dr . Niko Tatopoulos - - whose last name keeps getting mispronounced - - sings showtunes in his truck but does have an ex-college sweetheart back home ( don't worry folks - - he's straight ! ) ; he gets sexually harassed by his female boss within his first day on the new job - - while back home in NYC , ex-flame Maria Pitillo gets harassed by her boss as well , and yet the filmmakers don't even seem to make the connection ( it's all just " cute " ) . Jean Reno looks entirely out of place with his low-keyed nods and stammers as investigator Philippe Roaché ( his last name gets mispronounced as well ) , getting in the way of the military while making subtle , pointed observations ( he's like the Truffaut character in " Close Encounters " ) . As an action flick , the film is pumped full of wheezing prestige and misguided ambition , too much of it for the picture to be any fun . As a career killer , it did send Broderick back to Broadway . from
Depressing , dispiriting hack-'em-up	A sad botch of a sequel ( in a film canon that's had more than its share ) , featuring Jamie Lee Curtis in a return to role as Laurie Strode , one-time babysitter , now headmistress of a private school , facing down bogeyman Michael Myers one final time . Thriller has a nice cushy budget and some smarts and satire at the beginning , but it quickly turns into yet another ' dead teenagers ' movie . Absolutely devoid of wit or suspense . Surprisingly , Curtis put this one together , but series originator John Carpenter is nowhere to be found ( although the picture tries hard to mimic his style ) . A bloody waste of time ! from
" You're strictly O . T . L . with girls ! "	Atrocious college comedy follows a group of campus goof-offs who do little but chase after girls . One of the most idiotic scenes in movie musicals has to be Pat Boone , in the boys locker room , instructing Richard ( Dick ) Sargent on the art of picking up chicks , crooning " Technique " a la Harry Belafonte . Boone , actually playing the coolest of the kids ( ! ) , is repugnant enough in his striped shirts and sweater vests , but if cinematic justice were at all serving , this picture would've put the kibosh on squeaky-voiced Sargent's career ( " Ohh , gee ! ! " ) . Terry Moore plays the telephone operator the guys get hung up on , and her placid demeanor and condescending smile suggest she's no brainier than the boys . from
Certainly imaginative . . . but it's perplexing instead of exciting	Fantasy story from screenwriter William Hjortsberg has powerful , evil Darkness plotting to overtake Light , personified in unicorns . An eyeful to be sure , but occasionally heavy or silly , with Tom Cruise dreadfully out of place in this Grimm-like setting playing commoner Jack in love with princess Mia Sara . Cruise quickly rebounded from this Ridley Scott-directed misfire , the European version of which runs some twenty minutes longer and features a different score ( they got Jerry Goldsmith , the U . S . got Tangerine Dream - - which wasn't a bad trade-off ) . Still , the film's murky narrative renders much of the proceedings incomprehensible , although portions of it are indisputably pretty to look at . from
Pre - " Porky's " smut	Tony Danza and Michelle Pfeiffer are ostensibly the stars of " The Hollywood Knights " , but cheap , flashy Robert Wuhl walks away with the picture ( though that's not a mean feat ) . Playing hell-raising youth Newbomb Turk , Wuhl is glinty-eyed like a mischievous pervert , causing non-stop comic chaos on Halloween in Beverly Hills , 1965 . Predating " Porky's " with the same locker-room humor , the flick apes " American Graffiti " and " Animal House " but substitutes wit with raunch , sexual embarrassments , and male-bonding over smut . It didn't catch on with audiences in 1980 but gained a small cult on cable . If there's anything good about the picture it is Wuhl : taking charge , as if he were the visiting brother of Belushi , Wuhl bellows and cackles and urinates in the punch bowl . It's tough for any actor to upstage Michelle Pfeiffer , but Wuhl proves it can be done ( and with C-minus material ! ) . from
Another dud from Robert Montgomery . . .	Poor second-string feature from Universal Pictures about a mama's boy movie actor doing criminal investigation work for the military , fending off the advances of the brash young woman he's been assigned to romance . Robert Montgomery directed and stars in this adaptation of the short story " Come Be My Love " , and his acting performances of this era are unrelievedly lazy . The plot is sappy , predictable stuff , and writer Robert Carson has given all the really funny lines ( as usual for films of this period ) to the feisty black maid . It's always nice to see Ann Blyth and Jane Cowl in support , but they can't do much with this hokey material . from
Jazzier violence , otherwise pointless . . .	It's almost impossible to discuss this remake of the 1976 thriller without constantly comparing the two versions - - it's a very basic updating , using much of the same screenplay and yet upping the ante on the violence ( for that extra , " Final Destination " - like kick ) . An American Ambassador and his wife living in England find the behavior of their young child Damien strange and foreboding , while the husband hides the secret he exchanged the baby at an Italian hospital when theirs was allegedly stillborn and yet another child was orphaned at birth . Doomsday thriller wasn't exactly a masterpiece back in ' 76 but did have a chilly look and atmosphere , terrific lead actors , and even a little boy who - - with very few lines - - managed to convey an eerie impertinence with his expressions . This kid is a vacant , heavy-lidded , older-seeming child who looks too lanky to be carted around in his mother's arms ( he seems like an extra from a Goth-rock music video ) ; as the Thorns , Julia Stiles and Liev Schreiber have the opposite problem - - they're too young . Stiles in particular fails to convince as a political wife ; she tries for an authoritative presence , but she's neither this nor the motherly type - - she's just playing dress-up . Mia Farrow is interesting as the boy's evil nanny , but this version has her feeding the boy chunks of meat ( what ? ? ) and playing goody-two-shoes with the hospital staff that drains all the immediacy out of the suspense . Quite lackluster overall , mismanaged from the outset and not very scary . from
Mediocre , straight-to-tape action flick	Disgruntled cop Kris Kristofferson ( looking good sans beard and mustache ) protects a sassy teenage girl ( Drew Barrymore ) from the killers who just did away with her sister , a professional ballerina who was killed during a performance . Barrymore's character ( named " Tinsel " ! ) is tough to take , with lots of whiny outbursts and tantrums , but Kristofferson is decent and supporting players Martin Landau , Dey Young and O . J . Simpson are each very good . The slim production values render this a B-movie ( maybe even a C-movie ) , but it isn't terrible . Richard Danus wrote and directed , and while the shabby-looking picture doesn't exactly showcase a hot , promising new talent , at least he gets the job done . from
a pre - " Charlie's Angels " gathering in a devil's den . . .	Campy title for a rather mundane Aaron Spelling spook show has the sister of a suicide enrolling in a private school for young women to uncover the truth about what occurred there . Two of the students are Kate Jackson and Cheryl Ladd , future TV detectives ( too bad David Doyle's Bosley isn't around to referee the cat-fights ) . If you're yearning for a " Charlie's Angels " episode about witchcraft and devils , this may be as close as you'll ever get . Unfortunately , the film is given such a blasé treatment , with listless direction and uninspired writing , that even one surprise about a character's true identity goes almost unnoticed . Purely from a film-making stand-point , this seems awfully undernourished , though it is interestingly cast and has moments of lowbrow fun .
" Beetlejuice " wanna-be . . .	An unfortunate waste of a potentially good opportunity : a pilferation of the Harvey Comics staple about a friendly ghost looking for friends , and the loner teen and her father who take up residence in the mansion haunted by Casper and other apparitions of the boo-and-cackle variety . As Roger Ebert pointed out at the time , it was completely wrong-headed of the screenwriters to delve into the history of Casper ( revealed to be the ghost of a dead child ! ) , which renders some of the wild , gross-out slapstick completely inappropriate . Sloppily-directed in the " Beetlejuice " vein by Brad Silberling , who is no Tim Burton . The production is slick and expensive , but the hammy material is broad and derivative , defeating leads Bill Pullman and Christina Ricci as well as cameo-players Dan Aykroyd and Rodney Dangerfield , among others . Under 10-year-olds probably won't notice . from
Circus murders and Joan Crawford looking aghast - - oh , the horror !	Joan Crawford made some decent ( if routine ) thrillers after the success of " What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? " , but " Berserk ! " isn't one of them . A scream-filled , British-made heap of horror clichés , the plot involves a traveling circus beset with a psychopathic killer . Crawford runs the carnage-ridden carnival , and shows lots o ' leg in her circus-manager costumes , yet these revealing outfits are a little bit laughable on a woman well into her sixties . Despite the obvious camp-value , the film isn't very enjoyable ; it's shameful swill , a low-budget atrocity which may attract masochistic film-buffs , although the trained poodle act is kinda cute . from
Get out your magnifying glass and you can catch a few glimpses of truth in the screenplay	Wretched , empty romantic drama gives the word ' shallow ' a whole new face . Soon-to-be-divorced Malibu housewife ( Lily Tomlin ) wanders around Hollywood and the beach , running her fingers through her hair , coddling her mutt and rubbing her forehead ; seems a stud like John Travolta is just what she needs , but he's more puppy dog than pouncing lover ( annoying , childish , needy , clinging ) . There's a good line here and there : I liked it when Lily Tomlin says , " I've never had cheap sex . . . I have to admit I was looking forward to it . " But Travolta's character ( " Strip " ! ) is ridiculous and hasn't been thought out ; he's just a bleeding heart ex-runaway looking for true love . It feels about as real as a cartoon . from
Sleepwalking programmer . . .	Robert Mitchum stars in and developed the story for this popular drive-in entry about a moonshine family in the south harassed by U . S . treasurers and gangsters . Despite authentic locales and great hillbilly music , this B-flick is short on exciting action and long on dreary talk and character conflict . Stilted direction , wooden acting ( even by Bob ) , but the black-and-white cinematography is good despite the constant back-projection . Mitchum cuts his usual menacing-yet-cartoony good guy / bad guy presence , but there's no vitality to his character - - and no rapport between him and the other actors . Barely average , the film might have been good but needed a bigger budget , a stronger script , and a direction with tighter pacing . from
WWII , Berlin , Melanie Griffith = bad Strudel	They had to be kidding : Susan Isaacs ' book about an American secretary turning spy during WWII , posing as a nanny in Berlin and moving into the home of a powerful German family , turned into a movie vehicle for " Working Girl " ' s Melanie Griffith ? Woebegone picture given curiously old-fashioned , melodramatic treatment , like a wartime rerun from the late show . Distinctly modern performers Griffith and Michael Douglas look terribly out of place ; Melanie , who professes to be fluent in German ( ! ) , just gives us an extension of her golly-gee , " Working Girl " aesthetic , while Douglas brings absolutely nothing to an admittedly thankless role as Griffith's stolid boss . Musty , hokey , empty nonsense did zero for the careers of all involved . How it came to be made in 1992 is anyone's guess . from
When Billy met Debra . . .	Sadly lackluster romantic comedy , co-written , directed and starring Billy Crystal , is told in deadly flashbacks . A group of friends recount a colleague's courtship ( and eventual marriage ) to an unfulfilled woman , resulting in comic disasters . French locations and a bright cast do help a little bit , but the screenplay isn't very funny , instead becoming weighed down with cheap , lousy sentiment that doesn't play ( and has more than a whiff of " When Harry Met Sally . . . " besides ! ) . Only a minimum of laughs surface , particularly when William Hickey is on-screen as Debra Winger's aged father . Otherwise , Crystal and Winger are not well-matched and their marital ups-and-downs have a depressive feel , with an uneasy give and take full of failed wisecracks and pregnant pauses . Forget it ! from
Well-cast , but inappropriately bright and snappy	I have nothing against a fast-paced fright-flick , but this Stephen King-derived nonsense is too freshly-scrubbed , too bright and modern . The plot , about a new teenage boy in a small town who is a " Sleepwalker " - - sort of a cross between a vampire and a werewolf - - and who feeds on the blood of female virgins , begs for a more mysterious , ambiguous treatment . This thriller is given an inappropriately colorful look and feel , with hardly any atmosphere . The kids are predictably pretty and energetic , but the big plus is Alice Kridge as the boy's mother ; Kridge , from " Ghost Story " , never broke out of the filler-female mold , and it's a huge loss that she hasn't been used more . Her performance is creepy and intense , and gives hint that " Sleepwalkers " might've been a much better film with a different focus and tighter direction . It's too over-the-top and commercially-driven , with an uneven tone that swings wildly from thriller to comedy to drama . Stephen King pops up in a cameo , as do real-life directors John Landis and Tobe Hooper . from
Way-out comic fantasy . . . but just a staple of mod Italian cinema in the ' 60s	Those who see " Shoot Loud , Louder . . . I Don't Understand " - - a title which refers to Marcello Mastroianni's mute uncle who communicates with his fireworks ( ! ) - - might think the film alone in its surrealistic jumble of fantasy and romantic comedy , but it is merely one in a dozen choppy , bizarre , deliberately disconnected comedies from Italy in the 1960s . This was sold domestically ( and , indeed , is still being sold that way via DVD ) with Raquel Welch's image , but her lovely figure is the only thing on display here - - her voice is dubbed , even though she's clearly speaking English . Welch has no character to play , she drops in intermittently , poses and makes faces , but she does add some visual beauty to this otherwise messy stew . Lighting cues , quirky sets and lots of mixed-up business make up the rest of the film , which is running on empty . from
Godawful TV fakery	Linda Lavin and Kristy McNichol fail to convince as mother and daughter . With Mom single again , she and her teenage daughter unpack in their new house and do a little dance together in the kitchen ( The Bump , I believe , or is that The Hustle ? ) . With all signs apparent that these two really get along just like buddies , it's only a matter of time before a man comes between them and stops all that dancing . Kristy soon gets a boyfriend of her own , who lets her hug him every time there's a problem . LOTS of hugging and near-tears melodrama in this TV-movie , written by Nancy Lynn Schwartz from Sheila Schwartz's book . Truly numbing .
Long on atmosphere , short on substance . . .	Critically-acclaimed modern noir from director Robert Altman , a rather rambling adaptation of Raymond Chandler's novel , has drowsy , early-a . m . atmosphere and rumpled panache to spare , but a dreary plot and characters to contend with . Elliott Gould does the gumshoe genre proud with his portrayal of Philip Marlowe , bachelor detective in present-day Southern California , but the murder investigation he's involved with here isn't engrossing or suspenseful , and the eccentrics who dot the cast aren't amusing - - just dull . Evocative cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond is a definite plus , yet Altman's decision to play this material so deadpan and low-key results in a ' sleeper ' of the worst sort . from
The new-fangled Old West , with anti-heroes , bloodshed , rape and robbery . . .	The kind of cynical ' 70s western that might have turned John Wayne's stomach : runaway wife Sarah Miles ( as Cat , née Catherine ) hitches a ride with a gang of scurrilous train robbers , and ends up falling in love with their leader . Overwrought picture gives Miles in particular an insulting role ( she can't even mount a horse without falling off ) , and Jack Warden's scummy Dawes gets a bullet wound he'll never forget , but leading man Burt Reynolds slides right through this without ever leaving a trace he was here . Outdoor locations and colorful support from Lee J . Cobb gives mangy , depressing film a slight boost . from
Like , it's a bad movie , eh ?	Director Peter Bogdanovich seemed to have it all at one point early in his career , but I can't imagine a worse string of pictures than " At Long Last Love " , " Nickelodeon " , " Daisy Miller " and " Texasville " , not to mention this one , a dud meant for theaters but relegated to dusty bins at the video store . Rob Lowe , outfitted to look like either Cary Grant or perhaps egomaniac Bogdanovich , stumbles around as a juror smitten with murder-suspect Colleen Camp . Camp , as proved in " They All Laughed " ( a Bogdanovich bright spot ) , has the knack for screwball antics , but her character here is too brash and she fails to click with Lowe , whose bumbling is forced - - to say the least . The convoluted plot hangs together by a thread , not helped by a bunch of " lovable " dopes in the supporting cast ( including future Mrs . Bogdanovich , L . B . Straten ) . Cheeky , yes . Successful , no . from
" Murderers ' Row " . . . and headaches galore !	This is only the second entry in the Matt Helm spy-series and already star Dean Martin looks tired , beleaguered and in need of a good belt of gin . It isn't the groovy Bond-satire you hope it'll be - - and that the first film , " The Silencers " , nearly was . It has Ann-Margret , and she has energy and pizazz to spare - - but no character to play . Hothead Karl Malden plays the villain , but he's not nefarious , just buffoonish . And then there's Dino : aging on-screen faster than a bottle of Thunderbird Wine , Martin can barely keep his eyes open , barely get his lines out , seems overly-tanned and over-fed , and creates no sparks with sexy A-M . The script is leadweight , the direction amateurish , the set designs mediocre . It's not even an interesting attempt . It's a four-asprin headache . from
Has the germ of a good idea , but overall execution is poor . . .	Writer-director Blake Edwards helmed this disappointingly flaccid fictional murder mystery featuring true-life players . Miscast Bruce Willis is entirely inappropriate as silent screen cowboy Tom Mix , here befriending James Garner's Wyatt Earp and together solving a baffling Hollywood murder . Edwards ' screenplay , from an original treatment by Rod Amateau , has a fun set-up , and Garner is certainly game , so why isn't this a galloping romp with suspenseful underpinnings ? Could be due to Edwards ' lackluster direction , the mostly uninterested supporting players , or the ham-handed attempts at nostalgia . Too bad ; this scenario , with Mix and Earp in Lotus Land , had promise . Unfortunately , " Sunset " fades fast . from
Blazin ' brimstone ! It's a backwoods skeleton in Kate's closet !	Katharine Hepburn as a mountain woman who mixes prayer with positive thinking - - and is thought by the local folk to be a witch . Kate works overly-hard trying to convince us she's a backwoods hick ( named Trigger Hicks ! ) , but you can see she doesn't even believe in this unintentionally comical scenario . Constantly-smiling Robert Young plays a foreman working on the construction of a mountain dam who becomes Trigger's first crush . . . but alas , he's married ! No amount of white magic can resuscitate this formula , based on a play and brought to the screen by R . K . O . with too broad a hillbilly flourish . It is ungodly , and just about unwatchable . from
Fatuous example of how not to film a novel . . .	Author John Irving's " The World According To Garp " made a decent movie not just because the director and the stars were a perfect fit - - it was an interesting study of eccentric lives and behavior , and the paths the characters took were worth following . Irving's " The Hotel New Hampshire " is a far less interesting story , with pomp and smarm to spare , concentrating on the sexual ills of an unconventional family running a hotel . Adapted and directed by Tony Richardson , the picture was a real setback for co-star Jodie Foster ( she's such a refined presence that it vulgarizes Foster herself to be cast in such an unattractive part ) . Young Rob Lowe comes off as the star here ; he's very easy and pretty as Foster's brother who harbors a crush on sis , but the other actors ( Nastassja Kinski , Beau Bridges , Matthew Modine , Paul McCrane , and wizened Jennie Dundas ) are absolutely lost . The director's rhythm is woefully off ( detectable right from the beginning ) and the editing is a mess . The film is really just a jumble of moments , full of tedious craziness and racy interludes . Worse , it is uncomfortably foul-mouthed , jaded , pretentious , and wincingly unfunny . from
Don't miss Tony Bennett as Hymie Kelly !	Absolutely atrocious film from producer Joseph E . Levine , here ripping the lid off the Hollywood can but getting nothing out of it except hot air . Ruthless , snarling Stephen Boyd scratches his way up from seamy strip joints ( as manager for the non-blushing Jill St . John ) to the top of the H-wood heap as the world's most constipated actor . Laughable backstage melodrama is high camp , but how can you laugh without feeling sorry for all those embarrassed personalities on the screen - - none more so than Tony Bennett , looking like a basset hound in a tuxedo . The lousy , fifth-rate screenplay is full of now-legendary fruit-loop lines , Elke Sommer shows more skin than talent , and Frank and Nancy Sinatra have a cameo . . . It's not for the squeamish ! from
An art-house bummer : broadly drawn , unbelievable , and nearly unbearable . . .	Jennifer Jason Leigh and Mare Winningham are a good match portraying vastly different siblings , but only Winningham is able to bring something convincing or substantial to her role . Leigh , playing bar-band singer and alcoholic Sadie Flood , constantly leans on older sis Georgia , an acclaimed folk singer in the Joni Mitchell mold . Perhaps due to her double duties as co-producer on the film , Leigh seems to have boxed herself into a corner : she isn't credible as a singer and , even if this is intentional , gives herself far too much screen-time at the microphone . Probably hoping for a tour-de-force , Leigh is wire-drawn and nervous and jagged ; however , we simply do not see any talent within this character ( Leigh is obviously a solid actress , but she makes decisions here that wall us off from her ) . If Sadie had even the slightest bit of charisma or appeal , we might be able to buy into the concept that she gets the ( small ) breaks that she does . As it is , the likelihood of her ever getting up on stage is slim . Director Ulu Grosbard crafts a few intense dramatic sequences , and the editing at the finale juxtaposes Sadie's bar performance with Georgia's sold-out arena show - - both singing the same song - - and it's a sadly nuanced moment . . . but really , what's the point ? from
Mean-spirited instead of scary , hammy instead of intense . . .	There's nobody in this haunted house movie who merits much interest . Not the brooding dad , the vacuous mom , the noisy kids , the terrified priest . It just doesn't work . You can't have a suspenseful get - out - of - the - house - it's - haunted flick with a bunch of dullards at the center . The opening moments , showing the early murders in the residence , aren't grisly but they are disturbing - - scarier than any of the bleeding walls or red-eyed pigs which come later . That's the thing these movie-makers haven't grasped : that a warped human condition is more terrifying than any of the supernatural nonsense they can cook up . Just as with the " non-fiction " cause celeb bestseller this is based upon , the movie is a scrap-heap of spooky clichés only frightening to the gullible . from
Handsome production , but awkward , detached serio-comedy isn't too funny . . .	Terrific production and a good comedic performance by George Clooney can't save curiously detached , occasionally clumsy quasi-comedy from Joel and Ethan Coen . Depression-era road tale hearkens back to yesterday with three escaped chain-gang prisoners seeking a hidden fortune , and inadvertently becoming country music stars in the process ! The film meanders along but never builds any momentum . It does get a big boost from Clooney's charismatic , Gableesque mugging , and also from the art direction and T-Bone Burnett's lively music . Otherwise , the screenplay ( by the Coens ) is seriously lacking in humor and interest , supporting cameos by John Goodman and Holly Hunter fail to add any lift , and the second-half of the movie slides precariously into self-indulgence . from
It rarely livens up . . .	One of director Herbert Ross's weakest efforts , an extremely self-conscious under-achiever about a born-to-boogie city kid who lands in a repressed small town under the thumb of a tyrannical preacher . There's no rock music or dancing allowed in this Right Wing Valley , so the local teens hit a neighboring town to shake off the cobwebs , including the preacher's daughter ( too bad we don't see the preacher's wife kickin ' up her heels as well , but the movie isn't that imaginative ) . Idiotic rethinking of the Hollywood Musical , with old-fashioned trimmings knocking boots with music video-styled rock and roll interludes . The cast just goes through the motions , though Chris Penn's learning-to-dance montage is very cheerful ( it's hearty enough to wake the audience out of its slumber ) . from
Wallpapered with shtick . . .	Billy Crystal co-wrote , produced , directed and stars in this sentiment-laden Neil Simon knock-off about a Jewish comedian in the late 1950's who becomes a television staple in the ' 60's , and an aged grouch in the present day . David Paymer tries hard in the doormat role of Crystal's put-upon older brother , but he and Crystal spend too much time in hokey old age make-up , bickering back and forth like in a road company version of " The Sunshine Boys " . The movie looks good , with fine Don Peterman cinematography , but it attempts to combine nostalgia with stereotypical Jewish humor and half-hearted pathos - - never cutting back on the insults and quips - - for a static , unremarkable result . from
" Bees ! Bees ! They're all around us ! Bees ! Bees ! "	Killer bees attack residents in a small town preparing for a flower festival . Fred MacMurray BEGS Olivia de Havilland to marry him and she looks to the heavens with an empathic , " Oh , how lucky I am ! " ( they both perish . ) When the train , packed full of stock characters , derailed , the theater audience I saw this with actually cheered ; too bad producer Irwin Allen wasn't aboard . This film ranks right up there with Allen's " When Time Ran Out . . . " , still to this day the reigning champ of bad cinema . The special effects are actually very good here , but the script is so lame and the direction so stilted that the results are not uneven so much as they are unintentionally funny . B-grade actors like Richard Chamberlain must've been mighty grateful for Irwin Allen's disaster films ( and the chance to work in big-budget productions ) , but that's no excuse for Michael Caine's limp appearance . Had Mel Brooks put his name on it , " The Swarm " might have been the top comedy of its year . from
About as exciting as a headache . . .	British pop group Herman's Hermits land in Los Angeles to play the Rose Bowl , but what they really want to do is see the sights and meet some girls " to talk to " . They're pursued by a scientist collecting data on the band for NASA , who are thinking of using the group's moniker on the new spaceship , a would-be actress who wants to link her name with theirs to generate publicity , and a blonde Shelley Fabares who wants the group to perform at her mother's charity event at the snooty Ocean Club . The Hermits sing many hookless tunes , one of which is entitled " A Must To Avoid " , which may well have served as this film's subtitle . Although Southern California looks lovely ( like a big , shiny department store ) , there's no satirical wit in the writing , and Herman's Hermits have no personality , no distinction , and no charisma . Fabares gets the only good song , " Make Me Happy " , and her sweetly out-of-it presence is a nice distraction to the screaming teenage fans , who are mostly shot swarming from below the knees . from
" He thinks ' James Bond ' is some kind of suit . . . "	Art thieves in France are in for trouble when a couple of clumsy American tourists-turned-spies ( Steve Rossi and Marty Allen ) are assigned to expose their operation . Loud , poorly-written slapstick comedy might appeal to Three Stooges or Martin & Lewis fans . It isn't a bad-looking film , but it's shrill instead of funny . Director Norman Abbott ( who also co-wrote the script and produced ! ) seems to really believe Marty Allen is the next Jerry Lewis or Lou Costello ( he isn't ) and there's far too much of him . Linking this to later spoofs like " The Naked Gun " is really doing this movie a favor . It has some snap , but it's a bit long and bumbling . Good supporting cast features Nancy Sinatra , who also sings the title cut penned by Lee Hazlewood ( which is more clever than anything else in the picture ) . from
Instantly forgettable	I couldn't remember the title of this Woody Allen comedy the morning after I watched it . It isn't terrible , it's not unfunny , it's just meager . At its core , the movie concerns Mira Sorvino as a nasal-voiced prostitute whose baby was adopted by Woody Allen and his wife , Helena Bonham Carter ; curious , he tracks her down and she gets him confused with a customer . It's not enough to build a 90-minute movie on , nor is it helped by the padding ( Woody's Manhattan marriage to Carter - - a bad choice - - and a literal Greek chorus who chime in once in a while ) . Sorvino won an Oscar , and indeed she really perks things up , but this is a silly role with few dimensions . Disposable Woody Allen used to be better than most other movies around , but here even the Woodman is down for the count . from
Meticulous to the point of being embalmed . . .	Gorgeously-crafted , but otherwise inert and aloof rendering of Edith Wharton's Pulitzer Prize-winning book about a love triangle in New York , circa 1870 . Martin Scorsese directed and , though a few of his trademark touches are in evidence , his ultra-restrained atmosphere ( while appropriate for the period ) proves disenchanting as entertainment , turning his three star leads ( Daniel Day-Lewis , Michelle Pfeiffer and Winona Ryder ) into suffering , swooning waxworks . Scorsese was probably attempting to channel William Wyler and films such as " The Heiress " , but his take on this story is cold and unenticing , and everything from the dialogue to the melodrama is stilted . An Oscar winner for the costumes - - appropriate since the picture is really all style . Story previously filmed in 1934 with Irene Dunne and John Boles . from
" Arthur " sequel arrives seven years later . . .	Had this sequel to 1981's " Arthur " been made immediately following that film's surprise success , maybe audiences would've been interested . Maybe Dudley Moore wouldn't look so stung by the career-bombs he endured throughout the 1980s . Alas , the biggest problem with this draggy , silly comedy is the absence of Steve Gordon , who wrote and directed the original and died shortly thereafter . This film has none of nuances of the first , none of the laughs or warmth , yet it does retain the forced drunken humor of its title character - - and this in itself looked really out of place in sober 1988 . What a shame , everyone is here ( including John Gielgud in a cameo ) but it just doesn't pass . Blame it on a leaden script , a direction with no bounce , and too much time under the bridge for anyone to care anymore . from
Maudlin Chaplin	A tippling ex-vaudeville performer in 1914 London takes in a suicidal young woman who longs to be a ballerina . Vanity project from writer-director-producer-star Charles Chaplin ( who also composed the music score and actually won a belated Oscar for this in 1972 , due to eligibility requirements ! ) . The film itself is sadly unsuccessful : hammy , sentiment-steeped , yet still unmoving , it uncomfortably catches Chaplin in a self-reverential mood ( he's constantly playing to the camera ) . Claire Bloom is lovely in support , but Buster Keaton is left with little to do . A maudlin and rather sickly piece of fluff . from
More smarmy than clever	Inoffensive but unmemorable comedy continues writer-star Steve Martin's love / hate relationship with Los Angeles ( which began with the 1991's tepid " L . A . Story " ) . A fifth-rate movie director attempts to make a feature with a big name action-star in the lead . . . without the star's knowledge ! Some laugh-out moments only slightly compensate for uneven scripting and too-smug handling , not to mention a torturous sub-plot involving Terence Stamp as a self-help guru . Why does Martin feel the need to dumb-down his characters and his premise ? More sophistication might've made for a funnier movie .
" Star Wars " sent every major studio into the space-age ; think of this as Exhibit A . . .	Attempt by the Disney Studios to partake in the newest rage , science fiction , was hotly anticipated in 1979 , but the results are much closer to " 20000 Leagues Under the Sea " than to " Star Wars " . A Captain Nemo-like misfit , obsessed with black holes ( vortexes in space with incredible suction ) , risks his life and those of his space-exploration team when he decides to intentionally venture into a black hole with his spacecraft . Plodding direction , pedestrian script , and lackluster performances from a B-list group keeps this adventure in the cosmos firmly planted on the ground . The special effects are the only aspect of the film worth praising , and even those aren't quite what you're hoping for from the Disney people . from
Artistic handling , good cast , but a fatigued melodrama . . .	The life story of Dublin playwright Sean O'Casey ( here called Johnny Cassidy ! ) has a sweeping , arty direction by Jack Cardiff , with assistance from John Ford , but it is full of characters who fail to come to life despite a sterling cast of players . Adapted from O'Casey's autobiography " Mirror in My House " , film is saddled with too much melodrama and sideline romances . The location filming is excellent , and Maggie Smith gives a standout performance as a spinster bookseller , but there's not enough heart in the handling . In the lead , Rod Taylor brings his rugged handsomeness to the screen but little else . from
Good cast and director , mediocre returns . . .	Lately , Johnny Depp has proved he can do no wrong at the box-office , though occasionally in the past he has stumbled or the pictures themselves failed to catch fire . Although he generally makes movies of quality , it's in films like " Nick of Time " , with the actor playing an Everyman embroiled in danger , where Depp tends to flounder . Cast as an accountant ( and wearing stereotypical ' accountant ' garb such as yuppie clothes and wire-rimmed glasses ! ) , Depp becomes involved in a plot to assassinate the Governor of California . Filmed in ' real time ' a la " High Noon " , the picture has a good director ( the workman-like John Badman ) and fine support from Marsha Mason ( a good choice as the Governor ) and Charles S . Dutton ( a guy from the working-class who believes Johnny's story ) . Yet , the set-up for this derivative plot is completely ludicrous , with unintentional laughter and shameless holes in the script mitigating any hope for suspense . from
Despite lots of frantic happiness and high spirits , a pall hangs over the project like a gloomy cloud	Everyone seems to be having fun here , so what's wrong ? Cher , Susan Sarandon and Michelle Pfeiffer are three single gals in New England who fall in lust with the new man in town - - a fat , balding , horny character with a high charisma-rate and a smile of temptation . The picture has a sassy opening and some ribald humor , but wow ! this thing is really uneven . It's fantasy and frolic , yet tries for something deeper and more dramatic , with effects that are awfully heavy . The editing is poor ( scenes run on entirely too long , there are TWO vomiting sequences ) and we seem to miss a lot of background detail on Pfeiffer's character - - who looks sickly and has an unexplained sore above her lip . I didn't especially like the picture in the theater , but it does play better at home . There you can overlook the wayward dementia of Jack Nicholson ( who goes too far ) , and possibly some of the lapses of judgment in the direction . Either way , however , the ending is flat , leaving behind a bad aftertaste and making the viewer wish he had spent the last 2 hours doing something else . from
Heavy-handed rendering of old TV clichés . . .	Great cast , with Michael Douglas in an Oscar-winning turn as Gordon Gekko , struggles to overcome the plastic , smug handling in this rendering of political and economical pseudo-realities in the trade market . Douglas ' cutthroat investment buyer , who takes Charlie Sheen under his wing , has one memorable moment when he gives a speech on greed , but the rest of the time is a TV cliché , like one of those oil-racketeers on " Dynasty " . Oliver Stone's handling of actors is , once again , uneven , with the women in the cast coming off especially poor ; he gets nothing new out of them , Douglas included . Heavy-handed , thick-witted yuppie nonsense no longer looks or feels topical . It founders on embarrassing and predictable elements .
Bourbon Street balderdash . . .	Would-be ' hard-bitten ' product from MGM suffers from too many disparate ingredients . A retiring newspaperman in New Orleans reflects on his best subject : a prize-fighter named Socks ( ! ) who infamously deserted a boxing match at the eleventh hour ; after stints as a huckster and as a soldier in the Korean War , he makes a celebrated comeback . This may very well be revered director Raoul Walsh's worst film - - but really , no director could segue smoothly between these slabs of superficial melodrama , including a fighter with neuroses , his ballet-dancing girlfriend , her blind father the Judge , and a jazz-singing , trumpet-playing member of the troupe . As an early vehicle for Ralph Meeker and Leslie Caron , it's a wash-out ; neither star is shown to a good advantage , although Caron's jerky choreography is an odd hoot and Meeker does look great in boxing gloves . Louis Armstrong's final musical number in a barroom is rousing - - and his general good will is infectious - - yet the music , the milieu , and the material never quite come together . from
Tedious distress thriller . . .	Artificial melodrama with a screenplay adapted by Mel Dinelli from his play " The Man " concerns a boarding-house proprietress taking in a troubled handyman who may be homicidal . Despite solid work from Ida Lupino and Robert Ryan ( both trying their best ) , this tedious yarn isn't very inventive within its one primary set ( which quickly becomes visually dull ) and underpopulated cast of characters ( there is however a smart pooch who senses the worst ! ) . Hokey and humorless , with a stilted direction from Harry Horner ( perhaps Lupino should have directed ? ) . Where's all the suspense promised by the ads ? Dinelli also served as a co-producer . from
Impossible concoction . . .	As a doctor who seeks out his family in a complicated after-life following a car-accident , Robin Williams is perpetually wet-eyed and talks in a simpering voice . Despite an eye-popping spiritual world ( with Oscar-winning special-effects ) , this dreary film is a real downer . There's no driving personality behind the camera - - it's all just eye-candy - - and the cast fails to provide an interesting anchor . There are no valid emotions , no intriguing plot developments , just a lot of criss-crossing in time ( and slack-jawed Annabella Sciorra constantly changing hairstyles ) . The title comes from Shakespeare , but this lifeless adaptation of Richard Matheson's book is anything but . Not Robin Williams ' worst - - but certainly in his Bottom Five . from
" I see nothing inside except for my own perplexity . . . "	Sean Connery and Charlotte Rampling star in this cold , meandering , often howlingly silly science-fiction melodrama which has futuristic savage Sean led into a world of decadent youths who mean to exploit and kill him . Convoluted premise is cluttered up with pseudo-intellectual dialogue , uninteresting characters and set-pieces , and one embarrassed-looking male lead . John Boorman , who wrote and directed ( perhaps on acid ) , doesn't look as though he gained the trust or confidence of his cast ; they stumble about with question marks on their faces . Pretentious in all respects , the film looks bad and has no soul , and the secret behind the title astounds one with its obviousness . The worst funny line ( among many ) occurs when a male voice , transmitting from a crystal , says to Connery , " You have penetrated me ! " An ordeal which completely alienates the audience . from
A perfectly ordinary crime-thriller . . . doggedly filmed in Duo-Vision !	An entire movie filmed in split-screen ? Well , almost . . . and it's almost difficult criticizing a low-budget effort which nevertheless clearly demonstrates a filmmaker's ambition and courage . Richard L . Bare , who directed the film from his own screenplay ( and also served as co-producer ! ) , is unfortunately too derivative in his approach - - and too unskilled a film technician - - to pull this gimmick off successfully , and " Wicked , Wicked " leaves itself open for ridicule ( it seems like a put-on anyway ) . At a beach-front hotel in California , an ex-cop-turned-security guard suspects one of the staff to be a killer who preys on single blonde women ; meanwhile , his former wife is appearing nightly as the singer in the lounge , and she's decided to start wearing a blonde wig ! Tatty-looking farrago financed by M-G-M ( ! ) has a few bits of over-the-top violence but absolutely no suspense . The split-screen is used most often to show what's going on in the foreground , but once in awhile Bare gets imaginative and employs it for subtext ( while guest Madeleine Sherwood is telling the electrician about her years in the ballet , the other screen shows us she was really a hoochie-koochie dancer ) . Though not profound , this is an interesting alternative to the clichéd " flashback " cut , but Bare nearly ruins it with stop-motion effects and other trickery ( he may have had a good eye , but he doesn't show enough confidence - - either that or he was short on material ) . Tiffany Bolling's bewigged chanteuse sings the title tune ( which must be heard to be believed ) while Edd " Kookie " Byrnes plays a lifeguard wanted by the F . B . I . If anything needed punching up it was Bare's screenplay , which could kindly be described as " Wretched , Wretched . " from
" The stench of truth - - ewww ! "	" Autumn In New York " has delectable shots of brown and golden leaves fluttering down in the winds from craggy old tree branches , covering wet sidewalks and surrounding two movie stars staring into each other's eyes . But these stars ( Richard Gere and Winona Ryder ) are distinctly un-New York , and the filmmakers keep everything mushy , flip and coy . Ryder looks lovely , but she giggles too much in between her incredulous comments : " REALLY ? ! " . . . " WOW ! " . . . " AM-MAAZING ! " Gere , laughing with his mouth closed , gives a bloated performance , scrunching his face while tearing up at his black , beady eyes . Anthony LaPaglia is much better in a smallish role as Gere's best friend , Elaine Strich is amusingly jaded as Ryder's disapproving grandmother ( although her line about only being able to afford pistachio nuts is ludicrous when she lives in such beautiful New York digs ) , but this romance cops a corny plea from " Love Story " , and how long ago was that ? The fact that some reviewers actually fell for this is , like , AM-MAAZING ! from
" Rusty " is right . . .	Rita Hayworth plays a Brooklyn nightclub dancer named Rusty who specializes in cheesecake chorus revues ; she manages to get herself on the cover of a national fashion magazine , but her impending success as a solo ( with romantic offers all around ) has smitten boss Gene Kelly chomping at the bit . Terribly tired piece of Technicolor cotton candy , with unmemorable musical sketches ( the two worst of which are irrelevant flashbacks to the 1890s , with Hayworth portraying her own grandmother ) . Kelly , as always , dances well but acts with false sincerity ; when he's serious , he's insufferable , and the rest of the time he's flying on adrenaline . The script is a lead weight , not even giving supporting players Phil Silvers and Eve Arden any good lines . from
Corny , poorly-made vehicle for Dolly	Advertised as a " date movie " , this comedic vehicle for Dolly Parton is really full of chick-flick clichés , hopefully the last gasp for the Cinderella Specialty . Parton plays a country bumpkin named Shirlee who relocates from the sticks to Chicago , inadvertently landing a job as a talk-radio psychologist ( when asked about her education , Shirlee tartly replies she graduated from " Screw U " ) . Corny , old-fashioned in the worst sense , and just plain stale . James Woods and Griffin Dunne are both highly inappropriate male leads for Dolly , whose natural effervescence is apparent but not utilized to any advantage . Parton also performs on the soundtrack , with the title cut being one of her very weakest songs . from
Great cast in second-string western production . . .	B-western from Universal , adapted from William Gulick's novel " Bend of the Snake " , features James Stewart as a leader of Settlers traveling through Oregon in the 1840s , dealing with Indian attacks and a lovestruck female . Outdoor adventure yarn competently directed by Anthony Mann , yet rather dully presented - - and hampered by a rote plot . The cast ( including a young , green Rock Hudson as a gunslinging gambler , Arthur Kennedy , Julia Adams , and Frances Bavier ) is solid , though the movie is far from exciting . Stewart continues to talk as if his mouth were full of marbles , and his central performance has to carry this outing an awfully long way . from
" Merlin Jones " is back . . . but film looks like some quickie B-flick	Say what you will about Walt Disney's silly suburban comedies of the 1960s , they at least LOOKED good . Walt always ensured a decent production and usually threw in some nifty visual effects for the fun of it . The exception is " The Monkey's Uncle " . After a spunky start with Annette Funicello singing on-stage with The Beach Boys , this movie settles into Sitcom-ville with tired results . Worse , it looks terrible , with flimsy walls that are supposed to pass as sets and terrible use of color photography . Rarely have I seen a movie that looked so bad , with lots of yellow meringue and pea-green curtains and costumes . Having enjoyed " The Misadventures Of Merlin Jones " for what it was , I expected Disney to up the fun-quotient with this sequel , but it's a real snooze . from
Moody , curious , but ultimately unenthralling melodrama	Amnesiac James Garner tries to sort out his apparently complicated past . This adaptation of Evan Hunter's book " Buddwing " ( and retitled " Woman Without a Face " for its overseas release ) looks terrific but is a distressingly unsatisfying soaper . Photographed by the great Ellsworth Fredericks in crystalline black-and-white on autumnal New York City locations , the movie is saddled with an annoying plot which never comes together . Full of top talent , but only Suzanne Pleshette gives off some heat as a savvy actress . The film attempts to be modern and risqué , but the writing is so ham-handed and the direction so self-consciously arty that the final result just seems alienating and unabsorbing . from
Where's Sigourney Weaver when you need her ?	For B-movie / sci-fi afficionados only : rescue team in space unwittingly picks up bloodthirsty alien from Mars aboard it's craft . Sounds like Dan O'Bannon's script for 1979's " Alien " , minus the pretentious , overlapping chit-chat . It's also minus any of the thrills , and the cast is a semi-professional group of stone-faces ( Marshall Thompson ? Shawn Smith ? ) without one ' Ripley ' hidden amongst them . Interesting low-budget production values , otherwise a snooze .
Dim lights , fuzzy details .	It must have struck cinematographer Gordon Willis as highly ironic that he would shoot a film with the title " Bright Lights , Big City " . Willis , known for his fabulous work with dark , muted colors and characters in shadows or silhouettes , seems absolutely lost within this night-life milieu , which isn't bright and hardly seems big . Jay McInerney adapted his own 1984 novel about a would-be writer in New York City whose job in the research department of a prominent magazine ( Gotham ! ) is constantly threatened by his drug use , which may stem from a broken marriage and memories of his deceased mother . It's not difficult to pinpoint what went wrong here : although Michael J . Fox may seem well-cast from the outset , it clearly becomes apparent he's in over his head . Fox ( whose plastic voice-over narration was probably supposed to sound hard-boiled ) is too well-scrubbed and corn-fed to be convincing as a party maniac ; acting disoriented by blinking his eyes heavily and tightening his thin mouth , Fox is strictly a morose good-time guy , mourning the separation from fashion model spouse Phoebe Cates . But there's nothing at stake for this kid when he stays up all night ( except for his job at the magazine , which hardly matters to us since the sequences set there are wholly unconvincing ) . Director James Bridges takes an episodic approach to the narrative , but his continuity ( or perhaps the editing ) is sloppy and gummy , and the people in Fox's small circle aren't terribly interesting . And did the movie go through a budgetary crisis ? The weak nightclubbing scenes look barren and cheap ( aside from some city vistas and subway rides , the picture could easily take place in Passaic , New Jersey for all we know ) . When Fox goes out on a blind date with Tracy Pollan , we know instantly these two clean-cut kids will click on their appearance alone : they look like an upscale young couple coming home from a Republican fundraiser . There's nothing dangerous about Michael J . Fox or his approach to this part . He drinks , he snorts , he swears , but he doesn't live the highs and lows of an addict on the edge . Or , is this guy an addict ? There's no visual punch in Bridges ' staging to suggest he's anything more than a spoiled kid looking for a girl to adore him . from
Edgy but imperfect	Rod Steiger doesn't so much give a perfect actor's performance in " The Pawnbroker " as he does give an actor's seminar on film . He spits his lines and twists his face and is mired in bitter , embattled rage . We get few other dimensions ( and even at the film's close , I felt little about the character's progression because Steiger is still stuck in class ) . As a Concentration Camp survivor immigrated to NYC , Steiger cannot do anything simple : his pain is grandiose , unsubtle . Everything is there for us to read , but shouldn't a movie like this allow us to do some of the work ? The look of the picture is edgy ( pushing the 1964 envelope with a gritty scenario ) , but the rest is flattened out , made too easy . The flashbacks are well-done ( especially a haunting shot involving rings on the prisoners ' fingers ) , but the music is too jazzy ( particularly at the end ) , the dialogue too direct and forceful , and eventually the film is off-putting . from
Sluggish Leone	Sergio Leone's second installment in his spaghetti-western trilogy with lead actor Clint Eastwood ( following 1964's " A Fistful of Dollars " and in turn followed by 1966's " The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly " ) . Bounty hunter Clint spars with gunslinger Lee Van Cleef amidst a great many dirt-town and saloon shoot-outs . Sweaty atmospherics , some exciting sequences ( including a terrific finish ) , but Leone's pacing is unbelievably dogged . Although the films in this canon have a tricky kind of symbolism which underline the finished product with a bracing , immediate quality that can be quite gripping for an audience , they are not deep-thinkers , and after the first hour it becomes blurry with noisy violence . from
Bond spoof gets a double-ZERO	Vapid spy-stuff with tongue-in-check and brain-in-neutral . Rod Taylor ( handsome and game , as usual ) plays an accidental hero who becomes a secret agent for the British . Begins well ( with an amusingly melodramatic Shirley Bassey theme song and clever credits sequence ) , but film then goes downhill while trying - - and failing - - to formulate a plot . The funniest line is when Taylor's boss cries out , " They've got us by the short ' n curlies ! " , which I thought was a little risqué for 1965 . Jack Cardiff directs , in his usual impersonal style ; he seems to know very little about the spy genre , and approaches the material in a by-the-numbers fashion . Peter Yeldham sketchily adapted John Gardner's book . from
Newcomers trying for old-style Hollywood feel , and failing	From Cormac McCarthy's novel about young man in 1949 Texas leaving the family ranch for a life in Mexico , and winding up in hot water . Despite mystical undermining ( which , presumably , is what director / co-producer Billy Bob Thornton brought to the table ) , film has a distracting ' formula ' feel : two-parts western , one-part forbidden romance , and one-part prison picture . None of it gels , simply because the screenwriter ( Ted Tally , of all people ) and Thornton are trying for the kind of heavy , romantic movie-western style popular 40 years ago , and yet they do not possess the subtle qualities to make this genre successful for them . Matt Damon frequently flashes his shy / self-conscious movie-star smile , but he's so clean and bland and laid-back , he's practically non-existent on the screen . Penelope Cruz , as his forbidden flame , is better , but the other performers are less charismatic , and the story has no center - - it just rambles around . from
Another sex switcheroo . . . weakly cast	Typical Blake Edwards comedy , covering familiar ground while tickling potentially amusing male-female gender issues , ultimately settling for timeworn , routine gags . Womanizer Perry King is killed off and reincarnated as sexy Ellen Barkin - - a man in a woman's body ! How will he handle the men who lust after her . . . and what about those pesky high heel problems ? Flaccid time-waster didn't even attract top talent : Barkin , so promising earlier in her career , manages to whittle her character's personality down to two vaguely different expressions ( repulsed and pied off ) , while her supporting players ( Jimmy Smits , Tony Roberts , and Lorriane Bracco ) fumble about trying to find the tone of this piece . Edwards doesn't really hope to be racy here ; he wants just enough saucy material to liven up the trailer , while the film itself is devoid of courage . from
One miscalculation after another	Director Peter Bogdanovich's failed follow-up to his critical breakthrough film , 1971's " The Last Picture Show " , returns to small town Texas to catch up on the lives of those once-compelling characters . Bogdanovich , who - - in a replay of the first film - - also adapted Larry McMurtry's novel , is now too jaded to see much joy or dramatic irony in these surroundings , and the sterling cast he has assembled just seems disheartened . The plot , a rumination of Jeff Bridges ' Duane Jackson ( who is now an unhappily married oil-man dissatisfied with his job and life ) , doesn't built any momentum , emotional , dramatic or otherwise , and the director follows a botched pattern : one flabby , talky sequence after another . from
Get these kids another round of drinks !	The youthful group in " St . Elmo's Fire " who just graduated from college barely seem able to make it through high school much less four years at any prominent university . For the most part , these kids are irresponsible , selfish , greedy and stupid , yet co-writer and director Joel Schumacher appears to hold them up as touchstones for a generation . With a now-outdated cast of " up and comers " , a background score that sounds awfully similar to that of " Terms Of Endearment " , and writing which lords the smugness of this circle over us , " Fire " is a paltry blaze , one that gets even more embarrassing as the years pass on . from
Robot-aficionados will love the hardware . . . but the script is a loss	Human players take a rightful backseat to incredible Robby the Robot , first introduced in 1956's " Forbidden Planet " . Scene-stealing Robby is cast as a mechanical playmate to Richard Eyer's young Timmie , but soon begins receiving diabolical orders from a power-crazed computer . Long outdated science-fiction nonsense will astound contemporary viewers with its naiveté . Some see it as camp , some give it cult value . Production values just OK , dialogue and scenario wooden . If it weren't for Robby ( and the film's dynamic advertising campaign - - which matches nothing in the finished product ) , the film would not be remembered fondly today - - if at all . from
Too-slick valentine to karaoke . . . with no vitality off the stage	Writer John Byrum and director Bruce Paltrow ostensibly had a good idea - - to catch the fever of semi-professional karaoke singers in action - - but maybe this subject might have been better served by a documentary . Byrum's hackneyed plots involving the troubled performers never take off , and Paltrow's staging of the musical numbers is far too slick . How much excitement can you work up when your karaoke singers are lip-synching ? Gwyneth Paltrow , playing a child-like woman who is reunited with her estranged father , is a lovely presence , yet hiding her intrinsically smart and savvy personality here does her no favors . The most surprising thing about the picture is that Paul Giamatti can carry a tune , although he's distinctly studio-enhanced , as if the producers were hoping to get a hit soundtrack out of this thing . Small wonder the movie flounders ; it's calculated and colorless . from
Karloff on auto-pilot . . .	Hollywood great Michael Curtiz directs Boris Karloff in this middling thriller about an ex-con , just out prison , who is framed for a judge's murder by racketeers ; after he's convicted and killed in the electric chair , a team of scientists revive him . Fatigued entry in the 1930's horror-movie cycle doesn't allow Karloff to do anything fresh or substantial ( indeed , several of his big moments seem lifted straight from " Frankenstein " ! ) . Curtiz can't do much with this hackneyed scenario , and he's certainly not helped by the unsurprising script , though there is one strong sequence at a piano recital . Otherwise , " The Walking Dead " is d . o . a . from
Begins wonderfully . . . but the fun dissipates inside the factory , and Depp is a disappointment	Tim Burton's version of Roald Dahl's classic children's book , previously filmed with music in 1971 as " Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory " , opens with great promise , featuring incredible art direction that mixes German Expressionism with Grimm-like fantasy ( aided by Danny Elfman's atmospheric , if familiar , score ) . Charlie Bucket , a child of little privilege who lives with his family in a lopsided house , longs to be one of five lucky worldwide recipients of a prized Golden Ticket , an invitation to tour the candy factory of reclusive genius Willy Wonka . Burton mounts the excitement of the treasure hunt , with the tickets hidden in Wonka candy bars , with gleeful aplomb , and the satire - - though a bit heavy-handed - - is both trendy and amusing . Once the action moves to Wonka's foreboding factory however , and Johnny Depp takes center stage as Wonka ( a would-be misplaced child of the sixties ) , interest wanes . All the kids and parents are well-cast , particularly Freddie Highmore as Charlie and David Kelly as his Grandpa Joe , but the computer-generated effects turn Wonka's landscape into an impenetrable den of ugly colors and outsized objects ( like moving wallpaper ) . Burton , who expressed nothing but contempt for the previous version , does borrow pieces from that film , improving upon some areas ( such as Veruca Salt's exit , with squirrels instead of geese ) but falling far short on others ( when Grandpa Joe and Charlie secretly unwrap a Wonka bar at night and come up empty , there's no camaraderie between the two , and no embracing of the familial theme ) . The musical Oompa-Loompas are a dreadful come-down from the predecessor , with songs sung in different musical styles and Burton staging each like a music video ( these sequences , too , steal from the first film , yet the Oompa's message ultimately gets lost in the silliness ) . Depp performs with too much grotesque caricature ; sure , his Wonka is out of step with the world , but his sarcasm is too modern , and is geared to get easy laughs from the audience . Screenwriter John August is more out of touch than Wonka ; using nasty put-downs to separate Charlie from the other kids is a facile and lazy way of telegraphing us that these children are bad examples , and the flashbacks to Wonka's childhood ( as well as a visual history of the Oompa-Loompas ) does absolutely nothing but chew up time on the clock . We first see Wonka himself in a flashback based on a story from Grandpa Joe ( didn't Charlie know that his grandfather once worked for Willy Wonka ? ) , making Wonka's official entrance several minutes later a non-event . This story is difficult to film without getting gummy or preachy , but Burton was on the right track with his opening sequences . Too bad the second-half is so misbegotten ( and not even ambitious , really ) that all the mystery drains away like melted chocolate . from
The actors take it more seriously than the filmmakers do . . .	Religious zealots and well-meaning people held captive against their will are my two least-favorite subjects for movie material , and here they're combined for a really queasy effect . The plot , based on Anne Blaisdell's book " Nightmare " , is somewhat helped along by frisky bits of levity dotting the scenario , but not by the general hysteria which is inherent in the film's U . S . title , " Die ! Die ! My Darling ! " . Tallulah Bankhead plays the Bible-thumping , embittered mother of a dead man whose prospective daughter-in-law ( Stefanie Powers ) pays her a social call . I don't see how keeping this girl captive in the rambling estate would bring Tallulah any satisfaction , and Powers ' helplessness does nothing for her - - nor for the viewer , who is also held prisoner ( it's the Idiot Plot Syndrome : if she acted smartly and got away , there would be no movie ) . Richard Matheson's script had promise , but he's facetious instead of cunning , and moments such as Bankhead revealing she was once an actress on the stage are nothing more than campy prodding ( and it backfires since Tallulah's nutcase could use a little show-biz color to brighten her up ) . Donald Sutherland has an early role as a mentally-backward assistant with a heart of gold ( a clichéd role no matter who played it ) ; Powers manages to retain her dignity despite not being able to use common sense . Hammer Production looks good but is otherwise running low on petrol . from
Designed to give you whiplash . . . but who wants a slam-bang Zorro ?	The Zorro legend , slicked up with slam-bang , high-tech , expensive effects , so that it resembles an action-flick or a high-budget martial arts movie . Anthony Hopkins is surprisingly - - though nicely - - cast as an elderly Zorro passing his skills and knowledge ( not to mention his cape and mask ! ) onto a Latin fugitive who soon becomes a well-trained fighter for the people . The bad guys are hissable , heartless Spaniard officials , sadistic in a cartoonish manner much the same way Antonio Banderas ' new Zorro is dopey and yet dashing . There's plenty of sword fights and anachronistically modern jokes , a saucy sideline romance , and it is all very well-made but distressingly unsubtle . All the noisy action Hollywood can dream up can't help this " Zorro " escape the feeling there is no real personality at work . It's an epic , all right - - but only in generic terms . from
Fussy , annoying family comedy ; ersatz Disney without the car chase . . .	John Haase's novel " Erasmus With Freckles " gets a woebegone Hollywood makeover and , while it may look promising at the outset , it turns out to be one of the weakest films James Stewart ever starred in . Young Billy Mumy , a mathematical genius , spends all of his spare time writing juvenile love letters to French film actress Brigitte Bardot ( though it isn't mentioned just how many of her pictures he has actually been allowed to see ) . Eventually , dad Stewart gets Mumy an audience with the siren ( whose brief appearance is the only bright spot here ) . Movies about unconventional family broods have to include more than just hectic , noisy silliness to keep our attention ; this adaptation doesn't even try for a sense of eccentricity in the content of character , nor does it expand on the central child's personality . It's meant to be heart-warming , non-threatening fun , yet it borders dangerously on bland , with nary a single funny scene . from
An all-American disaster flick for the 1990s : better effects but the same old clichés	U . S . President ( Morgan Freeman ) announces that a 7-mile-long hunk of rock is on a collision course with Earth , and much of the last-act destruction we see is based in New York City . A great wave not only takes down the Statue of Liberty , it decapitates her ! Director Mimi Leder and screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin are very big on tearful goodbyes : that " let's keep a stiff upper-lip " mentality which allows couples ( married or otherwise ) to stare lovingly into each other's eyes , whispering dedications as death looms above . LeeLee Sobieski's entire role is based on a series of these teary farewells ; she's so dead-set on staying with her doomed parents that her character takes on a suicidal edge . Yes , she's in denial , but her suffering seems to go on forever , and by the end a frustrated viewer could possibly be excused for screaming , " Stop whimpering and move ! " How are the effects ? Very good when they finally arrive ( about four minutes before the film wraps up ) . Some of the incidentals during the final devastation are suspect , such as a two-second shot of an elderly man getting hit with the wave from behind while he's sitting outside reading the paper ( is he in denial too ? ) . I would think that the lottery-aspect of the plot ( wherein people are picked at random to live underground for 2 years ) would be more exciting than reporter Tea Leoni sniffing out a juicy story . The movie seems to start at much too early a point , with introductions to the characters and to an asteroid exploration team that just chews up time on the clock . There's also the time-worn idea about what books should survive ( not " Huckleberry Finn " and " Moby Dick " again ! Hasn't Rubin's thought process matured beyond 1960 ? ) . Naturally , it's we Americans who suffer on the screen . There's a tidbit late in the film wherein Freeman talks about Europe and Africa suffering from the meteor's destruction , but it's shucked off as basic info . The filmmakers don't care about the lost lives and homeless injured of other continents , they have their own agenda . By letting the Americans scream and cry and crawl through the debris , they can also let them triumph over all this tragedy - - enough for a feel-good finish . But if Bruce Rubin thinks these stock characters are the most powerful representation of America's suffering own , then it is he who has been hit with a 7-mile-long hunk of rock . from
Wayward melodrama , but Sarandon is always worth a look . . .	From Ellyn Bache's novel about the feisty mother of seven boys , most of whom are now grown and out of the house , still worrying after them , concerned over their health and safety , which eventually puts a strain on her sanity . Extremely odd piece is not an attractive vehicle for Susan Sarandon , although she's as interesting as ever . Film takes place over a couple days ' time , while Sarandon and her eccentric brood await the news of her soldier-son , but the picture has no particular viewpoint , it's just a melodramatic passel of scenes . Susan is its one distinguishing factor : giving another in her repertoire of aggressive-yet-vulnerable characters , she's reason enough to take a look but you probably won't remember the flick a day or so later . from
Thornton once again the only good thing in a mediocre film	Self-consciously dry and offbeat drama of irony has barber Billy Bob Thornton involved with a con-man , a businessman who is having an affair with the barber's wife , and . . . a spaceship . Black-and-white offering from the hit-and-miss Coen Brothers has a streak of bemused malice , but the pacing is so deliberately slow and languorous that interest wanes in the final stretch . The script is filled with talky speeches that don't propel the plot , which isn't so slyly twisted ( as one might expect ) . Possibly aware they were slipping into formula , the Coens tack on a silly , irreverent ending , which only makes it seem like they're now aping David Lynch . Joel and Ethan are certainly talented , and they're full of visual bravado , but the silvery cinematography doesn't reveal anything in particular ( it's there to recall old film noir - - and to be admired for that alone ) . Billy Bob Thornton is solid as usual , but this seems an inside joke . from
Frigid drama of Cold War romance = icy bore	It's nice to see Julie Andrews trying a straight dramatic role here - - something she hadn't done in awhile - - but her character of Judith ( wise they didn't try to pass her off as a ' Judy ' ) has the old refined manners and tomboyish hairstyle of yore , and Andrews enacts ' grown-up ' as any other actress would interpret frigid . It's a surprisingly bland drama set in Barbados involving Omar Sharif ( not the liveliest leading man around - - not even in 1974 ! ) hoping to make Andrews a spy while also slowly leading her into the proverbial bedroom . Unmemorable outing does have some camp value : the James Bond-like credits at the beginning are a cheesy hoot . As for Julie : she's quiet and contemplative , but that doesn't do much for the audience , or for the film . Blake Edwards paces the freakin ' thing like a funeral . from
Wild-eyed ( but still G-rated ) bachelor escapades . . .	Tony Curtis / Jerry Lewis combination adapted from a play by Marc Camoletti about an American in Paris who is juggling the affections of different sexy stewardesses . Bedroom-comedy isn't smutty , but neither is it particularly witty or funny . The slapstick staging isn't spirited , yet the players react crazily , hoping to sell this fluff on their hearty attempts alone . Perky Dany Saval ( as " Air France " ) is the stand-out amongst the lovely ladies , none of whom gets an actual character to play . Curtis and Lewis might have been an interesting duo under better circumstances ( and with snappier dialogue ) , but this material is beneath them . from
Just the thing to kill off the motion picture once and for all . . .	Blatantly ridiculous . Decorated , heroic canine ( who apparently has the strength of a large man and understands the entire English language ) is separated from the FBI and ends up with an unwashed postal carrier and the little boy he's currently babysitting . David Arquette , talking like the first white hip-hop mailman , sputters about trying to be zany , and fares even worse when the paltry script suddenly requires him to be paternal to the kid ( who is either giggling or sulking ) . The sub-plot about mob boss Paul Sorvino putting out a hit on the dog actually provides the brightest moments , and hit-men Joe Viterelli and Steve Schirripa are able to come up with some funny repartee . Restless kids may go for it , and it isn't a completely shoddy production . from
Another disappointment for Lucy fans . . .	Unemployed Lucille Ball , the worst student at secretarial school , is hired by a phony reality company precisely due to her innocent ignorance - - and her nice legs ! William Holden is her boss who doesn't mind if she can't type , as long as she provides a good cover for his private bookie joint in the back room . It took four writers to concoct this slapstick un-merriment , which has very few jokes ( never mind good ones ) . It's a treat to see Ball and Holden together in a film , but the movie has been conceived on the most basic comedic level ( and even there it fails , what with Lucy suddenly becoming an office firebrand and whipping Holden's non-business into shape ) . It gives some good character actors ( like Gloria Henry and Charles Lane ) fairly decent supporting roles , but nobody gave much thought to the heroine , and Ball can't carry the movie on charm and legs alone . from
Demonic dementia . . .	With all that talk in 1973's " The Exorcist " about Father Merrin's previous encounter with demonic possession in Africa , it certainly wasn't going to be forgotten by the folks at Warner Bros . there was a potential thriller there . John Boorman covered some of that ground in flashbacks for " Exorcist II : The Heretic " in 1977 , but this full-blown prequel should satisfy die-hard " Exorcist " fans , if nobody else . In post-WWII Egypt , Merrin has turned his back on the church and become an archaeologist ; during an expedition in Kenya , he encounters demonic hyenas , a possessed child , ritualistic murders , and lots of flies . Working from a paper-thin script ( which cobbles together images copied from the original " Exorcist " , along with several other horror films ) , director Renny Harlin is reverent to the classic predecessor without knowing how to give his picture any personality of its own . Dark and dour , and weighed down further with perpetually glum and exhausted Stellan Skarsgård as Merrin , the film's incidental pleasures are purely unintentional . The director of cinematography goes positively bonkers with his close-ups of liquor and water glasses , and Harlin himself stoops to the lowest form of thriller clichés with fake scares , dream scenes , oozing sores , doors opening and closing by themselves , upside-down crucifixes . . . everything but the real " Exorcist " ' s panache . from
Limp satire . . .	Director Frank Tashlin stretches his anything-for-a-laugh method of comic film-making to the breaking point with this very weak advertising send-up ( with equally dull romantic-confusion underpinnings ) . Tony Randall seems the wrong actor for the part of struggling ad-rep Rockwell Hunter , who gets a buxom beauty queen to shill for a new lipstick - - but at a price . It's supposed to be a riot , but Tashlin , who also adapted the script from George Axelrod's play , can't seem to bring the material ( both farcial and cynical ) into a cohesive whole . It's full of prankish jokes and questionable taste , but the episodic results are loud and forced instead of funny . There's a satirical , promising opening sequence ( brightly prodding the TV commercials of the era ) , but the movie steadily loses steam from there . from
Withered sequel . . . with Hannibal our new Freddy Krueger	Overdue follow-up to Jonathan Demme's " The Silence of the Lambs " from 1991 reportedly cost a bundle to make , yet it looks grimy and ugly throughout . Where did all the money go ? Ridley Scott directed from Thomas Harris ' lackluster bestseller , bringing back both escaped killer Hannibal Lecter and FBI agent Clarice Starling , though only Anthony Hopkins returns from the original's stellar cast . Hopkins retains his evil panache , but it's the Freddy Krueger syndrome : more of him is really less . Julianne Moore is a weak Clarice , and our first glimpse of her - - asleep in a van next to a block of dry ice ! - - is immediately disconcerting not only because this is Jodie Foster's role , but also due to the fact Moore changes positions in the long-shot . Scott goes for a straightforward approach , yet this is nothing more than a thriller in shorthand . We get none of the mystery or suspense of the previous film , everything here is laid out quickly and then slashed at ( probably the best moment is the opening , which has an icy kick ) . The entire ending , much discussed here I'm sure , left me groaning . It's shock-stuff gone too far . from
Dysfunctional movie without much to offer beyond the presence of Cyndi Lauper . . .	Pop-star Cyndi Lauper's bid for an acting career never gained momentum , partly due to poor choices like this one . Theatrically unreleased comedy-drama about an actress / cocktail bar mermaid ( don't ask ) who gets involved with race-track low-life is strictly amateur night in terms of directing , writing and production . Some of the cinematography isn't bad ( there's a terrific shot early on of Lauper in her mermaid costume in a tank of water ) , but without a decent script , the images have nothing substantial to fall back on . Cyndi's supporting cast , David Keith , Johnny Pinto , Jose Perez and Anita Morris , aren't strong enough to help carry the weight , and Lauper still isn't strong enough as an actress to bear the burden of a C-minus picture by herself . from
One of A & C's worst . . .	Bud Abbott and Lou Costello bicker and shout at each other throughout this tepid haunted house comedy . They play service-station attendants who , along with a host of oddballs , become stranded in a spooky gangster's mansion . For those who stick with it , see if you can count how many times Abbott screams at Costello , " What are you doing ? ! " Answer : he's trying to save a stupid picture . It took three screenwriters ( Robert Lees , Fred Rinaldo , and John Grant ) to come up with these wisecracks , but only a scant few get genuine laughs . Good supporting cast includes the Andrews Sisters , Richard Carlson and Joan Davis . from
Comic-fantasy preys on the undiscriminating viewer . . .	Fans of Jim Carrey , who enjoy him on-screen no matter what he does , will no doubt like " Bruce Almighty " for it is designed to be a Jim Carrey vehicle , a showcase for the actor and nothing more . He plays Bruce , an unlucky news-reporter for a Buffalo TV station who blames all his troubles on God ; after a meeting with the Almighty himself , Bruce gets a chance to see how tough God's job is by being blessed with extraordinary powers . Naturally , this being a Jim Carrey vehicle , he gets silly and parts the Red Sea - - actually , his tomato soup - - in his soup-bowl , causes a co-worker to lose control on live television , and turns himself into a romantic stud with his girlfriend . This all works for awhile , but when prayers start piling up and Bruce makes the lazy decision to grant everyone his wish , the movie runs out of comic steam and becomes a sticky mess . Out of three-million-plus prayers answered , the troubles which quickly result seem to happen only in Bruce's town ( are residents of Buffalo the only God-seeking people on Earth ? ) . The milieu isn't Buffalo anyway , it's a distinct movie back-lot , and the artificial mechanics of this plot matched with the phony look can make one defensive and angry - - but only if he or she isn't a Jim Carrey die-hard . It's a movie assembled by agents and managers and stars , and fans will no doubt enjoy it . from
So out of touch with reality , it might resemble something created by alien beings . . .	Desperately-single advertising employee , who apparently lands all the biggest accounts for the firm based on her sheer talent and drive , is passed over for a promotion because she lives her life like " a college student " ; her gal-pal invents a fiancée for her friend , but soon this unkissed honeybunch has to pony up her non-existent boyfriend for a big dinner with the boss . " Picture Perfect " wasn't made to be thought-provoking or insightful - - it exists purely to charm and amuse . Unfortunately , there's nothing charming nor amusing about the central idea in this witless script ( that a woman who isn't married isn't taking her life seriously , and is therefore not a likely candidate for better pay at work ) . Jennifer Aniston struggles with creating a character out of absolutely nothing ; she has a few nice , quiet moments , but her big scenes fall flat because the writing and directing are so bad . Jay Mohr , as a video-photographer for weddings , probably comes off the best here , even though there are no romantic sparks between him and Aniston ( they seem more like brother and sister ) . Once again , Illeana Douglas is wasted in a second-banana role ( she begins the movie calling the shots but then simply evaporates ) ; Kevin Bacon has it even worse in a himbo role ( and his long hair looks really unprofessional for an account executive in New York City ! ) . The production values and technical aspects of the film are passable , yet the sitcom set-up renders the picture utterly false . Aniston comes up with an ad campaign to put Cindy Crawford together with a bottle of mustard - - but we never get to see the visual results of this ! Director and co-writer Glenn Gordon Caron acts like he's working for the Lifetime Network . No wonder 20th Century-Fox pretty much threw this one away . from
Turgid drama bites off more than it can chew	Unsettling melodrama , but not particularly absorbing . Bob Hoskins ( looking ever more like a cross between an English bulldog and a teddy bear ) is a wealthy British caterer who takes in an Irish lass , unmarried and pregnant . Film zigzags back and forth in time without giving us any clear perceptions of the characters involved , and the final " revelation " is curious , but unnecessary . Why is Hoskins made to be this way ? Is it such a crime to have an honest character study done without dragging out the skeletons ? I didn't swallow the final twist , but by then I had been benumbed by the leaden pacing and the awful-awful-awful background score and poor-choice ' 50's pop songs .
Where is Cyndi Lauper when you need her ?	Excruciating teen fracas , taking its title from a hit ' 80s song by Cyndi Lauper , is one that hopes to straddle the line between cartoonish tomfoolery and semi-realistic teen-rebellion nonsense . Sarah Jessica Parker plays a religious school student who defies her strict father and auditions for a popular dance TV show . Cheapjack production , slathered in day-glo colors , does manage to create nice buddy chemistry between Parker and ' bad girl ' Helen Hunt , but the outré attempts at slapstick laughs are groaning and simplistic . If the film were an all-out spoof of the MTV-era , it may have worked ; unfortunately , the military dad stuff keeps butting in , as if the filmmakers had no idea which tone to aim for . Lots of youthful energy , but hardly memorable . from
The Rat Pack in Sherwood Forest ?	. . . no , but that might have made a more interesting picture than this . It's Prohibition-era Chicago , and Frank Sinatra coasts indifferently through his role as a gangster in 1928 trying to stay one step ahead of the law , aided by his faithful cronies . Sappy semi-musical doesn't even look good ! It's a poor excuse to get the gang together . Sinatra , Dean Martin and Sammy Davis , Jr . are joined this time by Bing Crosby , Edward G . Robinson , and - - in the proverbial pretty girl role - - Barbara Rush . Yet everyone here seems to be either distracted or suffering from a bad case of the blues , particularly Ol ' Blue Eyes , who looks wrung-out . The film's only kick comes in seeing Crosby and Sinatra reunited from " High Society " , and by Peter Falk doing lively work in a dim part . from
Long-in-the-tooth teenagers tangle with an equal-opportunity bloodsucker . . .	Suburban kid , living with his single mom , thinks the new next-door neighbor is a genuine vampire , but can't get any of his friends to believe him . Tom Holland wrote and directed this low-rent , yukked-up horror movie , but his handling of the genre is depressingly straightforward ; he invests nothing new in the scenario , sees no fresh comic possibilities in the modern-day-Dracula milieu , and fails to provide the characters ( especially the younger ones ) with witty repartee or personality . The dated make-up effects are of the " Thriller " era , which can be excused , but they offer nothing exciting either , at least until the finale ( Amanda Bearse's transformation is well done ) . These over-the-hill teens seem to have no agenda , very little back story , and no connection with each other ( particularly the goof-off , odiously played by Stephen Geoffreys ) . Chris Sarandon's vampire has presence , but his googly-eyed , overacting male roommate - - who comes and goes - - is funny for all the wrong reasons ( he purses his lips while sizing up passers-by , like someone out of " Sunset Blvd . " ) . Holland doesn't have the delicious , nasty streak in him to reinvent the bloodsucking monster movie and , while this film was a sleeper hit and spawned a Holland-less sequel in 1988 , it never aspires to be anything other than a cheap entertainment for its time . from
Artificial piece with a screwy message . . .	One of those high-budget , yet relentlessly schlocky movie-star vehicles which both pander and condescend to a mass audience ; the pedigree talent involved may well warrant a viewing , yet the film is so pompous it makes viewers feel like chumps for watching . Harrison Ford plays a slimy , self-absorbed lawyer whose life takes a drastic turn after he walks into a liquor store being robbed . Annette Bening plays Ford's spouse who helps her husband through a difficult period , and has a rebirth of her own . This is precisely the type of material director Mike Nichols would have thumbed his nose at twenty years ago ; working here rather joylessly , Nichols wraps all the phony uplift in cinematic Saran Wrap . The self-deceit ( and smugness ) hanging over the film is like a gray pallor . from
All dressed up , no place to go	The first knifing in William Friedkin's " Cruising " , taking place in a seedy hotel room after two men have just had sex , seems so real I stared in numb surprise . It was something akin to what I imagine a snuff film would be like . Once cop Al Pacino is assigned to the case , going undercover in New York's gay leather bars to find the murderer , I found the picture akin to cheap porno : ugly , depressing , degrading , repetitive and , finally , just boring . A few good scenes here and there : Pacino practically forcing a man into sex because he thinks he's got the killer , with the cops bursting in too soon ; the interrogation scene of that unfortunate guy , who is achingly humiliated . Karen Allen ( in her debut ) has a nice , squirrelly presence as Pacino's girlfriend , and the pseudo-dramatic ending got a laugh out of me for its sheer dumbness . Pacino himself isn't shown to good advantage here , and I was quite aware of him ' acting ' , showing off ; he's not in character because there really is no character . The movie has a foreboding presence , but doesn't utilize it to build any kind of momentum . Alas , as a thriller , " Cruising " is impotent . from
Peculiar thriller from Romero , though far from a success . . .	George A . Romero directed and adapted this low-watt thriller from Michael Stewart's book about a sweet little monkey who is turned into a killer after a lab experiment goes awry . Handsome Jason Beghe is very good as a quadriplegic who relies on the monkey to help him get around , and Joyce Van Patten is also excellent as Beghe's domineering mother . Unfortunately , the plot's more thoughtful sections are pretty much thrown out for the sake of thrills , which seem awfully silly in view of the simian protagonist . Romero may well have his tongue-in-cheek , but he's checked his brain at the door . Good actors , cute monkey both wasted on dumb , unenthralling material . from
" This is a pretty box of pickles ! "	American brother and sister song-and-dance act sets sail for England after their manager gets them a London booking on the eve of Princess Elizabeth's royal nuptials . Stereotypical Brits litter the phony , contrived scenario ( one waits - - not in vain - - for the first " Jolly good show ! " or the proverbial walk in the fog ) . In the leads , Fred Astaire and Jane Powell are a perky , polite sibling pair ; she puts her Yankee beaus on hold to be romanced by a bird-chasing Lord ( Peter Lawford , as British a Lord as M-G-M could buy ) while Fred fancies Sarah Churchill , a performer whose idea of romance is to dance on the ceiling ( cue the next musical number ! ) . Astaire dances ( very well ) and acts ( not so well ) , while Jane hits the high notes . It's rather a dismaying picture without a single good song . Even Mr . Astaire's solo numbers look like flagrant chapter stops in the bland action . from
Charming opening degenerates into silliness ; one of Henry Fonda's few poor performances . . .	Unrefined shopgirl is pegged by a confidence couple to use as a lure for bilking wealthy men - - she hesitates for a moment , but is soon in cahoots with the wily twosome , that is until she falls for one of their victims : a bumbling ( and broke ) mathematician . Gene Tierney has some wonderful scenes at the beginning , bored with her job and ready to take an early powder , but there's nothing exciting about the man she loves ( he's more an overripe juvenile ) , and pretty soon the movie is going around in circles . There's a private detective who works for peanuts and yet has more information than the F . B . I . , not to mention an upscale gambling casino that becomes rigged at random . Henry Fonda , talking too loudly and over-enunciating , is stuck with the movie-world's most rotten concoction - - a penniless kid with principles who is too proud to accept easy money - - and he does nothing interesting with it . Might have been a far better picture if the love story were dropped , focusing primarily on salesgirl Tierney and her love-hate relationship with the con-artists . Film is easily summed up by one line of dialogue : " Eegads ! Did you ever see anything so corny ? " from
Terribly trite , despite some good actors	Alan Alda worked his way away from the TV series " MASH " cautiously and nimbly , first as an actor in " Same Time Next Year " , then as an actor-writer with the classy " The Seduction of Joe Tynan " and eventually with his smoothest film to date " The Four Seasons " , where he was writer , director , and star . 1988's " A New Life " seems to take him right back to television , with a sitcom script and one-dimensional characters . Alda and Ann-Margret are New York marrieds who decide to divorce and seek out other partners , finding themselves out of step with the modern singles-scene . Ann-Margret ( sporting a big poof ' do that was way too big even for the ' 80's ) is an attractive presence , and it seems natural for her to be drawn to John Shea ( who could be Alda's younger brother ) , but the other players look lost in their roles , and Alda as a writer has only obvious points to make . It's all a comedic sham ; plastic , unrealistic , and relentlessly mediocre . from
That Judy ! She was always chasing rainbows . . .	Fan-magazine equivalent of a biography , in this case a television-budget glimpse into the early life of actress and vocalist Judy Garland ( née Frances Gumm ) . Director Jackie Cooper , who reminds us he befriended the real Judy during their years together at M-G-M , lays the pathos at our feet right from the start , with Broadway's Andrea McArdle belting out a lonesome " I'm Always Chasing Rainbows " , followed by a reprise of the song fifteen minutes later ! Cooper , and writer John McGreevey ( working from a sub-standard book by Christopher Finch ) , perhaps were hoping to show us Judy's natural pluck and verve despite upheavals in the Gumm household - - but , if so , somebody forgot to tell young McArdle . With her hangdog face , crooked mouth and watery eyes , she's about as far from plucky as a Garland substitute can be . Obviously chosen for the part due to her stage pipes as the original " Annie " , McArdle has apparently studied Judy Garland but doesn't attempt an imitation ( perhaps unwisely , considering the results we do get ) ; with a trained voice so one-dimensional it is practically soulless , McArdle seems zombie-fied , metallic . Cooper stages innumerable scenes around the piano with McArdle in song - - always surrounded by adults nodding to each other , pretending to find her adorable - - but never gets at what was so unique about Judy Garland . She appears to us to be just another kid songbird . The Hollywood studio sequences are also underwhelming , with key details and conversations coming off as suspect ( made worse by repetitive moments , poor editing and mediocre acting ) . One can only scoff at what amounts to be a woe-is-me look at a poor little rich girl , one who finds herself wondering aloud , " When will I be in the right place at the right time ? " as she walks the lot of the biggest movie studio in the world .
Filmed in Wonderama !	Lou Costello ( sans Abbott ) plays a small town self-employed " rubbish collector " ( and the inventor of a time-controlling machine ! ) who is secretly courting the niece of the town big-shot . After a spat , Lou's girl ( Dorothy Provine ) runs into a misty cave - - why it's misty we never learn - - and emerges as a 30 foot giant . Provine is certainly a good sport , and she doesn't bother trying not to look ridiculous ( it would've been impossible anyway ) , yet the screenwriter is really cruel to this character , turning her not only into a giant but a nagging harpy as well . Provine bosses Costello around while creating havoc with the Army troops who get called in , but nothing funny is done with the transformation . Trumped by " Attack of the 50 Ft . Woman " the previous year , the film does feature Lou Costello in his final bow , but provides little else . The special effects are marginal , while the script needed funnier lines and the direction snappier pacing . from
Although a touchstone movie for baby-boomers , " 4D Man " is more cult item than classic thriller . . .	Robert Lansing plays a scientist experimenting with passing objects through solid matter , but he goes too far one night and unintentionally makes himself four-dimensional ! Atomic-age fantasy is rather charming in a very cheesy way . Perhaps it was considered a thoughtful sci-fi in its time ( with psychological overtones ) , yet seen today the film is mildly overbaked and naive ; it's a camp-fest tailor-made for TV's late-late show . Wooden performances by Lansing and Lee Meriwether barely rate as one-dimensional , though Patty Duke ( playing a cute brat pre - " Miracle Worker " ) gets a colorful , memorable exit . from
All style	At the beginning of this film , there's a tight shot on Brooke Shields ' baby face : she's watching something with interest and we hear a woman moaning just in front of her . Since we all know what " Pretty Baby " is about , one is to assume the child is watching some sexual act with curiosity . Actually , it's just the opposite . This is writer-director Louis Malle's clever way of laughing at the viewer , saying " You have the dirty mind , not I . " It's a very smart way to begin to the picture , but little else occupied my mind after it got going . Why would Keith Carradine's colorless older man want to marry a pubescent prostitute ? Nobody here is saying , especially not Carradine ( who has one sullen expression to express every emotion ) . The photography and background scoring are gorgeous , however the story and characters provide no passion , no emotion . The film is like a stylish painting , but one full of dullards . from
Portions of it are surprisingly stilted . . .	Dr . Frankenstein's monster ( Boris Karloff ) , thought dead at the end of 1931's " Frankenstein " , rises from the ashes and creates more havoc in a tiny hamlet ; meanwhile , the shady doctor prepares to supply the gentle giant with a mate . Handsome , but extremely somber film won't please anyone looking for a good old-fashioned screamer . Karloff certainly shouldn't be missed in this signature role but , while film buffs rave about the picture's Gothic look and campy finale , they frequently overlook the flimsy script and director James Whale's uncertain handling . Elsa Lanchester appears as both the bride and as author Mary Shelley in the movie's achingly wooden prologue . from
Slapstick theatre hit congeals on the screen . . .	Movie-adaptation of the British stage farce by Michael Frayn about the comic foibles and headaches derailing a stage production . Lots of pratfalls and double-takes courtesy director Peter Bogdanovich , whose love for this material is apparent despite a stop-and-go execution which doesn't always run smoothly . The cast , including Carol Burnett , Michael Caine and Christopher Reeve , is inclined to mug shamelessly - - as if the only way to sell this broadly-drawn ballet is to put it way over-the-top . May be funny if it strikes you in the proper silly spirit , but the casting is more interesting than the characters the actors are playing , and interest wanes fairly quickly . from
Terrific actors sunk by desultory , obtuse plotting and a draggy pace . . .	Sheltered young woman , home-schooled and possibly quite gifted , harbors a disturbed , overly-emotional side which comes to the surface after her absentee father pays her mother a visit , asking for a divorce . Directed by celebrated cinematographer William A . Fraker , this ill-titled psychological thriller falls into the trap that most films helmed by directors of photography find themselves in : each shot is composed for the utmost style , but at the sacrifice of fluid pacing and a tight , gripping narrative . Fraker ( and his cinematographer , László Kovács ) are very fond of gauzy whites and golden tones , giving the picture a burnished , tableaux feel . The mansion at the center of the action looks like a funeral parlor , and Fraker paces the wheezing yarn just like a funeral . Robert Shaw and Sally Kellerman ( as Shaw's fiancée ) , two of the most interesting actors of the 1970s , manage to cut through the plastic overlay and are quite compelling despite the jagged editing ( which turns their scenes into little bits of half-realized business ) . Sondra Locke , another interesting screen personality , seems cast for her resemblance to Catherine Deneuve in " Repulsion " . Pale and saucer-eyed , with imposingly thick and long hair , Locke is a curious human puzzle , and she's initially quite intimidating and dangerous ; however , this role is so old-hat that Locke can find nothing fresh to bring out of the deep freeze , and she flounders . Fraker allows Locke's freak-out scenes to go on and on , while Shaw ( looking terrifically debonair ) is put in the impossible position of playing touchy-feely daddy to her . All of this nonsense might be worth slogging through if the screenplay had been peppered with a modicum of tangibility ( or , at the very least , some dry wit or humorous relief ) . As it is , Lewis John Carlino and Edward Hume's limp script , adapted from Stanton Forbes ' novel " Go To Thy Deathbed " , strands the viewer early on , and only the charisma of the players gets us to the finish line . from
Doesn't leave behind any good memories . . .	Billy Crystal co-wrote , co-produced and stars in this extremely safe and comfy comedy-drama about fathers and sons , adult irresponsibility , and growing old . Billy plays a heart surgeon who has a heart attack ( ha ha ) which causes him to seek out his estranged father ( Alan King ) , a movie-extra who fancies himself a big star . The script is sub-Neil Simon nonsense with one-liners galore , a flat , inexpressive direction by Henry Winkler ( stuck in sitcom mode ) , and family-conflict at the ready . Crystal and King try their best , but King is over-eager and frequently over-the-top . JoBeth Williams has another one of her thankless roles , but manages to bring her innate , down-home class to the proverbial girlfriend character . It's a comedy , I guess , but one that blinks back the tears . . . shamefully . from
A perfectly acceptable entertainment . . . . . for 1937	One of Doris Day's lesser-known entries from late in her film career , one even she wishes she had passed on . Feisty female turns rancher in this feminist western , butting heads with the local-yokels in a distaff variation on " The Sheepman " . Doris doesn't look her best here ( blame it on that wig ) , although her conniption fits are as funny as ever . When Day gets her ire up , it's really something to behold . But the film is unbelievably anachronistic , especially since this was 1967 . No wonder she later turned to TV ; this plays like a failed TV pilot , with a supporting cast to match ! Directed by genre-mainstay Andrew V . McLaglen , who must have been looking at his watch . from
Directed by . . . Anthony Perkins ?	Portly nice guy falls for a luscious blonde ; she likes him too , but not for the reasons you might think . Black comedy with good performances by Joe Alaskey and Donna Dixon , but it makes no lasting impact . Just a quickie throwaway , and on that level even the somewhat-similar " Eating Raoul " is a better bet . There's an amusing set-up , but picture has nowhere to go in it's second act . from
Enervated satire pokes fun at everything but sports . . .	Advertised as a sexy comedy about pro-football players and their women , this Michael Ritchie film , based on Dan Jenkins ' book , instead takes aim at fads and other eccentricities of the 1970s , using the sports world as a backdrop . It wasn't the big commercial hit some were predicting , though it garnered good notices for Burt Reynolds , doing another of his amiable , embarrassed-to-be-here walk-throughs . Jill Clayburgh , just prior to her breakthrough in " An Unmarried Woman " , plays the daughter of the football team's owner , and her rapport with Reynolds is surprisingly instantaneous . Kris Kristofferson , on the other hand , ends up playing straight man to her and pal Reynolds , and the third-wheel position subdues low-keyed Kristofferson even further ( he evaporates ) . There are some funny potshots at the EST craze , with Bert Convy well-cast as a self-help guru , but the romantic comedy at the heart of the piece never quite takes off . Ritchie puts all his sting into the absurdities he sees around the principles , consequently leaving the finale seeming half-baked . from
Scatter-brained cool	Dean Martin personifies Donald Hamilton's super-spy Matt Helm , especially in this era of girl-ogling and martini guzzling . " The Silencers " was the first of four Helm adventures , and , while not a classic , it does offer some laughs and colorfully tatty ' 60's surroundings . Helm attempts to stop madman Victor Buono from blowing up an atomic test site ; sexy klutz Stella Stevens becomes his unofficial sidekick , though she may be a ruse to help the villains . Nutty , tipsy nonsense , certainly no threat to the James Bond franchise but mindless fun nonetheless . Followed by " Murderers ' Row " the very same year , " The Ambushers " in 1968 and " The Wrecking Crew " in 1969 . from
Strictly for nun-addicts ; all others outta the way !	She sings , she's feisty , she rides a scooter , she plays guitar ! Debbie Reynolds dimples her way through super simplistic comedy-drama about a nun who inadvertently becomes a pop star . Based on a real-life Belgian nun who had a hit with " Dominique " ( and subsequently left the church and took her own life ) , the film is so forgettable , your mind may flush it away before it is even over . Solid cast includes Katharine Ross , Chad Everett and Agnes Moorehead , but the " spiritual notes " are terribly phony - - phonier than those in " The Sound of Music " ( which it hopes to emulate ) . It's obviously not as good as that film , nor " The Trouble With Angels " , nor TV's " The Flying Nun " . from
An enigmatic suburban scenario	The somewhat-belligerent brother of a suicide finds that he and his mother grieve in much the same way ( by acting out ) but that Dad is morose and blaming himself . Writer-director Dan Harris gives us a dysfunctional family torn at the seams , characters with question marks hanging over them , and then lays all the story-points out in the most obvious terms : Suicide ! Secrets ! Gay shame ! Family sickness ! Ultimately aiming to wrap things up with a tidy bow , Harris wants to make sure we don't miss a trick , initially giving us thoughtful material to ponder but then spelling everything out in an elementary , sentimental fashion . Sigourney Weaver's bemused performance as the family matriarch is dryly disengaged and she's a joy - - that is , until Harris gives her a make-over ( complete with sensible new hairstyle ) . It's the cinematic equivalent of a condescending pat on the head . from
Wan nuttiness is only for Ginger Rogers-addicts . . .	Ginger Rogers plays a popular movie actress ( so famous , in fact , that her face is on the cover of every single magazine at the newsstand ) who seeks solace and anonymity with a businessman in the mountains while disguised as a wallflower . Rogers , who is convincing incognito on and off for the first twenty minutes , doesn't have much to work with here , although she does get to do a cute tap dance / cooking sequence . Otherwise , this star-vehicle is mighty thin , and co-stars George Brent and Grant Mitchell are both lackluster . Not a bad beginning , but by the midway point it has lost all inspiration . from
Run away , skiddaddle , skidoo	Painful farce , adapted from Peter De Vries ' novel which then became the kind of play dinner-theaters specialized in . It features Richard Widmark in a humiliating ' comedic ' role as a man whose wife can't get pregnant , leading him into a drunken excursion with a sexy adoption agent , whom he later believes he has knocked up . Widmark is not suited to this material , which should be played nimbly and without force . Director Gene Kelly , of all people , is likewise not suited to guide an intense actor like Widmark through the rigors of light comedy ( which can be more precarious than a gangster drama ) . Doris Day is the put-upon wife , and I felt for her . Even with a feeble script and dim handling , Day manages a ray of sunshine or two . Gig Young , in the patented Gig Young / friendly neighbor role , helps out a little bit , but " The Tunnel Of Love " is a frigid affair . from
Dreadful excuse for a western	Poorly-written remake of the 1939 John Wayne chestnut has stagecoach full of disparate people encountering personal strife and drama on the treacherous route to Cheyenne . Since the characters are such an obvious lot ( what with a prostitute , a pregnant woman , a bank robber , a wily alcoholic , an outlaw , etc . ) and are written and portrayed as caricatures , there's nobody here to care about . Newcomer Alex Cord broods mightily as the outlaw , but this actorly process of cool non-projection is a snooze by now ; Ann-Margret , as the saloon girl with the shady life , is only comfortable in her carefully-posed close-ups , her line readings rendered false by a peculiarly twangy accent and no conviction in her behavior ( she reverts too easily on being ' lewd ' without giving the character any other dimensions ) . The direction is sloppy , the pacing leaden , and even the Colorado scenery fails to enliven the proceedings . from
Psycholgical thriller or high-flown slasher movie . . . either way it isn't very entertaining	Tasteless piece of Grand Guignol from Barbet Schroeder , a director who should've known better . Independent New York businesswoman Bridget Fonda , having just broken up with her fiancé , advertises for a female roommate and feels an immediate kinship with Jennifer Jason Leigh , a straggly , down-to-earth young applicant who may not be exactly what she seems . Film begins with razor-like precision , including an eerie prologue , but becomes increasingly outlandish , queasy , predictable and ridiculous as the plot thickens . By the overbaked finale , with Fonda swinging down from the rafters , the movie has all but imploded , leaving a depressing pile-up of bodies in its wake . from
It doesn't spin , swivel or sway . . .	Elvis Presley as a rock ' n roll crooner playing clubs with his goofy musical trio ( two men and drummer Deborah Walley , who dresses like a man for no particular reason ) ; he attracts the attention of a wealthy man's daughter who schemes to keep Presley in town - - to drive her father's car in an auto-race AND possibly walk her down the aisle ! A few funny little touches keeps this one light ( such as the gang's way of decorating a dinner table in the middle of nowhere ) but all of Presley's songs are duds and the racecar stuff is just a drag . Walley adds some bounce , but Shelley Fabares gets a thankless role . from
Vacant , sullen murder-melodrama	Scrappy , long on-the-shelf film by James Bridges concerns bank-teller Debra Winger's obsession over finding out what happened to a guy she was dating , who has mysteriously vanished . Bridges put this together with Winger after their partnership on " Urban Cowboy " , but it was a career low-point for both . Many trips to the editing room couldn't salvage it ( causing one to wonder , did it have its soul removed or was there never a soul to begin with ? ) . If you can get through the muddled introductions , Paul Winfield manages a thoughtful performance as a gay music executive , and Winger does well with a very sketchy role . Joe Jackson performs the forgettable songs ( his soundtrack LP was already out and gathering dust by the time this film finally arrived ) . from
If the title is supposed to be ironic , it's the best joke in the picture . . .	Walter Matthau looks mighty dour throughout this grim , convoluted , exasperating crime-file nonsense . A public bus massacre in San Francisco , which included a cop amongst its victims , is investigated by the force , and Matthau is saddled with new partner Bruce Dern ( he hates him on sight , how's that for originality ? ) . The details of the case make little sense , and although the dead-end leads might reflect real-life police business , they don't do much for a plot already messy with loose ends and too many characters ( all of them sordid ) . This picture looks as bad as it plays , with muddy cinematography and pasty-faced actors . The ignorant plot is jammed with clichés , and the screenwriter never shows a sardonic side to the madness . It's just violent TV made more violent for the movies . from
100 % formula	Sloppy , sentimental boxing comedy-drama is based on successful female boxing manager Jackie Kallen's tough rise to the top ( ' loosely inspired ' seems a more appropriate term ) . Meg Ryan plays Kallen with a streetwise edge in her voice and is appropriately cast , but her outlandish wardrobe certainly belies the salary of a glorified secretary , and Tony Shalhoub embarrasses himself as a ' Godfather'-styled kingpin of the boxing mecca ( he dresses and talks like John Gotti , but only seems to have one client ) . Charles Dutton directed , and his own performance as the veteran trainer ( yet another cliché ) is at least warmly thought out - - ironically , it's the best acting here . " Ropes " is a lackluster film , put together and distributed as if nobody involved had a hope in hell for it . The boxing scenes are slapdash , with Ryan walking right across the ring at one point to deliver a last-second pep-talk to Omar Epps , the kind of conspiratorial speech that is older than dirt ( why doesn't she just say , " Win one for the Gipper " ? ) . Omar's rise to success is swifter than a bad odor , which is pretty much what this misfire leaves in its wake . from
Caustic comedy with leering , mean-spirited asides . . .	Two years before he wrote and directed " Arthur " , Steve Gordon had a minor hit with his screenplay for this crackpot comedic vehicle for Henry Winkler , then TV's " The Fonz " . A 1950s college thespian ( and all-around jerk ) woos a co-ed and gets married without any employment prospects on the horizon ; to make ends meet , he turns to the flamboyant world of wrestling , eventually becoming a " Gorgeous George " - like celebrity . Turning likable Winkler into an obnoxious goof-off probably sounded like an interesting idea at the time ( and a sure way to separate him from his television alter-ego ) , but the jokes and situations are often wrong-headed and mean , staged rather sloppily by director Carl Reiner . Particularly crude is a wincing bit involving Hervé Villechaize ( of " Fantasy Island " ) putting the moves on Polly Holliday ( Flo from " Alice " ) . As Henry's beloved , Kim Darby looks a little out of her element - - particularly when surrounded by all these TV hams - - rendering the romance aspect of the script inconsequential . from
Turgid wartime comedy with obvious targets . . .	In 1943 , as American Army troops are invading Italy , an over-eager yet green Commanding Officer is given the choice whether or not to overtake a small Sicilian village ; hungry for the invasion , he leads his men into battle , but the cheery , celebrating Italians ultimately make a surrender difficult to manage . Developed and directed by Blake Edwards , this wartime comedy hasn't many jokes , and a great deal of the situations center on Dick Shawn's shrill Captain Cash , leaving stars James Coburn and Aldo Ray with little to do but react . Shawn does well in his role , but the part itself ( a sniveling weasel who is temporarily subdued by a broad and some liquor ) is tiresome , representing a cookie-cutter approach to the writing . The production is passable , and Edwards and screenwriter William Peter Blatty do make some comments on military procedure which are adept , but they run out of interesting ideas too soon . Edwards ' mood is light and his tone is jovial , but there's no comedy in Blatty's script to match up with this . The result is rather like " Hogan's Heroes " without the laugh-track . from
A movie is only as strong as its weakest point . . .	Teen physics whiz ( played by Michelle Trachtenberg , a Scarlett Johansson lookalike with a gorgeous crop of brunette hair ) takes up ice-skating at the local rink as a means of studying kinetic energy - - pretty soon , she's donning a leotard and performing in a pageant ! The downside is , smart girls never get the guys - - although a Mark Ruffalo lookalike who works at the rink just loves Trachtenberg's scientific babbling . Disney film for young girls hasn't a whiff of originality , with a bland sense of humor and snotty , slangy Lolita wanna-bes on the ice . As Trachtenberg's mom , Joan Cusack acts like she's ready for the Motion Picture Retirement Home , however Kim Cattrall's work as the hard-nosed skating coach isn't bad until the character is turned into a formula cutthroat . Très harsh ! from
Moderately amusing for about half its length . . .	In the 1990s , the U . S . Air Force wants to send a newlywed couple into outer space to live on the moon in a space-station for a year ; after the first couple drops out , alternate Jerry Lewis is chosen , but he's a bachelor . . . enter Connie Stevens as a prospective bride . Good-looking Jerry Lewis vehicle is amusingly naive about the future , and yet frustratingly silly regarding sexual matters ( Walt Disney's " Moon Pilot " from 1961 was actually much friskier ! ) . Lewis is more restrained than usual , Stevens ( despite an odd , helium-sounding speaking voice ) is effervescent , and the art direction and decoration is a ' 60s dream ( complete with clear plastic inflatable furniture ! ) . But the script completely peters out once the couple gets launched , and a couple of dreary sub-plots involving bachelors-in-space Dennis Weaver and Howard Morris and sexy Russian cosmonaut Anita Ekberg fail to rouse any laughs . from
a . k . a . " Shattered " . . . or , more appropriately , " Splintered "	Pierce Brosnan , talking like an Irish street tough , puts the lives of an ace advertising executive from Chicago and his wife in turmoil by hanging their young daughter's safety over their heads ; degrading and destroying the upwardly mobile twosome however seems to bring Brosnan no joy , so what is the point of this set-up ? With a twenty million dollar budget , the film , co-produced by Brosnan , does have a snazzy appearance ( with cinematographer Ashley Rowe getting some dizzying aerial shots of Chicago that look fantastic ) . Unfortunately , Gerard Butler and Maria Bello are pretty much stuck on the edge of hysteria throughout , bickering like children , and the plot ( such as it is ) has so little suspense that attention quickly turns from the victimized couple toward the many holes in the script ( which are not covered up by the twist finish , scenes such as the ludicrous trip to the Chicago police station wherein a detective turns a man away because he thinks he's drunk ) . Brosnan , who fails to bring out any particular shadings for his stubble-faced psychotic , wears out his welcome fast , and though the picture looks handsome and expensive , it is an unrelieved downer . from
Running jokes , a slapstick ballet , and Cary Grant playing matchmaker . . .	American heel-to-toe competitor in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics cajoles his way into a flat occupied by an attractive working girl and her " roommate " , a chipper British corporate executive who couldn't find other lodgings in over-crowded Japan . After a swift , bouncy start , this lackluster comedy seems to lose inspiration quickly , mostly due to the initial set-up compromised by the arrival of the American dullard ( Jim Hutton , pulling a Dean Jones ) . The film is a remake of a 1943 picture ( " The More The Merrier " ) , and sadly it plays like 1943 as well . There is so much lovely chemistry and interplay between Cary Grant and Samantha Eggar in the early scenes , this might've been a totally different ( and improved ) movie if played as a duet . But once the boy moves in , and the girl's fiancé gets jealous , and the kids are accused of being spies . . . well , it's not half as bad as Grant being forced into the third-wheel position , playing Fairy Godfather . Quincy Jones provided a nice score , and a few of the running gags are cute , but otherwise this is very tired work . No wonder Grant retired from movies immediately afterward . from
Leaden magic	270 years ago in Salem , a witch and her father were burned at the the stake by a New England Puritan , who is cursed along with all his descendants by black magic and will never find happiness in romance ; jump ahead to the present day ( circa 1942 ) , the witches are released from their holding spot and the bewitching lass discovers the latest descendant is a handsome politician with a shrew for a fiancée ( the witch's father tells her men always marry the wrong woman - - it's the girls who get away who cause the real unhappiness ) . From the story " The Passionate Witch " by Thorne Smith and Norman Matson comes a teasing , silly romantic comedy which begins brightly but flags sometime after that . Fredric March is appropriately befuddled , but Veronica Lake ( despite her famous peek-a-boo tresses ) has very little charisma ( and her sing-songy delivery is a nuisance ) . The plot is so thin it doesn't even count as a contrivance - - sequences ( like a disastrous wedding or a hotel fire ) start and stop like sketches , and nothing in it is very memorable . from
Over-charged . . .	Prep school lad takes weekend job looking after blind , hard-bitten former Army Colonel , who is on a personal mission of self-destruction . Adapted from the Giovanni Arpino novel and 1974 Italian film " Profumo Di Donna " , this overlong Martin Brest film is unrestrained , overreaching and ham-fisted . Filmed in autumnal colors ( brackish reds and browns ) , it doesn't even look good . Oscar-winner Al Pacino chews the scenery here in inelegant fashion - - there are few highlights to his overall performance because Pacino treats every scene as a show-shopper . Chris O'Donnell is easier to take as his teenage charge , yet the script is obnoxious and continually filled with " darkly comic " histrionics . from
This " Coffy " is lukewarm . . .	Poorly-made " blaxploitation " crime-drama aimed squarely at the black urban market of the early 1970s . Pam Grier stars in the title role , that of a nurse who becomes a one-woman vigilante after drug-dealing thugs make Coffy's little sister a junkie . Violent nonsense plods along doggedly , with canned energy and excitement ; only Grier's flaring temper gives the narrative a jolt ( she's not much of an actress here , but she connects with the audience in a primal way ) . Not much different from what Charles Bronson was doing at this time , the film was marketed and advertised as crass exploitation yet still managed to find a sizable inner-city audience . Today however , it's merely a footnote in ' 70s film history , and lacks the wide-range appeal of other movies in this genre . from
The Munster family in " living " color . . .	Theatrical farewell to Herman , Lily , Grandpa and the gang features many of the same talents behind the popular 1960s television show " The Munsters " , but this misadventure seems a little bereft of imagination - - perhaps a laugh-track might have helped ? The ghoulish clan inherits a British estate , and Herman gets involved in a slapstick auto race . Debby Watson is the one newcomer to the cast ( taking over for Pat Priest as niece Marilyn ) , though not even jovial Fred Gwynne and glinty-eyed Al Lewis can raise this script from the crypt . Maybe filming the family in color was a technical error - - it takes the edge off the Universal / monster movie satire which the TV show nailed without effort . This one strains for laughs , and ends on a whimper . from
Religion vs . show-biz . . . and a good cast vs . a mediocre script	Steve Martin certainly took a chance here ( temporarily breaking out of his syrupy family-comedy rut ) portraying a phony faith healer named Jonas Nightengale ( ! ) , but this puzzling drama-lite can't decide how cynical or comedic its ingredients should be and it fails . The uneven screenplay is really just tangled threads in search of a movie , yet there are good sequences here and there and the supporting players try adding some color ( Debra Winger is under-used but attractive as Martin's co-hort , and her relationship with handsome Liam Neeson is more interesting than the main narrative ) . The movie is soft and flabby where it shouldn't be , and it resorts to the obvious , like making most of small town America look like gullible fools . This troubled production was directed by Richard Pearce , who knows how to stage a sweetly low-keyed scene but who seems to lose confidence in the picture's bigger moments . from
Dryly irreverent . . . ridiculous . . . and sometimes very funny	" Tapeheads " , a scrappy , intermittently funny spoof of the music video business , might have been the perfect comedic short , and stars John Cusack and Tim Robbins are effortlessly in the swing of the nonsensical chaos involved . They play two semi-savvy security guards in Los Angeles who start their own company , Video Aces , making hilarious videos for groups , parties , and one deathbed star . It's too bad the filmmakers had to invent a dim side-plot to pad the running time ( shenanigans involving a crooked politician and his henchmen which doesn't do much except take away from the movie's primary strength , sending-up the music culture of the late-'80's ) . Still , Cusack and Robbins create a couple of originals here : nerdy but loose , street-smart without being hipsters or posers , these guys are on the same nutty wavelength , and they never put each other down . They are the real thing in buddy-comedies . from
Yet another mediocre Debbie Reynolds comedy . . .	Labored comedy has I . R . S . agent Tony Randall investigating eccentric farm family in Maryland who have never paid their taxes ; Debbie Reynolds is the tomboy farmer's daughter who puts the squeeze on the not-so-disinterested tax-man . Debbie certainly made her share of inferior theatrical sitcoms during this period - - and this one's no better or worse than the rest . Picture begins brightly but flags at the halfway point , becoming frantic and witless . Randall isn't a bad match for Reynolds , but the vehicle itself defeats the chemistry . Based on the novel " The Darling Buds of May " by H . E . Bates , with a poor sound-mix causing all the actors to sound as if they're stuck in an echo chamber . from
Good actresses can't break through the plastic coating . . .	Before the advent of the Lifetime or Women's Entertainment networks , wherein made-for-cable movies regularly turn up about female bonding amidst great inner turmoil , something slight like " Leaving Normal " actually made a run in theaters ; today , I doubt that would happen . Abused wife Meg Tilly hitches up with world-weary Christine Lahti for adventures on the road . It's a feminist comedy-drama with a few thoughtful things to say , but too much melodramatic nonsense and curious attempts at broad humor which do not work at all . Edward Zwick directed , and he gets this tale off to a shaky start ( and Lahti , in particular , seems to struggle to find her character ) . It improves as it goes along , but not enough to make it a memorable trip . from
Kidnap-comedy with a dark streak ; from the " Heathers " school of screen writing . . .	A group of ultra-hip teenage schoolgirls ( from Reagan High ! ) accidentally kill one of their own in a birthday prank gone awry ; they struggle to keep their deed a secret even after a nerdy student discovers the truth . Darkly comic tale , brightly-produced yet full of cynicism , has brief moments that go out on a limb , but is ultimately a rather formulaic " Heathers " knock-off . Holds interest nearly half the way , however the wrap-up is right off the assembly-line . It certainly benefits from a good cast , with the central performances by Rose McGowan and Rebecca Gayheart spot-on , however prominently-billed P . J . Soles , William Katt and Marilyn Manson hardly appear at all . from
Snoozing sequel with the leads in need of some No-Doz	Woeful , disappointing sequel to 1993's hit " Grumpy Old Men " is more retread than follow-up . The two crotchety neighbors - - Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon - - bicker over their children ( who will soon be making the sparring oldsters in-laws ! ) and of course who has the better fishing skills ; they stop trading insults long enough for Matthau to begin irritating a new woman in town , a fiery Italian who has just opened her own restaurant . Sitcom humor with a sometimes-raunchy twist that is no longer fresh . Almost worth-seeing for Sophia Loren's funny , lively performance , but everyone else looks a little sleepy . Ann-Margret ( who married Lemmon's character at the end of the original ) must've dropped in for a day and a half to complete her work . As the youthful couple , Kevin Pollack and Daryl Hannah are also under-used . from
" Valley of the Dolls " was a lot more fun . . .	Film-version of Elizabeth Wurtzel's memoir about a turbulent young woman's life turned around by the anti-depressant Prozac wants to have it both ways : to be a finger-wagging diatribe on the perils of curing mental or emotional instability with drugs AND an exaltation of Wurtzel herself , who took Prozac - - and got a best-seller out of it in the bargain ! Christina Ricci plays Wurtzel as a first-year student at Harvard , full of journalistic promise but quickly hitting a writer's block and alienating all of her classmates ; her love-hate relationships with her mother and her absentee-father also extend to that of her romantic prospects , and pretty soon Ricci is in therapy with Anne Heche ( in the thankless role of a pensively concerned doctor with a sensible hairdo ) . One character's intensely personal journey of self-discovery can quickly congeal on film , alternately seeming like pretentious self-absorption and laughable melodrama , and Ricci as an actress hasn't the magnetism to make her youthful belligerence involving ( she alienates the viewer too ) . All the supporting roles are colorless ( everyone is here to initially support Ricci . . . and then drop her once they are fed up ) ; Jessica Lange , playing Mom as an emotionally unstable hysteric , gets hopeless lines like , " I don't know what else to do " and " I'm at the end of my rope " . It's not a varied or interesting character , but viewers can relate with Lange's frustration because we can't reach this girl either . from
A bubblegum movie that makes bubblegum seem like a bad idea	The rock-loving teens in this movie don't seem to know anything about making music . We get no information about their musical backgrounds , and their idea of jamming is to feign a version of " Iko Iko " while driving in their stolen van ( I say ' feign ' because the sound of their unison vocals is distinctly studio-enhanced ) . There's one guy in the otherwise all-girl band , and they make him sleep behind a sheet - - out of modesty ? - - and yet the girls themselves are sexually active and think nothing of having sex in that van until the damn thing just about topples over . The movie wants to have it both ways : be a modern look at streetwise teens and be an old-fashioned musical . Justine Bateman works hard in the leading role , but she seems to suffocate under the plastic handling ; newcomer Julia Roberts shows off a nice sense of sarcastic humor , but the movie is an underachiever , with oldies-rock tunes given ' 80s makeovers that wouldn't pass muster on Star Search . from
About the whimsy of childhood - - and how youngsters take things to heart more seriously than we realize . . .	Highly-regarded Spanish film ( released there in 1973 but not Stateside until 1976 ) about a little girl in a small Spanish village in 1940 who sees the film " Frankenstein " in a makeshift theater and becomes obsessed with one certain sequence ( where the monster is befriended by a little girl near the river ) . Having seemingly no other friends beyond her older sister , the child hopes to find Frankenstein's monster - - or , indeed , any strange , silent grown-up - - to fulfill her fantasy . The central idea , juxtaposed with her beekeeper father's and lonely mother's own haunted pasts , has an exciting , surreal quality , but once the theme has been established ( that children have a much different take on fantasy than adults do ) , there isn't much more the movie can offer . The strange scenario is alluring , yet this narrative - - children seeking friendships with lonely adults - - has been covered before , although the magic of the movies ( specifically Hollywood movies shown outside the country ) is beautifully represented . Perhaps influential on a number of other pictures ( say , " Cinema Paradiso " ) , " The Spirit of the Beehive " is itself derivative and fails to really take off , but it does have small pleasures . from
Sloppy mixture of slapstick and a hipster's idea of smut . . .	Writer-director Blake Edwards is so out of the loop he can't even fake being hip . This middle-age-crazy concoction , about a self-absorbed songwriter chasing after a youthful vision of beauty , has elements of lust without passion , broad comedy without skill , and pathos without anything substantial in the screenplay to back them up . When he's not tumbling , bumbling , or shrieking like a Cockney banshee , Dudley Moore struts smugly through the film , narrowing his eyes and pursing his lips in a fake imitation of an older man trying to look cool . There's nothing witty or surprising in this lumpy set-up , which includes Julie Andrews as a salty toughie with a sentimental side and Robert Webber as Moore's gay writing-partner ( far be it for Edwards to miss out on a stereotype : the broken-hearted homosexual ) . Dudley can't even hide behind some flowers without getting a bee-sting to the schnoz , and he can't get a bee-sting without his nose naturally swelling up like a balloon . Bo Derek's corn-rowed infatuation inadvertently becomes the picture's drawing card , and for good reason : she's the only one here not putting on airs . from
Lumpy western is pure bull . . .	Curious western handled in cartoony fashion : it's all fired-up , though it ultimately misfires . Fiesty Brit Maureen O'Hara and daughter Juliet Mills bring a royal bull for breeding to Old West America , where both ladies wind up with suitors . Capable cast holds interest but , despite some pleasurable moments , Andrew V . McLaglen's perplexing direction is way over-the-top . The screenplay by Ric Hardman keeps all the characters spouting off and hopping mad , turning the movie into a western parody ( culminating in a laughable blizzard sequence which McLaglen stages on a set - - with the results looking far worse than the typical blue-screen effect ) . O'Hara juggles the affections of both James Stewart ( completely rote ) and Brian Keith ( hamming with abandon as a wild-eyed Scotsman ) . She was better off with the bull . from
Pushy , noisy comedy with few laughs	Nathaniel Benchley's book " The Off-Islanders " gets turned by Hollywood into yet another " It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World " clone , and still it was one of the biggest hits of 1966 . Panic ensues on America's East Coast when a Russian submarine runs aground , giving an unusually strong cast of players the opportunity to ham like crazy . Alan Arkin , barking orders in Russian , is probably the worst offender ( although he did receive an Oscar nomination for Best Actor ! ) ; Carl Reiner is inept as a family man taken hostage by the Russkies . Brian Keith and Eva Marie Saint both do okay work ( and Saint has never looked lovelier ) , but the overlong film substitutes noise for witty satire . Norman Jewison directed the proceedings as if it were a traffic-jam , though his finale ( with tiny Johnnie Whitaker in trouble on the roof ) provides the human uplift the audience needs - - we certainly could have used more of that in the earlier sequences . from
Anne Bancroft on full-tilt . . .	Anne Bancroft plays Estelle , a dying Jewish mother who asks her devoted son ( Ron Silver ) to locate reclusive one-time movie star Greta Garbo and introduce the two before Estelle checks out for good . Might've been entitled " Bancroft Talks " as the actress assaults this uncertain comedic / dramatic / sentimental material for its duration . Hot-or-cold director Sidney Lumet can't get a consistent rhythm going , and Bancroft's constant overacting isn't scaled back at all by the filmmaker - - he keeps her right upfront : cute , teary-eyed and ranting . Estelle becomes a drag on this scenario ( not that the thinly-conceived plot has much going on besides ) . Silver and co-stars Carrie Fisher and Catherine Hicks end up with very little to do but support the star , and everyone is trampled by her hamming . from
Impossibly clean-cut . . .	" Ghost of Dragstrip Hollow " appears to take place in a spotless netherworld , an era long gone by , where the biggest sin a kid could commit would be in defying the law and getting a traffic ticket . It opens with a young female auto fanatic getting the business from her arch rival , who pressures her into a car race . That's about it for the drag-racing - - this B-flick is mostly concerned with rock ' n roll , man ! The folks at American International were obviously fond of decent , square teens who liked to party and yet didn't mind an adult chaperone . There are a few amusing double entendres and fruity exchanges ( Necking Kid : " We thought we'd come out for some fresh air " . . . Dad : " Where did you think you'd find it , down her throat ? " ) , but the ghost is a little late in arriving . Brief at 65 minutes , the movie cheats us with a climactic car race that actually takes place off-screen and a pre - " Scooby Doo " - styled unmasking which makes no sense . However , for nostalgia buffs , some mindless fun . from
A funny comedic set-up , but it loses its way . . .	Sentimental cynicism : TV cameraman is injured while covering a football game and his brother-in-law , a shyster lawyer , persuades him to exaggerate his injuries for the extra insurance money . Handsome Billy Wilder film ( which he also co-wrote with I . A . L . Diamond ) , but that terrific , surefire premise just doesn't pay off . Script falls into stale , one-joke pattern , and the first-time teaming of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau curiously fails to ignite . Matthau actually won a Supporting Actor Oscar for his cheerful mugging , but it's Ron Rich as a sympathetic football player who gives the films best performance . from
Made by people with no sense of humor . . .	A ' dramedy ' about stand-up comedy written and directed by David Seltzer , who shows no wistfulness or whimsy for show-biz - - for him , it's all about the anxiety of getting a performance right . Tom Hanks has acting talent to spare , yet he does not possess the right timing to be convincing as a stand-up comic ( he's all fired up , but he's firing blanks ) . Sally Field fares somewhat better as a housewife / amateur comedienne who looks to Tom for advice and finds herself a little smitten ; her routine on-stage isn't convincing either , but Field's gumshun saves her ( she's likable despite the character being a cut-out ) . John Goodman ( as Field's husband ) has made a career out of playing down-to-earth , amiable guys ; though he's unable to really shine with this shallow material , his low-keyed , self-effacing acting style brings out the best in Seltzer's formulaic impulses - - he's the most pleasant part of the film . The writing is so purposefully sour , one squirms through the jokes as much as through the drama . The movie's main purpose is to show us the dark side of comedy . . . but who wants to see that ? from
Exceedingly low-brow thrills . . .	Campy movies are serious-minded films made with little intentional humor which play all wrong on the screen , leading to unintended laughter . Such is the case with this deliriously silly adaptation of a Stephen King bestseller concerning a youngster who can start blazing fires with her mind ( she talks to the flames to help us understand what's in her head : " Back off , just back off ! " ) . Naturally , bad guys nab the child and hope to use her powers to start enemy warfare . Commendable work from David Keith as the kid's father and George C . Scott as a villain assigned to keep an eye on the precocious tyke , but little Drew Barrymore is in over her head , and the special effects are cartoonish and overripe . from
Lots of talent involved , but film offers little dramatic appeal	Pedantic , overlong fabrication which attempts to chronicle the birth of the Federal Bureau of Investigations . Begins quite promisingly , with a still-relevant probe into an airplane explosion , however the melodrama involving James Stewart and wife Vera Miles just gets in the way ( Miles had a habit of playing tepid wives under duress , and her frayed nerves arrive here right on schedule ) . Esteemed director Mervyn LeRoy helmed this adaptation of Don Whitehead's book , but despite the talent involved , the picture fails to make much of an impression . Best performance is turned in by Murray Hamilton as Stewart's partner , however most of the dialogue is ludicrous and the dogged pacing causes the movie to seem twice as long as it is . from
Set-bound trifle with fine dancing and pleasant music . . .	Fred Astaire is reteamed with Rita Hayworth one year after their big hit for Columbia , " You'll Never Get Rich " . That was the movie which put Hayworth on the Hollywood map , yet her performance in this wan romantic musical hardly gives a suggestion why she was so suddenly popular . Down Buenos Aires way , a tyrannical hotel owner demands that his four daughters marry in order of age ; one may think film takes place in the 18th century , but no , it's modern-day 1942 . Astaire is an ex-hoofer-turned-gambler who goes back to dancing to earn some money , getting mixed up in impersonating a letter-writing admirer to Hayworth's stone-cold society beauty . Fred gazes at Rita with a brotherly smile , but she's so mannequin-like ( lip-synching to her songs like a wide-eyed wind-up doll ) that all romantic sparks quickly sputter . They do dance together quite comfortably , however , and the Jerome Kern score is unmemorable but not too bad . from
Orlando Bloom as a Warrior Messiah	Director Ridley Scott is starting to repeat himself : here's another sword-laden epic , this one covering three ( count ' em , three ) long crusades . Dark Ages tale begins in 1184 France , with a widower blacksmith meeting his absentee father , traveling to downtrodden Jerusalem and defending the country against its many enemies . Overlong , ugly and dusty , with interchangeable villains and repetitive brutality . The action , hyped up by the speed-freak editor , turns out to be a bore , so confusingly staged and shot you have no idea who's dying , who's dead , or who's still alive . After one particularly nasty battle , Orlando Bloom comes away with just a few scratches . It's nearly impossible to keep track of the characters , or to care about them ; towards the finish , when the many epilogues get crushed together , a scorecard would seem irrelevant . We are meant to be moved by the hero's sensitivity to the Queen and the sudden need to show his manners and manhood , but these characters have not been fleshed out by the writer , and Scott keeps pushing things along , when even the obligatory sex scene is given the short shrift in favor of more dust , noise and bloodshed . from
May-December clichés with a nice locale . . .	Trifling romantic drama directed by Clint Eastwood about the loving relationship which grows between a comely hippie ( Kay Lenz ) and a Los Angeles real estate agent in his golden years ( William Holden , surprisingly affable within this highly-concocted arrangement ) . The script is slight but not without some thoughtful passages ; still , the scenario is such a middle-aged cliché by now that most of the picture comes off as puerile . It may have worked much better with different leads : Holden and Lenz don't match up well ( her stature is so slight he seems to tower over her ) , making their intimate scenes less stirring than simply uncomfortable . Dated , blurry-romantic , and mostly unmemorable . from
Warners time-filler	In a blatant attempt to recapture the spirit of James Cagney's 1942 hit " Yankee Doodle Dandy " ( the trailer even promises this to be " the dandiest Yankee Doodle of them all ! " ) comes a highly-concocted story from Irving Wallace about a down-and-out-showman staging a musical revue at a military academy . Corny in the extreme , but hoofing Cagney's still got the goods ; his dance routines liven up the pace of this puff-piece , though they don't exactly make it a memorable vehicle for any of the stars . Virginia Mayo and Doris Day are the gals on hand , and Day's fans will surely be disappointed by her weak musical material and the fact she gets the short shrift in favor of Mayo ( who has the better role and yet still projects all the personality of a fashionable mannequin ) . from
" After this , there is no turning back . . . "	Glorified martial arts movie masquerading as a science-fiction thriller , this blockbuster hit struck a nerve with the public , though it isn't as brainy ( or as deep ) as one might be led to believe . Keanu Reeves is typically one-note as a computer-hacking loner who finds his life may not be reality - - and that an alternate reality introduced to him by guru Laurence Fishburne could destroy him . Written and directed by the Wachowski brothers , who seem to enjoy a twisting story - - though at the expense of logic ( forget credibility ) . A more engaging leading man might have made the technical asides easier to wade through , although most audiences didn't seem to mind . Followed by " The Matrix Reloaded " and " The Matrix Revolutions " , both in 2003 . from
Portentious drama is indeed slow , and heavy-handed	Sickly catcher for a pro-baseball team is cared for by the team's pitcher . Would-be acting showpiece for a group of talented men who are ultimately defeated by the slow-going pace of a melodrama that uses suffering as a noble badge . Mark Harris adapted his own novel , originally filmed as a television drama in the 1950s with Paul Newman . The rough-edged sentimentality is wearing , and some of this is rather cringe-worthy , although leads Michael Moriarty and Robert De Niro are adequate . Vincent Gardenia is excellent as the team's surly coach - - a clichéd role , but one which inherits Gardenia's general wit as a character actor . Fine cinematography , a few strong moments , but the movie is talky and mopey , and ultimately more puzzling than moving . from
" Someday when you're older , you'll understand . . . "	George Axelrod's film of Al Hine's book isn't so much a satire of teen culture as it is a skewering of teenage-isms , such as bikinis , cashmere sweaters ( in assorted ' flavors ' ) , beach party / monster movies , high school cliques , morally corrupt parents , and the need for mass love . Tuesday Weld , starting her senior year at a new school , is befriended by psychotic pixie Roddy McDowall , who thinks of himself as a magical bird and uses hypnotism on Weld to help her achieve the things she craves . Axelrod , who also co-wrote the script , creates chaos on the screen , and then pushes his camera through it . He isn't spoofing American fads ( and our eventual boredom with material pleasures ) , he's highlighting what he thinks we SHOULD be hostile about - - but the trouble is , he's much more angry and corrupt than his central character ( she's more like a wide-eyed Alice in Wonderland ) . Axelrod isn't indifferent - - and he's not a innocence lost - - but since we don't know what makes the director tick , much of the movie is just a big question mark . It gets off on the wrong foot ( framing the story in flashback ) , featuring far too much of McDowall ( acting like Norman Bates ' little brother ) . If this movie didn't sink Roddy McDowall's movie career , it should have : he's smug and insufferable in place of self-confident . Some of the other performances are worthwhile , and Weld has many sharp , knowing moments , yet the film is a crazy-quilt put-down . It leaves you winded . from
Genial British military-training comedy with rock-a-boogie asides . . .	Although based upon a book by William Camp , this Albert Broccoli-produced service comedy seems to trail on the tail-end of the real-life Elvis Presley induction story . There's confusion within the British Army when a pop singing star is called upon for service , creating havoc within the ranks ; seems the idol's managers don't want their client's fame to fade , smuggling him out of the barracks at different intervals to perform or record new songs . This must be the most relaxed Army Regiment on film ! William Bendix gives the best performance as a blow hard sergeant with a soft spot , but Anthony Newley is improbably cast in the leading role . Newley's cabaret mannerisms were just starting to form at this time , and though he performs his song numbers smoothly , he isn't the dynamic powerhouse of Elvis ( nor , indeed , any of Elvis ' general competition of this era ) . Newley is actually the antithesis of rock ' n roll , however he does handle the comedy routines with charm and there are some amusing bits and pieces . from
Everyone is on the phone in New York City !	Joel Schumacher's mercilessly overheated " suspense " drama has cocky publicist Colin Farrell trapped in a phone booth by a sniper who knows all his dirty secrets . Seems cell-phone addict Farrell uses the public phone to ring his girlfriend , thus his wife of one year won't get suspicious when she sees the bill . Beginning with the caveat this slick , smarmy player is actually married ( to a clean-cut good girl ! ) , none of the details in " Phone Booth " manage to convince , least of all the psychopath ( voiced by Kiefer Sutherland ) who turns out to be smarter than his victims and the entire New York City police department combined . There's a surprising amount of talent behind this film , but it's a one-trick pony , resting on a mighty thin script which doesn't allow for any spontaneity . Farrell does a good job under the cramped circumstances , but Forest Whitaker's police Captain seems to take an awfully long time to assess this situation correctly . So , the hookers across the street saw a gun in Farrell's pocket ? Well , they must be right ! Aren't prostitutes the most reliable witnesses in the Big Apple ? from
The Rankin / Bass team working with the best of intentions . . .	Despite a terrific " Emperor's New Clothes " episode , I'm hard-pressed to recall anything in " The Daydreamer " which really works , and that's a shame because the team of Rankin / Bass is obviously working with love and sincerity . Plot concerns a young Hans Christian Andersen who runs away from home and meets up with all the fairy tale characters he'll someday write about . Live-action prologue and epilogue are cringingly awkward , animated middle not nearly as bad but certainly not magical . Top vocal talents abound , but they're weakly used ( Hayley Mills voices the Little Mermaid , but when it's Hayley's turn to sing , we are instead treated to some kiddie variation on Marni Nixon ) . Best segment is " The Emperor's New Clothes " , which is paced better than the rest of the film and is certainly helped by Ed Wynn as the delightfully egomaniacal Emperor . from
Interesting development , murky returns	Wimpering suspense-drama with variable performances and writing . Robin Williams is nearly unrecognizable as a friendless photo developer in a shopping center whose not-so-innocent obsession with a seemingly happy family leads to tragedy . I'm not sure why ' lonely ' always equals ' sociopathic ' in these kinds of movies - - if it's for dramatic content , " One Hour Photo " comes up doubly short , as there isn't much substance in this script nor is there an emotional pay-off at the finale . Williams , his lips tightened into a grimace , displays a convincingly false happy-front ; with his alert eyes and quick little movements , he gives this character more depth than writer-director Mark Romanek probably envisioned ( it's certainly not there in the set-up of the story ) . Romanek is very flashy , giving us canny snippets of character quirks , but he is neither interested in being enlightening ( except for a brief treatise on the history of photography ) nor entertaining , and the fantasies and dream sequences are poor excuses for narrative content . from
Even devout Christians passed this one up . . .	The first 22 chapters of Genesis as filtered through the indifferent style of director John Huston , who has an eccentric sensibility but no passion for biblical drama . Begins with surreal Garden of Eden segment and ends on overwrought note with George C . Scott as Abraham being tested by God . The Noah's Ark sequence ( with Huston himself as Noah ! ) is frisky , but overall result is heavy , disconnected , perplexing . Excellent Italian production values , but semi-all star cast is disappointing . from
" She's the biggest thing to hit bathtubs since rings ! "	Silly , scrappy comedy with Bob Hope trying to hide sleepy sexpot Elke Sommer from his wife . Low-budget screwball antics looks really bad , with sets which are far too large for the minimal action taking place there ( the kitchen in Bob's house is positively drafty ) , and the poor lighting and awkward camera-work do not help . Once the action swings from suburbia to a cabin in the woods , the picture perks up a bit . The one-dimensional cabin set is another eyesore , but the slapstick involved isn't too bad ( and Sommer's shrieks are funny ) . Phyllis Diller , as the family housekeeper with a hair problem , should've written her own dialogue : the woman is all revved up and ready , yet she's given no funny lines . As for Bob Hope , I have never been a particular admirer of his , but he's not bad here , coasting through without hogging the camera too much . I would have to say " Wrong Number " isn't offensive the way Hope's " Private Navy of Sgt . O'Farrell " was , but - - for a comedy - - shouldn't somebody be having a good time ? from
Farrah's leading men : Kirk , Harvey , and a horny robot named Hector	Would-be foreboding sci-fi looks all shiny and new , like a futuristic department store . Three good actors ( Farrah Fawcett , Kirk Douglas and Harvey Keitel ) come off looking like incompetent dummies in this derivative , cardboard cartoon . When Keitel arrives at the space station of lovers Douglas and Fawcett , he is carrying a strange metal container . Douglas offers to carry it for him and Keitel answers , " NOOOOOOOO ! " in a hilariously chilly manner that makes even Richard Burton's overacting seem tame by comparison . Poor Kirk and Farrah even strip down for this one ( so much for the classy reputation of vet director Stanley Donen ) . There is a neat scene where robotic Hector takes a splinter from Farrah's eye , but her reaction afterward ( rubbing it like a child and sticking her bottom lip out ) is embarrassing . This is one step beyond , all right . It's so far out it's brain-dead . from
Stockcars and sourmash	" Beach Party " leads Frankie Avalon , Annette Funicello , and Harvey Lembeck do what they can with C-minus material involving an ace stockcar racer who gets involved with moonshiners ; the Internal Revenue wants him to work both sides , but he's more interested in finding out who's thwarting the midnight runs by playing chicken with the drivers . Barely involving ' grown up ' effort from American International , not as good as their later stockcar comedy-drama " Thunder Alley " , however Avalon and Annette both get to sing ( his number , " My Way " is one of the best tunes Avalon ever got in an AIP film ) . There's a pretty good brawl between Frankie and Harvey Lembeck , but Fabian , as Frankie's nemesis , is under-used , as is Annette . Good photography by Floyd Crosby , cute opening Claymation segment by Clokey Films , but the story is so muddled we never know where we stand with these one-dimensional characters . from
One of the weakest of the Fred & Ginger teamings . . .	Screen treatment of the comedic Broadway success " The Gay Divorce " ( a title which was considered too scandalous for American moviegoers , though it was used in the U . K . ) concerns a man and woman ( Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers ) meeting under embarrassing circumstances while she's in the process of divorcing her spouse ; they dance , argue , make up , dance , argue some more and dance some more . Betty Grable is very appealing in a brief bit ( singing and dancing in the number " Let's K-nock K-nees " with overtly sissified Edward Everett Horton ) , but the star-couple looks distressed and unhappy throughout . The surroundings are screwball-sophisticated yet the characters are not more than one-dimensional . from
Hasn't enough on its mind . . . and the women outclass the men	Middling adaptation of Roger Hedden's play about four twentysomethings in small Arizona town trying to find some truth in their lives . Acting showcase for Eric Stoltz , Bridget Fonda , Phoebe Cates and Tim Roth is surprisingly uneventful - - and mercilessly slow-moving . Performances by Fonda and Cates outclass the men , with Roth a real irritant as a feckless drifter ( of course , the character as written isn't exactly a charmer ) . Some of the dialogue is sharp and there are interesting bits and pieces . Stoltz also co-produced , and the small budgeted film has a very stylish , quasi-surreal look that bolsters the limp action . from
Drably ' realistic ' comment on today's society . . .	Stephen Verona co-wrote and directed this story about an elderly married couple living in a decaying New York neighborhood near Coney Island who refuse to relocate despite escalating crime and racial tensions . Low-budget film from I . T . C . doesn't have an exploitation gimmick ( on the level of , say , " Death Wish " ) to lean on , therefore it didn't reach many audiences . Both Lee Strasberg and Ruth Gordon do first-rate work , but the glumness of the concept and Verona's need for his slim plot to come full circle to make a point results in a very depressing experience . Janet Leigh has a smaller role as the couple's daughter , and her eagerness with this dramatic material is heightened by Verona's unsubtle handling ( it isn't one of her better performances ) . The picture stays in the mind through a few pointed scenes and images , but " Boardwalk " is too static to make a greater impact . from
With a bigger budget and some directorial finesse , " Boxing Helena " might've been a contender . . .	Poorly-made , scrappy and off-putting erotic drama executed without the courage of its own idea . Lurid story concerns an obsessed surgeon's relationship with an indifferent vixen . Amusing in parts , the film occasionally goes out on the proverbial limb , but it's also messy and unfocused . Perhaps the behind-the-scenes troubles with original star Kim Basinger got in director Jennifer Lynch's way . In any event , Lynch hasn't been given the chance to purge this demon from her resume . . . one look at it and you'll know why . It's a curious mix of sex , fantasy and horror , but so perplexing and muddled , the provocative angle of the whole scenario gets lost . from
The best of Marsha Mason and the worst of Neil Simon	This agonizing comedy-drama got surprisingly sterling reviews upon its release in 1979 . I remember opening the movie-section of the L . A . Times and looking at a 2-page advertisement for " Chapter Two " filled with glowing captions like : " Better than ' The Goodbye Girl ' ! " and " Neil Simon does it again ! " What does Neil Simon do ? He takes an autobiographical situation ( remarrying too soon after the death of a beloved spouse ) and makes it rusty , unpleasant and - - worst of all - - unfunny . James Caan plays Neil - - er . . that is , George - - a writer who can't seem to get back into life after losing his wife ; enter spirited Marsha Mason ( real-life Mrs . Simon . . . soon to be ex-Mrs . Simon ) who attempts to love George despite his moods and general melancholy . Mason is very appealing here and might've saved the day were it not for Caan's indifference ( not to mention a sub-plot concerning painfully-thin , blonde Valerie Harper which brings the proceedings to a screeching halt ) . I liked Mason's outburst at the end ( " I am wonderful ! I am NUTS about me ! " ) , but I saw no happy ending for these two people . . . and time proved me right . from
Miscast , misguided , and stocked with sap	Remake of a 1931 chestnut involving an ex-boxer , who now trains horses , coaxed back into the ring and cheered from the sidelines by his adoring son and loving ex-wife . Boxing was big business in the late 1970's thanks to " Rocky " , but that was no excuse to dust off this slight , sentimental relic . Jon Voight , just off his Best Actor win for " Coming Home " , ditches all the nuances he had achieved up to this point ; he lets his face go slack with confusion and desperation , but it doesn't reveal anything about his character , only that the actor looks perplexed at playing melodramatic , dead-end scenes with Faye Dunaway ( behaving more like a big sister than a former flame ) and sentimental ones with teary Ricky Schroder ( overworking his pre-teen cuteness ) . Shameless from beginning to end , the movie shows no subtlety in detailing Billy Flynn's dilemmas or loyalties , and director Franco Zeffirelli mounts each new sequence with the grace of a bricklayer . from
Latter-day Disney at their dullest . . .	English captain in 17th century Virginia falls in love with a Native American woman who , along with her people , fights to retain control of their land against the invading white man . Disney-animated rewriting of history is shameless in its pandering to political correctness ( and advancing Pocahontas's age to include a star-crossed lovers sub-plot ! ) . The sugary , forgettable music is certainly no help , although the film did cop two Academy Awards for the score and also the song , " Colors of the Wind " . The animation is dull and flat , and the voice-over work is equally bland ( Mel Gibson's John Smith not withstanding ) . from
A boxer's demons - - in and out of the ring . . .	" Fighting Tommy Riley " is so naively scripted , and presented in such a pedantic , pedestrian manner , that I couldn't tell what the point of the picture was more than half-way into it . Grossly elongated and slower than molasses , it tells the extremely tired tale of a hot-headed young boxer , once an Olympic hopeful with coach / stepfather issues , who is taken under the wing of a burnt-out ex-coach-turned-schoolteacher ; both men learn to appreciate life again through training and becoming friends , until the fighter finds out his coach is not only gay , but harbors a secret , shame-filled yen for him . Screenwriter and co-producer J . P . Davis plays the boxer , and his youthful confusion over the circumstance at hand is understandable - - though I would think the kid might be a bit more street-smart than this . Eddie Jones has the showier role , seated ringside and always handy with the literary quotes and speeches about trust . The film doesn't seem to know much about the sport of boxing , and the camera is never in the right place for us to get the feel of a bout , the rush of adrenaline . Still , some of the dialogue isn't bad , and Davis ' attempt to get at something intense and personal is surely commendable , yet the movie is never much more than ordinary . from
Dorothy McGuire corners the market on suffering . . .	Wealthy businessman's daughter , who as a young girl caught rheumatic fever and now suffers from a shortness of breath , discovers her marriage to a charming ne'er-do-well was arranged by daddy ( whom she affectionately refers to as " Darling " ) ; worse than that , she may in fact have only a few weeks left to live , leaving her husband free to marry her conniving romantic-rival . Pure bunk . Paul Osborn's screenplay ( via Jerome Weidman's thin story ) trots out the redundant flashbacks in the second-half instead of proceeding ahead with the plot , which submerges the already-soapy scenario in grim talk . Why go backwards when we can figure out what's happening for ourselves ? This is a " woman's weeper " with no faith in its target audience , so simplistic is the set-up . Dorothy McGuire , swathed in furs for most of the picture , isn't a canny , clever heroine at all ; when she's upset , she turns inward and stony . Upon realizing her marriage is basically a sham , she shrinks away from her husband like the consummate virgin ( well , that's a possibility , she and Van Johnson sleep in separate beds after all ! ) . Ruth Roman has the film's best moments as a society shark with her trap set for Van , but what exactly do these women see in him ? Johnson can be charming when it's required , but put him in a melodramatic setting and he goes stony , too . MGM production values only so-so , however director Gottfried Reinhardt tries adding some visual flavor to the flashback segues and he attempts a lively pacing for the movie's initial half-hour . from
Another " Beach Party " knock-off without the comedy , the chemistry , or the charm . . .	Columbia Pictures dipping deep into their teen bag , coming up with little more than a running advertisement for Coke and James Stacy in a series of ski fashions for men . Ultra clean-cut tale concerns a young man hiring entertainment ( ski bunnies ) and a work crew ( a cook and a soda-jerk ) to work at a mountain lodge which he recently inherited ; his buddy promotes the place by putting a detour sign in the road and redirecting traffic their way . No script , no talent , no witty repartee - - these dull ' kids ' are a lazy lot . There's a pretty good fight scene in the chalet , a groovy wedding tag , and some mind-boggling musical numbers ( psychedelic-sweater wearing foursome the Reflections croon a ridiculous ditty about sugary sweets while the bunnies pass out huge lollipops to the guests ! ) . The dramatic tension in the plot is served by having two of the guests on secret assignment to ruin the place ; the comedy comes after embarrassed-to-be-up-here Stacy worms his way into a gig as a ski-instructor and attempts to get into a young lady's bedroom at night ( he trips the alarm and feigns sleepwalking ! ) . This is another case of a major studio trying to ape the low-brow teens-on-their-own genre begun a few years before with A . I . P . ' s " Beach Party " . It isn't too awful , but nobody here shows any pizazz , nor any individual style ; most of the girls try too hard for cute perkiness while the guys play aw-shucks with the women and big brother with each other . On the other hand , those Suzuki motorbikes are coolness defined . from
If she screamed " Louden ! ! " one more time . . .	An ear-splitting movie . Madonna goes way out on an acting limb here , playing a beyond-vivacious parolee out to nab the scum who framed her and sent her to prison . After an energetic animated credits sequence - - which is much more fun than the rest of the movie - - we have nothing to look at but Madonna's black mascara and red lips set off by her platinum hair and pale complexion . What else is there ? Griffin Dunne seems deflated and defeated playing Madonna's keeper and the poor-choice supporting cast struggle for laughs which just aren't there . This picture hurt my teeth . However , and I say this without malice , Madonna is a better actress than I thought . She takes a wretched role and manages to pump some life into the thing . Too bad it is such a mean-spirited movie , we are driven not to love her but to wish somebody on-screen would tell this girl to shut up . from
Eternal second-banana Tony Randall fails to carry comedic mystery . . .	Tony Randall has played so many wry neighbors and dryly acerbic sidekicks that it takes a few long moments for him and director Frank Tashlin to suspend our disbelief at the prospect of Tony playing master detective Hercule Poirot ! Randall certainly gives the role a good try , but the improbability of his casting coupled with a dissatisfying screenplay ( from Agatha Christie's book " The A . B . C . Murders " ) makes this film a forgettable experience . The Belgian sleuth investigates a baffling serial murder case in London , surrounded by peculiar characters . Fine supporting cast including Robert Morely , Anita Ekberg and , in a bit , Margaret Rutherford does help , and the production is stylish , but the mystery plot isn't absorbing . Curiosity item is mostly a misfire . from
Another failed gay comedy , this one with tacky stereotypes	A frightened-seeming heterosexual in his mid-30s and an eyeball-rolling gay salon owner " meet cute " and , despite their differences , become movie buddies ; still , everyone close to the straight guy misinterprets this friendship as an intimate relationship , causing him to question his own sexual preference . Simplistic , unamusing comedy of misunderstandings , with overdrawn , ' kooky ' supporting characters and a basic lack of verisimilitude in the leading ones . Strictly as a superficial light entertainment , this low-budget film is relatively harmless and friendly enough ; dig deeper however and it's really rather offensive - - both to straight and gay audiences . Jonathan Bray's Todd , with his perpetually astonished expression , is like a walking loaf of white bread , complete with uptight clothes and a clenched jaw ; neither sex could loosen this man up . . . and neither sex would take the time to . from
7 different women . . . 7 different styles of acting	On the border of Mongolia in 1935 , American missionaries suffer through starvation , cholera , a menopausal woman about to give birth , an attack by vicious bandits , and the arrival of a chain-smoking , salty-tongued female doctor / atheist who usurps the power of the self-appointed leader played by Margaret Leighton ( whose nervous fascination with the minister's daughter , comely Sue Lyon , is vaguely lesbian in nature ) . Director John Ford's final film is brief and inexpensive , seemingly shot all on one sound-stage with few trimmings ( when Lyon is told to take the children into the fields , it's easy to wonder , where are the fields ? ? ) . So many different styles of acting are brought to the fore that it appears nobody knew how to approach this material ( it's so far over the top that I suspect it wasn't unintentional ; Ford may have been relishing these character clashes , and his pacing picks up whenever the conflicts get really nasty ) . I liked Anne Bancroft's straightforward , no-nonsense personality as the doctor , Lyon is charmingly self-conscious , and Leighton is heinously hissable playing a completely unsympathetic " dictator " with high-flown manners ; amusingly , she's never given a chance to redeem herself - - and on at least two occasions is told to shut up - - so that we nearly sympathize with her , but the screenwriter has her rigid and vile right up until the end . The climax is solid and satisfying , but filmed with a wink by Ford , as if to say " It's all b . s . anyway . " from
A remastered mess	David Bowie , on stage at London's Hammersmith Odeon ( circa 1973 ) performing under the guise of his alter-ego , the androgynous space alien Ziggy Stardust . Bowie now claims Ziggy was not his bow to transvestism but rather his way of bucking the system ; that's all well and good , but seeing D . B . in space-drag may make you think otherwise . He looks frequently ridiculous in these dated get-ups , and director D . A . Pennebaker gives Bowie no mystery or ambience ( he shoots straight-on without frills , probably the obstacle of teeny-tiny budget ) . Why remaster something of the ' point the camera and shoot ' variety of filmmaking ? Well , it's the 30th Anniversary of the album " The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust " , so they exhumed this from the mothballs to capitalize on the hype . Yes , the music here is exciting and maybe even titillating , but it'll be even better on your CD player . from
Lots of talent and pretty surroundings can't compensate for the fatigue . . .	Director Sydney Pollack ( a very talented filmmaker ) must've have gone into this remake of 1954's " Sabrina " knowing that he could never capture lighting again in the same bottle . Old-fashioned plot about a mousy chauffeur's daughter returning from a Paris trip looking like a million bucks and being wooed by two wealthy brothers was done complete justice by Billy Wilder in ' 54 , directing an incandescent Audrey Hepburn in the title role . Here , Pollack assembles a solid cast but can't manage to update the plot without seeming plastic ; all the magic is mechanical and artificial . Julia Ormond has the thankless task of trying to fill La Hepburn's shoes , though Harrison Ford and Greg Kinnear are well-cast as the brothers and the romantic sweep of Sabrina's story makes this passable entertainment . It certainly wasn't a well-advised move to redo a classic , but the attempt itself in this cynical age is - - at the most - - commendable . from
Molly Ringwald : camp Lolita or serious thespian ?	Molly Ringwald , softer and more contemplative than in her John Hughes / high school comedies , plays a shady girl from the wrong side of the tracks who meets and has an affair with preppy Cincinnati college kid Andrew McCarthy ; the fact his rich friends disapprove and she has such a questionable background may prevent things from going further . Not a terrible movie , but filled with self-defeating clichés and occasionally overwrought dialogue . Ringwald struggles a bit with her redneck accent , and McCarthy does nothing to elevate his pinched , emotionally-parched persona , but the look of the film is quite vivid and the atmosphere is well-captured . Perhaps it was a good idea to re-team the teen lovers from " Pretty in Pink " in a more grown-up setting , but the filmmakers didn't go far enough with the idea , and the coy finale seems a little undernourished . from
Odd cinematic coupling results in slow , impenetrable journey . . .	A curious combination : twisted filmmaker David Lynch with the Disney people , resulting in too-slow story of an elderly man attempting to reach his estranged , ailing brother by driving a John Deere lawnmower 260 miles . The film's opening moments are quirky and funny , with Richard Farnsworth completely at ease in the lead , quickly connecting with the audience on a grounded , friendly level . Once Farnsworth sets out on his journey , the movie becomes a rather murky variation on " Harry & Tonto " , with the screenplay giving Alvin Straight no real dimension or interesting obstacles . Lynch seems to believe that dark , muddled bits of business will tell this story ( the most enchanting moment comes early on , with Straight and his daughter watching a lightning storm from their window ) . Farnsworth got an Oscar nomination for his sterling work , and almost carries this film off single-handedly ; Sissy Spacek has very little to work with as the daughter , but Harry Dean Stanton is moving in his moments at the finale . from
This is what the " Beach Party " flicks evolved into . . .	Before second-string A . I . P . studios turned into the primary movie-house responsible for scary-castle thrillers and cycle-savages B-flicks , it took another gasp with its " Beach Party " cast , putting GI Frankie Avalon and a chimpanzee into orbit . Deborah Walley is the love-interest , Buster Keaton is an Air Force handyman , Fred Clark is the befuddled General , but there's no Annette Funicello this time ( not even in a cameo ) . The nickname " Dead Head " was very popular with A . I . P . ' s stable of writers ; poor Avalon gets to wear the moniker this time , and he looks more than a little embarrassed monkeying around with this script , full of silly slapstick . Eve Arden gets some funny lines ( and she has an enjoyable song number as well ) , but the rest is pretty tired . from
Another dud from Disney	John Amos plays a luckless coach who bombs out at football , baseball , basketball - - but during a trip to Africa he discovers a Tarzan-like athlete ( Jan-Michael Vincent , looking like a Tiger Beat pin-up ) and turns his attention to the track and field . Completely inane family comedy from the folks at Disney , who apparently had no faith in this basic premise , thereby shoehorning in a dire voodoo sub-plot ( allowing for silly special effects , like over-sized props ) . Vincent does well , Amos tries hard , but Tim Conway ( always an acquired taste ) is both broad and boring in a gratuitous supporting role as a flunky . For ' 70's aficionados , there's also a cameo by Howard Cosell . . . from
Jerry Lewis : Babysitter	A Jerry Lewis vehicle that delivers exactly what his fans want while pleasing no one still hoping for a surprise from the comedic actor . Midwestern klutz ( guess who ? ) agrees to act as babysitter to a Hollywood actress and the newborns she has delivered in secret - - all three of them ! Frank Tashlin-directed chaos isn't very funny , and occasionally verges on ludicrous when it tries passing Lewis off as a sensitive soul ( this is no stretch for Jerry , as he manages to turn even his baby lullabies into infantile showstoppers ) . Pretty Marilyn Maxwell and a teenage Connie Stevens give the movie some pep , but Jerry's performance is full of fake-schmaltz . from
Literate but unpleasant	B-flick , full of nastiness , trades in religious exposition for standard thriller clichés as fallen seminarian-turned-police detective becomes a pawn in a war of Heaven's angels . Christopher Walken has his usual sly time as Gabriel ( with both a trumpet AND a chip on his shoulder ) , Viggo Mortensen is an unmemorable Devil . Grimy production at least dispatches solemn-faced Eric Stoltz early on ( a plus right there ) , and some of the dialogue is well-written , but the direction is heavy-handed and the plot elements never quite come together . By the last half , it has become a formulaic thriller , a would-be slam-bang . There was potential here , but it goes unrealized . Makes " The Seventh Sign " look masterful by comparison .
Strident , overlong comedy-drama only notable for its breakout star . . .	Critically-lauded , but gloppy-looking , abrasive coming-of-age story about a Jewish kid in 1940's Montreal who hustles his way out of the ghetto . Richard Dreyfuss snuck this in between " American Graffitti " and " Jaws " , but his performance is one-note and not very appealing ( the film did poor business , and when it premiered on HBO , after Dreyfuss attained success , no one knew where the picture came from ) . Supporting cast ( Jack Warden , Randy Quaid , and Denholm Elliott among them ) fair a bit better , but director Ted Kotcheff seems more interested in creating a realistically squalid atmosphere rather than concentrating on building reasonably enjoyable characters . Screenplay by Mordecai Richler , from his own novel , sets up the pieces but provides very little pay-off . from
Successfully bizarre ; unsuccessfully entertaining . . .	There isn't much about " Reckless " that feels right , beginning with the off-putting title ( thanks to screenwriter Craig Lucas , who adapted his own play and brought this title with him ) and continuing with the casting ( Mia Farrow playing wife to Tony Goldwyn , who's young enough to be her son ) . The couple live in an idyllic winter world that appears to be the inside of a snowglobe , but Farrow gets a startling dose of reality after he admits he's hired a man to kill her . She flees into the night , taking refuge with a very strange couple who want to help her rebuild her life . The production design and art direction of " Reckless " are fine , but they are services rendered for a completely inane , often alienating screenplay . It's supposed to be black comedy , but the cast is at a loss with this unfunny , occasionally offensive material . from
Over-simplified , over-eager . . . but at least it looks good	Teen idol Tommy Sands never got as popular as his Virgil Walker character is here ( and if he did , it lasted about a minute ) . Too bad then that his acting chops couldn't compensate for a lack of chart hits . Young man goes from tent-revivals to teen king , but when a funeral back home beckons , his priorities change . Cinemascoped affair has beautiful b & w photography and just enough melodrama to help it over the finish line , but it's awfully flimsy . Perhaps Elvis Presley's life story was a starting point for original writer Paul Monash ( who later had a hand in 1976's " Carrie " ! ) , but Tommy Sands , although energetic , isn't up to Presley's standards ( maybe Ricky Nelson's ) . He's got a handsome face and a gorgeous crop of greasy black hair ( like Presley's ) , but when his adolescent voice squeaks in rebellion , one almost wants to duck for cover .
Teeth-gnashingly ' kooky '	Screen-adaptation of the Broadway hit grinds itself into the ground with a firm belief that kooky equals lovable , and vice-versa . It's tough to love anything here , particularly Jason Robards ' performance as a life-loving eccentric ( here we go ) who is investigated by authorities to see if he's a proper guardian for his live-in nephew ( played by Barry Gordon as a wizened little wiseass ) . A grueling piece of work . Martin Balsam won a Supporting Oscar playing Robards ' brother ; perhaps the Academy was just giving a fine actor his due . Had to be , because this brand of arms-flailing theatrics and sub-Neil Simon / jokey dialogue shows off no one to their best advantage . Helped a bit by the decent black-and-white cinematography , and by Barbara Harris ' innate grace . from
' Rat Pack ' talent , but with a disillusioned spirit . . .	Frank Sinatra plays a no-goodnik ex-soldier and frustrated writer , hard-living and hard-drinking , who returns to his Midwestern hometown and reunites with his estranged brother ( Arthur Kennedy ) , now the town big-shot with a disinterested wife and headstrong daughter . Frank gets involved with gambler Dean Martin , uneducated flooze Shirley MacLaine , and has some run-ins with the law , but what he really wants to do is write and settle down with a good woman . Over-simplified drama verging on soap opera , with a role for MacLaine that is by turns overly ' colorful ' and embarrassingly sentimental ( her drunken belting on " After You've Gone " is however the film's highlight , and is expertly handled ) . Director Vincente Minnelli oversees it in straight-forward fashion , but he's in surprisingly glum spirits and most of the big scenes are flat or dense . The picture looks incredibly handsome in widescreen , with a nice eye for detail and composition , but the story and these characters are stuck in the dregs . from
Tidy and talky . . .	Star trifle wastes Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman on stuffy , inferior material . Derived from the play " Kind Sir " , plot has a popular stage actress falling for an American Diplomat in London ; trouble is , he says he's married . Director Stanley Donen stages the proceedings just like a play ( the only exception is a funny sequence involving split-screen ) . Ingrid is classy and lovely ( as usual ) , but there are no sparks between she and Grant , who is a real mystery ; at half-mast for the first hour , Cary suddenly livens up . . . and perhaps goes too far , becoming hammy and obnoxious . The plot has too few twists , although the last-act is witty and features some clever dialogue . from
" Eee-Uuu ! "	Pseudo " behind-the-scenes " look at Hollywood from American International Pictures , filmed ( naturally ) on the cheap though still retaining a certain cheesy style that is both commendable and entertaining to watch . A nefarious make-up man for a movie-studio is up to no good , turning the actors he's working on into killers . Has some movie-monster camp appeal , and A . I . P . stable-hunk John Ashley has a fabulous scene midway through ( singing " You Gotta Have That Eee-Uuu ! " while surrounded by a bevy of fishnet-clad chorus girls ! ) . It's a great bit , with Ashley snarling and snapping his fingers like a post-pubescent Elvis , but the rest of this horror outing is a bit too tame and talky . from
Routine flight . . .	Rachel McAdams is very good as smart , efficient hotel concierge who meets a charming gentleman at the airport ; turns out they're on same flight , his seat next to hers , and once the plane is up in the sky he reveals himself to be an assassin and her father is in danger of being killed unless she does what he wants . Wes Craven-directed thriller has some difficulty sustaining suspense and interest in such a confined space , but the opening has promise and all the supporting actors are quite good . Villainous Cillian Murphy ( playing Jackson Rippner ! ) is way over the top however , wielding a airplane phone like a weapon , hilariously running McAdams ' credit card through as if he were slashing somebody . The second-half is where the picture flies into trouble , with Murphy getting increasingly cartoonish and the plot-thread about Rachel's dad increasingly tiresome . Overall , a fair attempt by Wes Craven to try something a little different - - but with head-butts , red herrings and general idiocies clouding the scenario , " Red Eye " turns out to be as bland as airline food . from
Shreddin ' with the big dogs	Jack Black and Kyle Gass play fantasy versions of themselves in this comic showcase for their side-band Tenacious D , an art-rock outfit with satirical , barbed lyrics . An ex-runaway obsessed with heavy metal and a beachfront-living , pot-smoking slacker who pretends he's a rock god meet and form a band ( the birthmarks on both their butt-cheeks form the group's moniker ) . Opening with a funny prologue which apes a Twisted Sister video from the ' 80s , " The Pick of Destiny " is a fairly well-produced movie aimed at older kids ; it occasionally resembles nothing more than a middle-aged variation of " Wayne's World " , with jokey-stoner interludes and a climactic bout with Beelzebub himself , yet Black and Gass have an enormously comfortable rapport ( they also acted as producers , co-wrote the script and all the music ) . The target audience will obviously go for it , though inspiration is a bit low , particularly in the second-half ( just about the time our heroes impulsively outrun the cops in a student-driver car ) . The music sequences are far more successful than the attempts at movie satire and , for the first thirty minutes or so , Jack Black's manic enthusiasm is infectious . from
Not a thriller - - and not much as a drama - - it has almost nil appeal . . .	Evelyn Piper's novel becomes another Bette Davis vehicle made in the wake of Davis ' second-act success starring in creepy melodramas ; unfortunately , the tools are not present in Piper's material for Miss Davis to make a grand show of it , and the film version seems strictly bush-league as a result . Prim English governess may or may not be responsible for the drowning death of a young child . Potentially intriguing scenario never livens up , and director Seth Holt restrains Bette to the point of her seeming catatonic . Hammer Films production is overwhelmingly gloomy , not scary , and the supporting players are of little help . Colorless and largely forgettable . from
" Soylent Green is . . . ! " an unbearable downer	Charlton Heston plays a cop in overpopulated , undernourished 2022 New York City who stumbles upon government secret involving the foodstuff everyone is eating . Another pessimistic vision of a grim , grimy future with memorable scenes of angry crowds pushing and shoving , but unmemorable Heston just going through the motions . Even in his quieter moments with roommate Edward G . Robinson ( in his final bow ) , Heston is about as lively as a brick . Even as straight , colorless thrillers go , " Soylent Green " is less a movie and more of an idea that isn't quite realized . Robinson has a bravura dying scene , surrounded by comforting lights and a widescreen nature film , but the film is decidedly square , melodramatic instead of menacing . from
Glum horror hodgepodge . . .	Sam Elliott and Katharine Ross play an American couple traveling through England where they are taken in by a mysterious millionaire who apparently heads up a devil's coven . The evil lurking at the mansion won't allow anyone to leave - - and so we're all held prisoner together , watching the guests meet their ' imaginative ' grisly fates . Fashionable nastiness , " Ten Little Indians " style , with director Richard Marquand showing no sympathy for his victims - - nor giving viewers any genuine thrills to enjoy along the way . Marquand gets ridiculously showy with his camera tricks - - even staging one shot through the nozzle in Elliott's shower stall ! Lethargy settles in early , the talented leads are wasted , and the shocks are awfully slow in coming . from
America's answer to " Priscilla , Queen of the Desert " . . .	Flabby " feel good " drag queen comedy features Wesley Snipes , Patrick Swayze and John Leguizamo as three drag-pageant contestants traveling cross-country to the show by car , getting stuck in a backwater town and turning the hayseed residents around on their overalls . This movie's comedic / sentimental vision of Bumpkinville , U . S . A . plays like a " Hee Haw " valentine , and its idea of drag artists is to put muscular guys like Swayze and Snipes in dresses and then ask them to defend themselves with fisticuffs . Very depressing . . . as is Swayze's bland performance . Leguizamo is colorful and has some amusing moments , but the sub-plot with Chris Penn as a wronged policeman is excruciating . In the end , it's just a slightly flamboyant sitcom , with the standard put-downs and dumb gags , redeemed slightly by scattered laughs . from
Gorgeous images , uncompelling characters . . .	Set in an indiscriminate time and place , Francis Coppola's " Rumble Fish " looks like a cross between " Rebel Without a Cause " and " The Last Picture Show " . Matt Dillon , used mainly for his James Dean-like sneer and bravado , plays rebellious younger brother to legendary , motorcycle-riding hellraiser Mickey Rourke , now living in a seedy dive with a heroin-shooting girl . Coppola , too closely following up S . E . Hinton's " The Outsiders " with this darker-tinged Hinton material , creates crystalline perfection with his black-and-white images - - arty but not abstract , and visually quite satisfying - - but the pacing flags early without any charismatic characters . The cast ( with Dillon , Diane Lane , and Nicolas Cage in particular looking so youthful and eager ) is a terrific ensemble , but partnered with this barbed , impenetrable script , the actors come off as blank dolts . The results are artificial in every sense , though not uninteresting . from
Derivative , PG-rated shocker for pre-teens . . .	Threadbare horror outing has an innocent teen ( Meg Tilly , appealing as always ) attempting to get in good with the popular clique at school ( despite the fact they seem to hate her outright ) and letting herself be subjected to their sorority-like initiation : spending the night in a creepy mausoleum . Despite the complete absence of originality , this low-budget thriller manages to come up with some decent special effects and has several good performances ( particularly by Robin Evans , oozing campy viciousness as the leader of the girls ) . The script isn't razor sharp , but it has enough quirks to make the proceedings somewhat bearable . from
" Get the big one , Paul ! Get it ! "	Disgruntled former scientist with NASA is brought back to the fold after a comet - - " wrenched out of orbit by Jupiter's gravitational pull ! " - - collides with an asteroid in space , sending a chunk of rock five miles wide heading straight for Earth . Disaster flick from American International looks fairly convincing , if you're not too demanding . The heated exchanges between the scientists and the generals is wearing , but at least the sub-plot regarding the stubborn Russians gives us tongue-in-cheek Brian Keith as an astrophysicist and Natalie Wood as his assistant and translator , both speaking perfect Russian ! The dialogue is almost as overwrought as Laurence Rosenthal's score , which would be entertainingly cheesy were it not so repetitive and intrusive . Directed by Ronald Neame , he of " The Poseidon Adventure " , and an apparent victim of director-typecasting . The scientific rhetoric leaves itself open for logical criticism , and when the smaller meteorites hit Asia and the Alps , we are treated to some very tacky archival and stock footage . Pretty depressing overall , with Sean Connery looking uneasy and Henry Fonda inserted here and there as the U . S . President . from
A paltry talent revue - - but , hey , Bette Davis gets to sing !	Warner Bros . empties out its star-stable for a witless talent round-up . Eddie Cantor is the main focus here , playing both himself and a look-alike tour-bus driver trying to break into show business . Bette Davis ' bit , singing the priceless " They're Either Too Young or Too Old " , is the highlight here , and Davis-addicts should be feasting off this cameo for years ( she's really quite delightful ) . The other guests ( Dennis Morgan , Dinah Shore , John Garfield , Humphrey Bogart , Errol Flynn , Olivia de Havilland , et al ) aren't at all memorable with the colorless scraps they're handed . Tailor-made for the 1940s , this looks pretty hoary today . from
Improvisational drama without much on its mind . . .	Character-oriented piece from director Wayne Wang centering on the owner of a New York-based smoke shop , his offbeat clientèle and assorted colorful friends . Heavily improvisational - - yet only intermittently interesting - - " Smoke " managed to create a small cult with audiences and critics , although neither the actors nor Paul Auster ( the credited screenwriter ) have anything important to say . It's imperative in a talking-heads movie like this to create a beguiling inner-sanctum , a small universe within this store with its rapidly changing groups , but Wang only gets strong scenes out of Harvey Keitel and Ashley Judd . Some interesting bits and pieces ( and a moving finish ) make the picture worthwhile for art-films fans . Followed by the sequel " Blue In The Face " in 1995 . from
Preposterous . . . but not without interest	Unusually cold and silly drama from director Sydney Pollack . Soapy plot revolves around adulterous couple perishing in a plane wreck , leaving their spouses to find eachother and connect on their own intimate level . Romance-novel writing gets sluggish treatment , although I thought the performances by leads Harrison Ford and Kristen Scott-Thomas were fine . Slick production holds interest , even though the plot keeps covering the same ground , and never builds any emotional momentum . As a result , the climax in the airport is a big ' So What ? '
A sci-fi stiff . . .	James Bond blasts off into the galaxy in order to stop a madman from creating his own ' perfect ' world in space and destroying Earth . Roger Moore was very much in command as James Bond for the often eloquent " The Spy Who Loved Me " in 1977 ( it was really Moore's peak as Agent 007 , as he exuded both charm and masculine grace ) . In " Moonraker " , Moore seems as alien to James Bond as any newcomer to the role would be . He seems to have stepped into the part by chance , and when he outwits his new leading lady ( the leaden Lois Chiles ) or the bad guys , he's just relying on exteriors - - there's nothing of consequence going on underneath . This spy adventure takes place mostly in space ( not the fastest moving of scenarios , unless you've got George Lucas as director ) , and brings back Richard Kiel's wonderful steel-toothed villain Jaws from " The Spy Who Loved Me " , but it's an enervated story which bears scant resemblance to Ian Fleming's book . from
Overwrought	Extremely moody melodrama ( told mostly in flashback ) has young war vet struggling to adjust to civilian life , bringing over Italian bride to live with him and his parents . But trouble begins almost immediately , mostly because the kid's mom is a neurotic mess . Film takes an ETERNITY setting up it's story ( which is pretty basic ) and John Ericson is terribly miscast in the leading role ( when he tries for seriousness , this well-scrubbed youth only looks petulant and selfish ) . Rod Steiger fans might want to take a look ; this was his first movie , and he's very good as a psychiatrist .
Ready-made star-crossed tale	Although I found this version of the story more palpable than the musical " The King And I " , which was so stagy and heavy it felt like a pound cake soaking wet , I still can't understand why this is such a beloved story . It has a musty , old-fashioned theme - - which is constructed here like a connect-the-dots book - - and I quickly found myself impatient with the scenario and all the people in it . Jodie Foster ( far less flexible than she's capable of being ) is uncomfortable using a British accent , and her romantic rapport with Chow Yun Fat is mild , to be charitable ( they'd make great buddies ) . Events in the film can practically be checked off a list ; and when violence erupts near the finale , it's neither gripping nor exciting , just painfully slack . from
Events leading up to the Gay Uprising of 1969 - - told in connect-the-dots fashion	A young gay man from the sticks comes to New York City in 1969 hoping for a better life , but finds the homosexual lifestyle just as stifled in the big city under police pressure , corruption and harassment . The legendary gay riots near the Stonewall Inn take up just five minutes of the film's running-time , the final five minutes . This low-budget , brightly-colored film is more interested in the lives that would soon be affected by the riots than in the aftermath of the violence - - and so we get stock characters like the naive blond cowboy , the underworld group controlling the club , the straight-seeming activists for a Homosexual Alliance , and lots and lots of drag queens . Director Nigel Finch seems to make a concerted effort to equate homosexuality with drag behavior , and drag behavior with ( ultimately ) prostitution . Perhaps this was true of the times , but Finch's presentation ( though not campy ) has cartoonish leanings and nostalgic overtures that don't express anything more than what most people already realize : the cops were corrupt , the gays were not saints , and they clashed . There's a good movie to be made about Stonewall , but this one just scratches the surface . There are some sweet moments ( a sing-along on a bus , a dance between a drag queen and a gay conservative ) , but just as many scenes where the tone intended hasn't a hope in hell of coming through . from
Well-intentioned , but tuneless and lumbering G-rated boys ' adventure . . .	Mark Twain's timeless story turned into a wholesome , plastic-coated musical with cutesy-poo asides and unmemorable songs . Composers Richard and Robert Sherman also adapted the screenplay , but they don't have the feel of Twain's prose down ( or perhaps the book is singularly impossible to adequately get on film ? ) . Johnny Whitaker , a fine child actor of the 1970s , tries his best as young Tom Sawyer , a hell-raisin ' , tall tale-tellin ' ragamuffin in 1840s Hannibal , Missouri ; Whitaker isn't a singer ( not many in the cast are ) , yet these songs would likely trip anybody up . Instantly forgettable , the lead-in for each tune takes an excruciating four or five seconds of hesitation , as if this were an old musical from the 1940s . Despite real Missouri locations , there isn't much here that rings true . Not Celeste Holm's Aunt Polly ( who punishes Tom and then smiles wistfully at his antics , ready to burst into song ) , nor Warren Oates as whiskey-swillin ' Muff Potter . Jeff East is sorely miscast as Tom's best friend , drop-out Huckleberry Finn ( East appears to have wandered in from the nearest citified casting agency ) , although Jodie Foster is nearly-perfect as girlfriend Becky Thatcher ( it probably helped that Foster and Whitaker had already made a picture together , 1972's " Napoleon and Samantha " , as they have a built-in rapport which is immediately apparent ) . The 1800s milieu - - from the schoolhouse to the riverboat landing to the picnic grounds - - is distinctly artificial , rendering the end results a misfire in a sub-Disney vein . Reader's Digest financed the project ( they followed this with a sequel , " Huckleberry Finn " , in 1974 ) , and were nearly trumped by a TV-version of Twain's book which aired the same week this movie premiered ! from
James Coburn is lean and mean . . . but he's no James Bond	Mad scientists attempt to control the world by managing our weather patterns ; cocky super-agent Derek Flint ( a shockingly youthful James Coburn ) is assigned to stop them . In the spy-saturated 1960's , this rather slack addition to the genre would seem an unlikely stand-out , and yet it was successful enough to warrant a sequel ( 1967's " In Like Flint " ) . Perhaps its passable style , tongue-in-cheek sense of intrigue , and mix of adventure and satire made it seem hip to 1966 audiences , but today it looks like second rate 007 . By satirizing a genre already so steeped in self-reverence , the picture is not only dated but redundant as well . Coburn is focused and wiry , but I always liked him more as a villain ; here , he's so smoothed of any kind of irony or personal complication that the first few scenes of him give you all he's got . Lee J . Cobb , as Flint's superior , has one or two funny , hammy moments , but otherwise it's a loss . from
Had promise , but the ' dark humor ' goes too far . . .	Shakespearean thespian Edward Lionheart ( Vincent Price ) strikes back at the stuffy critics who've skewered him in print and plots an elaborate death for each one . A delicious idea for a black farce is unfortunately hampered by a direction that takes things too far ( did Douglas Hickox forget this was supposed to be funny ? ) . Price is in the proper spirit , but such grisly deeds turn the film and his performance into gross , gory camp . Fans of perverse , queasy dark comedies will undoubtedly find the morbid humor here quite amusing , but it's rather a shoddy , brackish looking picture , one with the sour aftertaste of nasty exploitation . from
" Blazing Saddles " on Valium	Writer-director High Wilson must have been a big admirer of those gentle , low-keyed western serials from the ' 30s and ' 40s , but how he managed to sell this homage in the mid-1980s is a mystery . Deliberately mild outdoor yarn features Tom Berenger as a singing cowboy and Andy Griffith as a corrupt sheriff . Both actors are nicely cast with tongue-in-cheek , but the movie's anachronistic handling is a prolonged in-joke which ultimately leaves the viewer shut off from the humor . The plotting is incidental and slim , and the affection Wilson has for the lead character is translated too coyly . Almost completely inoffensive , it's a picture that barely lingers in the memory . from
Full of howlers , inane manipulation , and " justice gone wrong " . . .	Ordinary Joe Tom Selleck is in the right house at the wrong time when two scummy cops invade his home to arrest him for drugs ; Selleck is clean , the cops made a mistake , so they rectify their gaffe by planting the goods on him . Next stop : the courtroom ( where an ages-old marijuana infraction rears its ugly head ) , and eventually the Big House . Once Selleck is behind bars , plotting to clear his good name , the picture falls into that timeworn , melodramatic vat of jailhouse clichés . It's a trap for the character as well as the audience . Peter Yates directed , hoping to spare us none of the horrors and humiliations of life in the jug . It's played for the sensational . . . and yet some viewers actually get caught up in it . Perhaps they're too young to know it has all been done before . from
The Vietnam war used strictly for sentiment . . .	Modern-day story has an inquisitive young teen unearthing the past and discovering the father she never knew by reading his diary ; he died in combat before her birth , and the girl's interest spurs her war-scarred uncle to take her on an emotional visit to the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial . Opening in late September 1989 , this film was touted in all the major newspapers as Bruce Willis ' Oscar role ( though he was overlooked by the Academy when the time came ) . Seen today , the picture doesn't seem to have any purpose except to showcase the actor's range ( limited as it is ) and also to squeeze dry the remaining emotions left behind by the Vietnam experience - - Hollywood style . Emily Lloyd , as the kid in question , and Peggy Rea , as Mamaw , are tiresome copies of distinctly old-fashioned archetypes - - the wise juvenile and the salty matriarch - - used over and over in similar movie scenarios since WWII ( and probably beyond ) . Norman Jewison directed , without an ounce of honest inspiration . Whatever discussions or suspicions addressed in the script are pretty much forgotten by the finale , which does everything just shy of saluting . from
A sickly succession of trial and error , contrasted with smiles all around . . .	Mary Stuart Masterson attempts to give a subtle , thoughtful , nuanced performance as a pregnant , unwed teenager about to give up her soon-to-be-born baby to a married couple who have chosen adoption , but the cutesy-coy writing here defeats her - - and everyone else . Glenn Close and James Woods are credible as the prospective parents desperate to have a family , but neither is given much of a character to play , and Close in particular has some fearsome dialogue ( " She's going to have a boy ! How do I know ? I saw the penis ! " ) . Kevin Dillon is cringe-worthy as Masterson's thuggish , chain-smoking boyfriend , and the feel-good trimmings which dot the narrative are pure balderdash . Only for gullible viewers . from
Cruddy-looking thriller - - but Jenny Wright is fun	Jenny Wright is engaging as an offbeat young woman - - a bookworm addicted to pulpy thrillers - - who is stalked by a monster right out of the pages of her latest read . Nicely set in Hollywood , California , this B-flick unfortunately doesn't have the budget to cover its pulp-thriller aspirations . Director Tibor Takács attempts to build creepy-funny tension and atmosphere , but the script by David Chaskin is too thin , and lacks both the wit and panache for Takács to get the film over the top . And yet Jenny Wright is a lot of fun ( she's like a kindred spirit to Joan Cusack ) . Comedic thriller has some memorable bits , but it needed more production finesse and substance . from
Audrey's chic , lithe charm provides the film's only asset . . .	One of Audrey Hepburn's lesser romantic entries , a well-coiffed valentine in which she's improbably paired with wooden Gary Cooper , a star-combo gambit which fails to pay off . Hepburn , playing a French detective's daughter , is in love with an American smoothie , a playboy who wants this new girlfriend investigated and unwittingly hires her father to do so . Maurice Chevalier was a good choice for Hepburn's dad , but he's much too hammy and overbearing with this genteel material . Audrey looks wonderful ( with the slight exception of her cumbersome hairdo ) and is dressed to the nines , but her Ariane is far from the sharp cookie of Sabrina Fair . Handsome attempt at sophisticated comedy from director Billy Wilder ( who also co-produced and co-wrote the screenplay with writing partner I . A . L . Diamond , from Claude Anet's novel ) sadly lacks the master's trademark snap . from
Undisciplined cuteness ; where's Brooks when you need him ?	Eyesore comic farce has detective Sherlock Holmes throwing his brother a bone and letting him solve baffling blackmail case in foggy London . Gene Wilder , who wrote , directed and stars , obviously needed some restraint ; when Wilder doesn't have a director or co-hort like Mel Brooks to help level his excesses , he can be too much to take . Wilder has enough vitality and ingenuity for three people , but he's undisciplined and doesn't know when to hold back . As a director , he allows his own scenes to go too far , and apparently didn't encourage the editor to trim the chafe . In this context , it is amazing that Marty Feldman and Madeline Kahn get much to do , yet they each have some funny scenes - - however , Feldman's eye-shtick is over-used and Kahn's showy scenes , such as her sequence in a music-hall , are botched by bad photography , timing , and staging . Wilder never seems to know where to put the camera , and " Smarter Brother " ends up looking sloppy . from
Satire of Hollywood phonies - - by phonies	Michael Tolkin impressed me so much with his film " The Rapture " that it was certainly depressing to then see his talents go to waste with this absurd comedy of lost morals . A graphic designer and her Hollywood honcho husband are in big financial trouble : she has no clients and he just quit his job . Some of their solutions are quirky and interesting , but the characters are off-base right from the start . Tolkin is the new Sidney Lumet : everyone screams irrationally at everyone , but it's tough to discern whether or not we're supposed to laugh at their banal verbal matches - - from opposite ends of their swimming pool ! In the leads ( another problem ) , Judy Davis and Peter Weller can't work up any semblance of chemistry , or to even convince us they're a high-powered married couple . A few of their marital predicaments are worked out amusingly ( they separate within the house , and date others ) , but their jealousies and insecurities are a bore . Tolkin ( the screenwriter of " The Player " ) pretends to know these people . He's pseudo-hip . It would be to his ultimate advantage if he broadened his horizons . . . or maybe made some new friends . from
Los Angeles is already doomed . . . never mind the theatrics	Uneven plateaus under the earth in Los Angeles have separated far enough for molten lava at the Earth's core to come erupting to the surface . . . of the La Brea Tar Pits ? " Volcano " IS the pits , what with an Emergency Management Director rushing around after his daughter and a female seismologist tossing off sarcastic witticisms as if she were one of Charlie's Angels ( Anne Heche , being ' plucky ' , gets around to all the appropriate stops too quickly - - and knows too much too fast - - for us to take her seriously , never mind the Emergency guy ) . It's tough to respond to a picture like this , basic as it is in its carnal desire to be a rousing death-fest . We see one nice guy with a nicotine problem go down in the fiery ooze ( the look on his face asks , " how horrified should I be ? " ) , we get heroics and wiseass observations , and it all rings very hollow - - as if everyone involved were in on a private joke . from
Crying-on-the-inside masochism	Interminable biography of comedian / singer Joe E . Lewis is transformed into a Frank Sinatra star-vehicle , which is handicapped by a leaden script that turns over all the old show-biz clichés , rarely revealing anything human . Lewis , a crooner in 1920s Chicago , is bullied by gangsters but rebels and has his throat slashed ; he recovers and enters burlesque as a comic , then becomes a full-time comedian - - with an alcohol problem . This is the kind of movie where the star is center-stage , drunk and slurring his words , and everyone in the audience ( including his ex-fiancée ! ) exchanges worried glances about his well-being - - it's a nightclub yet no one else is drunk , therefore no one else can infringe on Sinatra's spotlight . Frank is doing a real star-turn , but these unplayable scenes are made up of timeworn pathos . The film is bolstered by solid supporting work from Eddie Albert , Jeanne Crain and Beverly Garland - - doing a sassy Eve Arden - - but it's ultimately too long and too shapeless to hold interest . from
" Chained Heat " revisited	Women-in-prison flick involving an innocent American tourist in West Germany who is mistaken for a spy , grilled until exhaustion sets in , and sent to jail without a word to her soldier-fiancé . After publicly nixing her hit " Chained Heat " on just about every talk show of the 1980s , it's amazing that star Linda Blair would even think of doing another jailhouse underachiever . This one , filmed in chilly blues and grays , is just as seedy and depressing . The roster comes complete with a decadently lascivious guard ( gaunt , kinky Sylvia Kristel ) , a terrified blonde , a friendly butch , and lots of malicious broads . And yet the direction is fairly tight , the locales are interesting , and the movie is engrossing almost in spite of itself . As for Blair , she keeps her dignity and has a few strong scenes , including being interrogated and collapsing under the pressure or standing up to the review board with a firm " f you ! " from
Phony star-driven vehicle . . .	Talented screenwriter Alvin Sargent sadly cannot get any engaging ideas cooking in this artificial trifle about a wayward mother and her mature teenage daughter trying to make their lives work in Los Angeles despite mom's flighty behavior . Apart from several good sequences , I didn't quite buy Susan Sarandon as a flake ( she's too intrinsically smart and focused to be passed off as this devil-may-care lady ) , and her naturally grounded personality is a bad fit for the role of an irresponsible parent . Natalie Portman fares much better as her kid , and yet there's a creepy aloofness to her work ( and some of her scenes , such as the one where she asks a boy to strip , are misguided and uncomfortable to watch ) . Certainly not an incompetent piece , " Anywhere But Here " does have moments that work , but it isn't an embraceable film , nor has it proved to be an important one . from
Perhaps if they had had Elke Sommer or Kim Novak on-board . . . ?	Disparate group of men ( James Stewart , Peter Finch , Richard Attenborough , Hardy Kruger , Ernest Borgnine , and George Kennedy ) are lost in the Arabian desert after their plane crashes in a sandstorm . Two-and-a-half hours of grim uncertainty , staged by Robert Aldrich like a cross between " And Then There Were None " and " Lawrence of Arabia " . With Captain Stewart over-enunciating all his dialogue ( as if he'd gone deaf or , perhaps , thought the rest of us had ) and the other men performing in a game of one-upsmanship , the drama at hand becomes stilted and inert . The characters are stock anyway , and the clichés begin to pile up like sand dunes . Turgid , occasionally laughable adventure , remade in 2004 . from
A blank slate of human despair . . .	There's nothing cunning about the approach taken in " The Weather Man " . It isolates us in one man's depressive vacuum of bloat and helplessness , yet it never digs deeper to become a meaningful treatise on Life , and the lead performance seems to encourage that . Nicolas Cage plays a Chicago weather announcer on TV who considers his job a fast-food fix for storm-watchers ; a reluctant chump , he wants to impress his father ( a Pulitzer-Prize winning writer ) with talk of a novel , and he tries staying close to his two kids with his ex-wife , but the unrealistic hope of bringing everyone together is constantly stalled by his own sudden fits of anger and irritation over his life going sour . The movie seems to be about the masks we have to wear ( or choose to wear ) , but , curiously rather than intriguingly , there's nothing going on underneath . Cage takes this man's despair and puts a blank face on it ; he is strenuously low-keyed . His voice a boyish monotone , Cage is successful in the scenes with his daughter ( a pre-teen schlub ) , but overall his work seems blobby , shapeless . Michael Caine is an interesting choice as his father , and Caine underplays nicely , but nothing is at risk or resolved in this relationship . Many elements of the weather man's life are relatable to a large audience , but director Gore Verbinski and writer Steve Conrad seal this world off , to such a degree that even a big network job Cage is hoping for doesn't seem likely or exciting ( I was thinking the network would be better off choosing somebody else ) . Plot-threads are woven here without any verve , and the points Verbinski attempts to make about the bitterness we're made to feel in an unfeeling society backfire . It's a sleek , handsome piece of work , but dead ( both subjectively and intrinsically ) at its core . from
Anemic marital shenanigans . . .	Thin comedy rests solely on the appeal of the stars , and Rosalind Russell and Robert Cummings are a very companionable screen-team . She's a smart , sharp , yet somewhat clumsy lady lawyer - - being nominated for judgeship - - whose career may be hindered by her association with Cummings , the no-goodnik ex-husband still in love with her . Some funny set-pieces ( such as Roz's bit involving a lipstick mistake ) and a predictably sunny , smooth supporting performance by Gig Young as a dashing Romeo make it tolerable , but the script and characters are really second hand . There's a curious , but ridiculous skiing sequence that serves no purpose ( except to make Cummings look foolish ) and Norman Foster's direction is balky . from
Surly whodunit set in Utah ; camp with a clenched-jaw . . .	Unbelievable murder-mystery centering around an upscale lodge in Utah , wherein sheriff John Dehner ( in a cowboy hat ) investigates the gruesome slaying of a blonde actress , a " man-hating witch " who had plenty of enemies . Soon , more bodies start popping up , the main suspects being : Lex Barker as the local he-man ( with his navel judiciously covered at the pool ) , Ron Randell as an anti-social quadriplegic , Anne Bancroft as his wet-nurse , Mamie Van Doren as a model , and Larry Chance as Indian Joe ( Chance appears to believe his character is a Wooden Indian instead of a Drunken Indian ) . Low-budget adaptation of Peter Godfrey's short story " Wanton Murder " , this B-flick might have been a hoot had it been directed with some flair . Unfortunately , Howard W . Koch ( who later became a famous producer ) sets up this whodunit like a plodding amateur , and most of the acting is atrocious ( including La Bancroft ) . Van Doren has an oddly surreal tipsy scene that rates as pure camp and Dan Blocker is fun as a leering bartender ( how come he isn't a suspect ? ) , but the poor writing defeats Dehner and Randell . The title is mysteriously irrelevant , however the setting is unusual and the black-and-white cinematography isn't bad . Les Baxter's melodramatic score heightens the ridiculousness , but serious movie-lovers will only scoff . from
Incredible talents promise more than the film delivers . . .	Woefully overwritten , overbaked melodrama with a familiar but nonetheless intriguing central idea : three men in a snowy small town come upon a downed plane in an isolated area and find that it is full of money - - should they split the loot up and keep it a secret or should they report their findings ? Scott B . Smith adapted his own novel for the screen , but his imagination tends to get the best of him , with a plot that swings wildly from reality right into a horror story . The picture goes around in circles , belaboring all the same points , while implausibilities quickly begin to stack up . Billy Bob Thornton received an Oscar nomination for his solid supporting work , but Bill Paxton and Bridget Fonda are fairly colorless . from
Paging Lucy Ricardo . . .	Second-biller from R . K . O . is an early , creaky vehicle for the young Lucille Ball , who had yet to make a big impression in Hollywood . Certainly this picture wasn't going to do it for her , however she's pretty good in the film's early moments . A plain-Jane housewife , whose workaholic accountant husband is assigned to entertain one of the young executives , senses hanky-panky and kicks her spouse out ; the executive ( for reasons unclear , perhaps guilt ) plays matchmaker and devises a plan to bring the lovebirds back together via a ruse : dress Lucy up as a vivacious millionairess from South America ! 68-minute throwaway does manage to pack a lot of zany mix-ups into its scenario , but aside from a few amusing sight-gags , it's a dud . This couple doesn't seem to be suffering from the marital blahs at all - - they appear to be suffocating under the thumb of the wife's meddlesome mother . Lucy , at one point appearing in a dual role , gets to wear a black wig and talk with an accent , but the writing stymies her ( as it does the gaggle of supporting characters , each with his or her own agenda ) . Director Ray McCarey , brother of Leo , attempts something akin to screwball , but this script has two many screws , none of which are fastened . from
A curious change of pace for an acting Angel . . .	Before Farrah Fawcett starred in the wife-abuse television film " The Burning Bed " - - unintentionally spawning a new genre for TV movies ( glamorous actresses going gritty with serious material ) , another " Charlie's Angels " star , Cheryl Ladd , went dramatic ; here , she's the abuser . A suburban wife and mother finds she can't control a streak of inner-rage against her little girl , sending off signals to her husband ( Robert Ulrich ) but not getting any answers . This glossy production means well , but it promises a lot more than it delivers . Ladd , herself a proponent against child abuse in real-life , does mediocre work and Carmen Culver's tame script is disappointingly flat ( especially when compared to another TV-movie , " Mary Jane Harper Cried Last Night " from 1977 ) . Ladd was the not the forerunner for domestic unrest : she is coiffed , manicured , and flatteringly photographed . Perhaps she was making a point - - that even upscale wives and mothers can easily spin out of control - - but it doesn't lend this scenario any backbone when the lead actress looks like a million dollars .
Vicious wit gone limp . . .	Brazen teenage girl leaves an unhappy home to live with her gay half-brother , but she ends up seducing her brother's chiseled-but-naive lover - - convincing him that she's carrying his child . Over-stuffed , acid-tongued comedy-of-ills is chockful of unlikable people . Credit director Don Roos for going full-throttle with such chancy material , yet the edges of this brittle script are rather limp ; the movie is either amusingly bitchy or offensively boring , with joke-gimmicks that don't work and a strident narrative pitched way too high . Lisa Kudrow is the sole bright spot playing a friend of the family . In the lead , unremarkable Christina Ricci turns up her urchin chin at the camera and squints her eyes in seductive thought , but she's trying too hard to be sexy - - she's pouty , but hardly a Lolita . from
Prospecting for gold with an actor / director asleep at the wheel . . .	Peter Fonda is so intentionally enervated as an actor that his lachrymose line-readings cancel out any irony or humor in the dialogue . He trades sassy barbs and non-witty repartee with Brooke Shields as if he were a wooden block with receding hair ; even his smaller touches ( like fingering a non-existent mustache on his grizzled face ) don't reveal a character so much as an unsure actor being directed by himself , an unsure filmmaker . In the Southwest circa 1950 , a poor gambler ( not above a little cheating ) wins an orphaned , would-be teen Lolita in a botched poker game ; after getting hold of a treasure map promising gold in the Grand Canyon , the bickering twosome become prospectors . Some lovely vistas , and an odd but interesting cameo by Henry Fonda as a grizzled canyon man , are the sole compensations in fatigued comedy-drama , with the two leads being trailed by cartoonish killers who will stop at nothing until they get their hands on that map . Shields is very pretty , but - - although the camera loves her pouty , glossy beauty - - she has no screen presence ( and her tinny voice has no range whatsoever ) ; every time she opens her mouth , one is inclined to either cringe or duck . from
Mild magic . . .	Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman are well-cast as estranged sisters in the present day who reunite , only to become involved in a murder , covering their tracks while dodging an out-of-town cop who's hot on the case . After rocketing to stardom with her co-starring role in " Speed " , Sandra Bullock has struggled with her celebrity and the results on-screen have been mixed , to say the least ( " While You Were Sleeping " was cute , but I barely made it through " 28 Days " - - which felt like it ) . " Practical Magic " is a mild fantasy with dramatic and comedic overtones , admirably more of a character-study than a special effects-induced outing ( which probably turned many viewers off ) . The attempt is certainly there , the production design is handsome , but the characters don't really come off . Bullock is truly appealing , though Kidman and Aidan Quinn have very little to work with , and the supporting actresses ( Stockard Channing and Dianne Wiest ) are forgettable , much like the film . It's a time-filler , leaving no lasting impression . from
Thriller about robotized teens - - made for robotized teens . . .	Youthful variation on " The Stepford Wives " ( and perhaps even " The Parallax View " ) has square-jawed James Marsden - - a jock-equivalent of Tom Cruise - - playing a high school misfit ( ! ) , relocated East from Chicago and finding a clique of sweater-wearing , easy listening-loving teenagers to be more dangerous than they first appear . In a movie about kid-zombies , Marsden is the biggest fake of all ; with the built-in apologia that his character has gone off-course because of his brother's suicide , it is still completely unacceptable for model-perfect Marsden to be palmed off as a have-not ( he'd be readily accepted at any high school , and the stoners who befriend him here wouldn't stand a chance ) . It's a disastrous piece of casting , not helped by the slang-heavy dialogue , sounding as if it were written by a high school drop-out armed with a thesaurus . Katie Holmes attempts to smolder as another hellion , complete with nose-ring , but her jaded eye-rolls and expressions don't do much for her or the picture . The heavy whiff of cynicism throughout is daunting ; and though the movie is remarkably well-produced , it hasn't an original thought or idea in its head . from
The kind of witless farce talented actors usually run from . . .	Thank God Bill Murray doesn't have to make films like this anymore ! A relentlessly unfunny affair , " What About Bob ? " resembles a movie in limbo : half farce , half dark comedy , and neither half successful . Richard Dreyfuss plays a prominent psychiatrist , currently on the bestseller's list with his new self-help book " Baby Steps " , who has a patient referred to him by a colleague on the verge of collapse - - and for good reason : it's phobia-prone Bill Murray , an anxiety-ridden big kid who needs lots of attention . He soon gets it after joining Dreyfuss and his family in New Hampshire at their vacation home . There's a good movie in here somewhere , but the results seem to show no decisive captain of the ship ( it's certainly not director Frank Oz , who crawls through a dreary opening set-up , only to take us out to the country where sunny days are followed by stormy nights , a TV camera-crew shows up unannounced , and the staff at a medical hospital have nothing else to do but sit around and josh ) . Perhaps portions of the film were reshot against everyone's wishes , which might explain the unfunny tension coating the production like so much ill will . from
In-jokey Warners musical overdoses on perky cuteness . . .	Jack Carson and Dennis Morgan play themselves as two egotistical movie stars arguing over the direction of their latest film-project , later attempting to make an actress out of bumpkin-waitress Doris Day . This was Doris ' third film , and it forces her to overdo her freckle-faced , tomboyish sweetness ( she has energy to spare , but the role itself is unctuous ) . Many famous faces from the Warner Bros . stable appear in cameos , some of which are awkward ( Ronald Reagan , Errol Flynn ) , others very amusing ( Joan Crawford once remarked this was one of her favorite film appearances ! ) . Overall , pretty flimsy , interesting to movie-buffs only as a curio . from
Glossy , forgettable Vincente Minnelli nonsense . . .	Witless romp featuring Gregory Peck as a sports writer who has a whirlwind courtship with fashion guru Lauren Bacall , leading to a quick trip to the altar . Cinemascope fluff does allow Peck to loosen up for a change , but the screenplay seems to have been written around the opportunities for mini-fashion shows ( indeed , costumer Helen Rose devised the movie's premise , which helped win a Best Screenplay Oscar for writer George Wells ) . It's very slow on laughs until the amusing farcial conclusion . Peck and Bacall are a not a sparkling romantic duo , nor is the lackluster supporting cast any help . Good to look at , perhaps , but certainly not memorable . from
Some good one-liners in asinine comic set-up	Albert Brooks co-wrote and stars in this sometimes-bright but terribly unsubtle comedy about a talent scout for the New York Yankees who loses his reputation after getting a skittish college Freshman signed to the team ( the Yankees apparently scheduled the kid to pitch in a televised game without any training or pre-game publicity whatsoever , so don't they get what they deserve ? ) ; Brooks is banished to South Central Mexico to find talent , and yet when he comes up with another promising pitcher , he's fired over the telephone ( in one of those excruciating sitcom developments the movie occasionally falls prey to ) . The new pitcher ( Brendan Fraser , still in " Encino Man " mode ) is a child in a young man's body , thereby linking the scout and the player on an emotionally-needy basis ( not solid ground for laugh-out-loud comedy ) . Brooks as an actor is very ingratiating - - he always has been - - but this material , despite some very amusing one-liners , is stale , highly concocted , and immature . Many real-life sports luminaries appear in cameos . . . perhaps they should have been allowed to strengthen the script . from
" The anchor is heavier than the ship . . . "	Assured and self-amused Bob Hope glides smoothly through jokey western involving an insurance salesman from New York unknowingly selling a valuable life policy to the infamous gunslinger / train robber Jesse James ; he's forced by his boss to head West to find Jesse and ask for the policy back . Hope's nervous shtick routine ( always followed by a series of variable one-liners ) isn't quite the stuff of side-splitting comedy - - and yet he's so adept at these gags , there's nostalgic pleasure in just watching him have at it . A few of the jokes and sight-gags which bomb out the first time are then repeated ( such as Hope's brim unfurling after a stiff drink , or a goat snacking on playing cards ) . After an hour or so , fatigue sets in , and Wendell Corey seems to have no idea how to play outlaw James . Saloon singer Rhonda Fleming , in a succession of lovely Edith Head gowns , provides a nice love-interest and shares a fun duet with Bob . The finale is a real delight , great for movie and TV buffs , and nearly makes the picture worthwhile . from
Hummable and hammy , weighted down with ostentatious ' attitude '	Musical remake of John Waters ' cult-comedy from 1988 , adapted from the Broadway triumph and full of toe-tapping songs - - each one a ' showstopper ' that hopes to obliterate the number that came before - - has a " short and stout " white high schooler in 1960s Baltimore becoming a teen-sensation on the TV dance-program " The Corny Collins Show " , which is run by bigots afraid of integrating white and black dancers . Leslie Dixon's script retains much of Waters ' original elements - - which is a good thing - - but she doesn't allow the characters to take shape , and teen rabble-rouser Tracy Turnblad ( well-played by newcomer Nikki Blonsky ) hardly gets to make her mark on the tube before leading a protest march on Baltimore against segregation . Comparing the two movie versions is pretty much useless ( Waters ' film wasn't a musical after all , and it had a far slimmer budget ) , but beefing up the ( supporting ) characters of Velma Von Tussle and Motormouth Maybelle was pointless ( except to showcase Michelle Pfeiffer and Queen Latifah , respectively , in these roles ) . Centering so much of the plot on Von Tussle ( now the station manager who handles " Corny Collins " ) takes time away from Tracy and her new boyfriend , and from the teen-celebrity angle itself . Tracy still signs on to be a spokesmodel for Mr . Pinky's Hefty Hideaway , but after one musical number in his shop , we never see him again . Casting John Travolta as Edna Turnblad was an endearing idea ( the role has traditionally been played by a man in drag ) , but portraying a woman barely brings out a softer side to Travolta ( he has far less grace than usual ) ; a worse gambit was Christopher Walken's casting as Edna's husband - - never before has Walken appeared so charmless and dull . The film gets off to a rousing start , and Blonsky is firing on all cylinders , but the script is a shapeless mess and the direction isn't sensitive . The kids here have lots of in-your-face attitude , when actually a more subtle approach might have given their characters some depth . The Waters version took the racial issues seriously , but presented them in a lively , winner-take-all manner ; here , Dixon and director Adam Shankman are teary-eyed literal , with Latifah singing a spiritual in the street . It drains all the fun and hope from the scenario , in an attempt - - I guess - - to make its nostalgia relevant today . Shankman moves through the scenes so fast that Tracy's audition ( and rejection ) for the TV show isn't even her moment - - she's discarded so Pfeiffer can sing her number . The songs are certainly hummable , though the lyrics continually pit one race over another ( who is superior to who ) , which leaves all the celebrating at the end seeming just a touch shallow . from
A sitcom in soft-focus	An adulterous couple meet at the same cabin every year for a weekend tryst ( we see them every five years ) , while the world's fashions , morals and mores change around them . Ellen Burstyn repeats her Broadway triumph on the screen , and garnered an Oscar nod for Best Actress ; though she's a terrific actress , this role doesn't allow Burstyn any real personality : it's all processed , from the costume and wig changes down to the mannerisms , from youthful girlishness to flip , knowing womanhood . Opposite her , Alan Alda is serviceable though rather uncomfortable , flailing away at little sitcom routines like a fish caught in a net . The sex talk between the two is queasy ( despite being played for big laughs ) , halting the movie in its tracks . There's a love ballad that plays prior to every new chapter , and black-and-white stills representing the passing years , and this is all fine until we get back to that damn cabin . Playwright / screenwriter Bernard Slade doesn't write for the ages , he's too impatient and wants to wring laughter out of every set-up . Therefore , the film is sniggering instead of intuitive , and artificially sentimental instead of human . from
Not much of a movie beyond the wonderful veteran performances . . .	Suicidal young man believes himself to be a descendant of the legendary Latin lover Don Juan ; he's treated by a psychiatrist who could use a little romance in his own staid marriage . Johnny Depp , in a straggly goatee and unkept hair , isn't quite Don Juan material , but portly Marlon Brando is very likable as the doctor and , as his wife , Faye Dunaway shakes off all those old " Mommie Dearest " cobwebs to give a sensual , amiable performance ( she hasn't been this warm or flexible on-screen in years ) . The wispy story has no center and goes back and forth in time without a strong direction , but there are captivating moments beyond Depp's general lack of charisma . from
Constipated sci-fi . . .	Michael Crichton's writing skills are undeniably gripping , and as a movie director he has occasionally shown a deft sense of pacing ; unfortunately for science-fiction fans , Crichton has mainly chosen to waste his craft on piddling , throwaway material like " Runaway " , which is so overloaded with mechanical energy that even Crichton's obvious literary talent and underrated film-making skills go nearly unnoticed . Tom Selleck ( not bad , but looking unhappy and unsure ) plays a cop in the future who hunts down a madman who uses electronics to do his victims in . Some sly gadgetry and a hot supporting performance by Kirstie Alley ( working from next-to-nothing ) enlivens an otherwise stiff , silly action-thriller . from
Jane Powell as . . . all of the above	Jane Powell sparkles as Texas gal Elizabeth Rogers who travels to Europe with her single father and finds romance with a young man - - and also meets the mother she never knew . MGM musical on a less-than-grand scale , yet underrated Powell really pours on the charm and her song numbers are fairly witty . The picture is a bit encumbered by the studio's restrictions - - there are hardly any scenes set outdoors , and the shots of Paris are obviously fillers from MGM's stock - - but the cast ( including Una Merkel , Fernando Lamas and Wendell Corey ) is colorful and the screenplay ( worked on by Sidney Sheldon ) is lively and fun . from
Sick ! Stupid ! . . . but I certainly wasn't bored	Call " Savage Streets " what it is : trash . However , it is amusing , lowest-of-all-levels trash , and I enjoyed Linda Blair's upfront , colorful performance as the vengeful big sister of a rape victim . The dialogue is hilariously vulgar and self-conscious , and the girls ' locker room sequence ( filled with naked babes - - as if this were a women-in-prison flick ) provides just about the final word in exploitive cat fight scenes . The tone wavers from campy juvenalia to psychotic melodrama , and the extreme violence ( as well as the rape scene ) is tough to stomach . However , the film's goal is to be cartoonish junk , and that is surely realized . from
Good cast and interesting teenage characters sacrificed for yahoo thrills . . .	Disney's sequel to their not-bad 1975 hit " Escape To Witch Mountain " brings back Ike Eisenmann and Kim Richards as the teen-tykes from outer space , here battling wits and powers with villainous Bette Davis and Christopher Lee ( and their chauffeur , Anthony James , who also played a chauffeur alongside Davis in " Burnt Offerings " ! ) . Well-enough made , but the movie loses sight of what was so special about the first film ( a kid's flick with the emphasis on character , not overtly outlandish special effects ) . Davis is alert and anxious , but she's practically smothered under the gaudy make-up and is left to chew the scenery without benefit of a strong script . Poor Christopher Lee has it even worse , blending into the foreground action while the kids steal all his scenes . The plotting gets too heavy in the final third , what with Los Angeles about to be decimated and delinquent children running amok , but the worst decision was to separate siblings Tony and Tia for much of the movie . Some good sequences , Jack Soo does nice work in a warm supporting bit , and a goat nearly saves the day ( and gets a big " thank you " to boot ! ) . from
" Lolita " in the ' 90s	Nabokov's Lolita used the affections of a fawning , elderly man ( her stepfather ) for her own purposes - - which never amounted to much more than sex and cash . It only figures that today's Lolita would be dressed to kill , literally . As Drew Barrymore plays her here , she's a sexy homicidal figure with maternal delusions . " Poison Ivy " begins rather endearingly , with high school outcast Sara Gilbert ( looking like the modern equivalent of a teen beatnik ) befriended by a striking blonde student with lots o ' leg and a fake tattoo . This wanton woman-child has no name ; Gilbert calls her " Ivy " and Barrymore likes that ( " It gives me the opportunity to start over , " she says ) . The tone of the picture shifts however before the midway point , with Ivy infiltrating Gilbert's dysfunctional household and seducing dad Tom Skerritt ( doing terrific work ) . Gilbert's narration - - and the surreal jumble which becomes the hectic climax - - is rather off-putting , but there's a great deal of worth in Barrymore's solid performance . The film is stylish on a low-budget and is actually steamier than " Nine Weeks " . Yet , it's really two different pictures struggling within the context of one . A stronger screenplay might've brought the two halves together , although , as the director , Katt Shea Ruben manages to come up with a commendable amount of incidents both amusing and titillating . from
Cheesy stuff	The very first scene of " Protocol " is all wrong : Goldie Hawn ( again playing a sweet ditz ) holds up traffic on a busy Washington , D . C . street when her car breaks down . Not only has her engine blown but she can't get out of the car because the door is also broken . Who wrote this ? Buck Henry ? ! ! Hard to believe , but it gets worse . Hawn saves a Middle Eastern leader from being assassinated and becomes the toast of the town - - but only until jealous and nefarious White House insiders attempt to make her look foolish . Goldie Hawn only looks foolish when she's required to act too dippy for her age , but I cannot think of any " young " actress who could've gotten away with this role either . Early on there's a bouncy press-conference sequence with many funny lines , but too often the script is loaded down with groaners . An uncontrolled party scene near the finish brings everything to a screeching halt , with characters we don't like acting even more moronic than usual . It nearly makes " Private Benjamin " look like Shakespeare . from
Nearly forgotten Bette Davis soaper . . .	Bette Davis works her usual magic with a colorless role as a wealthy society matron whose miserable husband wants her to give him a divorce . Film's best moments are the flashbacks to the couple's happier times , which are filmed in a dreamy , surreal manner . Jane Cowl gives an outstanding supporting performance as an elderly woman attracted to gigolos , but the centerpiece here is Davis , and she's magnetic as always . Filmed just before " All About Eve " - - but released afterward - - the picture benefits greatly from the shadowy cinematography , but the pacing plods a bit . Not a bad melodrama , but one that is never mentioned when film-historians revisit Davis ' illustrious career . from
" Not that miserable old so - & - so again ! "	The Near-Sighted Mr . Magoo ( amiably voiced by Jim Backus ) gets his own starring vehicle in this not-bad animated comedy-fantasy from UPA . Lamp-seller in Budhapest demands that his loaf-off nephew Aladdin get married ; the boy becomes smitten with the Sultan's daughter , but she's in danger of being snatched by the Sultan's assistant , the Wicked Wazir , who worships a magical flame . With so much going on , the more familiar elements of this story ( the magic lamp , the genie , the flying carpet ) almost get lost in the stampede of quips , jokes , puns , satire , and slapstick . The animation is best in the montages , most often resembling the Fractured Fairy Tales for television . George Duning's perky , pretty music keeps the movie lively , but it could have stood a pacier touch . Too much time is spent on rambling set-pieces , though the attention to story detail is good and funny bit characters do emerge . from
Ready-built for tragedy	Clint Eastwood's directorial career has brought forth some very spotty pictures ; when he loses his dryly-askew sense of humor , Eastwood becomes a muddled , one-dimensional filmmaker . " Million Dollar Baby " is much better than " Mystic River " in that it features sympathetic characters , multi-layered performances and an intriguing scenario that doesn't initially seem to follow a by-the-numbers formula . By the second-half however , both the script and Eastwood's agendas change drastically ( not from a boxing movie into a character study , that would be too easy ; it becomes something even more sentimental ) . It's certainly easy for the viewer to flow with the changes - - Eastwood's professionalism provides a smooth contrast in moods and scenario - - but it's a disappointing right-turn , and nothing is really done with the new venue . It seems to say that life is rough , for the female boxer , for the manager , for the assistant , and for the ( God help us ) spindly-legged mental kid who hangs out at the gym ( in a gratuitous sub-plot designed to give mentor Morgan Freeman a few extra scenes ) . An occasionally unpleasant and queasy picture with built-in pathos and over-the-top writing , the movie takes a good while to get cooking , but does provide some solid drama . Eastwood never lapses into soap opera , he's an intelligent and caring actor and director ( and provides somber , quietly effective mood music on the soundtrack besides ) , but the assembly-line progression of situations are disappointingly trotted out , and even though the finale is moving , the set-up for it is almost mechanical . from
Nothing wrong with a little slapstick - - but that's all this is	Theatrical expansion of the failed TV show " Police Squad ! " managed to catch on with laugh-hungry audiences of the late ' 80's and became a surprise success . The plot is really secondary to the sketches as eternally stupid police lieutenant Frank Drebin acts as bodyguard to the Queen of England on her visit to the US . Leslie Nielsen has ' befuddled ' down to an expert science , but this comedy , although way out there at times for the sake of a gag , is weak in spots and pretty much follows the same skit-like pattern of its second cousin , " Airplane ! " A few big laughs , but it totally fizzles out before the finale . Followed by two sequels , the last of which even managed to succeed this original in terms of outrageousness , appealing to that silly side of our collective humor while keeping the brain in neutral .
Sentiment-driven update of " The Blackboard Jungle " . . . and every teen rebellion movie since 1955	Michelle Pfeiffer works very hard as an ex-Marine-turned-inner city schoolteacher who butts heads with the prim school-board over how she should teach her unruly classes ; seems Michelle has been resorting to candy bar rewards and Bob Dylan poetry readings to get her students attention . Apparently heartfelt , but almost embarrassing in its mindlessness , the flick was a commercial hit , though it's tough to believe today's cynical teen audiences didn't sniff out the Hollywood fakery inherent in the script and presentation early on . Perhaps the combination of the cast , the hot soundtrack , and the happy ending helped to strike a chord with the disenfranchised . Still , it is extremely lightweight and almost completely forgettable . from
Disappointing star-vehicle	Cameron Hawley's book about ruthlessness and romance in the world of high finance becomes well-dressed but tepid star-vehicle for James Garner ( then riding high on TV's " Maverick " ) and perpetual second-biller Natalie Wood ( even after spending years in the business , Wood got stuck in the role of the ' love-interest ' and had a tough time carving out her niche as a leading lady ) . Garner , pushing too hard as Cash McCall , probably had a lot more at stake with this film than his co-star did ; playing the money-hungry tycoon in love with his business partner's daughter , Garner looks the part but isn't very exciting a presence . Elsewhere , Nina Foch is highly effective ( and creepy ) as an older lady who harbors a semi-fatal attraction for Cash , while Wood is attractive and feisty in a one-dimensional role . Overall results are distressingly bland . from
Rote , old-fashioned formula from curious modern talents . . .	Though it did manage to draw in audiences , " Congo " plays like an old John Agar flick from the 1950s , a manipulative , special effects-laden co-feature straight off the assembly line . Motley expedition team in Africa ( which includes a " talking " gorilla ) come upon murderous gray apes guarding a lost fortune in diamonds . Adaptation of Michael Crichton's bestseller ( by John Patrick Shanley , of all people ) has strong talents involved , yet no one can disguise the fact this is a hoary premise culled from the late-late show , full of stock characters , clichés and unsurprising action . However , Amy the Talking Gorilla is a sweet new ingredient , giving the stale plot some much-needed lift . from
Not superior animation , but not-bad Disney duplication . . .	Animated family film from Don Bluth and his animation team concerns orphaned dinosaur and his misfit friends searching for vegetation during prehistoric freeze . Some of the action sequences are hectic and confusing , with one dinosaur battle taking place during a mammoth earthquake ( ! ) , but otherwise the picture is rather sweet and harmless . This is probably the closest Bluth will come to duplicating old-fashioned Disney , even if they don't quite have that studio's superior quality down . Some lovely moments , even for grown-ups . Followed by the video-sequel " The Land Before Time II : The Great Valley Adventure " in 1994 and other cheaper sequels after that . from
Creepily indifferent . . .	A chilly examination of the female heart looks at the lives of several women in five separate stories which purport to dig to the very core of a woman's emotional being . These chapters , handled oddly and in clinical fashion , fail to show off the star-actresses to their individual advantages ( particularly in the cases of Calista Flockhart and Holly Hunter ) . Of the group , Cameron Diaz is the most surprising , delivering a focused , balanced portrayal of a blind woman ( her crying scene , in close-up , is quite stunning ) ; however , these characters aren't the living , breathing people they're meant to be . Facile though it may be , this unreleased theatrical venture was a step forward in showcasing some great femme talent , but the results are decidedly mixed . from
Farrah leaves TV for this ?	Ironic that Farrah Fawcett-Majors would break her " Charlie's Angeles " TV contract to do this picture and her next ( the ill-fated " Sunburn " ) : both look and play like TV movies lost on the big screen . I was absolutely astounded that this film was shot by cinematographers Andrew Laszlo and Ralf Bode - - two veteran lensmen and the thing looks dark and muddy like somebody's home movies . The script is updated " Charade " ( in fact , in Japan it was called " Charade ' 79 " ! ) , and Jeff Bridges looks ridiculous in a big bear-daddy beard and smooth chest . But forget all that . How is Farrah ? She talks slowly - - like a little girl - - and tries holding her dazzle back . But a Farrah without dazzle has no purpose in a romantic comedy-mystery . She lugs an infant around and cries convincingly , but this is a meet-cute story with a chronic case of the cutes . It did nothing positive for her in 1979 and - - apparently - - has not involved audiences of this generation either . When people say " The Burning Bed " saved her career - - this is from what they speak . from
Nobody ever had as sane a freak-out as Jimmy Stewart . . .	Rather unpleasant melodrama , often referred to as " No Highway in the Sky " , has fidgety scientist James Stewart flying in a crowded plane that he believes will suffer from metal fatigue ; convincing the other passengers they are in great danger becomes quite a problem . Although the film stretches its central idea out to the breaking point , resulting in some highly annoying theatrics , this is the perfect showcase for Stewart to exercise his now-perfected brand of nervous shtick . He stutters and stammers trying to make his logistics palatable , only causing consternation . Stewardess Glynis Johns and cool-headed actress Marlene Dietrich attempt to decipher Stewart's post-textbook noodlings , and both performances are exceptional . Otherwise , it's a squarely straightforward " disaster " movie without much gripping action . from
An interesting attempt	Cynical detective investigates the murder of a prostitute , a case which has occult underpinnings . Murky , unpleasant picture with bloody deaths and odd nude shots of Karen Black ( perhaps it's Black's body-double , for you rarely see Karen's face connected to the shapely naked figure ) . Christopher Plummer does a great job as the investigator ; a handsome wise-ass , he's terrifically funny in his offhand manner and gives this a big boost . There's a bummer of a subplot involving a homosexual , and the damp Canadian locales are visually dull , but I did admire director Harvey Hart's structuring of the before-and-after storyline . Despite some great reviews from the critics , " The Pyx " just kind of tails off , and the credits hit the screen before you can stop scratching your head . from
Loopy mobster comedy with squirrelly moments but not enough jokes	After her shady mobster husband is rubbed-out , Michelle Pfeiffer tries to cut ties with her past and make an independent life for herself and her young son , but Mafia don Dean Stockwell doesn't want her to get away . Schizophrenic comedy-drama from director Jonathan Demme is excessively barbed , edgy , and uncertain in tone ( set-pieces that should be hilarious aren't - - such as the sequence with all the Mafia wives in the supermarket - - and just when a moment is about to take off , a violent undercurrent spoils the fun ) . Nearly every character is written and played for over-the-top laughs , but these people are not amusing on looks alone , and Demme doesn't allow the comedic momentum to build ( he keeps the secondary characters flailing about , while scenes are pared down into frantic bits of business ; Demme has already made up his mind how we're supposed to feel for this assembly long before we even know their agendas ) . After hobbling through a laborious opening , the movie does eventually pick up steam . Stockwell and torturous wife Mercedes Ruehl overdo it , but Pfeiffer is fresh and appealing - - she does more for the movie than it does for her . from
The film isn't really about teen-pregnancy at all - - it's about the pain of telling your parents you made a big mistake	Trouble in Ozzie & Harriet-land : moody suburban teen begins an awkward sweetheart-relationship with the pretty blonde bobbysoxer down the street . After a couple of tender embraces , we learn she is three months pregnant . An issue movie , and an unfortunately timeless one , but the film is extremely flawed : Brandon de Wilde looks too young and too puny in stature for Carol Lynley ( probably a teenager , but looking a lot older with her large face and small features ) . The two don't match up , with de Wilde coming off more like Lynley's younger brother . It is based on a play and the writing hasn't been reworked for the screen ( the dialogue sounds stilted , not flowing in a realistic manner ) . The director sets up his shots as if he were filming a play , and he has the actors occasionally shouting their lines . The adults are portrayed fairly ( a nice change for a teen-oriented movie ) and the intentions are heartfelt , but do you believe that happy ending ? And IS it a happy ending ? A pessimist might point out that , had there been a " Blue Denim II " , these characters ' lives might not continue in such a spotless fashion . In fact , the results might've been quite bleak . from
Snotty comics cutting up . . .	" Bedazzled " is dazzling to some , deadening to others . I quickly grew tired of all the tight close-ups of Dudley Moore's perspiring , beady little face , or listening to Peter Cook's repetitious lines and snotty delivery . The production has a nice feel in the early scenes at the diner where Moore works as a short-order cook , but his wish-fulfillments , after signing a pact with the Devil , are disappointing . Eleanor Bron is colorless as the object of Dudley's desire ; shouldn't we be able to see why this is so . . . and perhaps even desire her ourselves ? I would've put Raquel Welch in this role ( Welch has a minor part as Lust personified , talking with a perplexing Southern Belle accent ) . It's a one-joke British farce , dryly screwball , and although it has to be preferable to the the remake ( which looked lousy ) , it keeps letting the viewer down . I can see the imagination and time that went into " Bedazzled " , but the execution left me without joy . from
The movie's tag-line was " Fall over laughing ! " - - but nobody does , nor will you . . .	Neil Simon-written comedy , as staid and as sterile as they come . Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are extremely attractive as newlyweds who move into a cumbersome New York walk-up , but this inexplicably-popular material is suffocatingly twee . Mildred Natwick has some funny moments as Fonda's seemingly uptight mother , but the coy central relationship and all the preconceived arguments won't send many romantic-comedy lovers over the moon . It took Redford and Fonda another decade-plus to find a vehicle ( " The Electric Horseman " ) where they could actually create some sexual sparks and comic sensuality . This one is a big , plush headache . from
Hoary boxing-movie clichés abound !	Heavyweight champ James J . Braddock looks back on his humble beginnings : in the Depression Era as a washed-up boxer with a broken hand and a revoked license , he struggles to take care of his wife and three kids before making a miraculous comeback . Director Ron Howard builds every scene as something extraordinary , while his throwaway bits ( such as a married couple fighting in front of a church , or a man walking out on his wife ) are hammered home with little subtlety . Howard constructs the film disappointingly , with a flashback segue intervening about seven minutes in , and with principal actors who look pained , perplexed or disinterested . Renée Zellweger , playing Braddock's fiercely devoted wife Mae ( who sews under a single lamp while her kids always seem to be in bed ) , is stuck with lines like , " When you get hit , I feel it , too " . This is the passive , loving wifey movie fans have seen since the beginning of time , and Zellweger does absolutely nothing original with the part ; Russell Crowe has some strong scenes as Braddock , but our introduction to him , smugly collecting his money after a fight , is curiously sour . He and Zellweger have no screen chemistry whatsoever , and their dialects and acting styles clash . The smaller roles are filled with scenery-chewing overachievers , and Howard is shameless in allowing them to hold nothing back ( everything is done ' colorfully ' , for effect , and the film plays like a ham sandwich ) . This true story comes hilariously " pre-approved " with a quote from Damon Runyan , with period detail that is careful but disappointing . The whole enterprise suffers from boxing fatigue . from
Contrived realism	Social-issue movie which touches on the moral decline of modern civilization with vague and detached results . Jack Lemmon won a Best Actor Oscar playing Harry Stoner , a war-vet and white-collar businessman in the fashion industry who is forced by circumstance to be both a producer and a pimp at work , straining to make a profit but realizing he's at the end of his rope . Screenplay is loaded with serious one-liners that strive to Tell Us Something . It hopes to hold up a mirror to us in the audience while saying , " Look how you degrade yourselves for the sake of the almighty dollar ! " It doesn't explore the human psyche , just pushes forward one unfortunate circumstance after another . Occasionally the movie hits its targets , but most often it's a bummer , humorless and hopeless . Lemmon and Oscar-nominated Jack Gilford are very good , but the film doesn't leave us with anything but burnt-out remains . That may be the whole point , but as an entertainment it isn't very affecting . from
One of the more perplexing acting vehicles of the early 1970s . . .	Despite the high-powered names in the credits ( and Warner Bros . at the picture's helm ) , this is one odd package , gritty but meek , somnambulent instead of artistic . Two drifters ( Gene Hackman and Al Pacino ) become friends on the road , dreaming up a scheme to go into the car-wash business together . Director Jerry Schatzberg allows his lead actors to roam and collect their characters on the fly ; the muddy photography and patchy sound definitely gives one a sense of wayward dislocation , but none of this does much to strengthen the narrative , which is a little drowsy . Good acting nearly puts it over , although nothing can redeem the cheap sentimentality inherent in the film's final reel . from
" The Hit Parade and Ballyhoo . . . "	Overstuffed Warner Bros . vehicle for Doris Day , here playing a nightclub singer who travels from England to New York to be reunited with her mom , a former Broadway star who has fallen on hard times ; meanwhile , an elderly B-way producer hires Day for his new show , causing rumors that he's her lover ! Since the many musical numbers consist of musty oldies ( even for 1951 ) and the plot is a drag , that only leaves the stars to carry this second-biller , and Day , Gladys Cooper , S . Z . Sakall and Billy de Wolfe are all fun . Gene Nelson is off-putting as Day's romantic lead ( he harbors a strangely creepy side which was probably unintentional ) , although his tap-dance with Doris up a steep flight of steps is breathtaking . An adequate time-filler , and Doris sparkles as usual . from
Lively , sloppy Valley girl sci-fi . . .	Catherine Mary Stewart and Kelli Maroney are exceptionally cute as cynical California siblings from the Valley who survive the nuclear holocaust and spend the rest of the movie fending off radioactive mutants . Mary Woronov , always a great presence in B-flicks like this , is unfortunately stuck in the draggy sub-plot about brain-dead scientists , and the film's sloppy continuity and muddy cinematography are poor , yet the two girls are wisecracking fun . The movie , lively and silly , adopts a rather enjoyable slant on the marauding zombie genre , sending up the precarious scenario - - the end of civilization as we know it - - in such a campy , overtly-dumb fashion that it couldn't possibly be disturbing ( except perhaps to science-fiction devotees , who will most likely just laugh it off ) . from
Expressionist film-making satirized ( weakly ) by Woody Allen . . .	Writer-director-star Woody Allen sends up German Expressionism , and filmmakers like Fritz Lang , for a decidedly unfunny paranoia comedy about a schnook in a small village who is fingered for a rash of killings . Unfortunately , film plays more like a retread of Martin Scorsese ' " After Hours " ( right down to the gimmick of having big-name stars in cameo roles ) , filtered through Kafka and Woody Allen's own brand of non-sensibility . This gloomy hamlet milquetoast sets out to catch the real culprit and runs into a number of eccentric characters , few of whom have been really thought out by the writer . Madonna puts off some heat as a circus performer , but a prostitute ensemble featuring Kathy Bates , Lily Tomlin and Jodie Foster falls flat . As an actor , Allen is affable as usual ( he's a mild neurotic , talkative yet flexible and soft ) , but John Malkovich , Kate Nelligan , and Mia Farrow are sadly lost in the shuffle . Even the b & w photography seems staid . from
Begins wonderfully , but the religious-coated sentiment is sometimes tough to get through . . .	In the early 1900s , a city girl ( Susan Hayward ) marries a country parson ( William Lundigan ) from North Georgia's hill country , coming to live with him and be the proud preacher's wife , but there are obstacles to overcome . After a spunky start , this adaptation of Corra Harris ' book becomes mired in pointless , pious melodrama , coated heavily with religious uplift ( which may or may not be ingenuous ) . The film scores points for not making the minister a stodgy sort - - on the contrary , he's frisky and playful , like an overage kid , so much so that his new bride seems like a cold fish by comparison . Still , their early days together have a folksy flavor which is appealing , and a sermon the preacher gives about marriage is full of happy tears . But when a mysterious fever makes the rounds , a boy is drowned at a picnic , and the wife loses her baby and her faith in God , the film drains itself of good will . Hayward has a fun sequence scaring away a wealthy admirer of her husband , but otherwise this character doesn't allow the actress to be friendly or capricious at all ; she's a dullard . Lundigan , looking like a relative of Pat Boone's , has the more colorful role ( surprisingly ) and his sensitivity to the townspeople is well-captured . The Technicolor photography is disappointing , as is the direction and the script - - why do religious-themed movies always have to turn sanctimonious ? from
Spooky atmospherics in place of genuine thrills . . .	Screenwriter Richard Matheson , adapting his own book " Hell House " , knows instinctively how to create an intense and shuddery atmosphere , but what he lacks in versatility he makes up for in unoriginality . This film , though with effective scenes , makes no new headway from 1963's " The Haunting " . A ( rather skeptical ) doctor of parapsychology is paid to spend a week inside " the Mount Everest " of haunted houses , the Belasco House , where he is to determine if there's survival after death ; he is joined by his wife and two mediums , one of whom survived a bloody similar investigation some years ago and the other , a woman , who is used as a sexual conduit to the unnerving energy . The doctor plans to dissipate the manor's negative power using Electro-Magnetic Radiation ( the old E . M . R . trick ! ) , but the woman warns him there's more to it than that ( naturally he doesn't listen , which is standard in all these house-that-wouldn't-die pictures ) . Matheson keeps a timeline of the proceedings , which is useless , while director John Hough tries spiking the film's visual sense with bizarre camera angles and gimmicks . That may work on the gullible , but Hough isn't very adept with his actors . Roddy McDowall does his usual freak-out thing , Pamela Franklin floats about alternating smugness with terror , while Clive Revill as the no-nonsense doctor shrugs off a poltergeist attack as if it were early morning traffic . Some moderately strong moments , but the final solution is a little lax and the editing is disappointing ( particularly concerning the doctor's fate ) . from
Not especially deep , but more provocative than it had to be . . .	Lamont Johnson directed this critically-lauded , though under-appreciated stockcar drama ( often referred to as " Hard Driver " ) concerning a young hellion ( Jeff Bridges ) in North Carolina who's into racing cars and " hot doggin ' the law ! " It isn't Shakespeare , though the William Roberts script ( adapted from Tom Wolfe's short stories ) is literate and bracing , and the film has built up a cult-following in the last thirty years . Performances by Bridges , Valerie Perrine and Gary Busey are all solid , with Bridges ' powerful scene in a recording booth the emotional centerpiece of the film . The soundtrack prominently features Jim Croce's song " I Got a Name " . Interesting , well-made lower-budget item marketed as a quickie B-flick but actually offering something more substantial . from
Good Sister-Bad Sister potboiler from John Huston	Sisters from a wealthy family ( named Stanley and Roy ! ) become estranged when rascally Stanley runs off with Roy's surgeon husband ; Roy rebounds after meeting a smitten attorney , but Stanley's erratic behavior spells doom . John Huston-directed yarn seems to be a cautionary tale about playing with fire , and it isn't a whole lot of fun . ' Bad ' Bette Davis bats her eyes and prisses her mouth , but can't really come up with a convincing character ; Olivia de Havilland is much more attuned to this soapy material , and she has a funny exchange with Hattie McDaniel near the beginning . Disappointing film hasn't held up , is interesting for its cast and director , who does decent but simple work . from
Superficial whiff of an idea	Although taken from an intriguing true story about a teenage con-man , this Steven Spielberg film is neither funny enough to be a comedy , dramatic enough to be a solid drama , nor suspenseful enough to be a good caper . It's blandly straightforward film-making , hurt mostly by a script that needs us to fill in the blanks and a one-note performance by Leonardo DiCaprio in the lead . Tom Hanks is far superior as the head Fed on the case , while Jennifer Garner has a superfluous role as a model-cum-prostitute and Christopher Walken is unable to create a convincing character as Leonardo's father . The period detail is careful but disappointing , and the overlong film takes a good 40 minutes to kick into gear . from
Quality soap opera with a masochistic bent . . .	Honest working girl ( Joan Crawford ) , the daughter of a cook who's employed by a high society family , is jilted at the altar by her no-good fiancé and decides not to go home ( despite an apparently warm relationship with her mother ) ; instead , she takes a job as a hoochie-koochie dancer , catching the eye of an alcoholic , millionaire playboy . The young Joan Crawford practically developed the patent for roles such as this - - yet , the film is just as masochistic and sudsy as her later , more womanly soapers . Despite a solid M-G-M production , " Sadie " creaks and groans under the weight of improbabilities and half-baked dramatics , and the heroine's initial circumstance ( living poor vs . living back home ) is just shrugged off . There are some good ideas and scenes , and fascinating musical asides ( check out that incredible all-male trio at the nightclub - - whew ! ! ) . Joan , dressed for the most part in black , scowls , cries , and gets socked in the face , though her finest moments are all near the end ( particularly when she puts herself in-cahoots with the millionaire's staff ) . The script , based on the short story " Pretty Sadie McKee " by Vina Delmar , is no great shakes , but it should satisfy those in the mood for a torrent of grand emoting . from
Very slight , but with one stand-out performance	Burnt-out ball player Mark Harmon , upon hearing of the suicide of a childhood friend , hearkens back to his younger days , eventually returning home to put peace to the past . As the pre-teen's muse , Jodie Foster is a bit like Auntie Mame at 20 , raffish and exciting - - but what happens to her character is a writer's pretense and it just doesn't wash ( it doesn't jibe with the blossomed young woman we've been watching ) . This light drama , a labor of love for writer-directors Steven Kampmann and William Porter , is awfully slight , relying heavily on comedic asides and nostalgia to round it off ( even erring on that score , as the nostalgia seems distinctly falsified ) . However , Foster has a handful of scenes that touch on something deeper than woozy sentiment and reminiscences ; she finds the heart of this piece and manages to give the picture some depth . from
Tolerable , but woefully slight comedy-drama	Episodes in the lives of two East Coast couples who are friends : Jeff Daniels and Elizabeth Perkins are the sweethearts just getting their romance started , and Don Johnson and Susan Sarandon are married ( and bickering ) with kids . Slight material separated into different chapters for no other reason than to cover the spotty continuity . The film looks good and has moments of wit and solid acting ( particularly by Johnson , who is very focused ) , but all the squabbling gets tiresome fast . More romance or frivolity might have balanced out the melodrama , but the overall handling is so sloppy that the characters don't really stand a chance . from
Well-meant , and Drew is good	Before this afternoon special aired on television , much of the publicity made it seem like the mini-movie would be a highly-charged , no-holds-barred drug-drama in the vein of " Scared Straight ! " It's not . It's a too-tidy examination of troubled teens in rehab , getting counseling for their problems and learning from tragedy . The best sequence in the film , where the kids confront their parents , features some very forceful acting by Drew Barrymore ( at this point in her life experiencing much of these problems for real ) , but Tatum O'Neal is incredibly stiff and unsure as an ex-addict / counselor , David Birney colorless as the mediator , and Corey Feldman . . . well , acts like Corey Feldman ( he doesn't do his Michael Jackson impersonation but his long , jet-black hair is embarrassing ) . Minor offering was built up in the press to be something extra special , but it was almost immediately forgotten . Certainly it meant well , and maybe it helped somebody out there .
A-fussin ' , a-fightin ' , a-gesturin ' ' n gesticulatin ' . . .	Al Capp's yokel comic strip comes to the big screen via the Broadway musical hit , keeping most of the stage talent intact , and with Dee Dee Wood " adapting " Michael Kidd's original choreography ( one of the strangest credits I've seen ! ) . The hill-folk who live in Dogpatch , apparently the most useless city in the U . S . A . , don't seem to fret much after the governor arrives to say their town has been selected as the next Atom Bomb test site ; no , they're all revved up over Sadie Hawkins Day , when the single gals get their pick of the bachelor men . Quick-thinking " Mammy " Yokum ( Billie Hayes , who has enough energy for three people and continually points to the heavens ) hopes to thwart the politicos by putting Dogpatch on the map with her homemade muscle-growing tonic , an orange-colored elixir which raises the interest of the dastardly General Bullmoose . Interesting , elaborate production design ( completely shot on the sound-stages at Paramount ) almost makes up for the lack of good songs and the rag-tag story , which drags on far too long . The performances are wildly variable , with Stubby Kaye and Bern Hoffman doing the best work ( Hoffman's Earthquake McGoon is treated rather badly by his own people - - though he appears to be the most efficient feller in the bunch ! ) . Leslie Parrish is a lovely Daisy Mae , though she never gets a strong scene , while Hayes and Joe E . Marks do everything but the Rumba as the Yokums . Not bad by any means , yet the lack of funny tunes , jokes or patter - - and a really tasty story - - makes the film only a sub-par musical entry . from
Should've been great . . .	Jodie Foster's second film as director shows her faltering a bit from her debut with the moving , funny " Little Man Tate " . Working with an uneven script that is better in its straight dramatic moments than as a comedy , Foster can't get a realistic rhythm going between the disgruntled family members at this Thanksgiving reunion . Every scene involving Geraldine Chaplin as a neurotic aunt is a loss , and Robert Downey , Jr . is awful as the obnoxious gay brother of Holly Hunter . Hunter usually gives flaccid scripts like this a little boost , but even her timing is off ( especially in the early introductory scenes , which don't work at all ) . Finally , as if the clouds parted and clarity shined through , the movie picks up in its final twenty minutes . There's a scathing scene between the sisters ( " If I met you on the street - - if you gave me your number - - I'd throw it away " ) and Charles Durning's remembrance of his family at the airport is wonderfully wistful . I also admired the final arty shots showing the past and the present ( with the camera circling madly , joyfully ) , and then a crystal clear shot of a plane descending into the velvet sky . Are these moving moments enough to justify the glut of an otherwise overwrought picture ? Almost . from
Plastic-coated Shakespeare . . .	Self-enchanted rendering of the Bard ! Shakespeare's play is transported to a 19th Century Italian village , where uptight lovers learn to loosen up with assistance from the King and Queen of the Fairies . Subplot about a village play comes off much better than the wafty fantasy elements , and only Kevin Kline and Stanley Tucci seem comfortable with their roles in this lightweight treatment . Everyone looks to be having a good time , but it's pasted-together frivolity . Director Michael Hoffman's handling is too coy , with many movie-star close-up smiles which continually rob the picture of freshness . This work was previously filmed in 1935 , 1966 and 1968 .
Represents a movie first : introspective sleaze !	Daryl Hannah is so adept at playing spacy little cupcakes that it's hard to discern at first whether she's doing anything new or challenging in " Dancing at the Blue Iguana " . Her character , Angel - - as with ALL the characters in the film - - is half-realized and indifferently treated by the director , yet Hannah pulls off one amazing moment in the movie : Angel is almost arrested by a friendly cop who stops to take her picture but finds marijuana in her car . It's just a throwaway moment for the filmmakers , who don't allow the sequence to lead anywhere , but Daryl is dead-on here in her impersonation of a child-like waif who seems to make a conscious decision to use her ditzy naivete to her advantage . She broke my heart ! Also good : Sandra Oh as would-be poetess Jasmine and Jennifer Tilly as a hard-partying stripper who roars through her day until she's out of gas . The film rambles , it has no shape , it has many embarrassing and / or awkward moments , and it's filled with disgusting language . But there are some thoughtful , sad passages that strive to " reveal " something about the seamy side of life which maybe we as moviegoers might not have seen before . I found something like " Smithereens " to be more truthful , but I did find " Iguana " to be intriguing on a minor level . from
Nothing if not bizarre	Appropriately ( and predictably ) moody Swedish drama from Ingmar Bergman examines intricate relationship between mute woman and her bright , sensitive nurse from a psychological stand-point . The plot takes some fascinating turns , but Bergman is hardly a compassionate man . A character's plight or a tender look is always undercut by bitterness or cynicism , and the bizarre opening montage may send many viewers packing before the picture ever gets going . At the heart of the piece , however , are two very fine performances by Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann , who never reveal a false thought or emotion ( even in the tightest of close-ups ) . For curious movie-buffs , interesting viewing ; unfortunately , the air begins to leak from this balloon with 15 minutes left to go on the clock . from
Plush , but pallid romantic drama . . .	As a 40-ish divorcée courting a 22-year-old man , Liv Ullmann ( beautiful Swedish actress in only her second American film ) looks like a deer caught in the headlights . She's much too shaky and insecure to warm up to , and her scenes with Edward Albert have no romantic lift ( this isn't all Liv's fault , Albert pushes his moments with her in a creepy way , coming off like an overripe gigolo ) . The good supporting cast includes Binnie Barnes and Deborah Raffin ; Gene Kelly is lively playing Liv's ex-husband , although he is forced to go-go dance ( such were the times ) . A wan , somewhat exhausted piece of fluff from the play by Pierre Barillet and Jean-Pierre Grédy . from
Plush budget but a thin plot . . .	Natalie Wood finally gets a comedy vehicle all to herself , but the results are half-cocked . Crafty woman conspires to rob her husband's bank - - perhaps because she needs love or attention - - and that's the entire plot in a nutshell . It's dragged out for 97 minutes . Natalie and the supporting cast ( colorful players like Peter Falk and Jonathan Winters ) have , understandably , very little to work with , though the production values are plush and some of the comedy is breezy and amusing . Director Arthur Hiller mistakes broadly staged gags for funny set-pieces , and most often the movie is just silly . As for Natalie Wood , she provides what interest there is , she looks great ( and sings beautifully ! ) , but the entire film rests on her shoulders and it's not in her to carry the load alone . from
Appropriately shallow documentary	James Coburn narrates this brief , extremely superficial documentary by Robert Heath on the life of Playboy Magazine founder Hugh Hefner . The roots of Hefner's past begin with some miserable childhood years , eventually leading to his rise up the ladder to decadent high society via an initially low-budget girlie mag . Film skimps a bit ( but doesn't ignore ) Hefner's troubled times in the tumultuous 1970's , and wraps things up with a now-dated ribbon as Hef enjoys happy times as a husband and father . Painless fluff is mildly entertaining , but it doesn't dig very deeply or ruffle anybody's feathers . One aspect that isn't touched upon is how a suavely arrogant ( but not especially gorgeous ) man could become a sex symbol himself . from
Energetic to a fault , but an iffy black comedy	A cooing , cute mystical creature spawns terrifying little demons from his body once he gets wet . An energetic film , well-produced and yet with that unshakable ' 80's plastic sheen . Certainly the work from hundreds of special-effects wizards results in some terrific sequences , but did we really need break-dancing gremlins ? Mixture of black comedy , fantasy and slapstick isn't seamless , and overall the movie is hurt by too many cutesy jokes and silly ideas , but it does provide a few laughs and imaginative moments . Also , it has OK work from Zach Galligan and Phoebe Cates ( once again working her cherubic Lolita-innocence to her advantage ) , and there's some dandy comic violence involving a Christmas tree and a microwave . from
Screwball outing from Frank Oz could use some extra screws . . .	An architect has a fling with a sexy waitress who turns out to be a con-artist ; she insinuates herself into his life and home and passes herself off as his wife to visitors . Relatively painless , genial comedy from director Frank Oz is sort of the comedic flip-side to " Fatal Attraction " - - though the way Goldie Hawn plays the con-woman , she's more of a kooky flake than a comedy threat . Still , Steve Martin puts up with her for the sake of the plot , which is just an idea stretched to feature length . The more sobering moments of the third act seem to come out of nowhere ; while a little dramatic subtext is surely substantial , I'm not quite certain how seriously Oz and his actors are actually taking it - - or , for that matter , how seriously they want audiences to respond . from
Uneasy and uneven	A stylish direction by James William Guercio - - his only film ! - - and classy Conrad Hall cinematography cannot quite redeem wayward story about a motorcycle cop in Arizona , tired of busting hippies on the highway , chancing upon a corpse and seeing it as his ticket into the Homicide Division . About 45 minutes into the film , the assured tone goes a little batty and we're not sure where the movie is going . The middle portion of the picture , with Mitchell Ryan overdoing it as a psychotic detective , is weak and unpleasant , and the conclusion - - while thoughtfully presented - - is nonetheless predictable ( rather self-consciously directed towards an " Easy Rider " reversal ) . Robert Blake is excellent in the lead , although his character's transformation midway into a stooge just doesn't wash . from
Bill Murray gets ' scrooged ' by over-production . . .	Woefully heavy , noisy , over-produced holiday comedy rethinks " A Christmas Carol " for the modern ( i . e . , " cynical " ) new generation . In this scenario , wisecracking , rapid-fire Bill Murray is a good fit as a rotten TV network executive . He's initially a hoot , but the visiting ghosts and the constant stream of chattering characters weighs " Scrooged " down like an old fruitcake . Murray , pulling out all the stops , is a hearty actor who knows a great deal about nuance , but here his worst tendencies are encouraged and often he's just a nuisance . Karen Allen is a sweet love-interest and Alfre Woodard is wonderful as a harried secretary , but too many in the large supporting cast get stuck over-projecting in minor roles that don't call for so much caustic mania ( Carol Kane and Bobcat Goldthwait are the biggest offenders ) . John Glover's sniveling villain is pitched so far over the top that he's not even a fun bad guy ; the great Robert Mitchum is given nothing but weak material . Full of peaks and valleys , " Scrooged " is overly-dark and alienating , with an unshakable sense of claustrophobic smugness . from
" That show's been on since Jesus was in the third grade . . . "	Director Robert Altman's cinema swan-song is a multi-character , country-and-western flavored look behind the scenes at a fictional radio-variety show during its very last broadcast . The screenplay ( by Garrison Keillor , who also co-stars as " G . K . " ) never bothers itself with a linear plot ; instead , Keillor and Altman wistfully string together a daisy-chain of character vignettes , reminiscences and songs for a slight , but occasionally sweet result . The underlying theme of death is both curious and sad ( particularly in view of Altman's unintended farewell ) and the players are colorful and game . Still , the picture doesn't have much drive , and in certain stretches it just evaporates . Too many of the musical performers are forced into repeating themselves ( perhaps Altman could've used a few more acts ) ; as kooky as they are , one tires of their overtly nutty talk , which is all on one-note and never finds an amusing rhythm . The actors themselves are likable , and Kevin Kline's clumsiness is a welcome relief ( he brings some unexpected physical comedy to the mix ) , but these gentle recollections are sweetly dazed without being truly enthralling . from
Slapstick static . . .	Director Steven Spielberg's first theatrical misfire has bombastic humor and amped-up energy to spare - - all it needs is a sharp , merciless editor to eliminate its excesses . Made up of equal parts " I Wanna Hold Your Hold " and " Animal House " , the film opens with a spoof of " Jaws " that is funny and well done . The USO sequence is alive and crackling ( any of the scenes with Bobby DiCicco and Dianne Kay are good ) , however John Belushi's Captain Wild Bill Kelso is a nuisance ( perhaps recasting Belushi in Treat Williams ' role of Corporal Sitarski might have saved some time ) . Buried under the morass is a fitfully funny spoof of wartime , although I tired easily of Ned Beatty running around with a shotgun . Robert Stack is wonderful , and the scenes between Tim Matheson and Nancy Allen in the airplane are fine if overextended , just like most of the bits and pieces in " 1941 " . It has gloppy cinematography , messy comic staging and unconvincing sets . Spielberg's hopes for a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad War surely include isolated moments of inspiration - - even brilliance - - but those moments get trampled in the traffic . from
Girl + midget = Gidget	Squealing Sandra Dee is an underdeveloped sixteen-year-old in Southern California who is prodded by her friends into finding a man ; she ingratiates herself to a bunch of good-hearted surfing boys , but only because she's genuinely interested in learning to surf ( they soon realize she's different , but that doesn't stop romance from happening ! ) . Ultra clean-cut growing pains comedy-drama , kept very light and lively , with poppy music and pretty , if repetitive , surfing footage . It is somewhat responsible for the string of surfing movies and TV shows which flooded the market in the 1960s . . . and yet , one hopes it will be better than it is . Sandra Dee doesn't really sparkle , and acts almost victimized when a guy comes onto her . Still , the picture was popular with similar girls and provides a soft , romantic sell to the fellas and to parents . It's as G-rated as can be . from
Glossy H-wood garbage . . . a gossip-column turned teleplay !	Jaclyn Smith is a decent actress ; with no real acting experience at the time Aaron Spelling put her in " Charlie's Angels " , she never embarrassed herself on that show ( especially the early episodes where she actually showed some spunk ) . Unfortunately , no one has been able to tap that sassy side of her since . She has played all different types of characters , but the only TV-movie she's made that left an indelible impression on me was " Rage Of Angels " , a decent potboiler with Smith doing work . " The Users " presents her as a muse to a faded Hollywood hack , climbing the ladder of celebrity herself only to find Lotus Land full of backbiters . Is any of this new ? No . It is enjoyable anyway ? Occasionally , yes . It's a melodramatic soap opera with tatty , now-dated trappings . I didn't much mind the television budget or the sudsy dialogue . I did , however , want to see Jaclyn Smith give a stronger performance . When will Aaron Spelling work his magic on her again ?
A puff pastry . . .	" Brief Encounter " redux has Robert De Niro and Meryl Streep , both involved in satisfying marriages , crossing paths several times before meeting each other and developing their attraction . This platonic affair isn't shown to be therapeutic for the two - - in fact , it's just the opposite ( Streep never looks like she's having fun ) . The movie examines the guilt-factor in the idea of an extra-marital fling , and director Ulu Grosbard is very adept at scaling back the temperaments of his stars ( their rapport is fairly smooth ) . Still , a sexless affair doesn't lend itself to involving , enveloping drama , and that precise lack of passion makes itself felt . " Falling in Love " is as generic as the title . Any two competent actors could have played Frank and Molly , and the coy miscues , as well as the wholly unnecessary epilogue , handicap it in the end . from
Another would-be " Silence of the Lambs " : psychopath goes cyber-tech !	A night-worker for the internet-criminals branch of the F . B . I . is the first to discover a gruesome , impenetrable website in which a psychopath ( and apparent computer genius ! ) kidnaps selected victims and streams their slow , agonizing deaths live on-line ( the proviso being : the more people who log on to watch - - the faster the victim dies ) . Set in Portland , and filmed in steely blues and gloomy grays , this mystery-thriller starring Diane Lane is ostensibly a cut above the usual human-bloodletter ; unfortunately , the picture seldom takes the high road , giving us shock deaths in the basement ( sound familiar ? ) and a department of the F . B . I . who seem to do little but hold emergency table meetings . Lane is appropriately world-weary and exhausted , but despite some backhand information into her past ( and flatly handled scenes of her home life with mom and kid ) , we never quite get in touch with her ( this is no Clarice Starling ) . The plot does build momentum , and viewers may find themselves pulled in against their better judgment , but director Gregory Hoblit never resolves the pornography of the violence ( the charge - - sexual or otherwise - - the killer gets from it is never explored , nor that of the public ; it's just ' revenge fantasy ' ) . Hoblit and his editors also muffle the suspense in the climactic bout , leaving us with only unanswered questions and a finale which is unceremoniously chopped short . from
Goblins ! Ghouls ! Girls ! . . . Geronimo !	Representing the ( somewhat fatigued ) tail-end of the " Beach Party " saga , minus Frankie and Annette , this haunted house comedy has some style in the live-action cartoon vein , but is hurt overall by an unenthusiastic cast and too much chatter . Sleepy Tommy Kirk and distracted Deborah Walley are involved in the reading of a will in a spooky mansion ; Susan Hart is a sexy apparition ( wearing a dopey-looking blonde wig for F / X purposes ) ; Boris Karloff saunters through , tossing off droll comic lines in a debonair manner ; Harvey Lembeck returns as Eric Von Zipper ( although he doesn't look happy about it ) ; and Nancy Sinatra is one of the teens there for a slumber party ( she sings " Geronimo " poolside in the film's best sequence ) . Not terribly witty or lively ; most of the kids on display are artificially frantic and ' nutty ' , waving their arms about . The movie desperately needs more music and more special effects . It relies too much on the talk-heavy plot , which is its weakest link . from
Gossamer plastic surgery fantasy . . .	" Ash Wednesday " opens with a series of sepia-toned , fabricated photographs putting a young , glamorous Elizabeth Taylor together with a lean , dark-haired Henry Fonda ; it's a great credits-sequence , well pulled off , until we find out that all this fancy living has taken its toll on poor Liz , portraying a lawyer's wife from Detroit ( couldn't they aim higher than that ? ) . Figuring plastic surgery is the only way to win back her estranged husband's love , Taylor checks into a Swiss medical resort and receives a full-body lift , later trading in her gauze and bandages for Valentino wraps and elaborate fur ensembles for a vacation at the local chalet . There's nothing remotely engaging about this scenario , except to see La Liz in a series of delectable wardrobe changes . We know that when Fonda arrives and sees her , nothing will be different ( this is telegraphed far in advance ) . The picture was probably ahead of its time in depicting the vanity in men as well as in women , but Taylor and Fonda have a tough time creating actual characters ( the writing being hardly more than a sketch ) . Liz has a nice moment asking Fonda to sing with her as they walk home , also a strong scene arguing with her daughter ( Margaret Blye , who is well-cast ; her eyes are almost as beautiful as Taylor's ) . But this fairy-tale-that-isn't hasn't much to offer aside from its surface attributes , which are photographed in a maddening series of subdued colors . from
Tarzan returns , Jane skinny-dips , Cheetah plays third banana . . .	Second " Tarzan " entry to star Johnny Weissmuller ( following 1932's " Tarzan the Ape Man " ) , based on the original creation by writer Edgar Rice Burroughs ( who may have blushed at seeing his wonder of the jungle shacking up happily with Jane Parker ! ) . The plot concerns two ivory poachers who attempt to woo Jane ( Maureen O'Sullivan ) away from her savage man , but she and Tarzan are having too much fun to really notice . Well-made for its time , today the movie nearly lapses into camp . Weissmuller was certainly the definitive loin-clothed jungle man of the African coast , yet the movie is structured episodically like an extended Saturday afternoon serial and takes far too long to get Tarzan involved in the story . Tarzan wrestles with a tiger and scuffles with a rhinoceros , but it is Jane's skinny-dipping sequence ( originally censored but restored in the 1990s ) which lingers in the memory . from
A few lovely sequences do not make it a classic . . .	Well-received French film from James Oliver Curwood's book harks back to the wildlife documentaries from 1950s Disney in both style and sentiment , as an orphaned bear cub trails a Kodiak bear around a mountain terrain for companionship . Soon , they're both being followed by an eager pack of hunters . " The Bear " features several eloquent and lovely moments , captured beautifully on film by director Jean-Jacques Annaud , though unfortunately the film as a whole isn't especially worthwhile . The animals are manipulated into action for the sake of thrills , some of which have a brutal edge , leaving an uncomfortable pall hanging over the project . Ultimately , it's an old-fashioned adventure story with a sincere appreciation for the bears involved , yet it doesn't leave one feeling very satisfied . from
Not good , not bad	A mama's boy motel owner may be a killer . Jazzed-up remake of Alfred Hitchcock's signature thriller " Psycho " arrives with early strikes against it . Face it , the original " Psycho " was not the greatest movie ever made , it had a very thin plot and a tame final reel . This version ( by Gus Van Sant ? ! ) accentuates the original's weaknesses without adding anything positive . The performances are variable , ranging from excellent ( Anne Heche ) to uncomfortable ( William H . Macy , in a hat ! ) to overwrought ( Julianne Moore ) . The shocks aren't there , but I can't imagine the original would be too shocking for today's audiences either . On its own terms , a fairly decent film with some admirable qualities such as good cinematography and set-design . But if you're gonna go with this story , you can't pass up the original . from
What happened to Jane ? ( not much )	One of Doris Day's few disappointments . The perky freckle-face is effervescent as usual playing small-town widow with two kids and a lobster business who is wooed by both long-time friend and lawyer Jack Lemmon and handsome but stolid reporter Steve Forrest . A bald Ernie Kovacs has the film's most colorful role as slimy , cigar-chomping railroad tycoon who tries muscling into Day's lobster action . Aside from some beautiful shots of trains and Doris interacting with a troop of Boy Scouts , this light-hearted whimsy fails to sparkle . It's slow and thinly plotted , and the child actors are badly cast ( particularly the pig-tailed tyke playing Day's daughter , who looks like The Bad Seed ) . Kovacs ' hamming - - and the faint whiff of chemistry between Doris and Jack - - almost makes " It Happened To Jane " worthwhile . from
Friendly enough , but a long way from Disney & Co . at their peak . . .	Animated take on " Oliver Twist " from the Disney Studios , marked by an impressive list of star-voices in the cast but hurt overall by fairly colorless songs and unmemorable characters . These adventures of an orphaned kitten and a streetwise dog are not particularly witty - - and the cuteness quickly becomes wearing - - but very young children should enjoy it ( older kids and adults may start squirming after thirty minutes or so ) . Relies heavily on the panache of the celebrity performers ( including Bette Midler , Billy Joel , Robert Loggia , Richard Mulligan and Cheech Marin ) to give the scenario some energy , but the vocal hamming is occasionally irritating . The musical numbers , while nothing marvelous , are at least upbeat , and the finale is good , but this is a long way from even " The Rescuers " . from
Flashy , unmemorable star-vehicle . . .	Warren Beatty struggled through a few duds in-between his star-making role in " Splendor In The Grass " and his re-emergence as a superstar in " Bonnie & Clyde " . This film , though Warren is good in it , is incredibly slim . The production looks great , there's livelier-than-usual pacing from director Jack Smight , but it's just a puff piece - - and not likely to be something Beatty is very proud of . Plot has a scam-artist in Europe breaking into a playing card factory and changing the reverse designs into code ( I kid you not ) so he can successfully cheat at all the top casinos ! Much of the film is exposition , a big build-up to the climax , and supporting players Susannah York and Clive Revill are left without much to do . Flashy outing certainly looks handsome , but it's swinging ' 60s balderdash . from
Has the crummy , dim-bulb ambiance of a porny picture . . .	Kathleen Turner is admirable playing a prim businesswoman by day and a kinky hooker named China Blue by night . This determinedly-weird sex-odyssey from outré filmmaker Ken Russell does indeed have the force behind its salacious convictions - - it is almost embarrassingly sordid and one genuinely feels for the performers on-screen - - but as a psycho-drama it feels half-baked . The subplots , one involving family man John Laughlin with sexless wife Annie Potts and the other , sillier one concerning Anthony Perkins as a sidewalk preacher , only take time away from Turner's intriguing impersonation . Last minute revisions forced upon the production leaves the last-act feeling choppy , however there's some satire here ( big city business and stifling suburbia ) that gnaws at you in both good and bad ways . The screenwriter , Barry Sandler , has many targets and a lot of interesting things to stay , but the deadened look and feel of the movie makes it all seem like a repugnant gag . Yesterday's kink is today's old news . from
You just can't keep those sailor-loving , pool-playing broads out of the bars !	" Cinderella Liberty " was obviously written and directed by men ( in this case , the screenplay by Darryl Ponicsan from his novel and the direction by Mark Rydell ) . It features the kind of movie-hooker culled straight from the 1950s , one with a big heart , a fun-loving laugh , and a dedication to her sailors - - she just can't wait to get back to business . James Caan , probably the most sensitive movie tough-guy of this era , latches onto a Seattle whore ( Marsha Mason ) and her illegitimate pre-teen , half-black son ; the three make a happy pair until Mason prematurely gives birth to the baby she's carrying . Rydell is a filmmaker who sees romance in welfare-marked squalor , and his sentiment is braced with a tough shell , yet nothing in the film makes sense . After a one-nighter with Mason , Caan meets up with her smart-aleck son by chance and instantly identifies him as her kid ( there isn't a moment of recognition , just a decent man-to-man chat and the story moves on ) . Once Mason and Caan decide to get married , there's lots of talk regarding their union yet we never see it . The script is a connect-the-dots job , with unconvincing characters to match . Mason , despite an Oscar nod , isn't quite believable playing low-class , and every time she's uses the word " ain't " it rings false ( her somewhat-chaste nudity is uncomfortable for her too , you can sense she cannot wait to cover up ) . Caan , frequently talking with a hick twang in his voice , plays decent and moral as if it were a dark cloud over him ; he's an optimist but a hopeless one , and when he gets his ire up and fights back he is still shown getting nowhere . The picture is heavy on the bluesy Seattle night-life , but the sordid atmospherics never quite come through ( this is pretty coy for an R-rated feature ) . Rydell and Ponicsan believe in the cliché so badly they have to conjure up a happy ending out of thin air . As for Mason , she has a quiet , reflective moment where she tells how sick she is of the mess her life has become - - though in the very next scene , she's making herself up for a night on the town . You just can't keep a gold-plated lady-of-the-evening down , not even in Seattle . from
Musical Warner Bros . sugarcake , sweet but not very satisfying . . .	In her fifth movie , Doris Day finally achieved top-billing , yet she shares the screen equally with a talented ensemble cast , with everyone working hard to inject some sparkle into a wafer-thin concoction . Inspired by the 1920s stage hit " No , No , Nanette " ( itself filmed in 1940 ) , this plays out as sort of the backstage story , with Doris betting her wealthy uncle that she won't say ' yes ' for 48 hours in exchange for show-money . Unbeknownst to her , uncle S . Z . Sakall has been nearly ruined by the 1929 stock market crash which , incidentally , hasn't kept all the hoofers from hanging up their tap shoes ( they're the merriest group of poor , working dancers I've ever seen ! ) . Pleasant tunes , colorful costumes and fun dance routines ( including a hair-raising bit with Gene Nelson on a staircase ) can't really add excitement to the proceedings , which seems to have been made as a matinée quickie . Day shines ( as usual ) , but her relationships with the men ( Nelson , Gordon MacRae , and Billy De Wolf ) are unclear , with De Wolf in particular a real wild card ( would you believe him as a ladies ' man stage producer ? ) . Eve Arden has some funny asides , and the wrap-up is cute , but " Tea for Two " vanishes from the cup just as quickly as it is poured . from
It has some insightful things to say , but it's too silly . . .	Almost a breakthrough for queer cinema : a homosexual cater-waiter in New York City swears off sex in the AIDS-era but soon finds himself falling for a hunk who is HIV positive . Paul Rudnick adapted his own play for the screen , allowing his gay characters to act upon their desires and not just whine about them ( which is what cramped the film-version of " Torch Song Trilogy " ) . Yet , the tone of the picture wavers as if the filmmakers weren't sure whether they were doing a fanciful comedy , a satire , a tragi-comedy with pathos , a revue , or a love story in the more traditional sense . The central leads ( Steven Weber and Michael T . Weiss ) are handsome and charming , but the intrusive star-cameos ( directed broadly for big laughs ) do not work . A semi-serious movie about tentative gay love can always stand a sense of humor ( self-effacing or otherwise ) , but hamming and camping gets old pretty fast . from
" The Flintstones " hit the big-screen	I always thought the scripts for " The Flintstones " TV show were a cut above your usual cartoon . They were ripe with satirical humor and cutting jabs that made my parents laugh as often as us kids . Too bad then that Fred's big-screen spy-adventure is loud instead of funny , hectic instead of witty , and LONG . Like three sub-par TV episodes strung together , this trip to Eurock has no juice . The Pebbles & Bamm-Bamm fantasy number is cute , but Fred - - mistaken for a spy - - takes up too much of the on-screen time . And what's with that title ? Since the poster has Fred seated backwards in a chair a la James Coburn , I would imagine " In Like Flint-stone " or " Our Man Flint-stone " would be more in keeping with the spy scenario ( and more clever , too ) .
" Basic Instinct " replay ; almost a guilty pleasure	Assistant District Attorney in San Francisco investigates when a shady art dealer is murdered . Director William Friedkin is on auto-pilot with this silly retread of " Basic Instinct " , however the dynamics of the plot tend to draw you in against your better judgment . The car stunts are fabulous , most of the actors are sultry eye-candy , elfin-faced David Caruso is admirably commanding , but the plot doesn't bear close scrutiny . Friedkin's porny scenes ( which played havoc with the film's rating ) walk that cinematic line between being necessary and just being exploitive ( see " Lipstick " . . . and just about every movie written by this film's screenwriter , Joe Eszterhaus ) . " Jade " isn't despicable , but it leaves the viewer in the uncomfortable position of shameful voyeur , and while this may be titillating to some , it doesn't sit well in retrospect . from
Beautiful production , incredibly weak story , miscast Audrey . . .	I'm one of the few Audrey Hepburn fans who didn't love " The Nun's Story " ( too slow , with a preconceived second-half ) or " Love In The Afternoon " ( a lead balloon ) , but " Green Mansions " is hokey and occasionally laughable , and Audrey looks positively lost as Rima the Bird Girl . Anthony Perkins plays a soldier in Venezuela who comes upon a tribal family in the wilds ( he's sort-of captured / sort-of not ) ; after wandering in and out of the forest one day , the tribal leader declares Tony a warrior and orders him to kill the evil spirit living in the jungle . Turns out it's just Audrey , in a strange hairstyle that looks like a fall , who has the locals terrified . She's a lithe sprite who communicates with the animals and lives with her grandfather , who hides many secrets - - one of which is where he got his gold pieces . With real-life husband Mel Ferrer as her director , it's curious that Audrey seems to be on auto-pilot , dreamily coasting by on her gamine appeal ( which isn't given much of a showcase , considering Rima doesn't display many dimensions ) . Tony Perkins is vacuous , but the scenery and the music are quite lovely . Possibly with a stronger script and direction - - and more appropriate leads - - this might have been something . from
Not a bad supernatural story , but the overheated writing and directing nearly sinks it	An ancient prophet of doom lures a writer for the Washington Post to a small town in West Virginia ( named Point Pleasant ! ) where a tragedy is soon to befall the community . Handsomely-produced spook-story runs rampant with nonsense , much of it laughable : red herrings , ringing phones , hallucinations that serve no purpose , and a supporting character who hears voices coming out of his bathroom sink ! In the lead , Richard Gere isn't really invested in this material ( and worse , he looks bloated and beady-eyed ) , but he does keep a straight face , as does Laura Linney as a policewoman who eventually tires of Gere's warnings ( something the viewer can instantly identify with ) . The story , adapted from John Keel's book , is actually quite engrossing , but this screenplay is far too complicated , and the direction too ritzy , to qualify as a satisfying thriller . Alan Bates comes in late in the game as a writer knowledgeable in the Mothman , but he's no help ( he tells Gere , " You're asking for explanations which can't be explained rationally " - - gee , thanks ) . Debra Messing gets shafted early ( her big scene as a ghost is only described to us ) , as does Will Patton ( who is supposed to be a regular Joe , but looks crazy the second we meet him ) , however Linney is attractive and the special effects at the climax are very good . from
Fashionably ragged ( for its time ) but brought down by sordidness . . .	Richard Rush directed this purposefully uneven blending of comic-macho clumsiness and violent action in the " Dirty Harry " vein . Plot concerns two cops in San Francisco who bust chops and wreck lots of cars in an attempt to nab a numbers-racketeer . Rush is attracted to a messy visual style : cajoling comedy combined with bursts of bloody violence . Yet , the blood is cartoon-red , which is a signal to us this is all in good fun . One of the villains is an evil transvestite - - another cue for derisive approval ( villainous gays quickly became a lamentable ' 70s cliché , an object to be scorned and ridiculed , coming right on the heels of murderous hippies ) . In the leads , Alan Arkin and James Caan are wired for self-detonation ( was Rush trying to get them to emulate Elliott Gould and Donald Sutherland from " MASH " ? ) . Supporting cast is solid , with Valerie Harper exceptional in small role as Arkin's wife . Some of the comedy works , but much of the rest is decidedly off-putting . from
Insufferable . . .	Two young men ( Matthew Modine and Nicolas Cage ) in pre-Vietnam , small town America become friends despite one boy who seemingly lives in a dream world : he's obsessed with birds , and fantasizes about flying . Alan Parker directed in a keen , outré manner , but also with a very heavy hand ; several sequences which might have been strong ( a surprise visit to a slaughterhouse , a bird's death after flying into a window ) instead become extreme examples of Parker's preening style , teeter-tottering madly between vulgar bravado and sappy , false sentiment . Modine is a strong , focused actor , but this leading role is rather woebegone - - culminating with an exceptionally uncomfortable scene where Birdy has a flying wet-dream ( many viewers might give up on the film right there ) . Cage's role - - the sensible one - - isn't as showy ( or obvious ) , yet he's the one keeping this flighty material grounded and he comes off better than Modine . The whole movie palls in the last stretch , ridiculously blaming the war for much of Birdy's behavioral problems , and ending with a jokey bit that will either make you laugh or scoff outright . from
Urban creepiness courtesy Val Lewton . . .	Odd film from producer Val Lewton , here shaking off his usual island-voodoo gimmickry for a story about sinister doings in New York City . Kim Hunter is sufficient as a young woman searching the city for her missing sister , eventually discovering her sibling was involved with a devil-worshiping cult . Mark Robson directed , and while he's careful setting up this plot he isn't very nimble , and his pacing drags . Hunter isn't a colorful actress - - she's not saucy or salty , nor does she crack wise - - and getting involved in her plight may prove taxing for some viewers looking for a brash scare-flick . The premise and execution are certainly curious , however the film is simply the precursor to the spate of devil films which followed and is not equal to the best of them . from
Fascinatingly terrible . . .	It would be tempting to write " The Driver's Seat " off as one of the worst movies ever , but it's rather seductive on a slim budget . . . fascinating in its wrong-headedness . The film has such a loopy , surreal quality , and star Elizabeth Taylor is actually attempting something ( rather than just posing ) , that the weirdness of the entire enterprise becomes compelling . Filmed in Italy , the story concerns a highly troubled , manic woman on the hunt for the perfect man . . . to be her murderer ? Incoherent for the most part , though perhaps that's what keeps you watching . Taylor is all dolled up , but she doesn't look her best here - - and one can only wonder what she made of this verbose script and her odd , underwritten character . Still in all , I watched to the very end , and I have to say the bizarre finale ( with all those chairs ) struck me as original , and stylish in a tacky way . Most bad films are boring or uninspired ; " The Driver's Seat " is bad , but not for these reasons . It has a certain movie-making fever , but it's been put together by unconventional - - dare I say it ? - - talents who have little idea how to construct and mount a film . from
Middle-of-the-road western with a light touch . . .	Annual high stakes poker tournament in 1880s Laredo , Texas attracts a hen-pecked husband whose wife has to take his place at the card-table after tragedy strikes . Set-bound western with the emphasis placed more on the personalities of its characters rather than the action . It certainly isn't bad , though the pacing tends to drag and the humor ( built completely on the one odd circumstance ) wears thin . There's a neat twist ending however , and Joanne Woodward gives a very good performance ( as her husband , Henry Fonda has a mostly thankless role ) . The screenplay was adapted from the early ' 60s television play " Big Deal in Laredo " ( a better title ! ) which featured Walter Matthau . from
It's a little heavy on kookiness . . .	As a poet who is institutionalized , Sean Connery distances himself quite grandly from screen alter-ego James Bond . Connery is unexpectedly gregarious as the avant-garde writer , Joanne Woodard is suitably shrill as his spouse , the supporting cast ( including Jean Seberg and the wonderful Zohra Lampert ) is terrific , but this is an extremely bumpy , frantic piece on challenging the system . Director Irvin Kershner has always been a little erratic , and his shifts in tone take a while to get used to . The script , from Elliot Baker's novel , is uneven , yet the film certainly looks good , with handsome photography and fine use of New York locations . Often gets confused with " They Might Be Giants " , another comedy which also co-starred Joanne Woodward and dealt with a certain madness . from
Good cast and director , but straightforward script and presentation are dull . . .	Seth Margolis ' novel becomes middle-of-the-road drama about a white woman and her husband fighting a black woman in court over the custody of the black woman's baby son , whom she left in a dumpster two years prior to cleaning up her life as a homeless crack-addict . Uninventive presentation plays like a dulled-out TV-movie , and the two leading actresses ( Jessica Lange and Halle Berry ) , while well cast , can't do much more than fill these stock roles with their individual charisma and personalities ( they can't invest much heart into the proceedings when the screenplay is all processed emotion ) . The outcome of the case ( and the reasons for the outcome ) seem dated already , and the concluding events are standard , predictable scenes of coming to terms . from
Romantic comedy with a feminist slant . . .	Aaron Spelling-Leonard Goldberg TV-movie from ABC in 1974 follows a pretty predictable formula : swinging bachelor meets his match , learns a lesson in love , discovers growing up isn't a bad as he thought it would be . Richard Long is a magazine publisher celebrating the big 4-0 who doesn't think his " present " from the fellas , wisecracking Karen Valentine in a skimpy outfit , is very amusing . After trading barbs with the former beauty pageant winner , he finds they have an attraction of sorts and she sticks around . Perhaps because the writer of this teleplay was a woman ( Susan Silver ) , Long's would-be lascivious lifestyle is frowned upon - - he's the one who needs ( and gets ) the make-over . Still , this female point-of-view provides some interesting subtext , and when Long refuses to say " I love you " ( preferring instead the all-inclusive " love ya ! " ) , the dialogue and situations show a sensitivity that isn't always found in these television quickies . Lots of fine supporting players pop up ( including Farrah Fawcett and Tom Bosley ) , and the low-budget isn't too distracting .
Ornate though overrated . . .	Yes , " Gigi " was the winner of nine Academy Awards , and is often referred to as the jewel in director Vincente Minnelli's crown , yet the picture is more pomp and circumstance than delicious musical entertainment . This was actually the second filming of the novel by Colette , one more in keeping with the Broadway smash ( which starred Audrey Hepburn ) . It gets the full M-G-M treatment while telling slim story of a scruffy French lass groomed to be a lady by her grandmother . Leslie Caron and charming Louis Jourdan are in constant peril of being swallowed up by the over-production - - and by the hammy supporting cast ( Maurice Chevalier , Hermione Gingold , Eva Gabor ) , none of whom seems to know the meaning of subtlety . The songs have the clipped wit of Broadway's best , and that's a good thing since those musical numbers are really the only instances in which the picture gains a little life . Heavy with ' prestige ' , though the glossy trimmings do ensure stylish , exuberant moments . from
It's Belle S . vs . those dirty Daltons !	Here's an odd one : sexy Jane Russell as western sharp-shooter Belle Starr , here competing with rivals The Dalton Gang . Movie opens with fruity bravado , but don't expect a camp-fest . Things gets surprisingly serious in the film's second-half , leading to a curiously downbeat conclusion . Very strange , and not particularly successful . Worth a look for the curio value alone . Supporting players George Brent and Forrest Tucker take turns getting out of Jane's way ; Russell poses , pouts and scowls as Belle , her high-point coming in a crowded saloon where she warbles " The Gilded Lily " . from
Very minor vehicle for Sal Mineo . . .	At an orphanage for boys and young men down in rural Georgia , a tough-yet-sensitive teen befriends a convict at a nearby work farm ; when the prisoner eventually makes a break for it , causing all hell to break loose in the small community , the kid has to decide whether to talk his friend into giving up or aid in his escape . Slow , rather dreary co-feature from Columbia , ostensibly designed as a showcase for young star Sal Mineo , though James Whitmore's haunted con has the film's best moments . Connecting with the audience in a much more immediate way than his young co-star , brawny , masculine Whitmore understands how to make his character's fear and damage work best for him . The other story threads ( a visiting former-orphan attempting to buy acceptance with his newfound wealth , a salty sheriff and his deputy , and a lonely woman living in a swampland shack ) never quite come together , despite good actors and location shooting . It's a puzzling movie ( a cynical viewer might even say a sexually conflicted one ) , with awkward melodrama and interaction ultimately keeping it from being anything more than second-string fare . from
Surprisingly . . . not terrible	Remake of the 1950 Judy Holliday / William Holden / Broderick Crawford hit farce , adapted from Garson Kanin's popular play , about millionaire businessman hiring a tutor for his dizzy girlfriend , which backfires when she becomes wise enough to know she's being played for a dupe . In the leads , Melanie Griffith , then-husband Don Johnson and John Goodman all have a propensity to lapse into shtick , but , for her part , Griffith is well-cast and very likable . The men have a harder time : Johnson is charmingly low-keyed in a dull role ( the problems with it go back to the play ) and Goodman works hard at being both vulgar and sympathetic . Not a complete success by any means , this update still hasn't figured out how to make the last act work ( the plot mechanisms become congealed , the action becomes stagy and the finale is limp ) , but there are some nice laughs spread around and an occasionally witty flash of original thought . from
Ripped from the headlines . . .	Porn actor John Holmes ( Val Kilmer , in a brave performance ) , down on his luck in Los Angeles 1981 , sets up his own drug-connection , powerful club owner Eddie Nash , for a raid on his drugs , gems and guns by his Hollywood ' friends ' , a violent group of crack-heads living on the edge , leading to a bloody massacre in their apartment . Director / co-writer James Cox obviously has the capabilities of being a virtuoso filmmaker , but this material ( so steeped in police business , character confessions , and flashbacks ) never really allows Cox to get creative . The jumpy , jazzy editing and hyped-up druggies on display are only intermittently arresting , and the acting work by the large cast is curiously uneven . Cox displays a sharp sense of time and place , and he pieces together this complex murder-case with a keen , forceful style , but despite the homicide scene being one of the most gruesome in Los Angeles history , none of the participants as shown ( including Holmes ) are very interesting . from
Bud and Lou are Off to See the Giant . . .	The often-told fable gets amusingly tweaked with Bud Abbott and Lou Costello in the leads , singing , dancing , and messing with a really nasty ogre . Opening in sepia tone , Bud and Lou somehow walk into a job as babysitters for a problem child ; Lou wants a bedtime story read to him , quickly falling asleep and dreaming he and his mother live in a colorful storybook village , growing a magical beanstalk and attempting to rescue a kidnapped princess from a giant . Devised and co-produced by Lou's brother , Pat , this was an independently-financed production from the comedy duo which Warner Bros . distributed . It has some kooky songs and even kookier sequences ( such as a masochistic Minuet between Lou and the giant's equally lanky female cook ) , but it does appear as a paste-up job . Filmed in just over three weeks , some of the scenes are so sloppy , one doesn't know if they were hastily left that way or if the clumsiness was perhaps intentional ( the editing , too , is awful , leaving the cook and her cow behind in fantasy limbo ) . The sets , leftovers from Ingrid Bergman's " Joan of Arc " , are fine , but the costumes are atrocious - - hopefully , this venture scared Costello away from tights for the remainder of his life ! It's kinda cute in a bumbling , ramshackle sort of way , and Lou gets a lot of funny business to do , but it isn't as imaginative as it should have been . from
Costumed claptrap	Overrated adaptation of Sir Walter Scott's book hasn't held up well , and is now best remembered for Elizabeth Taylor's appearance as Rebecca , looking gorgeous in her period costumes yet giving another of her whispery , listless ' grown up ' performances . Story of 12th century England and the knights in battle was ripe material for old-fashioned , high-end movie adventure , but Robert Taylor plays the title-named soldier as something of a martyr . Thankfully , lively Joan Fontaine ( as one of the two women in Ivanhoe's heart ) adds a bit of sparkle to the proceedings , which are stuffy instead of fun . Heavy scripting and direction ultimately sinks it , although the location shooting in England is very handsome . from
Disturbing , uncompromising thriller	I haven't seen this in about 10 years , but it really chilled me then and I've not forgotten it . A killer is hiding up in the attic of a sorority house . Who is it ? Who will be next to die ? Some of the violence is on the gruesome side , but the film's priority is a chilly , scary atmosphere , and this it accomplishes with appropriately grainy photography and realistic locations . The finale is so straight-forward it almost takes a few seconds to sink in . . but the unshakable effect it left on me is still memorable . Not a fun night at the movies , but for this genre not bad . from
Unreleased theatrical feature is quirky but has no punch	Josh Charles is wonderful as a young man obsessed with . . . traffic ? He longs to be a traffic reporter in the sky , but first finds on-again / off-again love with a perplexing Anne Heche ( she's so flaky he can't get a grip on her , and neither can we ) . John Goodman has a funny supporting role , and the production values are first-rate , but this is short-film material stretched out far too long . Terrific cast includes Dey Young , Christine Lahti , and Brent Spiner , but each has very little to do , and the film is flattened out by an overall lack of imagination and by its length . More cleverness was obviously needed ; there's not enough substance here for the picture to stay the course . from
I can't imagine anything worse than the final 20 minutes of " The Mexican "	After an atrocious opening - - Julia Roberts squabbling with boyfriend Brad Pitt over a balcony in a parking lot - - " The Mexican " improves , even comes up with some clever and funny bits of throwaway comedy . Although her performance is uneven , Roberts really shines in her scenes with gay hit-man James Gandolfini - - so much so that when she's paired up again with Pitt , we miss her happy spark . Nearly all the scenes with the two main stars together are weak . The scattershot script tries combining too many different elements into its mix , leaving one character in particular ( a charming one ) shafted much too early . All this leads to 20 minutes of dead space in the final act that was simply torture to sit through . Might've been a wonderful black comedy , but the screenwriter didn't bother to take the viewer's feelings into consideration . from
Bubblegum for brains . . .	Based on comic-book characters first introduced in the " Archies " series , Josie , Val and Melody are three rockin ' small town girls who want to taste big-time success on the pop charts ; enter nefarious - - and overly ridiculous - - talent scout Alan Cumming ( in a poor performance ) and soon the Pussycats are on their way . Satire on the current craze for teen-oriented pop music , " Josie and The Pussycats " is alive and immediate , with trendy jokes and surroundings , friendly gals and intentionally funny product placements . It just misses however , partly due to the villains of the piece : Cumming and Parker Posey look like leftovers from " Hudson Hawk " , playing it way over-the-top in an unsubtle bid for easy laughs . The animated TV-show from Hanna-Barbera wasn't wicked with wit either , yet I still felt that some smarts couldn't have hurt , particularly in the film's final 15 minutes , which are simply torturous . Until that point , " Pussycats " is an innocuous fluffball ( uh , furball ) with some funny , irreverent lines . from
A spotty script , but with haunting moments	Michael Radford directed and co-wrote this adaptation of James Fox's book taking place in Kenya during World War II . High society Brits evade the swarming Nazis by hiding out in Africa while money-hungry Greta Scacchi gets caught up in heated love-triangle . Languid , slowly-paced British-made drama without enough inner-fire ; the handling is awfully sullen , and clichés abound , despite attractive locales and sexy Greta spicing the scenario . Terrific supporting cast includes John Hurt , Hugh Grant , and Geraldine Chaplin , yet they can't do much to infuse the film with life . Radford does pull off an amazing finale however , and his final shot is haunting . from
" Charade " rehash : droll , dull and inert . . .	This film has a most unpleasant opening sequence : a man walks into an optometrist's office expecting an eye exam , but the doctor is a fraud and - - after an excruciating build-up - - - puts poison in the man's eyes , all just to get a coded piece of paper hidden in the victim's glasses ! Gregory Peck tries loosening up for a change , playing a teacher assigned by an assortment of eccentric villains to decipher the secret code , but it's quite clear this is just a rehash of " Charade " ( both helmed by the same director , the increasingly disappointing Stanley Donen ) . Sophia Loren looks smashing at every turn , but she doesn't have any witty lines and there's minimal chemistry between she and Peck . The editing is bad ( especially in the overlong sequence where Peck rides a bicycle in the street ) and the plot is a fizzle . " Arabesque " is stiffly professional , but it offers only Sophia Loren in a variety of clothes and hairstyles . Even Henry Mancini's score isn't up to snuff . from
Cheesy ABC TV-movie	Seems to me there have been more than enough movies ( or episodes on TV shows ) wherein a mystery killer picks off a group of people one by one , and then crosses their faces with a big ' X ' on a group-photo where everyone is smiling and happy . The theatrical film " The Last of Sheila " used a group-photo as a red herring , but " Death Cruise " doesn't have time for subtlety . It's a telefilm , short on time and short on budget . A would-be " Ten Little Indians " , the cast is littered with has-beens ( Richard Long ) , should-have-beens ( Edward Albert ) , and one fresh face ( Kate Jackson , giving off some enchanting , mysterious charisma ) . It's a cross between " The Love Boat " and " Murder , She Wrote " , yet it does predate both and was fairly intriguing for its time . Seen today , it's a tacky hoot , although there is a neat twist at the finish line . As TV-movies go : from
Undeniably potent , but vicious , ugly , lacerating	Mild-mannered architect Charles Bronson becomes a street vigilante in New York City after his wife and daughter are attacked in their apartment . The fact that Bronson's Paul Kersey never catches up with the thugs who attacked his family can be construed as either clever or misbegotten by the filmmakers ( clever because it shows they weren't calculating , misbegotten because it might have provided the viewer with some closure ) . However , director Michael Winner was smart enough to throw in a little sarcastic wit via detective Vincent Gardenia , who is terrific . Still , it's a bastardization of the source novel , which tried to say that violence is by no means an answer to - - or justification of - - violent behavior . from
" You'll have nice things , Nell , you're a handsome woman ! "	Unintentionally funny B-movie from Fox was Marilyn Monroe's first starring role ( a year before " Niagra " ) ; she plays a delusional , pathetic young woman just out of a mental institution who ends up babysitting for a wealthy couple's child one night in a posh New York hotel . Richard Widmark takes a shine to her , until he realizes she's " satin on one side and sandpaper on the other ! " Widmark's ex-girlfriend Anne Bancroft - - making a decent film debut - - has some funny lines too ( to Widmark : " I'm not angry - - I'm only furious ! " ) . Pulpy concoction , weak on action , has a few strong scenes : Monroe flirting with Widmark using the hotel window blinds , Monroe's final ride in the elevator , and any scene with Jim Backus as the kid's father . The director allows Marilyn to get away with too much , and when her eyes fire up with deranged hatred , she's really something to behold - - but in an amusing way that does this not-too-suspenseful melodrama no favors . from
Slow-going human drama looks like a well-produced episode from a TV serial . . .	Kate Nelligan , always a forthright and gripping actress , gets to show many different sides as a single mother in New York City whose little boy disappears one day while walking a short distance to school ; she clashes with authorities and friends , but is convinced her child has been kidnapped and is still alive . These type of human dramas are all pretty much the same , but if the extremities pull you in , they are undeniably absorbing . There's a horribly facetious sub-plot about a homosexual suspect ( who seems to be rendered guilty by virtue of his fetishes ) , but Nelligan gives the familiar theme her class and ladylike vigor , making it fresher than most , and she's helped by other good actors like Judd Hirsch , Stockard Channing and David Dukes . The film is ultimately hurt by its clichés ( especially when dealing second-handedly with police lieutenant Hirsch's family life ) ; and as for the climax , it'll either strike you as very emotional or incredibly hokey and over-the-top . from
Hollywood magic : both intriguing and overbaked	A trio of mystical stories told in that entertainingly glossy , old Hollywood type of way , boasting showmanship over any sort of logic . The plots involve a woman who learns about inner-beauty , a man's dramatic experience with a fortune teller , and a circus performer who is hounded by an admirer . Superficial nonsense has few surprises , but cast players Barbara Stanwyck , Charles Boyer , Robert Benchley and Edward G . Robinson are always worth a look . Oscar Wilde is credited as one of the screenwriters ! A fourth chapter was filmed but then dropped , eventually expanded into its own movie ( 1944's " Destiny " ) . from
" Moonstruck " wanna-be	Curiously cast , indifferently-made character-comedy never quite gets off the ground . There are some colorful and funny moments in " Used People " , but it doesn't sparkle , it doesn't have any magic , it's just ordinary - - and that's a shame . Shirley MacLaine is a widowed Jewish matriarch who falls in love again , much to the distress of her dysfunctional , now-grown children . I don't know about most viewers , but I had trouble accepting Kathy Bates as MacLaine's daughter ( likewise Jessica Tandy as MacLaine's mother ) . It doesn't ring true , and the direction is askew and uneven throughout , yet there's a lot of sterling talent on display here and some of the dialogue is very funny . from
Hampered by uneven direction , but featuring two fine performances . . .	After his wife is kidnapped from their Paris hotel room , a confused and distraught American doctor is plunged into European espionage . Rather mild suspense-thriller from director / co-writer Roman Polanski , who sets up the pieces to this chess match quite awkwardly . The opening moments with Harrison Ford and spouse Betty Buckley have little believability ( they seem like brother and sister ) , but the pacing does pick up from there , despite the fact that Ford's doctor is seldom charismatic or likable and is mainly just a plot device ( the worried husband ) . Newcomer Emmanuelle Seigner ( later Mrs . Polanksi ) is tantalizing as a young woman who gets involved , and her scenes with Ford give the picture some much-needed energy . from
There's no conviction in the set-up , and nothing very amusing about the follow-through . . .	A high school ace with everything going for her goofs up and gets pregnant ; her mother is devastated , and her boyfriend's parents object , but the teens get married and hope for the best . Molly Ringwald's appealing personality manages to shine through the plastic coating and convictionless screenplay by Denise DeClue and Tim Kazurinsky , good writers who have no idea what tone to set - - nor how to wrap things up . The adults are shrill caricatures played cartoonishly over-the-top , while newcomer Randall Batinkoff is just average . Ringwald's career became rudderless after out-growing the John Hughes / teen-angst comedies which made her a star , so why in " For Keeps ? " is she back in high school ? It's a defeatist move , and while Ringwald never embarrasses herself , she's obviously too smart a cookie to lend any kind of credibility to this hackneyed scenario . from
Remarkable work from Tracy , but hardly grand entertainment . . .	John Sturges directed this reportedly-troubled production , a handsome adaptation of Ernest Hemingway's story about an old salt who wants one last chance to catch a prized fish before he dies . This scenario puts extraordinary demands on lead actor Spencer Tracy , who is forced to hold the screen nearly alone for ninety minutes . Although he manages to ingratiate himself early on to the viewer , one still doesn't know how to take this character - - is he likably stubborn or stubbornly foolish ? Either way , Hemingway's tale doesn't quite make its mark as rousing cinematic material , however the finish is very satisfying . It gets a helping hand from Dimitri Tiomkin and his score , which won an Oscar . Remade as a TV-movie in 1990 starring Anthony Quinn . from
Intriguing , but ultimately self-important . . .	Wife and mother Julianne Moore , living in affluent area of California's San Fernando Valley , starts ailing one day and can't seem to improve . Patchy , anemic picture is initially intriguing , targeting the toxins in our environment , but soon gets caught up in preachiness and melodrama . Some see the film as a dark comedy , others as an AIDS-era document of our times , but there's too much hand-wringing and brow-beating in the mix for it to be enlightening or surprising . Moore ( doing a Julie Hagerty impersonation ) is too smart to passed off as a ditz , although some of the supporting performances are solid ( particularly Peter Friedman as the leader of an awareness group ) . Muddled movie attempts a Social Statement ; abandon hope about midway through . from
Roland Joffé turns Nathaniel Hawthorne into a heavy-breather !	Prurient , ludicrous , but undeniably entertaining drama with some camp appeal could politely be called a revisionist variation on Nathaniel Hawthorne's classic book about a New England woman in the 17th century whose illicit , secret affair with a minister results in her scandalous pregnancy . If you throw out the source material and view this simply as a star-crossed lovers tale , some minor enjoyment can be eked out of the overheated scenario - - but who wants to throw out Hawthorne ? It's an over-the-top simplification with a ridiculous script which at times mirrors - - rather amusingly - - " The Blue Lagoon " ( both screenplays were written by Douglas Day Stewart ) . Story previously filmed in 1926 , 1934 and 1973 ; Demi Moore is our Hester Prynne this time , and while she's not exactly 17th century , she fits right in when the narrative steams up . from
It seldom finds the appropriate flavor . . .	Young boy from a broken home is ' adopted ' by a group of elderly British women in pre-WWII Florence , Italy . Director Franco Zeffirelli's rather self-conscious valentine to his own childhood is slushed with poetic sentimentality , most of which feels distinctly artificial . The young lad at the heart of the piece isn't at all memorable , and the ladies unfortunately fare no better ( but where else can you find Cher , Judi Dench , Joan Plowright , Lily Tomlin and Maggie Smith together on-screen ? ) . Some of the more subtle moments ( such as the child waiting for someone to pick him up after school ) touch on a velvety kind of youthful longing that is rather sweet , but the drippy dialogue and obvious " scene stealing " opportunities for the femme stars drain much of the sincerity from the mix . from
Cheeky western romp . . .	Burt Kennedy adapted Max Evans ' book and directed this utterly unassuming , pleasant time-filler which keeps tongue-in-cheek and deep thoughts in neutral . Glenn Ford and Henry Fonda play two horse-tamers in Arizona who bond with a bucking roan horse ; Sue Ane Langdon and Hope Holiday are two tootsies they tangle with . Sleeper hit from 1965 offers Glenn Ford more room to shine than his co-star ; Fonda is so non-aggressive and laid-back , it's easy to forget that he's around . Overall , Kennedy's approach is a bit mundane , and the picture doesn't have a big impact , but the scenery is certainly nice and the ladies - - in and out of their clothes - - are lively . from
Collaboration for some wonderful talents is surprisingly mild . . .	Jennifer Jones is rather tepid playing Carrie Meeber , a small town girl who becomes involved in her first romance with a classy restaurateur from the big city . Laurence Olivier's performance as Carrie's lover is sly and seductive , but there isn't any real chemistry between he and Jones , and Olivier could just as well be acting to a mirror ( he's very good , very charismatic , and yet highly enamored of his own presence ) . Director William Wyler stages some dandy melodrama , but one still aches for much more than hand-wringing in a film with talents this big . The final sequence ( set underneath a stairwell ) is amazing both visually and emotionally , but too much of this story is balky or routine . None of the supporting players in the cast are allowed to outshine Larry Olivier ; the picture may be called " Carrie " , but all eyes are on the acting prince . from
Far too sober a translation . . .	Celebrated William Inge play , in which Shirley Booth won a Best Actress Tony for her work on Broadway , comes to the screen rather muted of its power . Booth returns to her role as a frumpy housewife desperately trying to keep her moody husband happy ; he's an alcoholic chiropractor struggling to stay off the bottle , but when a cute blonde boarder moves into the house , it changes the dynamic in the household . This material is basically a showcase for its leading lady , and Oscar-winning Booth is indeed a gripping presence here , giving a heartfelt performance . Not so Burt Lancaster as Shirley's spouse , whose intensity is erratic and off-putting ( and whose obvious youth is at a mismatch with this part ) . The supporting roles are of little consequence , though the film is astutely directed and photographed . It isn't the fascinating downer it might have been however , the Hollywood gloss coming between the sadly pathetic narrative and the crisp , cogent handling . Remade for television in 1977 . from
" You're psychotic , but don't be stupid ! "	Several flasks containing a deadly toxin , prepared by the U . S . government for germ warfare , are stolen from a government lab in the California desert by a traitor and his henchmen ; an investigator on the case locates the group and is taken hostage . Mechanical thriller stretches out its exposition to a yawn-inducing length ; by the time director John Sturges gets around to the big action sequences , most of the tension has already faded away . The cast is made up of familiar TV faces ( and Dana Andrews as a General ) , and cinematographer Robert Surtees does some handsome work with the picturesque locations , but the movie just doesn't move ( and is probably too glossy and professional for its own good ) . Based on Alistair MacLean's book , the premise had great disaster-flick potential , however the cheap thrill-genre implications are not exploited by Sturges , who is disappointingly workman-like . By the third act , the many stand-offs between the good guys and the villains are finally pared down , and the picture does have an exciting finale . The dialogue is heavy-handed throughout ( which can backfire and lapse into camp for restless audiences ) , and the actors are used as story-pawns , stripping them of any personality . from
Trash of the glossiest kind can be fun . . .	Empty-headed romance starring Elizabeth Taylor as a beatnik artist in Northern California and Richard Burton as the married priest whom she seduces . Eva Marie Saint is Burton's sniffling wife ( the type of hankie-carrying movie good girl who tend to drive men right over the mountain into Sin City ) . The music is pretty , the scenery is lush ( done on-location in Big Sur , unlike the interiors which were shot in France ! ) . But it's a very silly way to put Hollywood's then-hottest couple to use , with soap clichés so musty it may even remind you of some you've thankfully forgotten . It's all quite beautiful - - and yet so stupid . . . from
Balky and top-heavy with tragedy . . .	Rather lumpy Civil War story has a Virginia farmer ( James Stewart ) and his family sticking to their business and hoping to ignore the battles going on around them , but when the farmer's sixteen-year-old son is mistaken for a soldier ( or is he ? ) and is taken prisoner , Stewart declares this is now his war , too . Long but frequently engrossing piece modeled in the western-revenge genre of years passed . It is resolutely old-fashioned , and yet also brutish on occasion , with a final third full of downbeat drama ( and funerals ) . Stewart , when he gets fired up , is full of his usual gumshun , although his combative dialogue becomes repetitive and for most of the picture he's stuck giving orders . The supporting cast , mostly the younger players like Patrick Wayne and debuting Katharine Ross , are somewhat stilted , and the film's direction is balky and awkward ( it's imperative you feel that Stewart's clan is a familial unit , but that hardly ever comes across ) . A just-OK picture with several gripping sequences of human emotion and drama , but it's hardly a triumph unless you're an avid Jimmy Stewart fan . from
Cinematic expansion of the cult TV series flatlines . . .	Over-produced , witless affair with one amazing performance : John Lithgow , freaking out on a crowded airplane in the movie's fourth and closing chapter ( a remake of a TV episode starring William Shatner ) . These stories of the macabre , each helmed by a different filmmaker , vary in degrees of style and irony , although none can hold a candle to the television series ( three of the four tales are adapted from TV ) . Vic Morrow plays a bigot who gets his just desserts ( it's an unattractive farewell performance by Morrow , killed on the set ) ; there's also a mysterious occurrence at an old folks ' home ( which is shot full of holes by an overly-whimsical Steven Spielberg , still in his " E . T . " mode ) ; a grown woman who meets a magical youngster ( which is hurt by frantic handling and a flat ending ) ; and Lithgow's fearful flier who spies an alien on the wing in mid-flight . Garish , fitfully entertaining , with few surprises except for the big-name talents ultimately misused . from
A comic-book romance	" Two Of A Kind " originally opened citywide at Christmas-time 1983 without any pre-release screenings for the critics ( and you know what they say . . . they must have something to hide ! ) . True , the wheezing , inane plot and phony contrivances of " Two of a Kind " are tough to wade through , yet the film has a cartoonish kind of magic that is appealing , especially if you're an admirer of Olivia Newton-John ( looking her best here ) . John Travolta , on the other hand , is slumming it , walking through a rather hopeless role as a would-be inventor so deep in debt he stoops to robbing a bank ; Newton-John is the teller who dupes him out of a small fortune . Cheesy , but big-hearted film is a sweet fairy tale , a comic-book romance that doesn't strive for much more than silly laughs and star-crossed love . from
Early Myrna Loy . . .	1933 comedy isn't too creaky , despite its age . Droll adaptation ( the first of two ) of Rachel Crothers ' play about a female writer who has penned a fictional account of an affair she had with a married man , later unknowingly befriending the jilted wife at a dinner party . Some very tart lines and smart performances by Ann Harding , Myrna Loy and Frank Morgan , but the direction ( reportedly troubled ) is somewhat sluggish . Robert Montgomery is an acting casualty , and the 85-minute film takes a good 45 minutes to warm up . Later remade in 1941 with Joan Crawford , and perhaps was the starting point for Allan Burns and Mary Tyler Moore's " Just Between Friends " . from
It cries out to be satirized . . .	The first sequel to 1970's popular " Airport " is saddled with a fifth-rate script and a third-class production , yet somehow the thing is entertaining on a very low level . Karen Black is an odd choice to play a stewardess ( she's much too intense an actress to be convincing waiting on travelers ) ; when her 747 is crippled mid-flight after a collision with a small private plane , Black assumes control ( when asked via radio to keep her eyes on the meters , you wait for one to go left and the other to go right ) , yet she's certainly an interesting , gripping actress who carries most of this film by herself . Unfortunately , sloppy director Jack Smight keeps trying to humiliate her ( check out Karen's close-up near the end of the flick when she's sitting behind Charlton Heston - - she looks positively constipated ! ) . Helen Reddy is a hoot as a singing nun ( she seems to have no idea she's slipping into a ' 50s-era parody ) , Linda Blair is sugary-sweet as a beaming teen in need of a kidney , Sid Caesar and Myrna Loy are amusing as two oldsters ( he flirts , she drinks ) , and good ol ' Chuck Heston comes to save the day wearing a yellow turtleneck and shades ! Truly a jaw-dropping piece of sludge . from
Intentionally over-the-top , but flimsy instead of full-bodied . . .	Flashy but flimsy western tries for fantasy-mythic feel but never quite achieves its ambitions . Sharon Stone plays mysterious lady gunslinger who signs up for dueling contest in a tumbleweed town once she discovers her mortal nemesis is involved , the mangy varmint who was instrumental in killing her sheriff father . Spirited , but shallow , artistically-wayward western with tongue-in-cheek . It has some silly flash and sass , but it isn't involving , nor do any of the players ( a jaw-dropper of a cast which includes Gene Hackman , Russell Crowe , Leonardo DiCaprio , and Gary Sinise ) come off looking especially good . Director Sam Raimi sets up some visually amazing shots - - but without honest , gritty characters , it's not much more than a live-action cartoon . Stone is flippant and sexy , but she's just relying on her proved shtick and it quickly wears thin . from
Enjoyable camp	Colorful sci-fi has Zsa Zsa Gabor and numerous other beautiful females trapped on the planet Venus , which is under the ruling of a man-hating feminist . When an all-male space exploration team crash lands on the premises , the gals scheme to break free from the tyrant . Though shot in beautiful color ( and in CinemaScope ! ) , this " Queen " is obviously low-budget goods , with amateur actors giving appropriately anonymous performances . However , despite a very sluggish beginning , it turns out to be a charmingly dopey enterprise , rather on the level of a semi-competent Ed Wood . Lots of fun if viewed in the requisite silly spirit . from
Barrymore is charismatic . . . the script is not	Film-version of Marcel Pagnol's play about a naive professor , teaching at an academy for boys , getting the ax from the administration and becoming a chemist for a beverage company headed up by a businessman who turns out to be dishonest . Tale of morals and mores is sluggishly-paced and could use a little extra comedic relief , though it does have John Barrymore in the lead and he's very charming . One may say the script is dated and dim , however Barrymore creates an appealing character in Professor Topaze , and his gentle performance nearly makes up for the unimaginative handling and the disappointing supporting turns by Myrna Loy , Albert Conti and Reginald Mason . Remade in 1962 with Peter Sellers as " I Like Money " . from
TV sitcom masquerading as a feature film	Elvira ( Cassandra Peterson ) is a very chipper presence on the screen , but her dry comments and costumed-Valley Girl disposition can't carry a movie very far . The plot - - something to do with an inheritance , a book of spells , and Edie McClurg as a Mrs . Kravitz-type townsperson - - isn't painful or slack , but it is extremely slight . . . and the horny teenage boys who keep trying to get a peek at Elvira's bazooms are like refugees from " Porky's 3 " . There's also a hunky love-interest for Elvira , but he doesn't seem especially like the type of guy she would go for ( since when do ghouls get worked up over all-American beefcake ? ) . It all leads to an FX-induced showdown and a finale in Las Vegas , but the real laugh-getter is Elvira and she's funny when she gets the chance . from
Stylish but aloof and dramatically flat . . .	Puzzling revisionist return to 1920's Chicago , wherein a couple of vicarious thrill-seekers and gay lovers graduate from breaking storefront windows to masterminding the murder of a young boy ( within the pretense of a kidnapping-for-ransom job ) . True story of convicted murderers Richard Loeb and Nathan Leopold , Jr . is given a stark , visually arresting and stylish look , but the men themselves are annoyingly enigmatic . The pair are seen as lustful and reckless , yet they're also in denial over their actions , their religion ( both were Jewish ) and their homosexuality . The film doesn't equate their self-denial with anything substantial ( not their upbringings , their behavior in public or private , nor their state of wealth ) , and the intrinsic aloofness keeps the picture from being a gripping document . Some of the details of the case are confusing as presented , either brushed past without great thought or left deliberately ambiguous ( as with the prosecutor's claim the young victim was sexually abused , something we don't see ) and the " modern " touches ( meant to be ironic , I guess ) add nothing . There are mordantly amusing asides ( such as Leopold allegedly suing the movie producer behind 1959's " Compulsion " because it portrayed him in a negative fashion ! ) , yet the pair's prison years are hardly delved into , leaving us with less at the finish than we initially had . from
Anything for love !	Charles Grodin is dryly disengaged throughout this sleepy comic caper , which he co-adapted from the book by Gerald A . Browne . An American thief hopes to rob Great Britain's clearing house of its diamonds , but both Grodin and accomplice / girlfriend Candice Bergin are so lethargic they fade into the woodwork . A wily supporting cast ( including James Mason , John Gielgud and Trevor Howard ) enlivens the picture considerably , but Aram Avakian's airy direction is practically non-existent . The film looks like it was cheaply-made , with poor editing and muddy cinematography , and yet a smugness hangs over the proceedings ( as if it were a great inside joke ) . A flop at the box-office - - the roach on the poster probably didn't help - - it was quickly reissued under the title , " Anything For Love " . from
Unhappy stars struggle through lumpy romantic musical . . .	Exceedingly thin Warner Bros . musical , blanketed in tacky lustre and stock footage , involves an inept assistant's assistant in Washington , D . C . who is in charge of sending out the invites to attend a Theatre Arts Festival in Paris , France ; somehow , an invitation meant for Ethel Barrymore is sent instead to a chorus girl named Ethel Jackson ( nicknamed " Dynamite " , though we are never told why ) . The dancer is promptly uninvited , and then re-invited , by the assistant , who falls in love with her on the ship sailing to Europe . Doris Day is as perky as ever , and her early scenes celebrating with her chorus friends and with the shipboard kitchen crew are delightful ( " Don't stop ! " she tells the fellas , " I'm tickin ' ! " ) . Unfortunately , she has to contend with rubber-faced , bug-eyed Ray Bolger in the romance department , and it's all Miss Day can do to keep her spirits up . Bolger never found stardom in the movies sans his Scarecrow character ; he does a very fine solo dance routine early on , but otherwise comes across as a joyless sourpuss , snapping at underlings and mugging at the camera ( no gentleman would ever try to upstage Doris Day ! ) . Doris sings the title song very prettily , but the other tunes are fairly forgettable . As for the happy ending , I can only hope the filmmakers were joking and that Day's " Dynamite " Jackson lures a replacement suitor aboard the ship heading back to the U . S . A . from
" He stuck his fingers in my mouth and called me a pig . . . "	George L . Du Maurier's novel " Trilby " , first filmed as " Svengali " in 1931 with John Barrymore and Marian Marsh , gets an embarrassing ' 80s make-over here , with New York bar-band singer Jodie Foster discovered and sent to vocal extraordinaire Peter O'Toole for refinement . They share a begrudging relationship at first , accented by ego-mad Svengali O'Toole's stormy temperament , until Foster's Zoe eventually lands a record deal - - putting into question her need to rely on this man who has come to be her mentor and love-interest . Well-produced for television , the movie gets off to a good start but eventually flags , with Foster unconvincing as a vocalist and O'Toole looking ragged and disinterested . There's a funny bit performance by a young Holly Hunter ( whose screws are so loose , she clashes with the relatively somber tone of this piece ) , and Elizabeth Ashley has some fine moments near the beginning before she is unceremoniously lost in the shuffle .
The kind of sentimentality that grates . . .	I'm a sucker for romantic movies , with meant-to-be relationships that last a lifetime , but " A Home at the End of the World " is a mishmash of romantic ideas , most of them cobbled from other movies ( say , " Jules and Jim " ) , and yet it never gets its central relationships right . Colin Farrell plays a young man so guileless , we can't tell what his sexual orientation is ; after having risen from childhood tragedy , he seems to grow up under a guiding star - - he's innocence personified , an angelic virgin man-child , and everything falls into place for him . You would think any struggling , directionless gay man would worship and adore him , but boyhood friend Dallas Roberts treats him casually ( Roberts ' role is so underwritten , we at first don't even know that he's supposed to be homosexual , and the word is never used ) . We never see passion , we see ' free spirited ' understanding . Robin Wright Penn , playing a kooky hat-designer , is here simply to stir Farrell's hetero side , not so much as a catalyst in the proceedings ; it's a hopeless role and I couldn't wait for the movie to be done with her ( Penn , a good actress , gets the worst of the screenwriter's pretensions , immediately having a baby and then just as quickly griping about the responsibilities of raising one ) . The finale is admirable , and - - realistically - - not a tidy one , yet I still didn't believe anything in this picture . They wanted a rosy ending so badly , they were willing to beg , borrow and steal . That's fine , but it's hard to stir the heart with characters as unreal as these . from
Interesting early talkie	Quite good film about a shop-owner who lives to see his little business flourish into a major department store ; unfortunately , his angry , ungrateful children want no part of the business once dad passes over . Melodrama loses focus in the last half , but until then is excellently acted , surprisingly interesting . Best scene : the mental breakdown of the harried store clerk . from
Hayward gets gassed for overacting . . .	Once-celebrated soap opera regarding hustler and maybe-murderess Barbara Graham , who got the gas chamber . Susan Hayward won the Best Actress Oscar , but for what ? Spitting out lines like " It's nothing PERSONAL ! " , " I'm not your MAID ! " or " Take it , it's all I've GOT ! " ( always with the inflection on the last word ) . It's a piece of non-acting , really , in the same dated vein as Joan Crawford in " Mildred Pierce " - - which also got awards ! The score is heavy on the bongos ; it's jazzy all right , too jazzy . It provides all the nervy emotions that the screenplay couldn't put into words , but who wants the background score to do all the work ? The direction is textbook , all the way up until the final moments , which aren't exactly subtle but do provide some much-needed tension . Graham gets a send-off , and for once the movie doesn't deteriorate into camp . from
Brash energy and enthusiasm , but it's a near-miss . . .	From the cult comic-strip by Alan Martin and Jamie Hewlett about a post-apocalyptic smart-ass ( Lori Petty ) who is in a battle against the bad guys at the Department of Water and Power in the year 2033 . Structured and designed just like a comic book , with jagged editing techniques , animated fragments , lots of rock music and over-scaled acting . But the film is mainly a failure due to the half-baked screenplay - - which never follows through on its ideas - - and Rachel Taladay's energetic but hectic direction . Petty is well-cast as Tank Girl , showing lots of full-throttle enthusiasm , but she's obnoxious instead of hearty ( she's constantly in the audience's face ) ; had Taladay been more refined , we might have been charmed by Tank Girl's sass instead of constantly being put-off . Many proper ingredients are here for a live-action cartoon , yet the film is best described as a misfire . from
Fine cast , familiar story . . .	Often-told tale of a single father meeting and falling in love with a single mother , planning to wed despite the fact their mutual children do not get along . Van Heflin and Patricia Neal are certainly well-matched in the leads , and Heflin in particular gives a sharply-observed performance , but contrivances take over Joseph Hoffman's script and the whole pre-sitcom venture soon runs aground . Nice opening , several very good scenes , but ultimately nothing special . Aimed at wholesome family audiences of the 1950s ( who may have felt TV's " The Brady Bunch " some 18 years later was but a retread ) , this passes muster as nostalgia , but it isn't a memorable vehicle for either star . from
Fully fabricated magic . . .	From Nicole Kidman's unnaturally sweet and sing-songy vocal inflections to the heavy-handed pop and rock music selections on the soundtrack , director and co-writer Nora Ephron's high-concept rendering of the 1960s TV show " Bewitched " sparkles like store-bought glitter . Will Ferrell ( overacting without a grounded center ) plays a faded movie star who gets talked into playing Darrin on a reworking of the popular show ; after spotting effervescent Kidman in a bookstore , he convinces her and the producers that she should be cast as suburban witch Samantha - - unaware that she really does possess supernatural powers . Ephron adopts a nudging , winking tone here , but she doesn't satirize show business with any bite . Worse , her romantic comedy leanings never take off because Ferrell and Kidman are never allowed to create substantial characters ( it's just not there in the writing ) . The reverence to the TV series seems heartfelt ( and the nostalgia is certainly welcomed ) , but there isn't enough plot here for a feature film - - it plays like an elongated trailer . from
Bizarre , outlandish , well-cast and performed . . . but it runs out of gas too soon	Colorful cast ends up flailing about in this pushy mishmash of darkly comic ideas , written by Christopher Isherwood and Terry Southern from Evelyn Waugh's novel . Slim plot concerns young Robert Morse , newly arrived in Los Angeles to live with his uncle , suddenly faced with burying the man after his uncle unexpectedly commits suicide . What begins as a savage satire on the movie industry turns too soon into a spoof of the mortuary business , with all the pungency and bitter wit left behind in the story's first-act . Despite some smashing performances ( particularly by John Gielgud and Liberace ) and many offbeat ideas , the film fails to hang together . Director Tony Richardson , perhaps attempting to replant mod British irreverence in ' 60s California , gets an early rhythm going that is quite wonderful , but that promise continually leaks away until the film becomes ugly and ungainly . from
Lots of low-budget style , but it doesn't add up	Hitchcock-buff Brian De Palma gets an intriguing , just-this-side-of-campy scenario going in " Sisters " : twin siblings are involved in a murder , and quickly attempt to cover it up from a nosey female sleuth who witnessed a bloody " something " from her window . Too bad the flick falls apart after this promising first-act . Nothing interesting is done with Jennifer Salt's one-note character , and Margot Kidder ( so young , and looking luminous ) has next to nothing to work with . The film has drive and imagination to spare , but needed a less ritzy script to succeed . I'm not against minor cult items , they are quite often more entertaining and memorable than mass hits , but this one lets the viewer down early on . De Palma works for the moment , not for an overall effect , and I began losing my faith in him after the first hour . from
Is it a great performance or a great impersonation ?	Director Taylor Hackford doesn't have to work hard to get Ray Charles on our side : the opening scene , with Ray outsmarting a bigoted redneck , gets you smiling and immediately we're off on Ray's adventure . It seems like a good start , but despite the fact that Ray is a sympathetic , interesting character on-screen , it's tough to believe much of what we're seeing is real ( and that's because it follows a tried-and-true Hollywood formula , right down to showing us headlines to push the narrative forward ) . The production is very handsome , the supporting characters fairly well drawn , and Jamie Foxx is solid and commendable . Is he really feeling Ray Charles down to his marrow or is this just a terrific Ray Charles impersonation ? Hard to tell from the way this half-fabricated story plays out : it's a slick , assembly-line bio-pic . Fun for one viewing but no masterwork . from
Michael Curtiz directed , but it's no " Casablanca " for Elvis . . .	Disappointing Presley-fest has Elvis cast as a young delinquent who becomes involved with gangsters who hang out at a popular nightclub . Adapted from the Harold Robbins book " A Stone for Danny Fisher " , the movie transplants the action from Chicago to New Orleans and is now structured as an acting / singing vehicle for EP , here trying out his James Dean impression . Not badly done : the cinematography is vivid and there's good supporting work from Dean Jagger , Vic Morrow and the always-reliable Walter Matthau , but the women ( Carolyn Jones and Dolores Hart ) aren't well-used or interesting . Not particularly an intriguing melodrama , and not nearly as gritty as it might've been , but still worth noting for Presley's appearance and his songs , the title tune and " Trouble " . from
Unusual war story with a romantic slant , Sophia Loren as ' unglamorous ' woman of convenience . . .	Jan de Hartog's novel " Stella " becomes interesting , erratic , uneven WWII battle story mixed with romantic melodrama . William Holden , an American sergeant with the Canadian Army ( ! ) , is transferred to England to captain a rescue-tugboat in U-boat-infested Atlantic waters ; the job inadvertently comes with a flat and a resident girl ( Sophia Loren , an Italian by way of Switzerland ! ) . Carol Reed directs the shipboard battle sequences well , but there's too much intricate detail ( bombs going off , waves rocking the ships , crews scrambling the decks ) that one loses sight of the main characters . Holden has some wonderful moments early on - - fearful of his new position , nervous about his first day on the job - - and his gaining respect from his men is one of the highlights of the picture . Loren has much less to work with . . . and in much less time ; every so often she has a frightening premonition , or she's cooking , cleaning , or getting out of the tub . The bit with the apartment key near the end ( passing it along before a treacherous assignment ) is pure balderdash , and even talented Holden can't make the final scenes work . Very nice cinematography from Oswald Morris , sumptuous scoring by Malcolm Arnold ; yet , overall , the picture is a minor one . from
Mickey One . . . Audience Zero	At its core , this heavily symbolic and somewhat hypothetical drama from Arthur Penn concerns a nightclub entertainer escaping his own existence after its been implied his gambling debts have put him in hot water with crime bosses ; believing himself to be " guilty of not being innocent " , he changes his identity to Mickey One , finds a different agent , and attempts a new start ( of sorts ) . Although it isn't imperative to the film that Warren Beatty be convincing as a piano-playing singer-comedian ( the underbelly of downtown club life being only artistic window-dressing for the filmmakers ) , Beatty doesn't have the rumpled panache needed to bring out the background of this character . Beatty's vacant , pretty stare , his nervous and shy mannerisms , and his imploding bad temperament may indeed be good equipment for the role of a new-fangled rebel escaping the unseen , but we are never given the chance to connect with this man . With overtures to Kafka , of all things , Penn and screenwriter Alan M . Surgal probably wanted their film to be very edgy and modern , yet the script does little but regurgitate all the same stuff : glamorous narcissism , apathy , urban decay . Ostensibly a good-looking picture , with its mazes of entrances and exits , it is one which fails to capture the seedy world of low-life show-biz ( imagine this thing ten years later , with Bob Fosse directing ) . Of course , the club milieu is strictly circumstantial , and the highs and lows therein are completely irrelevant , but an absorbing scenario might have been a good place to start . Beatty , ducking the camera and peering out at us over his shoulder , does suggest a complicated young artist whose been flailing away , yet he's been made too shallow here , too much a handsome blank . The complications of Mickey One , alas , are all manufactured . from
Ring-a-ding-dud	It's a marriage merry-go-round when Deborah Kerr rather inadvertently divorces workaholic hubby Frank Sinatra while on vacation in Mexico ; when he fails to make things right , she ( once again ) inadvertently winds up hitched to boozy best friend Dean Martin . Made during the time when films had become second priority to F . S . ( Ol ' Blue Eyes had earned his Oscar and , with some exceptions , it quickly became a downward spiral for him and the movies ) . This picture is quite plush and well-produced , but it's just a throwaway - - a shame since the premise did have some interesting possibilities . Best part of the flick is Nancy Sinatra ( barely out of her teens ) and Tony Bill as the youngsters in love . The rest is a snooze . Happy Hour for the Rat Pack was finally over . . . closin ' time guys ! from
The Count flips the Bird . . .	Rude , snorting satirical updating of Bram Stoker's legendary vampire . George Hamilton is perfect as Count Vladimir Dracula , here being forced out of his castle in Transylvania , pulling up stakes with bug-eating companion Renfield and moving to New York City in search of a model he's developed a yen for . Despite a cheapjack feel , this salty comedy begins brightly , with a needling sense of fun , but it goes south in the third act . Richard Benjamin is way over-the-top as a psychiatrist and relative of Van Helsing's , Dick Shawn looks lost as a soft-hearted Lieutenant , and the gaggle of stereotypical supporting characters are alternately amateurish , offensive , and overwrought . Susan St . James ' supermodel is crassly written , but she's game and pulls it off , even though there's practically no chemistry between she and Hamilton ( they just trade quips ) . George is wonderful however , and his delight at reveling in such gross material is infectious . from
Action in a junkyard	George Miller co-wrote and directed this low-rent Australian variance of " Death Wish " set in the near future , with cop Mel Gibson seeking vengeance for the gang-related deaths of his wife and child . A mercilessly cruel , exploitive thriller overflowing with car crashes . The film certainly doesn't make Australia look attractive , what with the dusty , barren locales poorly photographed by David Eggby . The blubbering goons who litter the supporting cast were practically recycled for the film's two sequels , " The Road Warrior " in 1981 and " Mad Max : Beyond Thunderdome " in 1985 . Gibson is very green , but a stalwart and handsome young hero . from
Missing some of the electricity and unpredictability of a live performance . . .	A deluded Southern belle goes to stay with her pregnant sister and her swaggering brute of a brother-in-law in their tacky New Orleans flat , but his pent-up passion and the belle's fluttery innocence / insanity clash in dramatic and sexual ways . Vivien Leigh is exceptional as quixotic , somewhat irritating Blanche DuBois , and this highly-theatrical material only comes to life cinematically when she is on the screen . Talk-heavy Tennessee Williams play seems a bit smoothed over , with the breathy lines of unreal dialogue occasionally landing with a literate clatter . Personal taste will have to decide whether the writer's penchant for melodramatic speeches and irrational behaviors are touching , theatrically-charged , or just perverse ( sometimes they are all three ) . It's a beautifully filmed piece , and with Oscar-winner Leigh as Blanche it is nearly a success . However , Marlon Brando ( as tortured Stanley Kowolski ) works and works at carving out his character with such angst that he may leave some viewers cold . Arduous , occasionally intriguing and involving but also extremely heavy-going . Remade twice for television , in 1984 and 1995 . from
Needed more humor and heart - - and less of Fess Parker	James MacArthur in an early role as a young white man in the 1760s who was raised by Indians before being traded back to his people , whose customs now have left him alienated and sullen . MacArthur has a great masculine stance and a firm jaw - - and he's unhurt by his Mohawk haircut - - but he's perhaps too rigid . The character might've stood some silly , self-effacing moments . Everything is taken with the utmost seriousness , but where's the heart of this piece ? And with whom should our sympathies lie ? I guess hammy Fess Parker relieves some of the tension in this solemn scenario , but more of him amounts to less . Young Carol Lynley ( playing a white girl named , of all things , Shenandoe ! ) is very lovely flirting with MacArthur , and looks like Alice in Wonderland in her apron-dresses . Well-produced Walt Disney effort given a by-the-book treatment , as if it were written and directed by stodgy history professors . from
Polanski has movie-making passion , but the results are stagnant and alienating	A loosely-hinged story about madness . A benumbed young woman , staying alone in her sister's apartment , is suffering from neuroses which may have to do with her being sexually repressed ; when intruders attempt to get into the flat , the girl unintentionally becomes a murderess . Director Roman Polanski's first English-language film has very little dialogue in it ( and what wordy sequences there are don't quite register , for Polanski had not yet developed a feel for the language ) . Although the filmmaker's narrative is carefully-mounted , it quickly stagnates via Polanski's incredibly slow pacing ; yet , on a purely visual level , some effective , eerie scenes are created . Still , this plot as such isn't very involving , despite a foreboding undercurrent that works on the viewer steadily ( the movie is actually more disturbing after it's over , when you've had time to assess it as a whole ) . Catherine Deneuve has the complicated leading role , and she's tremulous and lovely if not particularly magnetic . from
Easy virtue = ultimate unhappiness	In a picturesque Pennsylvania town , wealthy co-ed Suzanne Pleshette develops a rage for men after a neighborhood kid forces himself on her ( her lips say " no , no ! " but her eyes say " yes , yes ! " ) . From John O'Hara's novel , predictably playing out like a junior-version of his " BUtterfield 8 " . Pleshette is a cool-as-ice tease , a martini-dry tramp , and her indiscretions ( though perhaps eyebrow-raising for 1965 ) are no more intriguing than your average daytime TV drama . Gleemingly photographed , sumptuously scored , yet the tatty supporting cast backing La Suzanne give hint this is just B-grade goods in a glossy package . Fun for camp-addicts only ; there's nothing here to take seriously . from
Modern-day fantasy that , alas , falls into all the standard conventions . . .	Tom Hanks is young and charming playing a little boy in a grown man's body . A youngster with growing pains makes a wish one night ( via a fortune teller machine ) to be " big " and the following morning wakes up to a new reflection in the mirror : a hairy guy with long legs . Director Penny Marshall works this material with a light , sensitive touch , but when Hanks falls into a job at a toy development company , and inadvertently romances co-worker Elizabeth Perkins , the scenario becomes a rather uncomfortable big business satire , a fish-out-of-water fantasy which smacks of commercial pandering ( with echoes of " Being There " besides ! ) . Audiences at the time didn't seem to mind , however the film hasn't aged well , while the mercilessly drawn-out finale has romantic delusions which seem just a bit jarring . from
Their futures were foretold at the conclusion of the original . . .	So why did we need " More " ? It must've been a corporate decision - - with financial gain the bottom line . If so , that plan didn't quite work , as " More American Graffiti " failed to catch on with its target audience , mostly due to the fact it reflects not the 1960s but TV sitcoms derived from ' 60s nostalgia . Ron Howard and Cindy Williams ' story plays like a " Happy Days " rerun with bad language , however Charles Martin Smith's Vietnam episode is vividly captured - - and the idea of him trying to blow off his own arm in order to get back home says more about the war than " The Deer Hunter " did in three hours . Paul LeMat has some good scenes flirting with a pretty Swede , while Candy Clark kicks around as a kooky hippie . The film , produced by George Lucas , is full of colorful distractions : multi-image cinematography , constant period music on the soundtrack , and lots of overacting . Unfortunately , nothing can distract from the laziness of the writing , nor from the film's somewhat tiring concept ( which feels awfully gimmicky ) . The episodes aren't shaped with much thoughtfulness , and the film is insensitive and preconceived . from
" Who Goes There ? "	Military workers and scientists near Anchorage discover the wreck of a flying saucer and thaw out its passenger , an alien monster who quickly wreaks havoc . From a short story by John W . Campbell , who originally had the Thing taking on the personalities of its victims ; this film-version , directed by Christian Nyby ( with the uncredited assistance of producer Howard Hawks ) has been reworked but not revitalized - - it ultimately seems diluted , what with a talky exposition and slim plotting in the second-half . The memorable black-and-white cinematography is terrific however , and the players thankfully do not lapse into camp histrionics . The 1982 remake , while filled with gory effects , retained the original vision of Campbell's material . from
Jackson excels in lightweight fluff	A love story with a built-in dead end : they're crazy about each other , but he's already married . Attempt to recapture the sophisticated romantic-comedies of yesteryear is put to the test under a heavy-handed direction which doesn't know what it's going for , laughs or pathos ( the former occasionally bumping clumsily into the latter ) . There's nothing wrong with a good mix of laughs and tears , but this scenario is cluttered up with too many dolts ( like Paul Sorvino's " best friend " character , who is tiresome the minute we meet him ) and too many montages which set no certain mood . Oscar-winner Glenda Jackson is warmly sarcastic throughout - - and she's delightful working with George Segal - - but their characters lost my interest after an hour or so . There's too much bickering over nothing , too much intensity melting away into love-starved giggles . The picture is a situation comedy but there are only occasional laughs , all early on . from
Literal art ; rather heavy going , which some fanciful imagination might have helped to relieve . . .	Powell & Pressburger's misfired attempt to co-mingle the balletic magnificence of their success " The Red Shoes " with the Jacques Offenbach light opera about a German student who gains inspiration through romantic heartbreak . The fiery imagination which fuels the Archers team is only in sporadic evidence here ; their uncanny film-making techniques ( and a playful , often peculiar sense of humor ) results in some marvelous bits and pieces , but perhaps the literal structure ( or non-structure , as it were ) of filming an opera threw the two men off . Editor Reginald Mills gives us some beautiful close-ups of the singers and dancers in a staccato rhythm , and they are worth waiting for , but the expected surreality of the enterprise is lacking , and the music itself peaks and ebbs . from
How long was this script lying around before somebody got to it ?	Deceit and treachery in the Old West ( via 1973 ) , with everything and nearly everyone involved seeming out of place . " The Train Robbers " looks nothing like what it was trying to capture . . . or was anyone trying at all ? John Wayne does his usual amiable walk-through , but he's so tired that not even this feels hearty . Ann-Margret plays a widow who convinces a group of cowboys to journey with her across Arizona to retrieve her late husband's cache of gold , but neither she nor the Duke has the opportunity to create anything interesting since the script seems cobbled together from old western TV shows . A-M looks attractive in her western outfits , but her drunk scene is a ringer , and only a neat twist at the finish-line gives her character any shading . It's strictly a Paycheck Movie , where everyone shows up to get paid , though they look really unhappy about having to be there . from
Well crafted and cast , but familiar and obvious . . .	Working-class British lad in 1958 leaves school and hitches a ride into the next town , where he has hopes of becoming a rock star . Extension of the " angry young man " U . K . dramas from the early 1960's , with real-life pop star and Alan Bates-lookalike David Essex in the lead , has some appeal but is full of recycled ingredients : jukebox hits , nostalgic surroundings , boys chasing " birds " . The correlation between Essex and his own roaming father ( who left his wife and child after returning from service ) is made too obvious , and the addition of Ringo Starr in a supporting role is cute but somewhat disconcerting ( one of the threads within the film is the perception in late-'50's England that true rock-'n-rollers had to be from America - - this before the Beatles rose to prominence ) . Essex , with his low-key charm and overbite , is quite believable , but neither the script nor the direction offers anything other than a formula . It's both an updating of , and throwback to , the British dramas of Albert Finney and Tom Courtenay , but without fresh subtext it becomes flabby . Released the same year as " American Graffiti " , which romanticized this generation , the movie's downbeat tone is alienating - - and its anti-hero leanings are unsatisfying . from
Hoist the American flag , here comes Rocky . . .	Sylvester Stallone once again stacks the deck against his most popular character Rocky Balboa , here taking on a freakishly strong Russian boxer in the ring as an act of vengeance for the death of former foe and recent ally Apollo Creed . Once the publicity machine gets cranking , it appears as though Rocky is fighting for the integrity of the entire U . S . A . ! Lead weight rabble-rouser managed to hook ' 80s audiences , but time has turned the picture into a purple-prosy embarrassment . Full of mediocre screen writing and a poor direction ( both by Stallone ) , not to mention ugly , ' flashy ' cinematography and editing tricks which attempt to resemble the music-videos of the era . Followed in 1990 by " Rocky V " . from
Three stars hungry for treasure , thirsty for water , and dying for a decent script . . .	Colorless title for a dishwater-dull adventure saga starring John Wayne , Sophia Loren , and Rossano Brazzi , three disparate characters crossing the Sahara desert in the same direction as Brazzi's ill-fated father , who went missing ten years prior after finding a lost city stocked with rubies and emeralds . Wayne , playing a desert guide / troublemaker down on his luck in Timbuktu , drawls like he's still back on the range , while Loren has little to do but tease the two men unconsciously ; apparently she isn't aware of her amply carnal charms - - and though she's playing a streetwise prostitute , whenever the two men get randy around her , she pulls away screaming , " No ! Don't touch me ! " Brazzi has it the worst however , initially preaching enlightenment to Sophia in a brotherly way , later forcing himself upon her , but just as quickly turning on both his companions like a dirty dog . It's a hopeless role , and indicative of the patchy , puzzling screenplay . This movie has enough peaks and valleys to redesign any desert , and the final crawl isn't dramatic or gripping or emotional - - just wasted time on the clock . from
It's stuck in the sand	Fairly desperate " Beach Party " entry ( the sixth in the series ! ) has Annette Funicello contemplating a new boyfriend while Frankie Avalon is overseas . Enter . . . Dwayne Hickman ? Frankie actually has a rather large cameo role for not receiving a livelier billing , and there's a cute ending , but these kids are starting to look more mature and their hijinks are starting to get musty . Annette sings two solo numbers and a duet , and she's perky and attractive despite being covered up to conceal her real-life pregnancy . The rest is mediocre , particularly leading man Hickman ( eternally bland ) and supporting player Mickey Rooney ( game but charmless ) . from
Smash ! Crash ! and Shattered Glass . . .	The twin brother of a now-deceased government operative has his mundane life thrown into turmoil after being set up to look like a terrorist by an all-knowing super-computer ( think a sex-reversal of " 2001 " ' s HAL ) ; its agenda is to have the young man flee towards Washington , D . C . to complete an insanely complicated assassination plot on Capitol Hill . Car chase-and-crash mayhem , directed for maximum thrill-ride impact , rushes along at a breakneck pace at the expense of logic ( this is a film without even the smallest semblance of logic or accountability ) . Director D . J . Caruso doesn't stop to answer questions , and some may see that as a wise move ( common sense would surely deflate this entire scenario , and most audiences may not even want the plot ironed out ) . Strictly on its action-adventure terms , this high-tech , ultra-commercial movie has incredible energy and visual flair , and the four screenwriters credited do come up with some amusingly jaded repartee between hijacked strangers Shia LaBeouf and Michelle Monaghan . Unfortunately , the entire whiplash journey becomes nothing short of a hoax on our two heroes , who might have been left expendable were it not for that happy final tag . Adrenaline-filled , non-think entertainment for indiscriminate fans of modern military and counter-intelligence thrillers , though some viewers may end up feeling just as used as the participants . from
Connery gives it star-power	All-male cast trudges through intense , Kubrickesque prison camp melodrama filmed in moody black-and-white . Despite some powerful moments , it's an alternately bizarre and yet too-formulaic account of soldiers in a WWII British military prison in Africa . The thin plot is really nothing more than the standard introduction to - - and dehumanization of - - the new prison arrivals . Despite solid performances , the picture is intentionally repetitious , but nonetheless grueling . Thankfully , Sean Connery is around to give the proceedings some much-needed star-power ; a cocky and cool captive , Connery elevates this from just another masochistic roundelay , yet his force as an actor ( and as a vital star presence ) isn't quite enough to make the movie truly worthwhile .
Modest Disney drama for young adults	Low-profile Walt Disney live-action drama / history lesson , based on Esther Forbes ' book , about a young man in 1773 Boston who becomes involved in treacherous wartime activities . Pleasant , if unremarkable , film on a small-scale . Hal Stalmaster is fine ( if uncharismatic ) in the lead , but supporting players Luana Patten and Jeff York are very good . Sebastian Cabot steals the picture with a delightfully nasty portrayal of an upper-crust snob . The Disney studios would eventually get much more adventurous than this with their dramatic output , but there are some finely-wrought scenes here that engaged youngsters at the time . from
Sweet and sour fairy tale	Cinderella-styled Australian comedy-drama has echoes of the British class comedies of the mid-to-late 1960s ( " Georgy Girl " in particular ) . Overweight , unloved young woman strikes out on her own , dreaming about having the proverbial big fancy wedding despite the fact she has no boyfriend . From writer-director P . J . Hogan , who's ultimately too fond of nasty put-downs and ugly-acting supporting characters ( Muriel's family members are beyond dysfunctional ) . However , when the writing is focused , the film is rather savvy and has some snap . Toni Collette's lead performance is warmly astute ; she helps the narrative over some uncomfortable bumps , and almost makes the end result more than just another pity party . from
Ensemble comedy with one terrific performance . . .	Del Shores directed and wrote this adaptation of his own play about how an elderly woman's ( comical ) accidental death causes her family and friends to rue her passing while digging up ancient misgivings . Low-budget film played the Palm Springs movie circuit for months but didn't hit many other towns ; easy to see why , it's rather like an R-rated sitcom lost on the big screen . While Shores isn't exactly erratic as a director , he's possibly too flexible with his material and his group of actors , and the movie sometimes resembles nothing more than a stunt . There's not much plot ( it's just an exercise in showcasing the worst possible sides of humanity for a dirty laugh ) , yet some good things do come out of this . Leslie Jordan pulls off a difficult transvestite role with un-self-conscious relish ; not played for pitiable sympathy or all-out laughs , Jordan's Tammy Wynette-worshipping drag queen amiably walks a fine line - - it's a portrayal dead-on in its accuracy , and Jordan is never a pain like the other characters . Delta Burke and Bonnie Bedelia visibly strain to punch up their scenes , while Olivia Newton-John opens the picture with a rousing song but is given nothing else important to do . Too many of the gags are recycled , rehashed and rerun , and the jokes tend to stem from various humiliations . Strictly as a curiosity , the movie certainly lives up to its oddball reputation , and there are some outré laughs for those in the proper spirit . from
Pure trash , though Elvis is convincing as a bad-tempered " rube " . . .	After attempting to defend the honor of a prostitute in a bar , working-stiff Elvis Presley beats up her pimp , killing him with his bare hands ! He serves time in the jug , where his guitar-pickin ' cellmate teaches the hot-headed punk a few chords . Rags-to-riches tale constantly tidies up its own sordid scenario , replacing it with glossy camp , though for the first hour it's rather intriguing ( with the musical star doing quite well as a beastly kid with no manners ) . After the ex-jailbird goes to Hollywood to become an actor ( at Climax Studios ! ) , any credibility the picture once had manages to go straight down the drain . Not only does the script leech off Presley's own million-to-one success story , the plot ( suddenly narrated by Presley's lawyer ! ) becomes an intolerable , smelly mixture of sentiment and soap suds . The title tune aside , the music is mediocre , and the clichés start coming so fast it's tough to wade through them . from
Lucille works admirably hard , but results are still pretty sticky . . .	Post-graduate do-gooder , wanting to help the homeless without having any knowledge of how they survive , befriends a very popular bag-lady . TV-movie with more gloss and Hollywood-ized uplift than actual grit . Still , it's a chance to see Lucille Ball in one of her last acting roles , and Lucy commands attention even if there isn't an actual character here for her to portray ( her Florabelle is so florid , she's tough to take seriously ) . Ball would seem to be miscast but , just as with her musical debacle " Mame " , she overcomes the obviousness of the scenario and the conception of her role in it ; however , also like in " Mame " , she is unable to break through the plastic coating and deliver a triumph . The finale , with Florabelle getting her garden , is memorable , and the movie is interesting if not terribly successful .
Bergman is miscast , yet film is endlessly fascinating . . .	Peculiar , curious enterprise involving spoiled Lithuanian woman in a WWII Italian camp who begrudgingly marries a poor Italian fisherman ; after moving with him to the remote island Stromboli , the woman encounters hostility from the locals , abuse from her spouse , and plots her escape . Melodramatic material served as Ingrid Bergman's first feature with director Roberto Rossellini , with whom Bergman ran away with in real-life ( leaving her husband behind , which sullied her reputation for almost six years ) . Banned nationwide , the film isn't very good but does have an ambiance that is unlike anything being turned out by American filmmakers during this period . The pacing is slow , the narrative murky , and there are two embarrassing scenes wherein Bergman is called upon to act like a tart , but cinema buffs should enjoy it . Shown in two versions : an 81-minute print and the longer 107-minute Italian cut which has a different ending . from
It's so determined to be odd , eventually indifference sets in . . .	Pregnant , unwed teen ( Adrienne Shelly ) falls unexpectedly into relationship with brilliant-but-stubborn young man ( Martin Donovan ) who's on the fast track to nowhere . You gotta credit director Hal Hartley with fashioning a bizarre , yet puzzlingly amusing scenario cast with unknown actors who tap right into his offbeat spirit . Still , trippy , edgy comedies like this often pummel their one-note to death , and the film's incidental charms are nearly overshadowed by the filmmaker's inherent smugness . The plot is practically non-existent , but fans of quirky dark humor will find a lot to cherish here . from
Pre-hippie nuttiness . . .	Scattershot satire of spy flicks , screwball comedies and old-fashioned musicals has British rock group the Beatles on the run from villainous types who hope to steal one of the rings owned by drummer Ringo ( ha ha ) . Fine musical sequences bolster weak slapstick outing which has great visual style but no real plot . While the Beatles were insidiously changing the face of rock and roll at this time , their films embraced a much more old-fashioned movie-structure ; " Help ! " could be an update of any number of ' 50's Hollywood teen flicks , and yet it started a trend of its own ( followed in quick succession by Herman's Hermits and the TV series " The Monkees " ) . Certainly worth-watching , and the personalities of John , Paul , George and Ringo - - sneakily disparate once you get passed the filmmakers ' glossy perception of them - - provides some curious amusement . from
It should've stayed ' under the sea ' . . .	A Disney pacifier for children . Perky mermaid Ariel longs for life outside the ocean , acquires legs and ventures forth on land to meet a boy . The swirling colors and Broadway-styled musical numbers are pleasant and upbeat for the first half of the picture , yet even they take on a chintzy / glitzy ambiance that nullifies the old-fashioned tale , bowling the audience over yet numbing them at the same time . It is not " the greatest thing ever put out by Disney " , although the film's creators would like you to think so . As cloying as the Disney output could be while Walt was alive and overseeing product , the worse everything got once he passed away . " The Little Mermaid " is hectic and mildewy , with a ready-made villainess and non-dialogue spouted by the vocal actors as if they were truly underwater . from
Great-looking Woody Allen drama misfires without enough heart . . .	" Real life " jazz guitarist in the 1930s ( Sean Penn ) has alcohol , ego and marriage-related problems that keep him from tasting success . Woody Allen ( who appears as one of the narrators ) wrote and directed this handsome , certainly well-acted but meandering drama which always verges on being great but eventually comes up short . What begins as a lovely piece of yesteryear is undone by a maddeningly unmoving story and aloof characters ; it builds no emotion . Penn is fine if unexceptional in his complex role , but Samantha Morton is very lovely as a mute girl he gets involved with . Gorgeous music numbers , terrific production values , but eventually a misfire . from
Begins with great fanfare , but it can't sustain that level of excitement	Disney / Pixar's sequel to " Toy Story " from 1995 introduces some fun new characters and has colorful celebrity voice-overs and energy to spare , but the plot this time ( taking some of the toys out of the bedroom and into the big cruel world ) doesn't sustain much interest - - especially if you're over 12 . Woody gets snatched at a yard sale by a toy collector and learns he's a high-priced rarity in the antique market ; Buzz , Slinky Dog , Rex and Mr . Potato Head come to the rescue . Best moment is the funny sci-fi opening ( which manages to be satirical and exciting ) , and Woody's introduction to his character's background is wonderfully presented . The big rescue , while lively for younger viewers , is lengthy and full of manic action ; there's so much bombast ( and hollering from the stars ) that the intricate details and warm nostalgia which earmarked the first " Toy Story " slowly slips away . from
Some tart religious satire can't overcome cheap gags and the usual boy-girl antics . . .	Jena Malone has a sweet plainness and a natural , unforced charm playing bright senior at " a really good Christian school " who's part of an elite clique until a series of confounding personal events causes her to question her faith - - and reexamine her circle of friends . Director / co-screenwriter Brian Dannelly doesn't have the keen knack for transcribing teenagers ' speech or behavior , though he does a little bit better by the adults , and Mary Louise Parker ( as Malone's mother ) ends up with the film's best lines and strongest scenes . In sending up the religious teen scene , Dannelly falls back too easily on familiarity or corny obviousness , yet he also wants to be sympathetic towards his characters , a symptom which usually brings out the worst in any screenwriter . The finale , at the senior prom , is full of platitudes and the inevitable pleading for tolerance , all of which do not play . This is in context , and that's fine , but what happen to the humor ? from
Rabble-rouser leans too heavily on melodrama for its content	Radio-producer Patricia Neal discovers a loudmouth hick from Arkansas who excites the local crowds with his cynical blend of idealism and the truth ; if she can parlay that into a commercially viable package , they might all end up rich . Almost for a full hour , this Elia Kazan drama is a blistering account of celebrity on the Everyman . Unfortunately , in its second-half rendering of the now-clichéd too-much-too-soon , the screenplay by Budd Schulberg ( based on his own short story ) reveals itself to be a house of cards - - and when it crashes there's no collective feelings of mourning . These are just despicable people exploiting current events ( and the public ) by using broadcasting as a personal sounding-board . Kazan shows early eagerness in the introduction scenes with Neal and Andy Griffith ( who eventually shows us a much meaner side to himself than television ever did ) , but Kazan himself seems to get wrapped up in the diatribes , and he and Schulberg dishearteningly turn their characters into bad examples . from
Very strange , and certainly not a success , but interesting in many ways . . .	Max Catto's novel turned into a very odd love triangle involving two skippers of a smuggling vessel in the Caribbean with a luckless red-haired beauty , an immigrant from perhaps Lithuania , who needs to get to Cuba . British production is erratic , with location shots and studio close-ups often occupying the same scene , though the busy , fiery locals are a fun lot ( they always seem to be celebrating ) . Second-half of plot takes a bizarre turn , with sensitive skipper Jack Lemmon getting trapped in the cargo of a burning ship and relying on Robert Mitchum , his old friend / sworn enemy , to pull him through . Mitchum and Lemmon are certainly one of the oddest twosomes in ' 50s cinema , but they don't play it buddy-buddy and the relationship is kept low-keyed . As the woman who comes between them , Rita Hayworth gets an amusingly irrelevant sequence dancing at Carnivale , but otherwise looks about as beat as her character is supposed to feel ( I don't know if this was a case of Method acting or not ) . The picture isn't boring - - nor ham-handed - - but neither is it successful as a drama , character study , or action film . It seems to fall between the cracks , but fans of the star-trio should enjoy some of the fireworks . from
Disappointingly fatigued western	A big hit in its day , " Cat Ballou " still looks like someone knocked the wind out of it . It isn't fresh , and the farcial elements seem put over with strain . Jane Fonda displays processed spunk as the title character , a schoolmarm out to avenge the death of her father ; Lee Marvin won an Oscar playing both the man she's hunting down and the drunken desperado who helps her out ; strolling balladeers Nat King Cole and Stubby Kaye link the adventures together wonderfully with their song . There are a few funny set-pieces ( Marvin and the birthday candles , the drunken horse ) , but " Cat Ballou " is too straightforward and smooth . Without any surprises or twists , the uncomplicated narrative becomes episodic - - like a western sitcom . It doesn't even look very good . from
" Beelzebub ! I've been hoodwinked ! "	Mae West and W . C . Fields working below their abilities . She's a sassy singer run out of her community for consorting with a masked stagecoach bandit ; he's a novelty salesman ( with a satchel of phony money ) who becomes sheriff in a troubled Old West town after falsely boasting of his shooting abilities . Mae " marries " W . C . via a gambler dressed like a preacher , only to spend most of her on-screen time with a handsome newspaper man . Fields plays bartender , trades barbs with busy-body Margaret Hamilton , and gets into bed with a goat he thinks is Mae . His quick retorts and sideline witticisms get some laughs , but this script ( written by the two stars ) never allows for any big , memorable moments . Mae has a song number in the saloon that seems rather lax ( the Hays Code was breathing down her neck at the time ) , and her personality appears to have been zapped of vivaciousness . The movie doesn't look too bad , and it is certainly watchable , but one waits in vain for it to get off the ground and that sadly does not happen . from
Colorful and energetic , but with a hackneyed script . . .	Audrey Hepburn always said she was an introvert forced by her profession into playing extroverts , and usually that strain didn't show . It doesn't show in " Funny Face " either , but her natural gamine appeal does seem to get swallowed up in the fake-happy surroundings . The Oscar-nominated screenplay about a famous photographer discovering a beauty in a mousy Greenwich Village book-clerk is only good in its early stages setting up the story , but when we find that the plot is just a romance complication , it's a let-down . The plot-thread about the philosopher in Paris is dire , and the film laughably compares a beatnik lecture to a spiritual , but Hepburn works hard to create chemistry between she and Fred Astaire ( older and less enthused ) and she has some feisty , enchanting moments . She does her own singing here , unlike in the later " My Fair Lady " ( which coincidentally also gave Audrey a fashionable makeover ) , and her dancing is sprightly and fun . It's a fluttery , gay , fashion-magazine movie without enough soul in it to really be absorbing , but the Gershwin songs are sweet and the eye-popping color-schemes give it a great visual kick . from
Scrappy , eager-to-please comedy is all over the place . . .	Stanley Tucci wrote , co-produced , directed and stars in this happy , but only moderately successful comedy about two out-of-work actors - - so unemployed they are reduced to staging wild scenes in restaurants just for the food - - who get on the wrong side of a drunken stage-star and end up as stowaways on a cruise ship . Very broad , occasionally funny , but the humor and the R-rated language don't really match up with the 1940's scenario ( the vulgarity feels forced and heavy-handed ) . Tucci is a wonderful ham actor , and he's well-matched with Oliver Platt , but his direction is shaky and some of his jokes are mean-spirited . For those who can stick with it , the finale is admittedly terrific . from
Too much bickering , not enough romantic comedy	Despite a cute - - if not exactly fresh - - opening , " Do Not Disturb " immediately starts to disintegrate . Why ? I think it's all in the script , which is second-rate . The movie pairs Doris Day with handsome , adept Rod Taylor , but gives them no scenes together as man and wife that make you care about their union ( they're usually fighting with each other over the telephone ) . This is important to note because when Doris starts ( innocently ) dallying with a Frenchman , there's nothing at stake for her - - or for her marriage . Some of Day's double-takes are funny , and the madcap finish is delightfully screwball , but there's a huge chunk of movie in between these scenes that goes absolutely flat . The plot has an American couple moving to the English countryside , and the portrayal of the Britishers is ridiculous and corny . Towards the end , as Doris is walking through a lobby full of men and women , try spotting Raquel Welch in one of her very first show business jobs . from
Efficient but dull . . .	Musical remake of 1940's " The Shop Around the Corner " concerns a bachelor ( Van Johnson ) in 1930's Chicago who shares an intriguing pen-pal relationship with a single gal ( Judy Garland ) , unaware his mystery lady is actually the brash co-worker whom he hates . MGM product with decidedly less gloss and panache than usual . The leads do all right , supporting cast ( including " Cuddles " Sakall and Buster Keaton , who reportedly directed some scenes ) is very good , but the songs are middling and the story seems to take forever to wind up . Liza Minnelli makes her screen debut here . . . as the dark-eyed , ruby-lipped toddler in the final scene . Material was later transformed into a Broadway musical entitled " She Loves Me " , and was the basis yet again for 1998's " You've Got Mail " . from
Shapeless comedy with some laughs	Taking advantage of the current craze over mad scientists , wacky world-domination schemes and kittenish bad girls , A . I . P . studios ( rather smoothly ) segues from the " Beach Party " flicks to this Bondian slapstick outing ( with several " Beach " players in roles and cameos ) . Frankie Avalon mugs like a rubber-man playing ordinary Joe in San Francisco who stumbles upon intriguing scheme hatched by Vincent Price's Dr . Goldfoot : rob the world's wealthiest men by seducing them ( and their checkbooks ) with comely female robots . Price , in gold satin elf slippers , is relaxed and fun , and their are cute bits from Deborah Walley , Harvey Lembeck and a wordless Annette Funicello , but Avalon - - attempting a bumbling , klutzy persona - - single-handedly turns the proceedings into dim-witted camp . Dwayne Hickman isn't much better , and has to contend with some really sketchy writing ( even after getting evidence that his wife is robot , he still wants to woo her in bed ! ) . The movie isn't badly made , it has a cute theme song ( with vocals by the Supremes ! ) and some minor-league laughs , but " Austin Powers " aficionados won't be thrilled with the girls ( none with the exception of star Susan Hart are particularly gorgeous ) nor the gold bikinis , which look shapeless by today's standards . from
" A girl's gotta do what a girl's gotta do . . . "	Ken Russell's " Whore " begins with an amusing shot of cars driving through a tunnel ( R-rated Freudianism ? ) coupled with a Jamaican rap on the soundtrack about doing the " boom boom " with girls . Russell , who directed the film and co-adapted the screenplay from David Hines ' play , is highly adept at quirky bits of business - - blending hammy , outré comedy with blunt-force dramatics - - but with " Whore " , his mix of in-your-face , sexually-comedic bits and pieces are not always compatible bedmates next to the violence or the introspective moments . Theresa Russell plays Liz , a streetwise hooker full of bravado ; often addressing the camera directly , Theresa speaks with an odd swagger in her voice ( as if she's channeling someone standing beside her ) . Striking amazing poses - - like Lolita all grown up - - Theresa Russell has some choice moments ( usually when she's not speaking , as with a silent come-on to a guy who turns out to be gay ) , but she is not a vulgar , cartoony actress and is too refined to be slutty . Her performance continually improves , however it isn't in the actress's nature to talk tough like a lady truck-driver . Though the film is neither sexy nor even memorable , it does have well-wrought sequences ( such as when Russell's friendship with a possible lesbian is interrupted by a vicious pimp , an incredible moment done without principle dialogue ) . Those looking for a raucous good time will be disappointed ( can you imagine how this film's inelegant title looked on the movie theater marquees ? ) , and those hoping for a more serious take on the prostitution business probably won't stick around past the first hour . Indeed , there are many scenes that simply fall flat , but " Whore " is a definite mixed-bag ; it's not a deep-thinker , it's not exceptionally revealing , but it leaves an impression behind , along with some giggles , some embarrassment , and some sadness . from
Field and Garner are a good match , but this slim plot leads them nowhere . . .	Single mom ( Sally Field ) , still attracted to her ex-spouse , finds love with an older gentleman ( James Garner ) in a rural town . Field radiates so much good will , you like her even before you realize she doesn't have much of a character to play . Veteran filmmaker Martin Ritt has always been exact at finding subtle nuances in backwater towns , yet here he directs the material sufficiently but without much inspiration - - and inexplicably includes a bloody bit from a slasher movie that makes no sense in these homey surroundings . Field ( once again caught between two paramours , as with " Kiss Me Goodbye " ) works nicely with Garner , and if the rest of the film had been as well crafted as their last scene together , this might've been a more heart-rending picture . It has some ambling charm , but no center , and no driving force . from
Overkill	The preamble of " The Lord Of the Rings " thankfully isn't so pedantic that we are forced to wade through every cranny of J . R . R . Tolkien's fanciful - but - incredibly - detailed set-up for the story , but neither is it anything more than just a jumble of scenes ( an expansive but darkly-lit battle , close-ups of faces , wind blowing the hair of warriors ) , and once the actual plot got underway I had hope that this fractured fairy tale-style was just an aberration . The first hour is actually rather leisurely , with an introduction to the Hobbit village that is sweet if a little slow ( and hampered by show-off fireworks effects ) . But once the first journey is undertaken by the Fellowship , frenetic action scenes , too many battles , and countless close-ups of THE RING in someone's palm take over . The direction is deadening , relying far too heavily on special effects and sound effects to juice the narrative . The acting is good except from the women ( Cate Blanchett and Liv Tyler are poorly-used ) and we get elaborate glimpses of magical worlds without ever gaining a sense of their histories . Blanchett rules the Forest of Women , and indeed it is eye-popping , but the scene is a bummer , only included so Blanchett could help forecast Elijah Wood's future ( scenes from the next installment ! ) . The movie is not a cheat : it packs in a lot of astounding action , but that's all it is , action for it's own sake . The art directors go for overkill in dazzling this thing up , but lovers of intriguing and substantial content will feel undernourished . The film gives you your money's worth , sure , but only in style . from
Rowlands ' exhaustive neurotic energy is enough for several performances	Love , marriage and madness - - cinema verite style . Harrowing , free-flowing melodrama about a mentally-ill housewife in the modern-day and the effects of her behavior on her husband and children . Filmmaker John Cassavetes was criticized at the time for creating what some saw as a preconceived tour-de-force for actress-spouse Gena Rowlands , yet she seems to fully inhabit the neuroses of this unstable woman , giving the role enough batty flourish to cover several performances . It's a stunning personal achievement for both writer-director and his star , but as an entertainment per se the picture is rough-going . Personal taste will have to decide its ultimate success , but certainly Rowlands proves herself to be an actress of virtuoso means , and underrated Peter Falk is also excellent as her exhausted husband . from
She's an Oriental Yentl	Good-looking but lumpish and derivative Disney animated musical based on Chinese folklore . Young girl , a failure in Concubine School , decides to join the Chinese Emperor's Army disguised as a boy to save her family's name . Lots of " drag " jokes and vocal hamming from Eddie Murphy ( as a tiny dragon ) may make kids giggle , but this is far from the studio's best work . The bathing sequence is a hoot , there are moments of beauty and wonder , but the songs aren't memorable and the film runs too long . out of .
Dandy plot , winning cast , but a convoluted treatment . . .	Malcolm McDowell as H . G . Wells and David Warner as Jack the Ripper make wonderful adversaries in this squashy fantasy-thriller which doesn't have a firm narrative , doesn't know when to quit , but does include marvelous performances and a handsome production . The plot itself is rather ingenious , too : Wells , about to unveil to colleagues a time machine of his own design in Victorian-era London , instead must use his contraption to chase down John Leslie Stevenson , a mad killer who has hijacked the machine to escape into the 20th Century . Wafty Mary Steenburgen is cute as a bank-teller who becomes involved ( her precise talk meshes beautifully with her funny / frazzled personality ) and Patti D'Arbanville has a memorable bit as a modern-day victim of the Ripper . Yet , in the film's final third , these cat-and-mouse games become confused and ridiculous , and director Nicholas Meyer drags it out to an ungainly length . from
It has a fantastic idea and good leads - - but that's it . . .	In the 21st Century , a game of humans-hunting-humans provides the outlet for bloodlust and vicarious entertainment that our population is craving . Here's a concept that needs a great deal of style and wit to come off successfully , but the dubbed , Italian-made " The 10th Victim " has very little of either . Ursula Andress seduces Marcello Mastroianni , but she's really just setting him up to be killed , with some campy lines between the two : as Marcello attempts to make love to the curvy Ursula , she barks , " Don't bother - - I am an iceberg ! " The subplot about Marcello's disgruntled ex-wives is silly and the bit about the sun-worshipers fighting with the moon-worshipers doesn't come off because of the static handling . Overall , an interesting attempt but a failed execution . from
Glossy , arch society comedy . . .	Society divorcée , planning her next wedding , becomes involved with her ne'er-do-well ex-husband , who's in cahoots with a magazine writer doing a piece on the rich and pampered . Philip Barry's play comes to the screen starched and pressed . The classy cast is more than adept at this type of smart-talking fluff , yet too much of Katharine Hepburn and James Stewart unfortunately turns Cary Grant into the proverbial third wheel . The film's second-act tails off from the first in energy and wit , with far fewer laughs and more boring chatter . The material ( cast with these actors ) seems awfully staid and familiar , like a rerun , perhaps because Hepburn played her role on Broadway and doesn't approach the script fresh . James Stewart won an Oscar , as did Donald Ogden Stewart for his adapted screenplay ( which must've caused Philip Barry discomfort ) . The picture isn't a cinematic experience at all - - it's a filmed stage-play . Later transformed into the 1956 musical " High Society " . from
An unrestrained talent gets the performance it requires . . .	Speaking in hindsight , Dennis Quaid has recently gone on record as saying he should've taken the filmmakers ' advice and brought his portrayal of real-life hell-raising singer / piano player Jerry Lee Lewis down a notch or two . However , it's precisely Quaid's energy ( and the accomplished 1950's period flavor ) that keeps this otherwise undistinguished movie going . It's one-half rollicking musical-bio , and the other half an unsteady riches-to-rags tale . Jerry Lee finds his bombastic stage presence hard to shake off in life , rising to the top of the charts - - and about to steal the rock ' n roll mantle from Elvis P . - - until a marriage to his under-aged second cousin causes a backlash that lasted many years . Fashioned like a live-action cartoon , it's something of a drag when the filmmakers eventually pull out all the usual tried-and-tired clichés , boozy depression and angry rebellion . Winona Ryder , as Quaid's teen bride , struggles with a sketchy role ; in fact , all the supporting characters are one-dimensional compared to Lewis . Quaid ( who lip-syncs to the vocals but played his own piano ) rides roughshod over the whole shaky enterprise . from
Bubbly fluff . . .	Doris Day's second feature may have been written expressly for the hot new talent , what with a feisty character similar to her own personality involved in familiar circumstances . Radio show producer Jack Carson loses his temperamental star and has to find a new and exciting singer , ' accidentally ' hearing perky Doris delivering a ditty and giving her a break . Playing a single mom and working girl , Day eventually goes to Hollywood yet doesn't forget her old chum , who has become a romantic partner . Extremely minor offering from Warner Bros . overdoses a bit on Day's natural spunk , though she does have a few nice numbers and works very comfortably with Carson . This is the movie with the elaborate Bugs Bunny dream sequence , which doesn't have a lot to do with what's going on but is colorful nevertheless . from
Intriguing material rendered a bit flat by uncertain handling . . .	Fictionalized account of the later years of gay film director James Whale , who in the 1930's directed " Frankenstein " and " Bride of Frankenstein " . Here , Whale befriends his hunky , heterosexual groundskeeper ( with the hilariously butch name Clayton Boone ) and hearkens back on his glory years in Hollywood . Art-house hit was almost immediately overrated by critics and audiences eager to praise something that at least touched upon human frailties and emotional conflicts . It does manage some moving moments , but Brenden Fraser's working-class caretaker is such a cliché by now - - and Ian McKellan's attempts at seduction are so ham-handed - - that the film occasionally verges on camp . Still , McKellan does some interesting work in the lead and the picture has convincing atmosphere and detail . Based on the novel " Father of Frankenstein " by Christopher Bram . Clive Barker was one of the producers . from
Whatever charm or vitality it has is due to Bill Murray . . .	Sequel to the overrated 1984 predecessor about three New Yorkers in the extermination business - - busting ghosts instead of bugs - - has the same jovial cast , a handsome production design , and some funny jokes , providing fitful amusement . Here , the leads discover poltergeists living underneath The Big Apple , and the final showdown is full of marvelous special effects . The acting by Dan Aykroyd , Harold Ramis and Ernie Hudson is so intentionally straight and low-keyed that they practically hand the picture over to Bill Murray , who - - as always - - rings laughs out of the most ridiculous scenario . Sigourney Weaver , back as Murray's love-interest , is more relaxed this time around and also has some good scenes . Tolerable , but audiences decided they had had enough . from
" Now we can ignore each other in peace . . . "	Past and present collage of a youthful neo-Nazi skinhead in Venice Beach , California , his life going into a tailspin after the gang-related murder of his father . After killing some neighborhood thugs , the skinhead serves jail time and is eventually paroled ( and reformed ) , yet he can't seem to straighten out his erratic family , particularly his younger brother who seems intent on following down the same ugly path . Director Tony Kaye puts the squeeze on us right from the start , staging a blacks vs . whites basketball game as if it were Epic Human Drama ( photographed in black-and-white , with slow-motion effects and a heavenly choir ) . The superlative performances nearly carry the picture , yet screenwriter David McKenna lays on the be-true-to-yourself rhetoric with a trowel ( and yet lets the opposite side get their licks in too , whittling the film down to a battle of speeches ladled with words like ' empowerment ' ) . The jailhouse scenes are the strongest , but the family drama and the sidebars with the police ( who also get to make speeches ) are uncomfortably contrived . from
Incredible special effects unleash moments of eerie beauty . . .	Well-produced action-thriller about an asteroid the size of Texas about to slam into Earth is unfortunately filled with idiots and dolts . Why do we need Steve Buscemi on board as a loose cannon who manages to sit still for the training but nearly screws everything up in space ( and even worse , appears to be rewarded as a " hero " besides ? ) . Ben Affleck is his usual wooden , shallow self , but I was able to forget about him . Liv Tyler has some gutsy moments near the end , but her love scene with the animal crackers has to be an absolute cinematic low-point . Bruce Willis ? He does his macho act , and there are bits and pieces where you can see genuine emotion registering on his face , but any actor could have played this role - - it doesn't utilize his personality to any particular advantage . The special effects are fantastic , and the herky-jerky editing is always careful to reveal just enough of a particular marvel and then move on , but the story is pretty much a wash-out . from
Attempts to uncover small town scandals , but film is a mere whimper	Writer William Inge took his name off the credits for this Ann-Margret / Michael Parks dud about serviceman returning home to family and friends , only to find everything has changed while he's been away . The screenplay , now credited to Walter Gage , hints at provocative themes ( an older gentleman whom Parks sees about a job actually comes on to him , eyebrow-raising for 1965 ! ) , but the characters don't make much sense . Ann-Margret does everything she can to bring life to the proverbial ex-girlfriend role , but her Laurel is an unconvincing , mercurial concoction - - you cannot get a grip on this woman - - and A-M has no choice but to fall back on her patented sultriness . A slight , watchable movie with bad editing and drab cinematography , however it's a curious attempt at modernizing a " Picnic " - like scenario . from
" Them that die bad don't stay in the ground . . . "	Toni Morrison story about a former servant in post-Civil War Ohio , working as a cook and living with her troubled teenage daughter ( in a house touched by a spirit from the past ) , is visited by a man she once knew eighteen years ago as a troubled girl from Kentucky ; they forge a loving friendship built upon their memories , but the horrors of their youth sneak back into the yard once a wild child named Beloved shows up and is taken in . Fill-in-the-blanks melodrama moves along fluidly , yet intrinsically keeps tripping itself up . Director Jonathan Demme wants the overstuffed tale to unfold slowly , but by explaining so little about the central characters he risks alienating viewers . Within the first ten minutes , Demme employs a technical effect which looks ( and plays ) cheap , followed by an outpouring of sorrowful family anger which gets the first act off on the wrong foot . The narrative is , in fact , so fuzzy that we're not sure who Oprah Winfrey's character is , how she makes her living , or what her relationship is with her daughter ( who appears disturbed ) . When the stranger Beloved is readily welcomed by Winfrey into the home , talking in a staccato sing-song , we're not told why . Demme seems to think the mood music and the haunted / loving expression on Winfrey's face will tell us what we need to know , but this backfires ( the film is practically intent on shutting out logic , replacing it with soul-bearing emotion ) . Perhaps in an attempt to retain Morrison's prose , the screenwriters don't allow these people to have normal conversations ( it's all steeped in the hypothetical ) . " Beloved " has an interesting pictorial look , although the cinematography by Tak Fujimoto is too clear and pristine ( as was " The Color Purple " , for example ) , and the tidy yards and weathered rooms look too Hollywood . Demme darts about avoiding explanations , while Thandie Newton's Beloved skitters about like a banshee . Winfrey , who also co-produced the movie , gives an uneven performance hindered by the dialogue ; her lack of sparkle reminds us she can be a gravely intelligent presence , but her solemn looks of longing don't register anything intriguing ( we're supposed to be drawn to this woman because of Winfrey's personality , I assume , yet with Oprah so subdued we're left with nothing but a skin-deep portrait ) . It's a large-scale failure , a misbegotten venture , with eyes rimmed with tears , mouths torn by grief , hands grasping and clutching . It whips up quite a tempest , yet it is mostly hot air . from
All the star-power and prestige cannot erase the air of artificiality . . .	Robert Redford is miscast as a British adventurer in Africa wooing married Danish writer Meryl Streep . Busy , overlong romantic opus / travelogue based upon the life of Karen Blixen is really just an excuse to get these two beautiful stars together on-screen , and certainly their combined chemistry makes several scenes quite memorable . Streep flourishes in this extravagant role , and Klaus Maria Brandauer is excellent as her rather hapless husband , but director Sydney Pollack allows his pacing to plod , and wooden Redford never livens up . It apparently impressed the Academy , winning Oscars for Pollack , Karl Luedtke for his screenplay adaptation , David Watkin for his admittedly lovely cinematography , Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Sound , John Barry for his score , and for Best Picture . from
Cinderella revisited ( and revised )	The Cinderella tale revised ( and some may say improved upon ) by turning the title character into a 16th Century servant girl with a feisty spirit , an educated mind , and a fearsome right hook ! Drew Barrymore vacillates between victimized puppy , coy young woman and pre-feminist challenger in the lead , convincing the Prince of France that she's of nobility while captivating him with her inner-strength ; still , she's fetching , despite an uneven accent and too many movie-star close-ups of her self-conscious smile . Anjelica Huston is perfectly fine as the hissably evil stepmother ( she's appropriately contemptible without stepping over into camp ) and Dougray Scott is the twinkling Prince ( with an over-sized codpiece which seems like a sight-gag nobody took note of ) . Lovely locations and production design , though the film disappoints by cheating us out of two very important moments - - an escape and a ceremony - - and by stretching this tale out a tad too long . from
Dead-pan comic cynicism bites off more than it can chew . . .	" Heathers " delights in shocking viewers with un-PC humor ; that's fine , yet the picture is a mess from a filmmaker's stand-point , and Daniel Waters ' script takes a dive with twenty minutes left to go . This is a movie that never goes in any particular direction , so Waters left himself an ' out ' : he could end it anywhere he wanted and figure he was safe . However the acting by leads Winona Ryder and Christian Slater ( as high schoolers who murder members of the popular clique ) is so strong that the audience is let down by where the writing takes them . This screenplay could be something conjured up in a high school writing class . It has pungent , dead-on scenes of satire and fantasy , but it flags too early and just doesn't have the smarts to realize that - - in the end - - it's dealing with characters who have become recognizable to us , and throwing them a cartoon bone is as insulting as a croquet ball to the forehead . from
A lumbering ' Inferno ' . . .	There's much awesome activity in Irwin Allen's disaster follow-up to " The Poseidon Adventure " , and yet not a lot to take in . You could close your eyes through this one and still be able to follow the plot . A San Francisco skyscraper catches fire on its unveiling , and there's plenty of stock characters on hand more than willing to go up in flames . The picture is so empty of humanity that characters we barely get a chance to know are sent flying out of windows - - big , fiery send-offs for screaming strangers . " Poseidon " worked because it had a handful of characters , cartoonish but three-dimensional nevertheless , whom we came to care about . " Inferno " doesn't have many interesting people in it , not architect Paul Newman , fireman Steve McQueen , girlfriend Faye Dunaway , honcho William Holden , con-man Fred Astaire , or even the Shelley Winters lookalike in the pink dress . Astaire got an Oscar nomination for his work , but there's little evidence that he was around for much of the filming ( it's an extended cameo , for prestige ) . The film was nominated for Best Picture , which might've been another gesture of good will since two competing movie studios jointly financed it and Hollywood loves a happy ending with big bucks involved . from
Underwhelming star-vehicle	American reworking of Germany's " Wings of Desire " becomes an old-fashioned weeper . . . and how dispiriting is that ? Meg Ryan isn't quite convincing playing a doctor being romanced by a strange man who is actually a lovestruck angel contemplating becoming human . Nicolas Cage has the showier role , performing it in a surprisingly low-key and with ambling charm . Far less intense and magical than " Wings of Desire " , the picture takes a more direct approach which isn't as stimulating ( the goal here seems to be star-crossed romance , which doesn't leave much room for thought-provoking , psychological asides ) . Still , for a corny , dewy-sweet affair , the handsomely-made drama manages some bracing , finely-wrought moments . The finale , engineered to be " ironic " , doesn't provide much uplift however , leading to an unsatisfying wrap-up . from
Director Howard brings it together for a sweet finish , yet most of " Parenthood " is woefully unsubtle . . .	Intelligently-crafted , though ultimately uneven and shallow mosaic of stories centering on the members of a large , colorful modern family . Director Ron Howard has a tough time getting the picture's rhythm going , and for the first two-thirds of an hour it does nothing but meander and flail away on stale jokes . The screenplay , by Howard's real-life pals Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel ( with help from Howard himself ) , isn't too wacky , yet the film is full of peaks and valleys . The writing isn't initially assured , and the tone of the picture swings from comically-credible to simply cartoonish . The performances by the cast are uneven too , ranging from fine ( Steve Martin , Mary Steenburgen , Tom Hulce and Jason Robards ) to dull ( Keanu Reeves and Martha Plimpton ) to grossly over-exaggerated ( Dianne Wiest , who received an Oscar nomination for her ' scene stealing ' ) . Ganz and Mandel aspire to touchy-feely , fuzzy family comedy , so it comes as a surprise that parts of " Parenthood " are actually rather crass , and Howard ( as a director of comedy ) needs to reel-in his penchant for cuteness . from
Near-brilliant production design and art direction ; the rest is middling . . .	Fictionalized account of the friendship between writers Nick Cassady and Jack Kerouac , members of the so-called Beat Generation of the late 1950s . Writer-director John Byrum takes a sketchy , connect-the-dots approach to these famous people , and his opaque screenplay , adapted from Carolyn Cassady's memoirs , leaves the actors ( Nick Nolte as Cassady , John Heard as Kerouac , Sissy Spacek as Carolyn ) often looking as if they haven't been clued-in . There are moments when the cast and the well-realized surroundings warrant far more interest than the story or the dialogue , and that's a weak obstacle in a film about writers . The film is also extremely somber , with only bits and pieces of quirky humor ( thanks to a supporting turn by Ray Sharkey ) to elevate the depressive air of self-conceit . Visually impressive production , solid work from the men , but Spacek's role is underwritten . from
Polished , efficient , derivative , inert . . .	Bruce Willis looks appropriately grim throughout thriller about a child psychologist who attempts to help a troubled young boy who claims to see ghosts . Surprisingly popular other-worldly yarn ( surprising because the film is so old-fashioned ) , it goes to sometimes hokey means to get a scare out of the audience , but is nevertheless very well-made and engrossing . Written and directed by M . Night Shyamalan , the picture is low-keyed , somewhat ambitious , but not very delicate , with plot-holes and moments where there seems to be no driving force behind the narrative ; for such a deliberately-paced movie , Shyamalan doesn't show much grace , only technical finesse . " The Sixth Sense " is like a good " Night Gallery " episode : occasionally suspenseful , with solid , non-showy performances , but with the general feeling that we've been down this road before . from
" Discover the oyster ! "	Tracey Ullman does some priceless double-takes in this John Waters comedy , playing uptight wife and mother in a Baltimore suburb who gets a rap on the noggin and becomes a sex addict . A shabby-looking enterprise with scrappy editing , this would seem amateurish even for a first-time director , but Waters certainly doesn't seem to mind . As a filmmaker , he is gleefully puckish , with a heightened sense of the ridiculous , and as usual he gets his cast to ride right along on his coattails . Selma Blair is Ullman's daughter , who has " mutilated her mammaries " ; Chris Isaak is Tracey's husband who also gets a knock on the head and dreams of musclemen posing ; Johnny Knoxville is a sex guru / auto mechanic ; Suzanne Shepherd is Ullman's mother , Big Ethel , who runs the Park and Pay . Relatively short film isn't compact ( the final reel is just a lot of hamming and running around ) but the first-half has some laugh-out-loud moments and the whole picture benefits from Ullman's work - - she's a stitch . from
A rape of decency ! A parody of pleasure !	Roger Corman's modestly-budgeted biker flick for American International opens brilliantly , with evocative shots by cinematographer Richard Moore that promise a lot more than what Corman , screenwriter Charles Griffith , or the cast members can eventually deliver . Plot has Southern California biker gang enjoying rumbles , cycle jousts , hassling the Mexicans , and out running the local heat ; but when Bruce Dern steals a police-bike and gets shot , gang " president " Peter Fonda hatches a plan to break him out of the hospital and thus keep him out of prison . Fairly raw and uncompromising , the picture looks terrific from start to finish , but the line-readings are sometimes so awkward that one wishes Corman could cut back on dialogue and just allow the visuals to tell the story . Sort of the older brother to " Easy Rider " , this movie was eclipsed in popularity and relevance just a few years later , but it is gripping , visceral , occasionally amusing , and has some fine actors in it ( Diane Ladd , Gayle Hunnicutt , Michael J . Pollard , and Nancy Sinatra , whose hospital crying scene is a hoot ) . from
Woman-in-distress yarn presents a virtual roll call for thriller clichés . . . but recovers for a nifty finish	Elizabeth Taylor stars in this film-adaption of Lucille Fletcher's play , which had been accused of lifting elements from Patrick Hamilton's play " Gas Light " ; while true , this movie-version looks even more similar to the Doris Day thriller " Midnight Lace " , replacing phone calls with does-she-really-see-them dead bodies . A married woman in England , haunted by a ghoulish memory from her past , suffers from insomnia and loneliness ; her husband is always working , her best girlfriend runs around with married men , and she's left alone in a big house with a backyard that faces the side ( or the rear ) of a spooky , deserted mansion . During a thunderstorm one night , Taylor sees a dead body in one of the neighboring windows ( the viewer certainly doesn't , which is a crafty trick courtesy of director Brian G . Hutton ) . Not-bad picture , filmed on a modest budget , goes from spooky story to melodrama to revenge thriller , yet we never lose interest in the main character , well-played by Taylor . La Liz had a run of career misfortune in the 1970s , appearing in poorly-received comedies , dramas , and two misguided musical ventures ; this is one of her better films from the era , with an ending that I didn't see coming . from
" To all the beautiful women in the world who have shot their husbands full of holes . . . "	Comedy fracas from Maurine Watkins ' play " Chicago " ( filmed previously in 1927 , and remade as a musical in 2002 ) has gum-snapping , would-be showgirl Roxie Hart , wife to a real schlub in jazz-era Chicago , talked into putting herself at the center of an apartment shooting - - because , after all , Chicago courts are sweet on dames . Satire of legal justice ( and the theatricality of the law and the press ) is pungent and funny without being terribly memorable . Ginger Rogers is very good in the lead , yet winking director William Wellman keeps repeating the same gags over and over ; while frantically trying to stay one step ahead of the audience , Wellman tramples all comers - - sapping Rogers ' good will too soon . A few wonderful stand-outs remain : the jailhouse dance with the reporters , the lively courtroom antics , and the clever final tag . The story is framed in awkward flashback , the sub-plot about moll Two Gun Gertie is introduced and then dropped , and there's a semi-romance that never rises to a boil , but the film still has some big laughs and a lot of energy . from
Star cameos and outrageous toilet humor , some of which is very funny . . .	Third Austin Powers spy-spoof is nearly a winner for Mike Myers , playing the would-be suave International Man of Mystery once again pitted against Dr . Evil , who has hatched a plot to flood the world . Evil is now in cahoots with Goldmember , a power-mad genius from 1975 who sports a golden phallus . Surprise star-cameos and lots of funny raunch , yet the film still can't top the naughty-but-innocent initial entry in this series , which looks positively sedated next to this installment and the misguided second , " The Spy Who Shagged Me " . Still , " Goldmember " has imaginative set-pieces , great music and some completely inane but delightfully executed laughs . Pop-star Beyoncé Knowles is a natural on-screen playing Powers ' sidekick Foxxy Cleopatra , but Michael Caine ( as Austin's father ) never gets a great scene . from
Wholesome catnip . . .	A mangy yellow cat , formerly a homeless hellion who hung around the golf course , is adopted by a multi-millionaire financier who harbors a distrust of humans ; after the man dies , the cat is named inheritor to the vast fortune - - and also becomes the good luck mascot for the major league ball team the businessman owned . Likable , mildly funny fantasy-comedy for cat-lovers and baseball buffs doesn't have anywhere special to go after the set-up , though the cast is game and the feline is fun to watch . Ray Milland plays an employee who is named the cat's guardian , and he's in frisky spirits , as is fiancée Jan Sterling who's beset with the proverbial allergy . Laid-back non-achiever from Paramount could maybe use some bigger laughs ( or even wit ) , but is otherwise handled quite smoothly . from
The craziness of the first-year law student . . .	Timothy Bottoms battles through his first year at Harvard Law School , attempting to stay one step ahead of his no-nonsense professor , but inadvertently falling for the instructor's comely daughter ( Lindsay Wagner , pre - " Bionic Woman " ) . Director / screenwriter James Bridges adapted the script from John Jay Osborn , Jr . ' s book , and does a pretty good job realizing the many pressures of academia . Bridges was the perfect director to work in 1970s cinema , and , with Gordon Willis ' cinematography , he brings a gritty yet unshowy style to the movie that looks good without ever seeming pretentious . On the other hand , there's nothing very colorful about lectures or study groups no matter how polished the handling . Certainly worth-seeing for the acting alone , with John Houseman giving an Oscar-winning supporting performance ( he was later tapped to the star in the television spin-off ) . from
Excruciatingly ironic . . . though Liz and Monty are still swoon-worthy	Theodore Dreiser's novel " An American Tragedy " turned into a glossy , slick , surface-pretty though still effective melodrama about troubled young people . Montgomery Clift is the poor ex-bellhop who gets a job working in his rich uncle's factory ; he has eyes for a smoky society beauty obviously out of his league , courting instead a plain-Jane working girl who ends up pregnant . The story has been pushed up from the 1930s to the film's modern era , leaving some portions of the plot seeming antiquated ( when Shelley Winters goes to a doctor for help with her condition , he acts more like a minister than a medico ) . Director George Stevens painstakingly mounts this plot ( in all its unfairness ) with the surge of a romantic epic , turning Clift's character into an anti-hero ( he's more like a coward , an extremely polite rebel - - alternating his leather jacket with suits and ties ) . Elizabeth Taylor plays her country club princess with a mix of naughty spirit and maternal instinct ( intriguing if not quite believable ) , while Winters goes from shy and subdued to vindictive in no time flat ( does Stevens mean her to be the villain of the piece ? ) . The theme of a have-not skirting the world of the haves is certainly brought off with pomp and style ( and some steamy clinches ) , but the courtroom theatrics in the third act are laid on with a trowel . It might have played as a morality tale at one time , but today it looks more like an overheated soaper . Stevens stacks the deck against his protagonist with needling precision , right up until the jaw-droppingly ' tough ' conclusion . from
Possible germ warfare in Los Angeles . . . and Ben Casey in his undershirt	Pulpy , wildly overwrought , but entertaining co-feature from Columbia has a pre - " Ben Casey " Vince Edwards starring as a convict who breaks out of San Quentin with a container he thinks is " a pound of 100 % snow " , but instead of heroin it's actually radioactive Cobalt 60 and any exposure could decimate Los Angeles . Not a compact thriller ( even at 75 minutes ! ) , this suspense film is full of behind-the-wheel montages and bits of generic police business . Edwards smolders like a reckless mad-dog stud , yet when he's required to disguise himself as a businessman with glasses , he's adept and convincing at this transition . The other actors in the cast aren't as versatile , and the mechanical writing and directing certainly doesn't liven them up ( they're all stock figures , though Vince's girlfriend does get in a few funny wisecracks down at the police station ) . Photographed by Lucien Ballard , the movie has a great , gritty look full of L . A . ' s neighborhoods and back streets , and the tension does manage to build successfully even though just about everything in the picture is second-rate . from
Just say ' No ' . . .	Nancy Davis ( later Reagan ) gives a surprisingly good , sympathetic performance playing platonic friend to well-respected but troubled teacher Ray Milland . Life's woes have caused Ray to hit the bottle hard , but his loved ones quickly rally and offer their support . Heartfelt drama , written by Karl Tunberg and Leonard Spigelgass , is set partially ( and quite amiably ) at the professor's work-place , an idyllic college campus . Perhaps unintentionally , the filmmakers show that an innocent locale such as this doesn't always guarantee happiness or security , and Milland's personal tragedy leads him to depression and booze . The finale is a bit melodramatic , but the characters are vividly drawn . Workman-like , and certainly not up to " Lost Weekend " standards , but still quite good . from
Flawed , though exceptionally tender and well-acted	That thudding , metaphorical title not withstanding ( thankfully it isn't literal ) , this is a lovely reminiscence from writer-director Robert Benton , an autobiographical story about a Texas brood during the Depression having to make ends meet after the family patriarch is killed . Sally Field won a well-deserved Oscar as the widow who decides to grow cotton on her land to save her house from being taken by the bank ; Danny Glover gives his best performance as a drifter who helps her and John Malkovich is equally good as a blind boarder . What doesn't work is a sub-plot concerning Field's sister ( Lindsay Crouse ) and her marital problems : seems husband Ed Harris has the roving eye , but his affair with Crouse-lookalike Amy Madigan doesn't involve us the way it's meant to - - we just bide our time waiting for Field's return . Still , it's a gently sentimental tale , full of great care and disarming gumshun , though the tag at the end ( more metaphors ! ) comes off cold . from
American International brings psycho-bikers to Big Sur . . .	Tom Laughlin's first film as Billy Jack , ex-Green Beret-turned-rancher living in Northern California who is continually mocked for his Indian blood and gentle manner . Here , Billy Jack gets involved in taking on a hard-partying gang of bikers who have raped a group of girls only after the local police force prove to be completely useless . Laughlin , who directed the film under the pseudonym T . C . Frank and wrote much of the screenplay , isn't as laconic ( or iconic ) as he would become in the sequels - - he allows Billy Jack to be human , at times vulnerable and benign , and Laughlin as an actor has never appeared so boyish ( his sheepish grin , when it appears , is utterly charming ) . As a writer , Laughlin allows the biker characters to be flamboyant and fearless , which presents a problem in the narrative ( does he mean to glorify their free spirited lifestyle ? And why are they so polite at the beginning , only beating up the teenager after the snotty kid becomes inexplicably nasty ? ) . In letting the bikers ' foul antics drag on for so long ( an hour and forty minutes until their showdown with Billy ) , Laughlin doesn't so much turn the screws on his audience as he does make this whole low-budget venture seem expanded for little purpose . Jane Russell has a couple of scenes as the frantic mother of a victimized girl which would be superfluous except they set up the underlying gist of the picture : parents are just as out of control as the punks and rapists ; their children are drawn to the violent side simply because it repels their spineless elders . Laughlin gets in some good digs at how middle-class , clean-cut girls get into trouble by their own design , and he lets one gal in particular ( spunky Elizabeth James , who also contributed to the script ) be articulate and honest . But too much of " The Born Losers " is sloppy , inconsistent , frustrating and simplistic . from
Bloodshed in the American Dustbowl . . .	Although numerous chapters in cinema manuals have been dedicated to Arthur Penn's violent , jagged , cynical " Bonnie and Clyde " - - and , indeed , it kick-started a new permissiveness in America movies which then generated many imitations - - the first twenty or so minutes of the picture are really awful . Depression-era waitress , bored and thrill seeking , finds herself drawn to a smooth-talking , reckless hood , an ex-con who , when playfully dared to , robs a general store right in front of her . He's sexually impotent but does have a sympathetic heart for the unfortunates and the working class ; she's a high-wire act , strictly amoral and greedy . Their initial meeting outside her house has all the conventions of a standard 1930s drama - - and just because the movie's look is generally correct doesn't mean what's happening on the screen is original . Producer Warren Beatty and screenwriters Robert Benton and David Newman envisioned the French New Wave in regards to the film's approach and style , and their efforts paid off in this respect ( it's a very good-looking picture , shot by Burnett Guffey , who won an Oscar ) . However , Arthur Penn's direction isn't visionary , and the multiple car-riding shots with back projection don't seem to break new ground . The film's greatest achievement aside from its textured look and feel is the casting : Beatty and Faye Dunaway do pretty marvelous work in the leads ; Gene Hackman and Estelle Parsons also fine as Clyde's brother and sister-in-law ( Parsons won the film's second of two Oscars as Best Supporting Actress ) . The violence grows increasingly , steadily , as the film inches toward its queasy conclusion , while Penn juggles ( successfully at times ) ribald character moments with deadly serious - - and bloody - - scenes ( which also became fashionable ) . The sweat and the flies , the downtrodden and the righteous , they all get a work-out in this scenario , which , in its best moments , has a prickly-comic and dangerous edge . from
Quinn gives the Italian histrionics some substance . . .	The soon-to-be-married daughter of a handsome widower is furious when her father starts dating the widow of a gangster . Anthony Quinn and Sophia Loren are quite good as the older lovers whose romance hits a family obstacle ( Quinn , in particular , is well-attuned to his role ) , but the stereotypical Italian characters get to be a bit much . One can understand why Quinn's daughter is reluctant to let go of her papa ( she's been mother and daughter to him for years ) , but her overwrought behavior - - not to mention her over-acting - - creates an hysterical mood which nearly undermines the love story . Martin Ritt directed , staging the piece with sensitivity yet never allowing the characters and their emotions to bloom . from
The quest to legitimize homosexuality cinematically still makes Hollywood nervous	" The Celluloid Closet " doesn't play like a documentary ; instead , it's more like an extended installment of " Entertainment Tonight " , with funny , bitchy commentary and mostly bright , lively film clips ( it doesn't dig too deep ) . Made in 1995 , the most revealing thing about it is how little Hollywood's perception of gays has changed in the intervening years ( with the exception of " Brokeback Mountain " , we still get the proverbial gay best friend , gay co-worker , gay villain ) . There's been very little growth since on the movie screen , and " The Celluloid Closet " - - while insightful - - is perhaps too light and non-threatening . Lily Tomlin narrates , with remarks by Quentin Crisp , Susan Sarandon , producer Daniel Melnick ( who tells a story about a screening of " Making Love " that is funny and harrowing at the same time ) , Gore Vidal , Tony Curtis , Tom Hanks and Shirley MacLaine . The early film clips are best , showing filmdom's initial acceptance of " the sissy " as a punchline - - and in subsequent years as the psychotic - - but a few of the movies spotlighted here don't really seem to fit into any gay mold ( I never thought of " Rebecca " or " Calamity Jane " as having lesbian overtones ) . By the ' 70s , with violence prevalent in movies , it just stood to reason that gays would become the targets , and scenes from " Freebie and the Bean " and " Cruising " are just sad examples of human ignorance ( yet many ironies aren't pointed out ; the fact that William Friedkin , who made the landmark " The Boys in the Band " , was also responsible for " Cruising " isn't acknowledged ) . The filmmakers aren't shallow , but they tiptoe carefully through Hollywood history , walking on eggshells , and when they run out of relevant sequences they resort to showing the same old stuff . Still , there are several pointed passages here , and comments worth savoring , but perhaps an updated version is now due . from
Mobsters in Vegas , as filtered through the ice-cold sensibilities of Martin Scorsese . . .	From Nicholas Pileggi's factual book about a mobster's immorality and downfall in Las Vegas , NV from 1973 to 1983 . Despite sweeping cinematography and palpable evil at nearly every plot-turn , " Casino " seems a " Goodfellas " retread . Robert De Niro is predictably good in the lead , but Joe Pesci , as De Niro's surly back-up , does nothing new and Sharon Stone , as De Niro's wife , is just the ' token woman ' , trying to build a character without much genuine material to work with ( she's satisfactory ) . Director Martin Scorsese seems more interested in his characters ' actions than their motivations , causing some confusion in the story and leaving many questions unanswered by the end . The film is fast-paced and entertaining , but it doesn't leave a heady imprint behind , and some of the violence verges on self-parody . from
" No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en . . . "	Franco Zeffirelli's energetic handling of William Shakespeare's raucous battle of the sexes involving blustery Petruchio , a 16th Century fortune-hunter from Verona , Italy , who is slated to woo Katharina , the wicked wench of Padua , whose hand is surely available ; with her dowry looming large , Petruchio manages to get Katharina to the altar , where their stormy tussle of exchanges continues onto the honeymoon . Directed with visual flair and a great deal of energy , yet star-couple Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton ( ideally suited to the material though they are ) do uneven work . Burton seems to believe cackling his way through his role will suffice , while Taylor's mincing little post - " Taming " smiles aren't completely convincing ( her best scene is her initial one , leaning out the window ) . Whole sequences ( such as the wedding ceremony and the final gamble ) fail to really take off ; this is mainly due to the slapdash timing and a general lack of focus - - Zeffirelli is wonderful with the small details but grand-scale storytelling seems to hinder him . A modest success at the box-office , the film set the stage for Zeffirelli's follow-up , 1968's " Romeo and Juliet " , which finally made the Bard ' 60s accessible . from
A bit awkward , but generally likable comedy . . .	Clark Gable , in one of his final film roles , plays a theatrical producer fighting off the unwanted affections of his smitten juvenile secretary , later using his predicament as the basis for a new play . Odd to find latter-day Gable in such an outright piece of fluff ; he looks a little unsure of himself initially , but eventually locates the spirit of the piece and warms up midway . As the lovestruck working girl , Carroll Baker is sweet yet also rather stiff , and her hair and clothes don't seem to match her age ( she doesn't look like what other young ladies of this period might look like ) . Remake of 1935's " Accent on Youth " is hackneyed and coy , but the cast ( including Lilli Palmer and Lee J . Cobb ) manage to sell it despite shortcomings in the material and the handling . from
Highly sympathetic comic-turn from Thelma Ritter anchors overstuffed marital mix-up . . .	Thelma Ritter received a worthy Oscar nomination for her earthy performance as the proprietress of a diner who , due to lack of funds , has to leave the business behind and go to live with her son ( miscast John Lund ) ; he has just gotten married to a wealthy beauty with a harpy mother , and when Ritter is mistaken for the new cook , she accepts the job willingly . Though based upon a play , " The Mating Season " isn't stagy or static at all - - in fact , just the opposite , it is too hectic and over-plotted for its own good . It isn't enough to have one deception going on , there are also incredibly involved confusions and assumptions with Lund's co-workers , their relatives and his boss . Lund is too icy to be comfortable as a newlywed ( he'd be better cast as the villain of the piece ) , but Gene Tierney is lovely as his wife and Ritter is a delight . The movie isn't the frothy farce one might hope it'll be , but the fairy tale ending is sweet and there are some engaging characters along the way . from
Overwrought , somewhat over-played , but still a classy product of its time . . .	Two boyhood pals from the 1890s grow into young adults with tumultuous lives : Robert Cummings is the studious kid who moves away from small town America to study psychiatry in Vienna ( ! ) , while Ronald Reagan loses all his money in a bank swindle and has to find work on the opposite side of the tracks . Intelligent , if melodramatic , adaptation of Henry Bellamann's novel isn't particularly well-directed ( nor is it sharply edited , as the scenes and transitions could use more verve and snap ) ; however , it does have Reagan at the peak of his acting charms , and his strong performance really carries this a long way . Cummings , whose make-up job causes him to resemble an actor from the silent era , is less interesting , and the supporting performances are variable , but film is still quite absorbing and entertaining . Excellent music score by Erich Korngold , handsome cinematography by James Wong Howe . Though a Best Picture nominee for 1942 , the movie was originally set for release the year before , with Warner Bros . getting cold feet and putting it on ice . Once they did release it , the film failed to find much of an audience . from
Completely open to interpretation	Whether it was ( shrewdly ) planned or not , Bill Murray has become one of our greatest cinematic resources , just as comfortable doing dry comedy as he is acting in a mood piece ; his whole melancholy being has become perfect for avant-garde comedy , and this meticulously-mounted and shaded ' dramedy ' is a Bill Murray vehicle all the way . The loosely-structured plot deals with calling up the past , which it says you can't really do because it's gone , and not worrying about the future because it isn't here yet . Murray plays a computer businessman , a committed bachelor and " over-the-hill Don Juan " , who receives news he might have fathered a child with an ex-girlfriend 20 years ago . The film , helmed under the more effective title " Dead Flowers " , is an unintended journey of self-discovery which is purposely incomplete but not pointless ; the screenplay leaves the scenario open for discussion , and writer-director Jim Jarmusch structures each sequence in such a cockeyed way that we don't really know where the movie is headed . This is perfect for audiences interested in something a little different , and even if the pacing is dryly solemn or slow , it delights in being anti-formula . A very good film , difficult as an entertainment per se and often puzzling or obtuse , though it continues Bill Murray on the path of an actor of incredible taste , decision and consequence . from
Very nearly a terrific movie . . .	Original , offbeat comedy-drama written by James David Buchanan and Ron Austin concerns naive young man ( Michael Sarrazin ) who falls in league with a group of professional pickpockets . A smooth direction by Bruce Geller , an occasionally wily script and a fine cast including James Coburn and Walter Pidgeon promises a surefire movie - - and it delivers on that for about half its length . Unfortunately , the picture's disappointing third act doesn't so much unravel as it does play dead , with the writing smacking of moralistic pandering ( you can almost hear the filmmakers saying , " Don't let this happen to you ! " ) . Too bad , the movie has a great look , many funny cons , and memorable characters . from
It's a masochist's dream come true . . .	Bearing little resemblance to the book , or in fact to real life , " Midnight Express " exists in a sadomasochist bubble , completely removed from anything concrete . Even on its own terms , it makes no sense . With heavy homosexual overtones throughout , our hero ( played by Brad Davis ) turns down gay sex as if he's above it , yet director Alan Parker revels in the sexual imagery ( what with Davis standing spread out in front of the law or being pawed at by sexual brute Paul Smith ) . Are we to believe that this American tourist in Turkey , jailed for attempting to smuggle out hashish , is some kind Arc Angel , remaining pure throughout the carnage ? Oliver Stone adapted the non-fiction book , and won an Oscar , but he waters down an already taut account ( or maybe it was watered down for him ) . This is not to say the film doesn't have horrifying or fascinating passages ( it does command attention ) , but the " plot " , as such , doesn't hang together . The movie has a dated look , and dated music , causing it to resemble an old porny picture , and the performances are variable . from
" The Twilight Zone " did this type of thing cheaper , faster and about as mean . . .	" Seconds " plays like an elongated episode of TV's " The Twilight Zone " . While that isn't particularly a bad thing , it does point out the fact the series may have done this story some justice simply by paring down its excesses . Rock Hudson is convincingly benumbed playing a handsome artist in Malibu whose life is a lie , whose friends are a fake , and whose real history haunts him . At first I thought the extended preamble with John Randolph as an elderly banker seemed a little sluggish , but it builds momentum carefully , deliberately . Still , there's no reason for the rest of the picture to be so slow except to prolong the inevitability of the very slim plot-line . Hudson's performance is good , though not great ; this due in part because by the time he arrives on the screen , " Seconds " has used up most of its resources and has to fall back on filler ( such as the grape-stomping sequence , which begins as cinematic eye-candy and then goes on forever ) . It is a handsome piece of work , startlingly photographed and with a haunting ambiance , but eventually the movie drops its own big red ball . from
A rough little jewel	It's poorly-acted , sloppily-made and far too bloody , but the very first " Nightmare On Elm Street " spooked me at the time and has an ingenious premise : young teenaged girl finds that her friends are being killed in their dreams by a deceased child-killer seeking revenge ; she plots to trip him up and save the neighborhood ! It's a very modest thriller with fake blood splashed around , but it's not an ugly , mean movie ( as some of the sequels were ) . In fact , it's very playful and fun-scary , the way a good chiller ought to be . Director Wes Craven allows himself to get a little dopey ( check out that finale ! ) , but he takes some chances here that his recent work ( on the awful , too-slick " Scream " films ) rebuffs . Craven is working on pure adrenaline as well as a loopy , lopsided sense of logic , and this " BOO ! " sensibility suits him . It's a nifty little screamer .
" King Arthur " on the baseball diamond . . . some pleasures to be had	Robert Redford plays Roy Hobbs , a middle-aged ballplayer in 1939 who is recruited to the New York Knights baseball team based upon his freelance success at the game ; his new coach keeps Hobbs benched out of spite , but when the chips are down , Hobbs shows his miraculous way with a bat and ball for all the world's amazement . Barry Levinson directed this handsome , burnished film-version of Bernard Malamud's book , with a coffee-table elegance and lots of crusty sons-of-bitches in the line-up . Some of the plot-mechanisms are tacky ( such as out-fielder Michael Madsen's exit , or when Hobbs is told to knock the cover off the ball and he actually does it ) , and the underlying mysticism of the story is never quite brought to the fore ( there is magic and the opposite of magic - - jinxes - - at work here , yet the pieces seem to fall into place by unassuming design ) . The gals are either good or evil , while the men ( Wilford Brimley's coach , Robert Prosky's blackmailing Judge , Robert Duvall's reporter ) are rank-and-file old coots . I'm not sure what Brimley's personal beef is during much of the picture , and Redford's unwavering loyalty to him seems to come out of nowhere . Richard Farnsworth is always wonderful to have around as an assistant coach , and Redford does a very fine job at being mysteriously stand-offish and cautious ( and he cuts a nice figure out there on the field ) . The movie has peaks and valleys , and it would've been wiser to shake out the cobwebs a little sooner and get Hobbs out of that dugout , but it's prettily photographed and , at times , moving , perceptive and absorbing . from
Suspenseful , but awfully unpleasant . . .	Anyone who remembers Maurice Evans ' kindly turn as Mia Farrow's friend in " Rosemary's Baby " may be shocked to find him so convincingly evil in this gripping melodrama . Ethel Barrymore plays a sharp , sensible woman who gets taken in by a con-man ; he moves into her house and she quickly becomes his prisoner . The plot is infuriating ( we in the audience feel like prisoners , too ) and the inevitable turning-the-tables ploy seems to take a long time coming . Still , Barrymore's plight is played to the urgent hilt , and Evans ( along with his brutish cohorts , Keenan Wynn and Angela Lansbury ) is downright despicable . The handling of this story , previously filmed in 1936 with Aline MacMahon , twists all the right screws with grueling accuracy , but calculated pictures like this may turn off many viewers before the final act . Ultimately , too many plot entanglements are left ignored and some crucial moments take place off-screen , but strictly as a masochistic thriller , the film is queasy and indeed suspenseful . from
Blends elements of romance , humor and cynicism	Booth Tarkington's book gets the meticulous Orson Welles treatment here in the story of a wealthy turn-of-the-century family , their relationships and secrets , and how time and progress pass them by . Mounted with great care and style despite studio interference ( Welles had his final edit taken away from him by studio bosses , who recut and reshot portions of the picture , possibly resulting in the truncated final act and the brief running time of 88 minutes ) . Begins like a free-flowing play , with episodes of romance , humor , cynicism and drama , but the second and third acts get awfully heavy , with too much soapy theatricality . Excellent performances , particularly by Agnes Moorehead as a spinster aunt ( she was Oscar-nominated ) . Worth-seeing , with some reservations . This story was previously filmed in 1925 as " Pampered Youth " .
A great deal of heart and dreamy symbolism ; still , a near-miss . . .	French drama from filmmaker René Clément won the Best Foreign Film Oscar , and though it is occasionally affecting and bracing , it's also a bit flat . Absorbing tale from François Boyer's novel " Les Jeux Inconnus " concerns a youngster in WWII who sees her parents killed and is then taken in by a peasant family who are at war with their own neighbors . In the lead , Brigitte Fossey is a lovely little actress , but she's also rather inexpressive and is forced to carry much of this film alone . Clément tends to rely heavily on symbolism and wordless emotions , and though this does give the proceedings a dream-like quality , it keeps the film from being substantial ; it fades in the memory . Some moving sequences . from
Sweetly out of tune with reality	Watching this again on TV the other night , I couldn't help but noticing how polished and smooth " Sister Act " is - - it looks like the perfect sitcom pilot . As a feature film , it seems a little cornball , with a completely unrealistic convent and nuns with different , colorful personalities . They unknowingly welcome a Reno lounge singer into their fold ; she's on the lam from her mobster boyfriend ( Harvey Keitel , game but looking a little strained ) . Film plays directly to the audience - - after a one-liner , you almost expect a laugh-track ; sometimes the sisters themselves provide a united chuckle . Flat at the beginning , Whoopi Goldberg loosens up somewhere in the middle , but she is overdirected and never gets to be human . from
High-spirited nonsense . . .	Ginger Rogers usually has sparkle and ladylike gumshun to spare , but in Billy Wilder's " The Major and the Minor " , her dry wit and grounded charm are given a real work-out . A woman in her twenties must disguise herself as a pre-teen in order to pay the child's fare for a train trip ; after she's found out by the train's officials , she takes refuge with passenger Ray Milland , who is ( fatefully ) near-sighted . Parts of the picture work a strident sort of magic , most certainly due to Wilder's adroit pacing , though the star performances do help . Milland is very loose and game , and although Rogers eventually begins to wear down one's nerves , she's a straightforward presence on the screen - - she connects with the audience in a direct , likable way - - as if she were an old friend . Remade in 1955 as " You're Never Too Young " . from
Everyone has a story to tell . . .	Super-8 auteur Jonathan Caouette , a young gay man with an extremely turbulent life , reveals his troubled childhood through home-movies and stills . The worshipful son of a beautiful ex-child model / single mother / electro-shock recipient , Caouette manages , in surprisingly linear fashion considering the circumstances , to paint a vivid portrait of the ultimate dysfunctional family . His grandparents , who ended up adopting Jonathan after his mother was jailed and he went through the horrors of the foster care system , are revealed as loving yet unconcerned older folks with perhaps a secretive , defensive side ; Jonathan's mother Renee , once a striking young woman , is the sad result of " medical expertise " gone shatteringly wrong . The film is alternately assaultive , theatrical ( Jonathan revealed a highly acute sense of theatricality and love for outré movies at a very young age ) , amusing , narcissistic , boring , compelling and , finally , quite moving . There are just as many stretches of questionable sincerity on Caouette's part as there are exhilarating moments - - a joyous romp on the beach with mom or a beautiful , revealing childhood lip-synching take on " Frank Mills " . The alt-rock soundtrack is superb and Caouette , a handsome , playfully schizophrenic star-in-the-making , is a talent to watch . from
Sex + love = real happiness	Barbed , ribald , occasionally tasteless comedy does have a definite plus : it has an unashamed big heart ( and a surprisingly old-fashioned undermining ) . Steve Carell plays a middle-aged kid , a tech-store stock manager into monster toys and video games , who confesses to his buddies at work that he is still , in fact , a sexual novice . Slick , commercial comedy directed by Judd Apatow , who co-wrote the screenplay with Carell , doesn't condescend to its main character ( his celibacy isn't something he chose or planned on , it's merely a hurdle in his life - - and although he's goaded into conquering the beast , he goes about that in his own way ) . The movie is alternately a sunny sex farce and a more sympathetic character-comedy about being true to yourself , with colorful weirdos filling the cast and lots of smart , insightful talk . Apatow is a giddy force behind the camera , and while his plot creaks and groans at times ( particularly in the last third ) , it doesn't necessarily strike one as a highly-concocted audience pleaser until just after the end-credits roll . from
Not up to Bogie & Bacall standards , but not too bad . . .	Robert Mitchum is the fall guy for a deported gangster attempting to reenter the States with a new identity ; Jane Russell is the sultry singer who gets involved in the dirty doings and with Mitchum . Chemistry between the sexy leads is the film's main draw , although Vincent Price just about steals the picture as an egomaniacal actor . The tiresome melodramatics and intrigue ( including a whiff of ' 50s-style sadomasochism ) aren't quite up to Raymond Chandler's level ; however , just when the noir clichés begin to seem repetitive , speedy director John Farrow moves the plot right along , and his third-act is very satisfying . Russell croons two songs , one of which ( " Five Little Miles From San Berdoo " ) should have become a cult classic . from
Despite incredible moments , a disappointment from the Master of Suspense	American nuclear scientist Paul Newman defects in East Germany , but is he serious or just setting the Germans up as pawns ? Espionage drama from director Alfred Hitchcock , with Julie Andrews a curious choice as the proverbial girlfriend ( she was forced upon Hitch by the head of Universal ) . The production is extremely plush - - too plush for the gritty on-screen happenings . Some of the set-ups have that carpeted , artificial Hollywood look that doesn't do much for the players on-screen nor the audience . The screenplay is heavy with talk , and Hitchcock can't shake out the cobwebs ; the pacing is dirge-like most of the way . Newman and Andrews give just-OK lead performances , but there are the requisite pleasures in such a film , particularly one colorful murder scene involving an oven . Not a memorable film by any means , but passable for Hitchcock completists . from
Grimm's fairy tale becomes cheerful , noodle-headed musical . . .	George Pal directed this colorful production based on the tale by the Brothers Grimm involving a woodcutter and his wife who are granted a succession of wishes - - though their request for a little boy goes somewhat awry when a thumb-sized young man shows up on their doorstep ! Very silly story tends to test the boundaries of whimsical fantasy , and Russ Tamblyn as tom thumb is forced to shout out all his lines ( which quickly wears out his welcome ) , but it's certainly an eyeful that may enchant older children . Peggy Lee's songs are enjoyable , Peter Sellers pops up in a supporting role , and the Oscar-winning visual effects are a lot of fun . from
OK . . . but what happened to Hawaii ?	After the hip , breezy opening credits sequence ( with most of the cast riding surfboards on the foamy waves ) , " Hawaiian Eye " becomes a set-bound detective show that drags its feet in the sand . I recently paid thru the nose for several episodes ( and the show was recently seen , briefly , on the American Life network ) , but I was disappointed with the writing , the pacing , the direction , the slim budget , and the way gorgeous , mercurial Connie Stevens is shunted off to the Shell Bar without much dialogue ( once Troy Donahue joined the cast in the final season , Connie's role was apparently expanded ) . Grant Williams is handsome but bland , Robert Conrad is inert , but Poncie Ponce gives the proceedings a little bounce . Sometimes the stories about these " great old TV shows " are actually much better than the show itself .
Buddy comedy with irreverent and self-serious trimmings . . .	Burnt-out professional hit-man Pierce Brosnan travels around the globe snuffing out his targets , but he may be feeling at the end of his rope ; in Mexico City , Brosnan strikes up a friendship ( his only one ) with struggling American businessman Greg Kinnear and involves the mild-mannered man in his life . " The Matador " ( the title a metaphor for the hit-man's precarious existence ) appears to be the usual buddy-formula business , but it does offer a few canny surprises . Production and handling are exceptionally clever , though the central friendship isn't terribly convincing - - nor is the elongated finale . The more somber undercurrents of the script border on the pretentious , though Brosnan and Kinnear give equally strong performances . The movie leaves you pondering the characters and their lives , yet doesn't satisfy with substantial answers . That flightiness may be deliberate , but it doesn't leave the viewer with a strong affection for the film's sassy , shallow execution . from
Korda's film has flashes of beauty , but this adaptation is a bit over-stretched . . .	Rudyard Kipling's classic story of an infant boy in India stolen from his mother and later raised by wolves in the jungle is given colorfully cinematic treatment from the Korda Brothers , who skimp quite a bit on Baloo the Bear but give us lots of other fanciful things : talking snakes , a cursed fortune of gold , a forest fire , and villainous human characters more deadly than just about any of the animals . Sabu has the lead , and though Mowgli grows up in one quick cut from the film-editor ( and learns the English language nearly as quickly ! ) , Sabu provides a sturdy , confident center for the picture and nearly holds the narrative together . The cinematography is occasionally beautiful , though the choppiness of the continuity ( and the repetitive shots of tiger Shere Khan ) keeps the movie from really blooming . Too much of the mid-section follows three would-be thieves in and out of the jungle , and I felt bad for the monkeys in the Lost City ( we never see them escape the fire , and indeed hear their howls over a shot of the ruins ) . Still , " Jungle Book " is visually impressive and mostly entertaining if you're not too demanding . from
Hayley Mills : too old to be the conniving prankster . . .	After her contract with the Disney Co . ran out , Hayley Mills became an independent commodity , choosing this medium-budget family film from Columbia as her first feature completely free from the Mouse . Rosalind Russell is well-cast as the Reverand Mother of a Catholic girls boarding school - - who stiffens up and grimaces at such childish pranks as when Mills puts soap powder in the sugar bowl - - however this flat , comically sentimental outing is low on real personality . Hayley is in charge of the hijinks , but newcomer June Harding isn't much of an accomplice ( she has little presence on the screen ) . The film's production is disappointing , and so is the script , which seems anachronistic , stuck in the ' 50s . As for Mills , she went on to do " The Family Way " , which actually let her grow as an actress instead of putting her talents on hold . She wisely skipped this movie's sequel , " Where Angels Go - - Trouble Follows ! " , which wasn't even distinguished by a young actress of Hayley's caliber . from
Smart , sensitive romantic comedy gives way to directionless second-act . . .	Kristy McNichol gives a good if uneven performance as a crippled flautist - - working her way through a series of romantic losers here at home - - who travels to a French ski-resort and gets a bright idea : she replaces her cumbersome leg-brace with a cast and finds guys wanting her sexually for the first time . Bumpy romantic comedy begins well , but is really two different pictures , with Kristy's musician going from shyly seductive girl to mercurial , exasperating kid . There are some savvy moments , but mostly in the quietly charming first hour . Once in France , where McNichol hooks up with incredibly patient photographer Michael Ontkean , the filmmakers get too silly , replacing the satiric wit with cheap , blurry sentiment and slapstick that doesn't quite play . from
Weeper-of-the-week highlighted by strong star performance . . .	Mia Farrow plays a married fifty-something working in legal administration who is diagnosed with early on-set Alzheimer's ; she at first tries to ignore or hide her symptoms out of shame , but eventually finds her husband and , to some degree , her children are supportive . Some interesting directorial touches , and Farrow's dedicated portrayal , manage to give this hand-wringer some weight , but the characters aren't really all that interesting . Why can't disease-themed movies-of-the-week be sparked by creative or demanding people ? Instead , we get a wifey who needs to return to her childhood home . She still owns it and it's still there waiting for her , fully stocked with treasures ; it's a monument to the past just as this movie is a ( minor ) monument to a suffering genre .
Death , grief , sex , confusion , murder . . .	Nicolas Roeg drama , patchily intense without being really absorbing , has married couple Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie grieving the death of their daughter ; when a strange psychic tells them the deceased child is trying to contact them from beyond , Sutherland becomes obsessed with finding the truth . After a fascinating opening , this psychological thriller gets more and more murky , leading to a wet climax in Venice , Italy that leaves the viewer feeling high and dry . Roeg enjoys frenzied story loops , curious cuts and editing techniques , but he doesn't have a trace of humor - - good , dark or otherwise - - and the heaviness of the film is more memorable than the story ( which is anti-climactic ) or the performances . from
Plastic nostalgia . . . but Geena Davis and Lori Petty are perfectly cast	A modern-day reunion of WWII-era women's league baseball players brings back fond memories for one such lady , who recalls the journey she and her kid sister made to brief but tangible stardom in America's Golden Era . Director Penny Marshall's nostalgic valentine to war-time tomboys puts the squeeze on us right from the start ( with elderly actress Lynn Cartwright dubbed with Geena Davis ' voice , to ill effect ) . Marshall wants to make sure we don't miss any of her hat-tricks , some of which ( including a urination gag ) that misfire completely . The cast of high-spirited gals ( and Tom Hanks as their coach ) are alternately lively , wonderful , and excruciating . Rosie O'Donnell is a real chore stomping about on the field , but Geena Davis and Lori Petty ( as competitive sisters ) are genuinely charming , shrewdly cast , and nearly flawless ( a movie about them alone would be worth watching ) . The film isn't nearly as hearty as it wants to be ( the mechanical seams show right through ) , but the put-on sentiment may hook some . from
Unusual ( if not bizarre ) casting in sexed-up remake of the 1953 classic . . .	James Jones ' novel of overheated lives on a Hawaiian Army Base - - just prior to the Japanese bombing on Pearl Harbor in 1941 - - filtered through the 1953 screenplay by Daniel Taradash before being reworked by new writers Harold Gast and Don McGuire , ostensibly to give the old chestnut some bolder action and sex appeal . There's definitely more skin - - and more sinister machismo - - on-screen , but by taking on the Oscar-winning theatrical adaptation from ' 53 , one has to wonder just what the producers of this TV mini-series hoped to gain ? Luckily , they've got Natalie Wood in the role of the Army Captain's estranged wife ( with plenty of movie star allure , Wood gives the part her all , winning a Golden Globe for Best Actress ) ; unfortunately , the rest of the cast is made up of television names ( William Devane , Andy Griffith ) , B-list stalwarts ( Roy Thinnes , Richard Bright ) , wild card newcomers ( Kim Basinger , Steve Railsback ) , and several very odd choices ( Peter Boyle as " Fatso " , Will Sampson as Corporal Cheney , Joe Pantoliano in Frank Sinatra's signature role of Maggio ) . Aside from Wood , the best acting comes from muscular Devane as Sergeant Warden ( despite his tendency to play hardball by making tough-guy faces ) and Railsback , too , is interesting in the ex-boxer role left behind by Montgomery Clift . Railsback approaches the stubborn rebellion of Private Prewitt with understated ease , but the often daft teleplay leaves him in a lurch whenever he's called on to get surly in a bordello or argue with his marriage-minded island squeeze ( sample dialogue : " You think I wanna take care of some snot-nosed little brat and work all day in the pineapple fields ? ! " ) . Veteran director Buzz Kulik must have felt the pressure to pull off some sort of TV miracle here , but his staging is uneven and cumbersome , most especially in the group scenes when there doesn't even appear to be a director's hand present . Moments of the presentation ( 278 minutes on video ) are pure pap , while the the color photography , locations , set designs , and costumes appear second rate .
Granny with a whip	Made-for-cable movie is appropriately quirky and darkly comic . Clues regarding a small-town sex murder leads a wise female police detective and her rookie partner ( Marg Helgenberger and Henry Thomas , both excellent ) to a twisted grandma who keeps changing her story . Off-putting details and a few nasty sequences made me wince , but the actors certainly don't look embarrassed , especially Ann-Margret as the granny with a whip ( she has a ball ! ) . The story threads are complex and engrossing , but I had trouble with the presentation , which borders on smut with a bigger budget . Some funny lines and memorable bits ( like A-M referring to her " bad ticker " ) , but overall just so-so .
She'll never live it down . . .	Raquel Welch's later , more solid acting performances will never erase our memories of this dinosaur-epic wherein she runs around in full cavegirl regalia . Then again , she may not want them to . Time has been surprisingly kind to this reworking of 1940's " One Million B . C . " The special effects are very good , the wilds of prehistoric nature are often excitingly , colorfully captured , and handsome John Richardson is charismatic as a caveman who , along with Welch , ditches his tribe to set out on a personal journey . Yes , it's Raquel in a fur-bikini that most people will remember , but a good time is had by all . from
Written in connect-the-dots fashion - - but saved by the performances . . .	Based on Joseph P . Lash's book " Helen & Teacher " , this television-made movie chronicles the continued struggles of a young adult Helen Keller , falling in love for the first time and persuaded to talk in public , ostensibly to spread her message of good will but also to help pay the household bills ! Living with her mother and a winded , ailing Anne Sullivan , Helen experiences the pangs of love and heartbreak over a well-meaning young man who is effectively scared off after a talk with teacher / caregiver Anne . Blythe Danner plays Anne Sullivan as a tough old bird with a lot of worldly wisdom , but who may have lost touch with her own femininity - - and Helen's as well . We never see Anne tell Helen about her private chat with the handsome suitor , we only see her placating her . Also , Keller's reluctance to speak in public is suddenly thwarted , and soon she's on the vaudeville circuit ( " Helen Keller Speaks ! " ) , appearing for a fee . The movie doesn't hang together as dramatic storytelling because the writer is always two steps ahead , pushing the narrative forward before we have a chance to be moved . Thankfully , Mare Winningham ( a year before she officially joined the Brat Pack ) does a wonderful job at conveying the sweetness and warmth in Helen's personality , her realistic fear of upsetting her mother , and her devotion to Sullivan . Otherwise , the overlit film is full of cheap , blurry sentiment , with a stodgy direction by Alan Gibson that is distinctly un-miraculous - - even the extras in the audience at the end look as if they'd rather be some place else . Winningham and Danner make it worth-watching , but the pedestrian handling nearly renders the results inconsequential .
" A snail on the edge of a straight razor . . . "	Francis Ford Coppola's vision of Vietnam , seeing the eccentricities inherent in the horrors of war and also the indescribable visual beauty running rampant through all the ugliness . Martin Sheen plays an Army Captain whose been traumatized by his first duty in Saigon ; but , left without a family and haunted by memories of the jungles , he is almost anxious to accept a new mission : track down and kill a renegade Green Beret Colonel , a poetic martinet who has apparently lost his mind , hiding out in the " heart of darkness " . Elephantine production quickly gets out of hand , and Sheen seems to struggle with his wobbly , mushy character ( he's rudderless throughout , acting mostly with his wide eyes ) . The locations and the rock music selections are all impeccable , stamping this time and place with a distinctive ( and artistic ) mark , but Coppola loses his identity somewhere along this unseemly journey . " Apocalypse Now " has the look of genius - - genius coming from a salty , veteran filmmaker - - but it could be a picture directed by any number of brazen auteurs . Some incredible supporting performances ( by Marlon Brando , as well as Robert Duvall , Sam Bottoms , Dennis Hopper - - who just evaporates - - and Frederic Forrest ) give the proceedings some muscle , but it's a wayward and occasionally woebegone film , throwing punches like a boxer in the dark . from
Decent family film with a suicidal title	Adaptation of E . L . Konigsberg's novel about bookish femme teenager and her younger brother running away from home to live in New York City's Metropolitan Museum . Unusual , wordy , but just slightly artificial adventure , featuring juvenile actors who aren't fully alert and a large majority of adult characters who are written as buffoons ( the kids ' father scolds the girl for reading " King Arthur " , citing psychological reasons ! ) . Film is ultimately saved by Ingrid Bergman in a wonderful supporting performance as a wealthy recluse who crosses paths with the youngsters . Low-budget picture does have a fast pace and is fairly inventive . It could've used a better title , however ( overseas it was dubbed " The Hideaways " ) . from
Misleading ads , but a strong , sincere TV-flick	The TV promos for this movie lead viewers to think they were going to see Raquel Welch in something sexy with plenty of action ( they touted her character as ' the town tease ' and showed the sequence where she holds off an unruly mob on her porch with a gun ) , but the plot touches on much , much more . Welch is indeed a small-town tramp whom nobody has respect for , but she learns to have respect for herself when she stands up against the best-loved teacher at her daughter's school and accuses him of being anti-Semitic . OK , this isn't what the video-box promotes , but if you can get over that , this is a pretty good flick . Raquel's acting is very solid here and the sequence where she takes the stand in court is exceptionally strong . The townspeople keep calling her dirty names , they attack her past , they terrify her daughter , but Welch sticks to her guns . It's a sincere characterization in a well-intentioned movie . Just don't expect any T & A .
Moving tale hard to damage . . .	Just-OK animated musical adapted from the beloved children's book by E . B . White . Barnyard pig is saved from slaughter by a quick-thinking spider . The kids of the piece no longer look rural as they did in the book's illustrations ( they're pinkish-white , chubby-cheeked and city-fied ) and the animals are thickly-drawn with big round eyes . Everyone looks well-fed , and really nothing is delicate or graceful except for the spider and her webs . The songs aren't too bad , but I did get tired of Henry Gibson's on-the-verge-of-tears line readings as Wilbur the Pig . Children should love it ; I did when I was eight or nine - - but today it looks a bit flat and inexpressive . Debbie Reynolds ( talking for Charlotte ) has a plaintive tear in her voice too , but she still gets to me . Get out the Kleenex . from
Predictably ornate and poised , less predictably lively and passionate . . .	Merchant-Ivory film-adaptation of E . M . Forster's novel involves two turn-of-the-century English families crossing paths throughout many years . Emma Thompson and Helena Bonham Carter are superb as excitable sisters who somehow allow an imposing , sinister widower ( Anthony Hopkins ) to come between them . Costume drama is long but not too lofty , and director James Ivory provides some unexpected zest in his storytelling . Thompson won a well-deserved Oscar for Best Actress ; Ruth Prawer Jhabvala also won for her screenplay . Flawed film may not catch on with every audience , though it has very strong moments , impeccable performances , and a lovely production ( the art direction capping the film's third Oscar ) . Worth-seeing . from
Terrific acting , infuriating plot	It takes a huge leap of faith to buy the pesky little plot device rattling around in " Being There " . Peter Sellers plays a grown man with the intelligence of a six or seven-year-old . He has worked all his life for a recluse who apparently took him in , but now he finds himself on his own and is soon befriended by an ultra-rich and powerful political couple . " Chauncey " has never ridden in a car , been to the doctor or the dentist . Everything he knows comes from television . . . and TV keeps butting into the framework of this fragile premise . Director Hal Ashby doesn't want us to miss anything , and every ironic point is underlined twice ( such as with clips of inane TV commercials and , in one irritating case , an animated video that looks like the Harlem Globetrotters ) . " Chauncey " is accepted much too easily into the home of Melvyn Douglas and his beaming , slightly brainless wife . All the " normal " adults in the film have to , at some point , become idiots in order for this premise to work . It's dumbed down in order to get to the payoff ( the whole movie is a build-up to that payoff ) and when it came , I was surprised but not exhilarated . " Being There " is a one-trick pony . from
Both tasteless and intriguing . . .	Pregnant woman in the present day comes to believe the fate of the world may actually hinge on her unborn baby . Religious propaganda with suspense-thriller aspirations is mostly overwrought , but has enough chutzpah and magnetic performances to nearly make it worthwhile . Demi Moore is very good in a leading role that , if played too broadly , might've lapsed into camp or cliché ; Moore is surrounded by frenzy , and yet she keeps a convincingly cool head and an open mind ( though the director undermines her appeal with a possible suicide sequence - - featuring Demi nude - - that is rather tacky ) . The movie is ultimately thought-provoking and entertaining , though the screenwriters fail to follow through with their own set-up , rewriting God's Word in the process ! from
Built from perceptions minted in 1950 . . .	Philip Seymour Hoffman is good - - if one-note - - as a drag queen in New York who makes nice with the neighbor he hates , security officer and now stroke-victim Robert De Niro . The antagonistic relationship between the two might've used a bit more smoothing over ( occasionally it feels like they're winging it , and De Niro's speech impediment tends to vary ) , but with two such fine actors running the scenes , there are compensations . De Niro himself looks fantastic , and he doesn't try to command the picture or any of his scenes with Hoffman ; he's such a team player that you automatically respond to him . A drug-czar subplot is old hat , and the dancehall girl-with-the-pure-heart stuff is an obvious cliché , it has all been done before . But the real problem with the movie is that times have changed and perceptions are different , and not all gays are drag-queens and not all drag-queens want to have sex-change operations . It's a moldy movie myth that the filmmakers don't seem to get ( perhaps they were brought up in an earlier era and believe the stereotype ? ) . The continual foul language is a strain to listen to , but the growing camaraderie between the two leads proves to have some interesting give-and-take . from
A beautiful presentation , yet somehow hollow at its core	Audrey Hepburn is predictably luminous as a young novice going through the rigors of religious life , giving up vanity , pleasurable vices and her own stubborn pride for a life of strict obedience . Playing a doctor's daughter whose strength lies in her study of tropical medicine , Hepburn's Sister Luke hopes to travel to the African Congo to work as a medical aide , but her arduous religious journey , beginning with six months in the convent near her home as a struggling postulate , seems a chore to her right from the beginning . This lengthy but engrossing adaptation of Kathryn Hulme's bestseller is impressive in its first two acts , however the film's final third ( in the Congo and later during wartime ) is disappointingly formulaic . We never grow close to Sister Luke , or even learn that much about her ; Hepburn herself is lovely , yet Sister Luke isn't especially feisty or complex - - she has resolve but not much drive , and little inner-joy . Her assignment working in the Brussels mental ward is harrowing , but the sequence itself is too short to add much subtext ( only that Sister Luke survives it ) , and the jump cut to the next phase of her journey is abrupt and puzzling ( was she transferred early or did many years pass ? ) . Director Fred Zinnemann has a playful moment or two - - such as Hepburn shaking confetti from her habit after boarding the ship - - but some of his touches are heavy-handed ( lots of closing doors to shut out the world ) and not all the story ramifications are made clear . The message at the end isn't profound either , although the picture's tony quality lends respect to Sister Luke and her decisions . " The Nun's Story " provides good , solid drama , but it isn't without some earthly faults . from
Satirical whimsy plays like romantic Kubrick ( with a touch of Fellini )	Villagers in a small town North of France in 1918 believe their homes will be blown up by the Germans and quickly evacuate ; Scottish soldier Alan Bates is " volunteered " to infiltrate , and inadvertently lets loose the patients in a lunatic asylum who got left behind . French-Italian co-production is a handsome little fairy tale with wartime satire and child-like whimsy , and director Philippe de Broca wastes no time setting the scene and getting right down to business . His approach is romantically silly and simple , but he's never simple-minded or pretentious . The filmmaker also uses Bates to his best advantage , keeping him running crazily like a patient himself , and he's careful not to overdose on Genevieve Bujold's youthful beauty ( she's around just when she's needed ) . Funny and sweet , the movie was something of a slow-rising cult hit , and was back in theaters after some ten years had passed . from
Palm trees , red sunsets , gator wrasslin ' , and Terry Moore covered in mud . . .	Theodore Pratt's book becomes somewhat uncertain comedy-drama-adventure taking place in 1890 Miami , with land owner / confidence man Robert Cummings spreading word amongst the residents that a railroad will soon be running through South Florida . Jerome Courtland is the mail courier for the U . S . government who doesn't buy Cummings ' story , especially after both men begin vying for the affections of runaway teen Terry Moore . Initially fluff-headed nonsense turns serious by the second half , with murderous scavengers trying to halt the progress , and swampland alligators giving everyone the bite . Cummings , talking as fast as Robert Preston in " The Music Man " , looks every inch the dapper scoundrel , yet the writing doesn't give him a whole lot to work with ( the script is plot-heavy without ironing out the characters ) . The overlit , occasionally gloppy color photography isn't helped by sequences that change from location shoots to studio replicas in the blink of an eye , and the wavering tone is disconcerting , yet director Earl McEvoy manages to keep everyone's spirits up and the picture is seldom dull . from
It's a " Beach Party " opus in togas . . .	In ancient Rome , a sloppy , lazy slave must unite his young master with a virginal courtesan just imported from Greece , but she has already been bought by a virile Captain . Richard Lester's New York / Jewish burlesque revue , a ' throw everything at the screen and see if it sticks ' slapstick comedy based on the hit Broadway show . With Nicolas Roeg as his cinematographer , Lester ( aided by the wizardry of his editors ) stages one breathless , breakneck scene after another , not attempting to top himself with each one but rather trying for any laugh he can buy . The cast of old pros mug to the camera shamelessly , slinging those wisecracks home with gusto , but the film isn't a gut-buster . It works intermittently and has some nice musical sketches ( and the Madrid locations were a fine visual choice ) , but the jokes don't connect with the audience in a human way . It's just a series of boffo vaudeville routines , some of which get hammered home and others that are handled gingerly , making a lilting comedic impression . from
It takes awhile to get its bearings , becomes a moving human tragedy . . .	Well-produced , well-acted drama about a miserable alcoholic hoping to drink himself to death and the Las Vegas prostitute who tries to be his guardian angel . Opening moments with Nicolas Cage losing his job and Elisabeth Shue running afoul of her pimp are painfully under-directed . When he has no one to ground him , Cage can be a rambling , ramshackle boor ( even doing a little shimmy in the supermarket aisle , he is less a character than Nicolas Cage just cutting up ) . Once the pimp is out of the way , Shue's character takes on some shadings , and she's very moving in the scene at the desert motel , picking up glass with the manager . There are some fancy directorial flourishes and odd , half-comic bits , but by the second hour the pieces start falling into place . Cage gets to do some great , high-wire dramatic acting ( which won him the Oscar ) and " Leaving Las Vegas " eventually gets to be the moving human drama it initially aspired to be - - it just takes some time to find its niche . from
Suicidal title , but not a bad flick . . .	Cliff Robertson as a wily barnstormer in the 1920s who makes his airplane his occupation . With a story by a young Steven Spielberg , " Ace Eli " is predictably nostalgic but not uninteresting . It has some sentiment , which is quickly evened out with grit , and a good performance by child actor Eric Shea ( aside from his turn as the brainiac in " The Poseidon Adventure " , this is Shea's shining moment ) . Robertson doesn't quite convince as a stud in the skies simply because he's so laconic as an actor ; Robertson seems to love planes , but there's no glee in the man as a performer . Had Eli been played as a devilish old rascal , there might be something to the relationship between the flier and the kid , but Robertson isn't into buddyisms ( he's not about to play the comic foil , nor is he willing to be a cut-up ) . The women are a different matter : Pamela Franklin gets most of the screen-time as a flapper , yet she's curt and cold ; Bernadette Peters , as a flooze , is much preferable because she's anxious to cut through the baloney . The flying sequences are very good , but the director loses his impetus on the ground , and his details are all wrong ( after seeing Robertson apparently getting sick from drinking at a party , Franklin allows him to kiss her on the mouth in a barn - - surely not a fancy flapper with a brand new set of wheels ! ) . The poor reception the picture received must have bruised Spielberg ( that and the release of the not dissimilar " Paper Moon " the same year ) . But , aside from some faults , it's an engaging , minor item . from
A platonic love affair amongst potheads . . .	Seth Rogen is so affable and ingratiating on-screen that , even when he's trying to come off as tough or mean-spirited , you can sense the Jewish teddy bear underneath ( he could be the young , screw-up son of Albert Brooks , though neurotic in a more easy-going way ) . Rogen plays a pot-smoking process server who witnesses a gang hit , giving his identity away when he throws his roach out the window - - filled with Pineapple Express , a rare hybrid weed via Canada and Hawaii ! This lumpy comedy hits a pothole every now and then , and could've stood some judicious editing ( especially during a night scene in the woods , which seems to go on forever ) . Still , for every fumble there's a funny recovery , either with a sight-gag , some wild action , or clever bits of dialogue ( " Oh man , talk radio ! It's so boring . . . your car committed suicide ! ) . The second-half of " Express " surprisingly turns into a rough-and-tumble action flick ( with a cartoony undermining ) , and although this development is well-handled , the sweetly stoned comic nuances are nearly lost . Yet , once again , there's a great pick-me-up finish to save it , while Seth Rogen and James Franco prove to be utterly amicable ordinary heroes . Rogen in particular is enjoyably flexible and grounded as an actor - - you believe everything he says . This may be a new kind of Method acting . from
A musician's love and obsession for his music . . . filtered through the standard bio-pic clichés	Thinly-disguised movie biography of trumpet-player Bix Beiderbecke , with the standard rags-to-riches and romance clichés intact . Kirk Douglas is well-cast in the starring role , falling for society shark Lauren Bacall , who quickly drains him of his focus and inspiration until he realizes a need to return to his roots . Band-singer Doris Day is there for him , but she's made to be so wholesome she's akin to Douglas ' kid sister . The details don't add up , but the picture does look good and it isn't cloying . Day gets to sing in her bright , clear voice , and the music is pretty fantastic , yet the film is compromised by the Hollywood gloss , tidying up the sordid details in Beiderbecke's story to make it more palatable for skittish audiences circa 1950 . from
" You've never seen ' Casablanca ' , we have nothing in common . . . "	Producer Ross Hunter turns to television with this sudsy , but rich and rewarding dramatic vehicle for " Laverne & Shirley " star Cindy Williams . Williams plays put-upon Regina Malloy , whose best friend is her radio at night , growing up and finally finding independence and love with a wealthy lawyer , despite the fact the young couple are from opposite sides of town and they appear to have nothing in common . Hunter's glossy touch looked a bit out of place in cynical 1978 , but it's a fine " woman's picture " , with plenty of family conflict and romantic angst . Williams does yet another fine acting job - - she is easily one of the most underrated actresses of the 1970s . Good show !
Lovely passages ( and lovely Mills and McShane ) give it some emotional weight . . .	Sometimes lilting , sometimes puttering British film set in a small , rural village has a precocious lass in her late teens attracting the not-unwanted attentions of a swarthy lad from a nearby gypsy camp ; when the girl is reminded of a childhood trauma she had blocked out , she runs off in a panic until the outsiders come to her rescue . Romantic drama does meander and features too much hysteria in the second-half , but there are fine passages of dialogue ( and great character names like ' Brydie White ' ) , though the direction by celebrated actor John Mills isn't especially pointed . Mills doesn't have a superlative director's attentive eyes or ears , nor is he helped by the flaccid editing which allows the film's midsection to ramble . Still , the picture has a dreamy ambiance which is rather enveloping , and also a sweet , unforced lead performance by Mills ' real-life daughter , Hayley Mills . Hayley cuts back a bit on her penchant for brashness , and she looks and sounds lovely . The same can be said for gypsy Ian McShane , who helps bring out a softer side to Hayley which her popular movies for Walt Disney didn't always showcase . A very unusual little tale , told with careful simplicity and quaintness . from
Epic-scale adventure drama or history lesson ?	Bumpy , overlong drama does have magnetic sequences that stay with you . New England reverend ( Max von Sydow , who never elicits our interest or compassion ) sails to the Hawaiian islands with his wife in 1820 to introduce the natives to Christianity . Soapy plot taken from James A . Michener's book tries to cram too many years into 170 minutes of screen-time . The task of adapting the mammoth bestseller was probably a bad idea right from the start , and the picture is certainly a botch , but I did enjoy Julie Andrews as von Sydow's wife and the early scenes have atmosphere and tension . But Max von Sydow is a real problem : he's so overly-pious he's pathetic , which is probably not the effect hoped for . Look fast for real-life Hawaiian resident Bette Midler on the Eastern ship as it arrives to the island . from
Affable teaming of two high-powered stars , though better things were in store . . .	First screen-teaming of Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn peaks too early , and unconscionably trades in its salty wit for silly screwball laughs in the final reel , but fans of both stars should have a good time . A gruff columnist and a political writer meet and soon marry , but her hectic schedule puts an immediate crimp in the romance department . Though I'm sure the characters were eventually tailored for the leads , the charisma comes directly from Tracy and Hepburn the actors - - not really from the couple they're portraying . The jocular tone of the picture seems a little off and , in the final stretch when Kate decides to be wife-like and cook breakfast , the movie turns into a cartoon put-down of emancipated women ( although the staging of her kitchen calamities is still pretty funny ) . Some fine scenes , but better movies were just around the corner . from
Tongue-in-cheek adventures , appealing to the kid in all of us . . .	In its day , " Superman " was a big commercial package headlined with name players and state-of-the-art special effects which promised to be amazing - - the picture really couldn't miss . Even the lengthy opening-credits sequence is designed to bowl viewers over ( although it is exhausting , with a faint overlay of " Star Wars " coating the mix ) . An unknown at the time , Christopher Reeve was an ideal candidate to take on the comic-book superhero , spared as an infant from the horrors of his dying planet , Krypton , and raised by a childless farm couple on Earth . The prologue ( with Marlon Brando as Superman's father , Jor-El ) and the baby's exodus are beautifully filmed but somewhat obscure ( the three convicts seen at the beginning would return for " Superman II " in 1980 ) . Things pick up once Clark Kent goes to work at the Daily Planet and teams with wily Lois Lane ( the wonderful Margot Kidder ) , who falls in love with Clark's cape-and-tights wearing alter-ego . The villains of the piece ( Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor , Valerine Perrine and Ned Beatty as his cohorts ) are a charmingly ruthless trio , though by the time they put their world-domination scheme into plan , the movie is starting to feel a bit elephantine . A disappointing final act , inflated with hectic effects and ideas , nearly renders the final results callow . The film pleases in a great many areas , but everyone seemed to agree the immediate sequel was much the livelier . from
Seasoned pros compensate for silly script . . .	Chicago cop Burt Reynolds is suspended after a sting operation goes terribly wrong ; he turns in his badge but finds work playing bodyguard to hooker Liza Minnelli , who was a witness to the massacre that got Reynolds in hot water . Burt seems to be suffering from Chronic Fatigue - - he's barely present - - however vivacious Liza ( too old really to be playing prostitutes ) does manage to greatly elevate this crime-drama , although the solid technical aspects , fine supporting cast and gritty locales are also quite good . While it combines corny comedic asides , a very odd villain , and jarring bursts of violence , " Rent-a-Cop " is pretty much a mess , and professional critics snubbed it , yet it is entertaining enough and the two stars share some great chemistry ( even with Burt so sleepy ) . from
Scruffy , frequently engaging oddity . . .	George Segal ( on a roll at this period in his career ) gives his usual solid , likable performance as a Beverly Hills divorce lawyer who soon finds himself divorced as well - - from working-girl Susan Anspach ; he quickly tries winning her back , despite the fact she has taken up with a hippie musician ( Kris Kristofferson ) . Paul Mazursky wrote and directed this quirky comedy-drama about love and heartbreak , and he only strikes some sour notes in the last portion of the plot ( which is saddled with an ending that just doesn't take off ) . Otherwise , a well-cast , well-written picture for grown-ups , a hidden gem . Bruce Surtees ' cinematography is very expressive , supporting performances by Kristofferson and Marsha Mason are first-rate . Worth finding ! from
Former detective is working on a case . . . of scotch !	Comically-sparring married couple Nick and Nora Charles manage to solve a murder mystery while retaining their upper-crust charm and sophisticated etiquette . Hugely popular bit of screwball hasn't dated too badly , with stars William Powell and Myrna Loy very loose and charismatic . Followed by five sequels , this mixture of slapstick and suspense nearly loses its balance , yet the screenplay ( by Albert Hackett and Frances Goodrich , from Dashiell Hammett's book ) manages to keep it all on an even-keel . Powell , in particular , is well-attuned to the changing rhythms of the handling and easily steals his scenes . from
Very strange . . . and yet very lovely	Surreal , mercurial drama from West Germany has troubled-yet-complacent Marianne Sägebrecht leaving a bad marriage and coming across an eccentric café in the California desert . Oddball picture gets off on the wrong foot , with too much shouting and general hysteria , but those who stick with it will be rewarded by what follows . The sneaky film captures the viewer unawares with its sideways message of love and friendship , eventually becoming a rather touching , lovely fantasy about human bonds . The unusual cast , including CCH Pounder , Christine Kaufman and - - surprise ! - - Jack Palance , does strong work , though it is Sägebrecht's beautiful performance which holds the film together . Followed by a far-inferior television sitcom . from
Taut criminal exploits and hasty judgments amongst the 16th Precinct . . .	Ben Hecht adapted William L . Stuart's book about a troubled New York police detective - - recently called on the carpet by his superior for roughing up too many suspects - - interrogating a shady character in the man's apartment , getting into a physical altercation and accidentally killing him . In the lead , drip-dry Dana Andrews doesn't look like the hair-trigger-temper sort , but he acquits himself well with this fascinating role , determined to cover up his mistake though inadvertently leaving the door open for an innocent taxi driver to be accused of murder ! Karl Malden is also extremely good as the new police lieutenant on the beat , and his rush to judgment against the working stiff is unsettling ( it gives one the feeling that many cases are still " solved " in this way ) ; Gene Tierney , Andrews ' " Laura " co-star , is perfect as the new suspect's daughter , whom Andrews is quickly falling for , but the finale is joyless and square . I guess the morals of the time dictated the picture HAD to end on this note , but seen today it plays like Hollywood preening . from
Hoodoo in the Bayou . . .	Pretty nurse down in Louisiana's Bayou Country ( via Hoboken ! ) accepts job as caregiver to an elderly stroke victim ; the patient lives in a spooky Gothic manor with his lifetime beloved , a nervous woman who has very strange beliefs regarding the history of the house and the brother and sister who used to occupy it . Director Iain Softley , working from an outlandish yet satisfying screenplay by Ehren Kruger , creates an amusingly frightful atmosphere thick with supernatural happenings . The repetitious false-scares , red herrings , and numerous Mount Rushmore-like close-ups of star Kate Hudson's worried face render the film strictly a popcorn thriller , yet the twisting plot has some delicious bends ( not the least of which is a decadently evil finale ) . The performances by Hudson , Gena Rowlands , and Peter Sarsgaard are predictably solid , and the backwater locale is unusual and intriguing . This is most likely the only thriller in history to use " Iko , Iko " by The Dixie Cups as a story diversion , though the picture certainly makes its audience think twice about the power of unusual beliefs . . . where does one purchase brick dust , anyhow ? from
Liberally splashed with lavish trimmings . . . some may fall for it	Second version of the Fannie Hurst book ( previously filmed in 1934 ) is a gloss-heavy production which takes actress Lana Turner from penniless single mom to lavishly-coiffed and gowned movie star ; Sandra Dee plays her bitter , neglected daughter and John Gavin is Lana's eternal best friend . Sub-plot with maid Juanita Moore and her troubles with rebellious daughter Susan Kohner ( a black girl trying to pass for white ) provides the emotional backbone of the story , and both ladies do superlative work . Director Douglas Sirk's over-the-top send-off for one stricken character is designed to bring the house down - - though for viewers who have invested their all in these sudsy proceedings , that capper truly carries some memorable weight . Lana looks great , though her melodramatic suffering is rather plastic . The old-fashioned plot is so full of hot air it becomes inflated with self-importance , while the screenplay seems stretched out to an inordinate length . from
Features famous " Get Happy " number . . . and lots of padding	Theater people invade Judy Garland's farm ; they want to put on a show in her barn , but will she let her guard down long enough to join them on stage ? Since the picture opens with Garland in a musical sequence ( performing " If You Feel Like Singing " , this film's title overseas ) and the information is dropped early on that her property is in dire straits financially , the answer ( and the entire plot ) is fairly obvious . Some of the numbers are wonderful , particularly the justifiably famous " Get Happy " show-stopper , but several just pad the running-time and the screenplay is second-hand stuff . Gene Kelly does an ingenious bit dancing with a newspaper , but his dumb yokel act with Phil Silvers is excruciating , as is their pseudo-gospel number " Dig For Your Dinner " . from
Charming leads in frantic , noisy romantic fantasy	Hugh Jackman , the Duke of Albany in 1876 , arrives in modern day New York City through a portal in time ( via the East River ! ) ; he meets working girl Meg Ryan , who doesn't buy his amazing story ( she doesn't even take the time to listen to him ) . For the first full hour , " Kate & Leopold " is nothing but a witless melange of noise and story contrivances . After the plot pieces are sloppily set up , however , the charisma of stars Ryan and Jackman take over and almost transcend the fish-out-of-water silliness . Director James Mangold , who also co-wrote the screenplay , turns out to be a rather surprising fan of the old-fashioned romantic comedy ( as well as time-travel stories ) ; he follows a familiar dot-to-dot pattern that - - depending on your mood - - is either frustrating or warmly reassuring . Either way , the results are not particularly genuine , but the stars do give it a boost . from
Fortunes are gained and reversed with help from a ' cursed ' man's top-coat . . .	In New York , a man's dress coat , supposedly cursed by a disgruntled tailor , changes the lives of those who come in contact with it . They are : Charles Boyer as a suave actor wooing married Rita Hayworth , Henry Fonda as a nerd who stops Ginger Rogers from marrying skirt-chaser Cesar Romero , Charles Laughton as an aspiring musician , Edward G . Robinson as an unemployed alcoholic about to attend his class reunion , and Paul Robeson and Ethel Waters as poor black farmers ( another story starring W . C . Fields was trimmed in 1942 but later became a video edition bonus - - it adds nothing ) . Short stories told mostly in expert fashion , though some are obviously better than others . Fonda and Rogers are such an odd twosome that the second episode is probably the weakest ; the exceptional performances by Laughton and Robinson make those installments the strongest . However , the striking finale , complete with heavenly light and hallelujah chorus , looks so different from the rest ( and is filmed like a mini-epic ) that it appears to be a reel from another movie altogether . Overall , quite an entertaining piece for the actors , particularly Robinson - - who has never before been so vulnerable on-screen , the ultimate underdog . from
Familiar , but not bad	Agnes Newton Keith's memoir about prisoners-of-war during WWII becomes emotional , if somewhat overly-familiar saga starring Claudette Colbert as a female writer who , along with her young son , is taken from Borneo into a prison camp run by the Japanese in 1942 . Director Jean Negulesco always worked exceptionally well with actresses , and Colbert excels here in a meaty role . The horrors and insanity of the war are vividly-captured , though the Japanese seem to be a formidable , yet one-dimensional nemeses ( to the point that one wonders why it took so long to overtake them and win out this story ) . There are much better POW dramas from this era , however " Three Came Home " is a fairly good one , with gripping and heartfelt passages . from
Chic , but stone-cold Ann-Margret romp	An American fashion-buyer is sent to Paris on assignment and immediately gets on the wrong side of a major French designer . Soon though , she almost inadvertently manages to charm him , as well as two other men . What is Ann-Margret doing to drive all these eligible bachelors crazy ? As far as we in the audience can see : nothing . Yes , she gets to dance a little and sing a pretty ditty on the docks , but the character is haphazardly written . One minute she's a firebrand , the next she's icy , almost frigid . Judging from her teasing and emotional schizophrenia , it's unlikely that suave Louis Jourdan would even give her the time of day .
Smart satire eventually gives way to galumphing slapstick . . .	The first 30 minutes or so of " For Pete's Sake " are amusingly on-target : Brooklyn housewife Barbra Streisand drops her husband off at work on their motorcycle and then pops a wheelie ; she proceeds to forge a battle of the bills with the grocery store cashier , the insurance company , the banker , and the telephone company exec ( Anne Ramsey , pre - " Throw Momma From The Train " ) . All this time , Streisand is in terrific comedic form , her expressions more and more incredulous . A dinner with her husband's relatives is equally funny , but " Pete " starts to give out somewhere after this . Barbra can't pay back loan sharks and has to work as a prostitute , a bomb deliverer and a cattle rustler . This last job gives the movie its big slapstick scene , which was a groaner even in 1974 . Clearly a rip-off of Streisand's " What's Up , Doc ? " , it features a stampede of cows down the Columbia backlot accompanied by some of the silliest " country " music I've ever heard . If the filmmakers had kept the movie on a grounded level - - and kept Streisand as the perfect Everywoman - - this might have been a dead-on satire of the ailing economy . As it is , it's passable fluff . from
Artificial sentiment and brash , theatrical humor	Despite lots of pep from Bette Midler , " Beaches " is a wan variation on those female-buddy pictures from the 1940s ( " Dark Victory " in particular ) . It strives to create a tearjerking scenario , yet the earnest last act is hard to take seriously since the film hasn't an honest bone in its body . The infrequent songs ( including the hit " The Wind Beneath My Wings " ) are an unbroken string of oldies ( one song is lifted from 1941's " Dumbo " ! ) . I didn't for one second believe Midler and puffy-lipped Barbara Hershey were old friends / rivals , and the whole musty enterprise is a little cockeyed ( check out Midler's musical number " The Factory " with all those grotesque masks ! ) . The camera-work is continually uncertain , the verbal fights are awkward or creaky , the static relationships half-realized at best . It isn't even a good-looking movie , and it jumps around in fits and starts . " Beaches " is dry-docked . from
Brief Woody Allen treatise about choices , chances , regret and hope . . .	Sedate and as fleeting as a paperback novel ( despite its penchant for high-toned literacy ) , Woody Allen's " Another Woman " is a seemingly deeply-felt sonata about a 50-ish female writer in New York City who comes to the realization her current state of upscaled well-being is a sham . Allen excels in sequences of chatty couples interacting , with the dynamics of two sparking something unintended ; he also loves delving into the romantic complications between teacher and student , usually with infidelity a key ingredient , and all of those aspects work their way into this story , which has a moral , grounded center despite the cheating adults ( even a younger teen gets a guilty moment , having sex in a forbidden place , but of course she feels cheap afterward ! ) . Allen loves a contradiction as well as any writer , but his main character ( played stunningly by Gena Rowlands , who also narrates ) is living in the subconscious , and is forced into continually being enlightened . This is handled quite well ( with dreamy interludes and flashbacks to childhood ) , but this narrative actually should be more compelling ; instead , it's gossamer drama , with Bergman or Chekov overtures . A last-act fling between Rowlands ' husband and a friend is disappointing , with Woody falling back on the cliché ( couldn't Rowlands leave her sexless marriage on the basis of boredom alone ? ) . As a director , Woody is very careful and strict with his actors , and Gene Hackman as a novelist surprises the most ( his harsh attempt at seducing Rowlands is straightforward and yet almost neurotic - - and you can see the anguish and passion on his face ) ; Martha Plimpton continues to be far too eager , but Rowlands , Ian Holm , Betty Buckley , Frances Conroy , and Sandy Dennis have some incredible moments . As the " other woman " , whose life parallels Gena's , Mia Farrow has very little on-screen time but her plaintive voice and sensitive face are just right for this brief role . A fine drama about choices and regrets ; I'm not sure just how deeply a man like Woody Allen can empathize with a lady in her 50's trying to stay afloat in a loveless life , but there are several scenes here that really dig below the placid surface . from
Likable , if derivative comedy	Thin , but enjoyable romp involving a young , unmarried Jewish woman and her married family and friends - - all of whom seem to be miserable and cheating on each other . Ersatz Woody Allen , as it aspires to be , but not quite on the level of , say , " Hannah and Her Sisters " . Odd to see Mia Farrow here ( playing Sarah Jessica Parker's mother ) , as this is basically a retread of the work she was doing with Allen earlier in the decade . Parker is infectious , rattling off the sometimes-precious lines with professional aplomb , supporting cast is quite colorful , yet this tale doesn't have much of a point , and as a film it has no motivation beyond aping Allen . from
Self-consciously bemused and droll Alfred Hitchcock . . .	Alfred Hitchcock and writer Thornton Wilder attempt to expose the underside of Americana ( a favorite Hitchcock theme ) , but " Shadow of a Doubt " is self-consciously dry and droll . Joseph Cotten is very good as malevolent relative to middle-class California family who pays them a surprise visit and brings mystery into their household . Before his first night is over , he's already acting strange , tearing up Dad's newspaper and then snatching it away from too-smart Teresa Wright ( playing teenage detective , but not looking very happy about it ) . The film's atmosphere and scenario are well-captured , but the plot starts to bog down ( if not unravel ) when two interviewers want to quiz the family about their lives ; this would be suspicious in any era , and yet it leads to nothing . " Shadow " is a puzzling drama-lite with danger lurking just outside the center ; but when the reality of the situation comes apart , the circumstances are no longer so absorbing . from
Sophia Loren comes to Hollywood . . . results are mixed	After a couple of studio films shot on location , Italian actress and sex symbol Sophia Loren finally made it onto Hollywood soil for this uneven , uncertain melodrama adapted from Eugene O'Neill's controversial play . A tyrannical New England farmer ( Burl Ives ) , who apparently worked his past two wives to death , brings home a new wife to meet his sons - - two of whom take off for California and the third ( Anthony Perkins ) who stays and eventually falls in love with the Mrs . The performers seem to be at a mismatch with this very strange material ; though they try hard , the heavy prose and illogical situations would be enough to defeat anybody . The character motivations aren't always clear , not helped by the narrative which , at a crucial point , jumps ahead in time and nearly alienates the audience . Ives gives a full-throttle , blustery-old-windbag performance which infuses the scenario with a prickly tension ( and the screenplay surprisingly never scores points against him ) , but glinty-eyed Loren is a bit out of her depth . Still , she survives the absurd final reel with her dignity intact , while the picture ends on such a dour note that the overall impression is one of supreme dissatisfaction . Daniel L . Fapp won an Oscar nomination for his handsome ( if overlit ) photography ; Delbert Mann directed in an awkward and stagy fashion . from
Friendships and self-sacrifice . . .	Chatty , entertaining and well-acted drama with comedic trimmings has lifelong friends Bette Davis and Miriam Hopkins both becoming writers : Davis , the literary authoress who charms the critics but can't score a bestseller ; Hopkins , the fluttery , popular novelist of romantic fiction . Director Vincent Sherman does a good job at bringing this all to a boil , and yet there's too much breathless soap opera packed into the last act ( the fault of the screenwriters , working from a play ) and it eventually becomes fatiguing . Still , Hopkins does a high-wire act with her performance that is quite nimble ( she's pitched very high but is never grating ) . Davis starts off very fresh and natural , but as her character ages and becomes glamorously middle-aged , Bette's affectations and mannerisms tread a self-parody ; she's good throughout the film , yet one longs for more of that earthy quality she displays in the film's first hour . A fine " woman's picture " nevertheless , with some unusually good dialogue and well-paced sequences . from
Hollywood grit . . . but on that level , well-done	Both Tony Curtis and Sidney Poitier are very good as escaped racist convicts - - chained together by one wrist - - attempting to allude Southern police and their bloodhounds not far behind . Still , director Stanley Kramer's hot-blooded , hot-headed film stirs controversy with an awfully heavy hand . Kramer isn't interested in subtleties or details ; he plows ahead , full of angry , pumped-up steam , and the two brawling characters ( seen sometimes as two silly children ) each take turns spouting off . The cliché of the lonely divorcée living on a lonely patch of land with her young ' un is played for high drama , but it lapses into camp . Still , the unspoken loyalty between the men is captured vividly ( thanks to the performances ) and the movie does pack a punch , even if its redneck / lynch mob / racially heated scenario feels Hollywoodized - - with do-gooder intentions - - and the theme of brotherhood is hammered home as if this were an educational film . from
Solemn picture lays the speechifying on rather heavily . . .	William A . Wellman's earnest film from Walter Van Tilburg Clark's book is more somber than moving , though it does have a good central performance by Henry Fonda , here playing a righteous man attempting to stop a small town lynch mob from acting as judge and jury with the lives of three men fingered for a murder . These unfortunate suspects don't get much of a break from the bloodthirsty group on hand - - nor do they get one from this screenplay . In order to let star Fonda have the strongest scene , one of the men writes down his feelings in a letter , which Fonda's Gil Carter reads aloud . It would be a triumphant moment for any actor ; however , since we never get to know the convicted trio , the immediacy ( and perhaps the intensity ) of the emotional situation remains closed off from us ( the sequence seems designed more toward showing us what a good-hearted guy Carter is rather than underlining the evils of a mob frenzy ) . Considered heady stuff in 1943 , the picture is less compelling today , with the stagy production design giving the picture a ( perhaps deliberate ) artificial appearance . Jane Darwell is hissable in a supporting role ( a complete turn-about from her work in " The Grapes of Wrath " ) , but Dana Andrews and Anthony Quinn are under-used . Wellman's direction is fluid yet unexciting . from
Demanding , intriguing enigma doesn't meet you halfway . . .	David Hemmings plays a tireless , exacting fashion photographer in London who accidentally takes pictures of a murder ; he fleetingly gets to know a woman involved in the killing but can't break through her alienation ( or , indeed , anyone else's ) . Dazzling piece of colorful eye-candy has a careful , studied pace and a lot of desperate , moody characters . Unfortunately , the last forty-five minutes or so drops off sharply , what with mimes in the park and The Yardbirds showing up for a concert . Handsome film , sort of a cinematic enigma , will not please everyone , although swinging audiences from the 1960's really tapped into the stylish , chic confusion and isolation . from
After fresh opening , it becomes yet another struggle-of-the-sexes comedy-lite	Sports manager Spencer Tracy sees a rough jewel in female athlete Katharine Hepburn - - but her golf and tennis games get thrown off whenever her overpowering beau comes around . Begins very smartly , with Hepburn feisty , funny and very convincing on the golf course and the tennis court . Unfortunately , the script changes gears too soon while attempting to match up the Hepburn and Tracy characters romantically , becoming yet another of their sex-battles centering on egos and male / female relationships . With a great supporting cast ( the wonderful Aldo Ray , Jim Backus , Charles Bronson , and even Chuck Conners ) , this might've been hugely entertaining . As it is , a passable time-filler , but not an important film for either of the two stars . from
Its moral high-ground is somewhat askew . . .	Jodie Foster sears the screen as a gang-rape victim , but no director has yet figured out how to film a rape sequence without it coming across as sensational or titillating to some pervy audiences . This assault in a bar , complimented with flashing pinball machine lights and a hunky attacker's thrusting rear-end , is prettied up for no apparent reason , and the other attackers and various on-lookers don't ring true . Kelly McGillis , playing the prosecutor who brings the rape's ringleaders to trial , is another problem : harried , breathy and fake-dramatic , McGillis doesn't so much create a character as she does reinforce a legal stereotype . Foster holds this one together with her Oscar-winning performance and , although I didn't find her a particularly convincing drunk , she pulls off the trampy side of her character admirably well and really gets into the rage of Sarah Tobias . The direction is wobbly and keeps focusing on things that don't matter ( like McGillis ' strained relationship with her co-workers , who seem to do little but walk up and down the office aisles ) . The movie wants to pack a powerful punch ( and ends with rape statistics that are sobering if unnecessary ) . However , if one viewer out there secretly finds the rape sequence ' hot ' instead of disturbing , this picture fails to do its job . from
Blue Screen effects , straight ahead !	Every time " Fantastic Voyage " comes on TV , I turn it on expecting it to be better . Better than what ? The standard sci-fi's of the day , the Irwin Allen TV shows . It's about on that par . There's the usual grueling technical preliminaries , the discussion over whether or not to take A GIRL along ( never mind that she's a scientist ) , the setting up of the cardboard characters - - with a madman among them ( this is among the hoariest of clichés , going back to Hitchcock's " Lifeboat " - - why do we need a psycho aboard ship ? Isn't the premise about microscopic scientists venturing forth into a human body enough ? ) . I did love the special effects , although the constant use of back-projection is hokey now ( some professional critics said it was hokey then ! ) and I have no idea why the actors are all so stiff and unappealing . I guess with a $5-million-or-more budget on the line , 20th Century-Fox couldn't ante up the extra cash for frivolity . from
Attempts to turn its jingoistic scenario into a suspense drama . . . and nearly succeeds !	Dana Andrews is quite congenial playing a former Army Captain , returning to Washington , D . C . after being held two years in a Chinese prison camp , discovering that the public relations firm he and his business partner founded has been sold to a reprehensible lout who peddles in prejudice and poison . Plainly-drawn , low-budget melodrama with then-topical undercurrents of Communism and anti-semitism does have an interesting group of characters , but it could stand a bit of levity to lighten its load . There's an early scene in a plane with Andrews and a talkative scientist that is never fully explained , and the one main female character ( a secretary played by the curious Marilee Earle ) is disheartening - - she's there to lend a hand and feign a romance , yet the role itself is an unsurprising cliché . Director Jacques Tourneur is crafty at times , but mostly heavy-handed ; he sets up a heated finale , but then muffs it with square-jawed heroics and patriotic gestures . More mystery and gloss was required . from
" Tooby ooby wala / nooby aba naba / early morning singing song . . . "	Michael Butler's Broadway musical " Hair " from 1967 was an unqualified success which spawned pop-oriented hit singles from its score . Milos Forman's movie version was critically-acclaimed ( Roger Ebert named it the best film of the year ) , but it looked out of place in 1979 . With disco fading and punk rock and New Wave moving in , not many moviegoers were interested in harking back to " The Age of Aquarius " . A pity , since Forman's movie shows that there was something deeper and more meaningful to the show than what was initially publicized ( the hippies , the nudity , etc . ) . A straight-arrow on his way into the Army is befriended by a gang of free-living , free-loving young people ; their leader , a rebellious , incredulous sort who doesn't understand the purpose of ( or need for ) authority , tries to open his new friend's mind . Forman doesn't shape individual scenes to get an impact - - he's always looking at the big picture . This approach backfires in regards to some of the musical numbers , which either aren't well edited ( " Hair " ) , feel incongruous ( " Black Boys / White Boys " ) , or don't seem to have a great deal of relevancy ( " Walking in Space " ) . Screenwriter Michael Weller occasionally pushes everyone aside in order to invent new dramatic situations , which leaves the middle portion of the film feeling a little draggy . Still , the cast ( albeit a much older group of actors than one might hope for ) is solid , and the film's art direction is uncannily accurate . The LSD / wedding-fantasy sequence misfires , and the anti-war performance piece held near the Washington Monument fails to make much of an impression . Yet the tricky irony of the finale is rather well-done , and when a musical moment is welcomed ( such as " Good Morning Starshine " ) , it can work brilliantly . from
Handsome , carefully crafted with standout performances . . .	Well-made and mounted chronicle of the relationship between opera composers Mozart and Salieri , the latter a court-appointed Vienna composer who simply could not keep up with the effortless showmanship of his prime competition . Peter Shaffer adapted his own celebrated play and Milos Forman helmed the smooth direction ( both won Oscars ) , but neither is very generous on showing us the creative process behind the music . There's far more love for the classical pieces on display here than actual insight into how the music was created . F . Murray Abraham is deliciously dark as Salieri and won the Oscar for Best Actor ; Tom Hulce as jolly Mozart is uneven , occasionally forced or strained ; supporting cast , too , is variable . Winner of eight Oscars in all , including Best Picture . from
World atrocities used as a backdrop for slick suspense	Veteran director Sydney Pollack proves he's still up to par with this efficient melodrama , even though the political issues the film raises are too grandiose for an automated star vehicle-cum-thriller such as this . Nicole Kidman , heavily accented , plays an in-demand linguist raised in Johannesburg and now employed with the United Nations as an interpreter who is picked to translate for a controversial African leader upon his visit to New York ; she's immediately investigated by the U . S . Secret Service , who are suspicious of her record of political activism in Africa . Kidman and Sean Penn do well with this convoluted material , which mixes stakeout dramatics and intimate character study with terrorist action . Results , however , are occasionally unsatisfactory , though Pollack works hard to convince us his heart is in the right place . One gets the queasy feeling this is a slick Hollywood product cautious of digging too deeply into foreign affairs ( while a film such as that might be terribly dull , at least it would give the terrorist attacks and assassination attempts more of a concrete foundation ) . " The Interpreter " is tasteful and without much color ( Catherine Keener provides the only dry humor as Penn's partner ) ; sadly , it isn't quite the provocative chess match between opposing political sides that one might hope it'll be . Ultimately , it has one eye fixed on the box-office . from
Reasonably sophisticated , well-acted serious-comedy	George Cukor-directed comedy-drama , written by the estimable team of Ruth Gordon and Garson Kanin , features Judy Holliday and Aldo Ray as a married couple on the rocks , explaining to a divorce court judge when , how , and why they fell out of love . Initially , the pairing of the leads ( Ray in his debut ) doesn't quite convince , but Cukor does a fine job at building up a rapport between these two which is pretty convincing by the picture's midway point . Still , for a film touted as being an honest , daring look at modern marriage , the set-up seems suspiciously safe and glossy - - with the married couple sleeping in separate beds ! There aren't many surprises in the screenplay , though there are witty lines in the fast-talking , streetwise vein and the wrap-up is sweetly accomplished . from
B-grade monster fun	Zombies are guarding a sunken ship full of treasures in a lagoon on the outskirts of a sleepy , nearly-deserted Southern town . Cardboard screamer shenanigans ; sure , some of it is fun , and the sequence where the zombies walk out of the water is skillfully done , but Allison Hayes ( as the sexy bad girl ) still can't act ! It's reassuring to see her cast as yet another femme fatale , but her line readings are robotic - - she's zombie-fied . The underwater sequences are a joke , yet the picture provides a definite nostalgia for the days when monster movies were bereft of commercial pandering and noisy , humongous special effects . It's not in the same league as , say , " Creature From the Black Lagoon " , but it does have some atmosphere . Whether it was intentional or not , some minor art comes through , along with a whole lotta bad acting . from
Davis gives a no-holds-barred performance in flawed first rendition of Maugham's book . . .	W . Somerset Maugham's novel , about a guttersnipe waitress in London who becomes the object of a smitten doctor's obsession , becomes intriguing film giving Bette Davis one of the first startling , showy roles of her early career . This melodrama , later remade in 1946 and 1964 , has a tendency to plod along , with disappointing cinematography and art direction ( the look of the film seems wrong , artificial instead of gritty ) . However , when mercurial Davis is front and center , one is apt to be drawn in simply by the look on her face or by the delivery of her lines ; Davis is so certain of her talents by this point , she cannot help but be mesmerizing - - to us and to herself . from
Lots of talent underscoring false realism . . .	Four young men in Bloomington , Indiana have yet to find their niche after graduating high school . The central kid ( Dennis Christopher ) is an unemployed ne'er-do-well obsessed with Italian culture and bicycle racing ; he argues with his father over the direction of his life while training for the next bike race and attempting to woo a college lass under a false identity . Although writer Steve Tesich won an Oscar for his original screenplay , and the cast is full of solid talent , this " little movie " is merely pleasant instead of being remarkable . The early scenes ( especially one with Paul Dooley overacting as Christopher's Pop ) are full of expository dialogue , the kind of bogus conversations you might hear in a pilot episode for a TV sitcom ( " That boy should be in college ! " . . . " He doesn't want to go to college ! " ) . Producer-director Peter Yates isn't entranced by the sight of bicycle riders coming over a country road on a misty morning ; he's far too literal in his approach to these small-towners , and there's no art in his presentation . It's humdrum enough to nearly make audiences think they're seeing something substantial and evocative . They're not . from
Modest melodrama , but better than the generation-gap youth flicks turned out a few years later	Clean-cut but wisecracking teenage boy in Beverly Hills causes a minor stir in a movie theater , scuffles with a too-strict staff and ends up punching the manager in the face ! Somewhat mechanical yet heartfelt melodrama , a thinly-disguised plea for the misunderstood teen , does manage to touch on some interesting child-parent issues . Filmed in just 25 days by debuting director John Frankenheimer ( who practically disowned the thing later on ) , it's an occasionally effective second-feature written by Robert Dozier , who adapted his own TV play " Deal a Blow " . James MacArthur is green but compelling in the lead , James Daly and Kim Hunter excellent as his parents . Relatively minor , but the straightforward handling and still-relatable angst result in several fine sequences and a moving finale . from
Uncompromising TV film	Brave television movie which makes today's Lifetime Network / exposé-styled films look positively harlequin . Elizabeth Montgomery is raped and dragged through legal mud before being attacked again ( by the same creep ) . It's gut-wrenching and holds back nothing . I wasn't allowed to watch this as a little kid , but finally caught up with it years later on the late show . It should be made available today because it speaks volumes about the injustices that plague victims , and the degradation one has to endure just to stand up for one's self . Elizabeth Montgomery is amazing : carefully attempting to change her TV image , she is no longer the nose-twitching cutie from " Bewitched " . The scenes of attack are handled without exploitive fervor and the direction is highly competent . from
Scary subject matter parlayed into popcorn thriller	As a medical scientist doing research on Ebola-like virus isolated in an African village , Dustin Hoffman is miscast but still personable and ingratiating ; after Hoffman's Col . Daniels is taken off the assignment and the virus invades the United States , he learns some hard truths about how our government is run . Serious material gets turned into commercial entertainment ; those hoping for a more intellectual or subdued approach on this topic will be disappointed , for the film is designed as a thriller for the masses and not as a docudrama . It's well-produced and gripping , yet one wonders how seriously the filmmakers are actually taking it . Supporting cast is strong , particularly Cuba Gooding , Jr . as Hoffman's assistant . from
Frustratingly follows an acute by-the-numbers fashion	There so many good things in this film , so many elements that come together ( emotional , visceral and otherwise ) , that it's an outright shame " Powder " isn't a better picture . An albino youngster - - psychic , telekinetic , and more brilliant than anyone on Earth - - is found orphaned in a rural home and is brought out into the cold , cruel world for the first time in his life . Writer-director Victor Salva wrings every ounce of emotion from the tender scenes , but he lays the schoolyard bully stuff on mighty thick . The terrific finale is nearly overshadowed by the nasty events that precede it ( which are not only puzzling , but overwrought ) . That's the trouble , I think : " Powder " is a careful , gentle , insightful , sincere little movie derailed every now and again by heavy-handedness , and a plot that follows every cliché down the path to predictability . Still in all , a moving finish , and all the acting is quite solid . from
Artifically superficial . . .	Macaulay Culkin gives an uneven performance as a fey young man from Nowhere who comes to New York City and attaches himself to glitzy , garish club-goer Seth Green , learning what makes a ' nobody ' fabulous and successful ; he turns a flagging nightclub around and gains the respect of its owner , later his financial backer , which quickly ushers in a freaky , drug-induced flurry of hangers-on , leading to tragedy . Wobbly comedy-drama wants to be as casually indifferent and cartoonishly bitchy as its characters - - but when things gets more serious in the last-act , it isn't clear how much we're supposed to care . Like the filmmakers , Seth Green seems to be doing this as a lark , and though it takes an actors bravery to go out on a limb with a part like this , Green is only half-hearted . Supporting performances by Diana Scarwid and Dylan McDermott are much better , but the whole project seems tainted from the start . Is this a cautionary fable or are these Club Kids just painted-up Dead End Kids , the dregs of society burn-out ? And , if so , why should we find their self-delusion so fabulous ? from
Sniggering , poorly-made and edited , but often deliriously naughty fun . . .	Cleavon Little plays the black sheriff in a tumbleweed town who is having trouble with the sex-crazed locals , and must eventually lead the residents into battle with the bad guys . Prurient , anything-for-a-laugh western slapstick from Mel Brooks , who also appears as a bosom-mad governor and an Indian chief . It looks tacky and shabby , and some of the jokes completely bomb out , but the picture can get you laughing if you come across it in the requisite silly spirit . The loosely-hinged plot is just thrown away in the last reel , when Brooks apparently loses interest and turns the whole shebang into a spoof of Hollywood . Most of the cast survives the morass : frizzy-haired Gene Wilder nearly goes into his brand of weird mania ( though he seems held back ) , Madeline Kahn is the belle of the ball as a Dietrich-like saloon singer with a Barbara Walters-like speech impediment , Harvey Korman is practically on fire as sniveling Hedley Lamarr ( his name used for the basis of many jokes ) , and Dom DeLuise is , blessedly , brief as a director . Cleavon Little is well-suited for the sheriff , but he isn't given anything funny to say or do , and being the straight man doesn't work either since he's at the center of the action ( Brooks turns him into a stationary prop ) . Despite more and more affection being heaped upon it over the years , " Blazing Saddles " is a hit-and-miss affair , though the jokes that ' hit ' really do linger in the memory . from
Blockbuster hit for the under-12 crowd	Joe Camp probably had no idea this family film about an independent mutt turning neighborhood hero was going to touch off such a reaction at the box-office . " Benji " doesn't have the earmarks of an ambitious movie , nor did its initial publicity suggest it was going to be anything more than a matinée flash-in-the-pan , but positive word-of-mouth amongst kids was incredibly high , and " Benji " became the fifth highest grossing film of 1974 ( no small feat ; it's just behind " The Godfather Part II " ) . Although the slim plot pilfers heavily from Disney's " That Darn Cat ! " , the canine star Higgins ( from TV's " Petticoat Junction " ) is an amazing find : his expressions and reactions are priceless , and the film's narrative - - Benji's escapades , his human friends , his romance with a little white pooch - - proved to be immediate and bracing with the target audience . Charlie Rich's song " I Feel Love " ( Oscar-nominated ! ) underlines the doggy romance with just enough sentiment to make the low-budget film a real crowd-pleaser . Followed in 1977 by " For the Love of Benji " , but with a different , look-alike dog and a hoked-up story , the sequel didn't crossover to older children . from
Colorful , amusing nonsense	A charming cad in Rangoon bargains with his nemesis using his devoted lady-friend as a pawn ; she loses , ending up in the prostitution racket before seeking out her revenge . Outrageous pre-Code melodrama from director Michael Curtiz really turns up the heat . Sultry Kay Francis mixes quite well with the tropical scenario , though leading man Lyle Talbot is mostly forgettable ( who wouldn't be with Francis chewing up the scenery ? ) . It only runs 70 minutes yet packs a good wallop , with colorful supporting players and an amusing twist finish . However , whoever was responsible for excising Shirley Temple's scenes was hopefully horsewhipped . from
Flimsy , far-fetched , but spunky and attractive	Sandra Bullock is very appealing as an unloved independent systems analyst who unknowingly gets ahold of a disk that could bring worldwide chaos ; pretty soon , she's dodging bad guys , running from the cops and putting her allies in danger ( Dennis Miller , who is surprisingly good ) . Despite a penchant for filming mouths close-up , Irwin Winkler has directed a very fast , fun technical-thriller in which charming Bullock is bounced from one nightmare to another . I loved the way she gets out of a building swarming with security : she dons a fireman's outfit and escapes , but then the bad guys see a nicely piled fireman's outfit ( and helmet ! ) sitting on the sidewalk and yell , " She's getting away ! " Just one example of how this movie is so completely brainless , but yet entertaining enough on a non-think level that you tell yourself not to notice . You'll hate yourself in the morning , though . . . from
Fizzy romantic comedy occasionally fizzles out . . .	Broadway hit about a married millionaire's mistress befriended by his unsuspecting wife and cooed over by a loyal associate . Lots of slamming doors , comical deception , hissy fits and balloons - - okay ingredients for a frothy fracas , and the cast is good . Jane Fonda overacts all over the place , but she's delicious dropping dry wisecracks ( she really keeps this material popping ) . The picture is so ready-made to be adorable , with little ' shockable ' lines dotting the script , that it's easy to see why critics dismissed it . Some of the jokes are about 5 years out of date ( this might have been perfectly pleasant if made in 1960 or ' 61 ) . The plush production and the tinkly music set a jovial mood , but I bet this looked awfully archaic coming into the Free Love generation . from
" There's a plant in the window . . . plants have to be watered ! "	Robert Carradine is a hack L . A . musician who lives near an abandoned Air Force Base , Cherie Currie is his semi-psychic girlfriend who hears a strange , high-pitched sound coming from within . That's the set-up for a slow yet engrossing science-fiction story which is by turns credible and yet too mechanical . The middle portion of the film sags with the weight of far too much technical jargon and yammering from government yahoos . Once things get back to Carradine and Currie , the movie recovers for an emotional conclusion . This is the best role Currie's had since 1980's " Foxes " and Carradine is an easy , giving actor who never mugs or hams . Keenan Wynn is also good in support , and the desert locales for the ending are well-captured . A minor offering from New World Pictures , though a highly competent one . from
Devoted friends and dedicated enemies . . .	Gregory Peck is ideally cast as a peaceable sea captain from the East who comes to Texas in 1886 to claim as his bride the somewhat-spoiled daughter of a rancher ; Peck is almost immediately labeled a greenhorn and coward after failing to stand up to a scurrilous brood involved with his prospective in-laws in a fight over rights to a watering hole for cattle . Long-winded western treatise on the definitions of manhood and the prevalence of violence , how it starts and what it ultimately solves . Adapted from a slim novel by Donald Hamilton , William Wyler's film is expansive without being pointed , with an intentionally casual , languorous pace that works against the mounting tensions ( bringing attention to the relatively poor editing ) . The large cast ( including Charlton Heston as a cowhand vying for Peck's intended , Carroll Baker , and Burl Ives in an Oscar-winning supporting turn as the patriarch of the Hannesey gang ) is understated and solid , though the interior sets are ungainly and the plot is puffed up with more machismo than it is ultimately worth . from
A rather staid and stuffy situation-comedy	Kim Novak , the " Lavender Lady " , trades in her purple chiffon for witchy black in this glossy , but not very crafty , witchcraft comedy . James Stewart is Novak's new neighbor and , unaware of her powers , gets lured into her trap . . . but can he teach her what true love is really about ? Jack Lemmon has the brightest moments as a happy-go-lucky warlock , but there's really no character there ; Lemmon gets laughs strictly by winging it . " Vertigo " co-stars Novak and Stewart have a terrible time trying to create chemistry . Some smoldering smoke arises , but no real sparks . When the stars have to try this hard , the effort is noticeable and the picture falls down around them , like an expensive souffle .
Groovy urban fairy tale is emotional , not logical	After playing a smartly-dressed working mom on television for years , Diahann Carroll finally gets back to her dramatic roots and triumphs here as " Claudine " , a single welfare mother in a houseful of unruly kids who begins seeing a well-meaning garbage collector ( nicely played by a low-keyed James Earl Jones ) . Dated product of the 1970's has all the expected stereotypes , but director John Berry has fun with the convincing urban milieu and gets mileage out of Claudine's monetary predicaments , played for sarcastic laughs . The script brings up some all-too-realistic problems which it hasn't a hope in hell of solving , but the sharp , knowing , wiseass dialogue lends a bracing quality to these characters - - one respects them almost immediately . It's a fairy tale , a black variation on " Cinderella " , yet the film is a bit overreaching , hoping to be both a lightweight romp and a diatribe on how we're all victims of the Man . Despite the hardships we presume are to come , the overall absence of malice - - coupled with a cast full of brash , wonderful kooks - - is ingratiating . from
A curiously passive , unmoving experience . . .	Wealthy playboy father and his precocious seventeen-year old daughter share a sassy , flirty relationship with one another while teasing and leading-on potential romantic partners for both . But the fun and games are called to a halt once dad is reunited with an old friend of the family , a chic fashion designer who would like to see both father and daughter get serious about their lives . Talented writer Arthur Laurents adapted his screenplay from Françoise Sagan's book , yet even with Otto Preminger directing a classy cast , this soaper set on the Riviera never comes to a boil . Preminger sees the idle rich as spoiled and decadent , dancing away mindlessly into the night , yet the players ( David Niven and gamine Jean Seberg as father and daughter , Deborah Kerr as Niven's fiancée ) bring a lot more heart and human interest to the piece than was probably intended . As such , the characters are more embraceable than the writing and handling , and portions of the film are puzzling or awkward . Still , film-lovers of this era in cinema will no doubt bask in the lush surroundings , not to mention in the enjoyable performances and beautiful photography ( black-and-white for the present day , color for the past ) . The script might have benefited from more honesty in the finale - - the ' irony ' in bringing these dead-end lives full circle isn't very cutting - - and there are two supporting characters who are given the shaft by Laurents . There are certainly pleasures to be had here , however , most notably in the scenes between Kerr and Seberg . from
Moments of mad-genius inspiration	Woody Allen's " Zelig " appears to be a wispy-thin string of sketches about a chameleon man who can radically alter his appearance to fit into any given situation , and theatergoers in 1983 may have found the release an Allen-underachiever . It has no higher aspirations than getting quick , momentary laughs from its flaky visual jokes , and a leading character who isn't meant to be memorable or even personally intriguing . The film is pure film-making style , a triumph of creating a whole feature from technique , although Allen's satirical side is as sharp as ever . Mia Farrow has a negligible role as Zelig's psychiatrist ( although she amusingly - - perhaps intentionally - - resembles Liv Ullmann magically transferred from Bergman's " Autumn Sonata " ) , while Woody , in the lead , has great fun with fads , fashions , and nostalgia . The humor here isn't cutting-edge , although the effects are remarkable . " Zelig " is so slyly silly it may pass right under your radar , but it has some very amusing bits and pieces . from
Amusingly schizophrenic	Surprisingly sweet dark comedy is really too sentimental at heart to be the edgy piece it was promoted as , and the curious final results show definite signs of indecisive filmmakers ( two directors ! ) at the helm . A sorority princess living in a privileged bubble has her existence turned upside-down after forging a loving relationship with a mentally challenged young man , losing her friends in the process . The direction is erratic , and the tone of the film changes from scene to scene , yet it is certainly unpredictable and the cast is game . I don't know if the focus of the movie was changed midway , but the later sequences have a sweet nuance to them , as if a big softie suddenly took over to see this thing through to a happy ending . And then there's that final shot which , in keeping with the rest of the picture , is amusingly bizarre . from
" Do you wanna touch me . . . oh yeah ! "	Todd Haynes ' fantasy rethinking of an era in rock history , as a David Bowie-like singer in the early ' 70s burns out and disappears , and one of his most ardent young fans - - now a music journalist - - interviews friends and colleagues hoping to get at the truth . Past-and-present collage isn't given a very pointed treatment ( once the narrative has gone a certain distance , a flashback dating back even further in time drains the immediacy out of the proceedings ) , though the design of the picture and the personalities involved are very colorful , as is the soundtrack , a mix of newly written tunes and classics . The U . K . truly got a colorful slice of the glam-rock era ( as opposed to the U . S . , which pretty much missed the boat - - and the musical point ) , and the film , mostly set in England , nails that distinctive time and place with embracing accuracy . Haynes is also shrewd enough to remember the particular talents impersonated here were not the originators of the scene - - that all musicals trends date back , and nothing is ever truly original or lasts forever . The cast is uniformly excellent : sexy , decadent , kinetic , nervy . Haynes isn't a master of the outré ( like , say , Ken Russell ) , but neither is he a junky or disrespectful filmmaker , and even in the lowest moments of their lives , this crazy collection of hedonists still look and sound pretty great . from
A hothouse flower of a movie ; it finally gives Ally Sheedy a three-dimensional role . . .	Hard , tough , occasionally dream-like drama involving a drug-abusing lesbian photographer who's currently on " hiatus " ; lured back into the professional world by a pretty art-magazine gopher , she finds herself in the middle of an affair . Emotionally intense movie is sharp and focused , though hurt by a puzzling finish . Ally Sheedy's award-winning performance as the shutterbug is one of her finest . It took a long time for Sheedy to reach the point where she could appear in a film like this and not seem out of place ; her acting is getting more refined with age , and her brave turn here appears to put her juvenile romps ( like , say , " Short Circuit " ) to bed . Radha Mitchell is also very good as the post-teen who falls for her . Gripping , moving film . from
How many times can you double-cross your audience ?	In 1890s London , two magicians - - once protégés of the same aging illusionist - - consistently undercut each other on and off the stage , reveling in the revenge and one-upsmanship ; Hugh Jackman is the one with the show business flair , while rough-hewn toughie Christian Bale is more intent on conquering the intricacies of unexplainable magic . Using rather obvious ploys ( like phony beards and wigs , not to mention Scarlett Johansson as an assistant / secret agent ) , they each work as much on sabotaging the other's latest success as developing their own skills . This fantastic tale might have bowled us over with a few cunning twists ; unfortunately , the baffling screenplay reminds one more of H . G . Wells than " Sleuth " , coming up with a bag of tricks so far-fetched it removes the film's core of inherent reality . It is remarkably well-dressed and crafted , although the jumpy editing at the start , darting around in time before settling into a more conventional mode of storytelling , is rather a nuisance . The acting is solid throughout , even as the plot-gimmicks become more and more ridiculous , leading to a depressing and flat conclusion . from
A slender plot , spiked by jazzy visuals and snappy Poitier performance	A college student who volunteers one night a week at a crisis help center receives a call from a woman who has just taken an overdose of barbiturates . . . can he keep her on the line long enough for the police to find and rescue her ? Slim plot puffed up with importance by director Sydney Pollack , making his feature film debut ; Pollack opens the picture with a dizzying array of overhead shots of Seattle , presumably to help us get our bearings for where we are and who the main players are , but with Quincy Jones madly changing music cues in the background , it becomes an unintentionally silly set-piece . Sidney Poitier plays the student with a nimble mix of concern , panic and irritation , and only occasionally is he encouraged to overdo it ( Pollack certainly doesn't help , giving us too many extreme close-ups of Poitier wild-eyed and sweating ) . Anne Bancroft is the troubled wife and mother whose world is crashing down around her ( actually , it's just her marriage ) and I'm not sure what we're meant to get out of the glimpses of her working life ( Bancroft asks a co-worker to go to lunch , and when the girl says she's busy Bancroft appears terribly wounded - - doesn't she have any other acquaintances who care about her ? and what about her relationship with her boss , which sounds one-sided-flirtatious ? ) . Bancroft , with a big crop of wavy hair , is weighed down by this woeful role and she's forced into looking shell-shocked most of the time , though there is one scene - - the hospital waiting room - - where she gets to break character a bit and gets a wicked gleam in her eye . The movie is well-paced and is full of visual accoutrements , but one wonders about that ending and what exactly was solved . from
Uneven ( but Oscar-winning ! ) Ingrid Bergman performance	In Victorian London , a young woman is being driven mad by her own husband , who hopes to find the whereabouts of some hidden jewels . Thin plot given gossamer treatment by overrated director George Cukor ; Cukor knows a great many things on how to showcase an actress , but he doesn't handle the men quite as well and his attention to plot details is murky . In the lead , Ingrid Bergman is highly uneven . With the camera so close on her face , Bergman is forced to feign and swoon continuously under the eye of the audience , and it's a gambit that doesn't pay off ( one is simply too aware of the actress's tics to feel the full tension of the plot ) . Some suspense is delivered , but Cukor relieves the atmosphere of tautness through his lack of control over the scenario . from
Sinks deftly into the crawlspace between nightmares and reality . . .	Blistering account of insanity - - surely meant for die-hard David Lynch addicts ; all others are likely to get left behind . Lynch , the creator-director of the acclaimed late-'80s TV series " Twin Peaks " , also helmed this critically-drubbed theatrical prequel , an expansive chronicle of lives in a sleepy lumber town , in particular a coked-up prom queen just before her mysterious demise . Fatuous indeed , but undeniably intense , amusingly weird and high-strung . Full of exaggerated rage , sex-obsessed characters , and hellish set-pieces . Sheryl Lee is terrific as doomed Laura Palmer , Ray Wise equally magnetic as her father . For all of its outrageousness , Lynch's finale is truly moving . This guy has some big talent - - if only someone could persuade him to reel-in his more gruesome excesses , he might yet be more widely acclaimed as a film-making genius . from
A surprise : a well-written and realized adventure	British-made depiction of the infamous 1912 sinking of the ocean-liner Titanic , with a screenplay adapted from Walter Lord's book , crediting some of the real-life survivors of the sea-disaster as advisers . After the standard character-introductions , the film becomes a gripping , harrowing adventure , with surprisingly good special effects and photography . Story was previously filmed as " Titanic " in 1953 and again years later as " Titanic " in 1997 ( which follows this version rather closely ! ) . Not to be confused with another film entitled " A Night to Remember " from 1943 which had nothing to do with the Titanic . Fine performances , particularly by Kenneth More as the Second Officer . from
Mangy scoundrels , shaky gunslingers , and one vicious sheriff . . .	Clint Eastwood's Oscar-winning western " Unforgiven " is said by some to be an elegy to the genre , an honest and probing examination of killing . The murders in the film spring from injustice and lawlessness , and while the picture certainly has a deep texture and rich performances , it isn't always graceful - - nor original - - though still one of the finest westerns of the last twenty years . Two cowboys in a small Wyoming town in the 1880s are responsible for the slashing of a young prostitute ; they're let off easy by the corrupt , power-mad sheriff , causing the ladies of the brothel to pull their resources and put up a bounty on the men . Eastwood plays an ex-gunslinger turned pig-rancher who , along with an aged partner and a cocky , nearsighted kid , takes up the task of killing the men for the money , not counting on crossing paths with the town sheriff and his dedicated deputies . The film isn't multi-layered , and it isn't an allegory exactly , although Eastwood and screenwriter David Webb Peoples do tease the moral issue , as well as showing us how strenuous ( physically and mentally ) it is to kill another human being . The resulting picture is intriguing , absorbing ( after a somewhat rocky start ) and , finally , cathartic . The weak dialogue is an obstacle : Peoples has come up with an arresting narrative , but his trash talk is flabby - - and things gets even worse with the buddy-isms ( Morgan Freeman to widower Eastwood : " Do you use your hand ? " ) . As another mercenary , Richard Harris has a strong supporting bit , yet it's his entrance ( and exit ) that allows sheriff Gene Hackman to really flourish as the villain of the piece . Oscar-winner Hackman gets down to grit of this cold-hearted man ( with the meanest steely eyes ) , yet this sheriff is also a clod , a fool living in a leaky house . As director , Clint Eastwood doesn't do much out of the ordinary ( and one has to wonder about those two youngsters left alone back at the ranch ) , but visually the picture looks adept and is paced well ( but I could have done without the heart-to-hearts around the campfire , as well as all the rain ) . As the winner of the Best Picture Oscar , it revitalized the craving for new-fangled , hard-bitten westerns . . . and its individual success bears the brunt of many painful imitations . from
It cuts and slices away , but still follows police-movie formula . . .	Is Morgan Freeman our greatest living actor ? He may in fact be , and his mere presence here ( solid , noble , and pure ) is reassuring , but even Freeman can't overcome the usual cat - & - mouse / killer-toying-with-detectives stew that " Se7en " serves up . There's a serial killer loose in rainy New York City , and as he mounts his seven grisly crime scenes - - modeled after the Seven Deadly Sins - - he quickly becomes aware of the two homicide detectives on the case and is enamored of their drive and determination . Most of this is left vague and unexplained ; we learn precious little about the psychopath involved except that he's highly literate , educated , with too much strict religion in his background . This is all hoary police-movie fodder , as is the set-up with the detectives : the wise codger about to retire and his cocky new partner with the short fuse . The film mounts the tension well , with staccato glimpses of corpses and gore , but can't escape a fatigued sense of deja vu ( I thought mostly of " The Silence of the Lambs " ) . Brad Pitt gets off to an awkward , hesitant start in his role , but does improve . Freeman is sensational ; whether throwing his knife at a dartboard or studying up on literature at the library , he is focused and gripping . The grimy , lust-and-death soaked atmosphere is wallowed in ( it's the Big Apple as a Gothic Hell ) , and certainly it is palpable and captured successfully , but completely off-putting . Words written in blood on the walls . . . it's too much like real-life crime scenes , and screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker isn't clever enough to distract us or cunning enough to help us distinguish the difference ( the killer does leave clues , but they are quickly solved ) . The narrative is a mix of derivative movie-thriller ideas and new-fangled ways of making the viewer as squeamish as possible - - it's the old pulling-wings-off-flies number , but on a larger sick-making scale . The film is predictably gruesome , less predictably formula-bound . from
Well-mounted fantasy with a cameo by The Three Stooges !	This is the type of fantasy Frank Capra put his stamp on just a few years later . It stars Lee Tracy as a working-class guy who begins to regret his humble life after meeting up with old friends who have become wealthy ; he gets his chance to go back in time and live his life over again . Premise has since been used time and again , but here it's given a surprisingly fresh and clear-eyed take . Tracy is the only acting liability among the performers ( he's too broad for a subtle picture like this one ) . It's well-paced , amusing , shies away from mushy sentimentality , and features The Three Stooges - - unbilled in a cameo as wedding singers !
The set-up is old news , but the kids are engaging . . .	Two Los Angeles-area teens from the opposite side of the tracks fall in love , much to the concern , jealousy , and resentment of their friends . Low-budget but rambunctious comedy with a serious undercurrent ( which is pretty much decimated by the sloppy final act ) . Aside from their clothes and haircuts , there doesn't seem to be that much difference between the would-be yuppies of the San Fernando Valley and the street punks from Hollywood , yet they look at each other as if they're from another planet ( a freeway interchange separates them ! ) . Wouldn't the clean-cut mallrats be intrigued by what goes on in dark Sunset Boulevard hot spots ? Instead of trading stories , the punks are treated like dirt . It would seem as if the screenwriter was from another planet . The casting makes up for the lapses in taste and judgment , with Nicolas Cage almost puppyish in his adolescent longing for huggable Deborah Foreman , whose gummy smile and rolling eyes are infectious . The adults are fun too , although Lee Purcell as a possible predatory suburban stepmom has a subplot which sadly dead-ends . Much of the material here is stale , with tiresome teen conflicts , though the soundtrack is full of energetic New Wave gems , and Josie Cotton is the headliner at the school dance ! Fer shure ! from
Although it pilfers from American noir , it is more courageous than most Hollywood films . . .	Well-acted , stylish Spanish crime-drama from Ricardo Piglia's book is allegedly based on factual account from 1965 involving estranged gay lovers in Argentina who re-energize their relationship with successful , brutal crime sprees ( they call themselves " The Twins " ) ; after one particular robbery ends in gunfire and dead cops , the two go into hiding along with their accomplices in Uruguay . Despite a skittering sort of continuity that keeps a breathless momentum going - - at the expense of a well-wrought narrative - - the film is highly adept at setting a sweaty , prickly mood . At first , the sexual clinches ( which are actually non-sexual , as one partner keeps pushing the other away ) are aloof and perhaps a bit self-conscious , but the actors improve along with the film ; by the finale , Nene and Ángel really do seem like doomed soul mates , helplessly intertwined . Fascinating on occasion , and handsomely produced , the picture lifts bits and pieces from its American gangster counterparts ( " The Godfather " , " Scarface " , et al . ) , yet it may be braver than those while digging into the characters ' sordid lives . from
Another forgotten heavy breather from Universal . . .	Of all the major Hollywood studios , Universal's vault is probably the one most filled with lost artifacts from the 1950s and ' 60s . If it's shame that's keeping Universal from re-releasing these drive-in classics , they needn't be so worried ; there's always appreciative audiences out there for angst-ridden teen tales and heavy-petters like one . Written by Edward Anhalt , an adaptation of the play " Teach Me How To Cry " by Patricia Joudry , and produced by no less than Ross Hunter , the picture stars Sandra Dee as a small town lass with a secret , a very strange mother , and a possible boyfriend in well-meaning John Saxon . Still quite young at this point , Saxon knows instinctively how to work his brooding handsomeness for effect ( and it's refreshing to see him using it on a nice-guy role for a change and not as the villain of the piece ) . The story threads are dated of course , but the look of the film and the tone are both intriguing . Still , the simplicity behind the melodramatics are no longer relevant , which makes the heated clinches all the more amusing . from
Another acting triumph for Marsha Mason . . .	A teenage girl is treated for a leg injury , but it's soon discovered she has an aggressive form of cancer , which begins taking its toll - - physically and emotionally - - on the victim , her family , and the female doctor who forms a bond with the youngster . Kathleen Beller plays the unfortunate girl with a mix of belligerence and brashness that is , quite simply , off-putting ; her straight-forward cynicism is certainly convincing , and it may be exactly how many cancer patients react when they discover there's very little time left , but it makes for a strident central character who doesn't do much to involve the audience . However , as the doctor , Marsha Mason just about saves the day with a wonderfully natural , sensitive and grounded performance . Given great dialogue by screenwriter Loring Mandel , Mason is able to revel in telling dramatic scenes that evoke whole lives ( such as when she talks about her ex-husband , a movie-junkie who could sit through a double feature and then come home and watch television ) . Mason never sermonizes or stands on a soap-box , she is a caring professional who becomes a close friend ( and may have become a mentor ) to this girl . The film is occasionally pedestrian or heavy-handed - - particularly when focusing on Beller - - and that woeful title didn't help it at the box-office . Yet it is strengthened considerably by Mason , one of the finest actresses of the 1970s . from
Full of pomp and prestige , but never very enlightening . . .	Somewhat fictionalized true-account of 1970's nuclear-parts worker Karen Silkwood , who was mysteriously killed in a car accident while in the midst of preparing to go public with an exposé on the faulty plant where she worked . Another real-life American Tragedy , helmed with intimidating seriousness by director Mike Nichols . Nichols knows a great deal about film technique and how to set up an intense scenario full of complicated characters all ready to sound off ; however , the details of the human drama at hand tend to escape him ( particularly Karen's home-life and relationships with her roommates ) . Either the film was edited badly or Nichols wasn't focused enough on the incidentals , but the movie hits a bump mid-way through and never recovers . In the lead , Meryl Streep works hard trying to convince us she's lower-class , and some of her less-showy , throwaway moments are incredibly assured . Many of the supporting roles are annoyingly enigmatic , causing several key exchanges to be confounding or pointless . from
Inconsistently developed and predictable . . . but with pleasant moments and a star-turn from La Fawcett	Lawrence Naumoff's book turned into a sketchy , meandering vehicle for star Farrah Fawcett , playing a ne'er-do-well good-time girl who pops into her rural hometown only to find she's missed her beloved mama's funeral and that her sister is planning to sell off the old homestead . She decides to work at the local factory and buy sis out , and catches the eye of the hunky foreman ( who looks like a clean-shaven Kris Kristofferson in his youth ) . Up to this point , the TV-made " Silk Hope " has some drive and a rousing character in Fawcett's Frannie Vaughn , but though the dialogue is smart and has a truthful edge , the plot manages to get all balled up . Frannie is supposed to be flighty and irrational , but how she thinks making pocket change at the factory ( or starting a pig farm ) will help her win the house back is never explained . When Farrah digs deep as an actress , she's more than capable of bringing out a forthright woman who doesn't take baloney from anybody , but too often here she slips into a little girl act ( with a light , tinkly voice ) ; in her quieter moments she's very good , and very attractive ( if rail-thin ) , and she's really the only reason to watch the movie . The bumpy narrative darts about from one half-finished sequence to the next , including the proverbial county fair , the emergency at the factory , a crisis in the family , a hunt for Daddy who's been missing for ages , and Frannie standing up to her bosses at work as if she were Eleanor Roosevelt . It just doesn't wash , but then it probably wasn't meant to be an incisive , dramatic entertainment . . . just a piece of fluff .
Smooth , leisurely-paced charmer . . .	Jules Dassin directed this adaptation of Oscar Wilde's story , a charming fantasy about the ghost of a coward haunting an English castle , aided by a relative who must perform a heroic deed to save the spirit from eternal misery . Despite a reportedly troubled production , the cast ( including big scene-stealer Charles Laughton and little scene-stealer Margaret O'Brien ) glides through it blithely , and Dassin's handling of the material is efficient , if perhaps a tad colorless . Robert Young and Peter Lawford are interchangeably bland , but there are some pleasurable moments . Perhaps not the most memorable apparition-laden comedy , but an enjoyable entry in the genre . from
" I know how to get things out of people . . . "	Jean Simmons doesn't exactly have the face of an angel , but that doesn't mean she's miscast in " Angel Face " ; on the contrary , Simmons ' hard , placid neuroses get a worthy workout in this glossy noir , turning the film's title into an ironic gag . Even though Simmons is not a juicy or sympathetic villainess , she's a compelling one , and director Otto Preminger gets an even-keeled , non-campy performance from her . Robert Mitchum is typically sturdy as a shallow stud , an ambulance driver in Los Angeles who is swayed by the step-daughter of a wealthy socialite ; she wants to be his benefactor and his lover , but when her plans are spoiled she quietly seethes and plots . Complicated drama is absorbing and compelling , if infuriating and unpleasant . People like these most assuredly exist , but watching this no-win situation play out isn't exactly entertaining . Preminger turns the screws slowly and carefully , and while we're drawn in by the mechanisms of the plot , the characters are by turns heartless , selfish , thoughtless and contemptible . from
Fairly intriguing melodrama from Hammer Films ; some possibilities missed . . .	British-made film from Anthony Dawson's book about a collegiate young miss who believes her mother's " suicide " was orchestrated by her suave , slimy stepfather , whom she also believes killed her real father some years prior . Simple plot ( young girl playing detective ) is heightened by fine European locales , decent writing , and an effective cast . Mandy Miller , who amusingly resembles both Phoebe Cates and a Mouseketeer-age Annette Funicello , has some very good scenes sniffing around the hotel room of Peter van Eyck , searching for clues and finding them . But van Eyck ( with platinum blonde hair ) plays a rather silly , flabby villain , and a few of his exploits are ridiculously far-fetched ( such as his response to Miller's nosy dog " Toto " , and also in a beach sequence wherein he makes like Jaws ) . The finale might have been ingenious and creepy , but somebody obviously got cold feet , ending the film with a reassuring " tag " ( ostensibly to placate the censors ) . Too bad . . . this B-film had the makings of a twisted , twisty little thriller . from
Old-fashioned , somewhat solemn drama from Disney	Do-gooder piece from the Disney Studios , based on the novel " Swiftwater " , has a farm family in Vermont at odds with the rest of the town over their attempts to save a flock of geese from game-hunters . Mixes elements of folksy adventure , family melodrama , teen romance , and nature asides but has too little humor . Runs 2 hours-plus , and that's around 30 minutes too much . Beautiful scenery and a good cast ( including Brian Keith as the quietly charming head of the house , Vera Miles as his frontier wife , Brandon de Wilde - - pulling a James MacArthur - - and lovely Linda Evans as the sweethearts ) , but it's just too lethargic to appeal to kids . For nostalgic adults , an OK outdoor yarn which wears " values " on its sleeve . from
Frustrating vehicle for Midler is part heartbreak and part balderdash	A predictable triumph for Bette Midler in Janis Joplin-like role of hard-working , hard-partying rock star trying to stand up for herself while also pleasing the masses , placating her managers , and finding room in her schedule for the men who are partly drawn to her and partly repulsed . There's lots of repulsive stuff going on in this overheated saga , starting with Bette's male co-stars ( Alan Bates and Frederic Forrest are a nightmarish twosome ) and concluding with a slightly ridiculous , melodramatic hometown concert wherein the Rose takes her sweet time getting to the stage ( for which we are asked to sympathize with her and yet find her gutsy spirit " brave " ) . She's a frustrating mass of disconnected cells in a wobbly body , and one tires of her lashing out . Alan Bates , as the promotions manager , is barely intelligible barking out his lines with a thick British accent ; he's out of place in this role , and we're never quite sure where we stand with his character ( does he have any interest in Rose beyond money ? Does he know how far gone she is ? If so , does he care ? ) . Midler is uncensored and uncontrolled , yet she has amazing scenes ( her quieter moments such as the sequence outside Monte's Bar , where she begs Forrest , " Oh , please " , are the most stunning ) . " The Rose " looks great , yet it has a distinctly schizophrenic side : part bleeding-heart apologia , part metallic wail . from
Joey Heatherton : baby doll thespian !	One of our local TV channels used to show this movie frequently on the late show - - but not at all in the last 10 years , so it appears " My Blood Runs Cold " is another in the long line of forgotten ' 60s potboilers . Too bad , because it's dopey fun . Joey Heatherton proves she's quite the little thespian here , portraying swinging single meeting a strange young man who is convinced he was her lover in a past life ! Story is fairly tight , until the last reel when it begins to unravel . The chase-climax is straight off the assembly line . However , Joey is really charismatic here and had me glued to the screen . She overcomes the obvious exploitation angle director William Conrad takes and gives the picture a big boost . from
Simon reworking Simon . . . this time , it almost works	Neil Simon's cantankerous comedy about old show-biz team of Lewis and Clark reuniting in the modern day for one more performance - - and picking up right where they left off , by arguing - - didn't quite work in 1975 , despite lots of acclaim . Walter Matthau was ill-suited for the larger role of Willie Clark , though it did give us the return of George Burns as Al Lewis , for which he nabbed a Supporting Oscar . Simon has tweaked the material for this TV-made remake , peppering the dialogue exchanges with some modern references ( which don't really work ) and changing Clark's nephew to a niece ( which does ) . Peter Falk plays Willie Clark this time , and though Falk isn't naturally a comedian ( and his Jewish lapses into Yiddish ) , he holds his own with Simon's hit-or-miss rhythm and wrings some laughs out of the outrageous arguments . Woody Allen's performance as Al Lewis is even better ; Allen doesn't bicker so much as search for logic in the illogical , and this coupled with some very funny lines results in a surprisingly successful bit of casting ( who would've thought we'd ever see Woody Allen performing Neil Simon ! ) . Sarah Jessica Parker is terrific as well playing Clark's level-headed relative and agent , hoping for a miracle in bringing these two together again - - though sweetly resigned to the fact it may never happen . Good production values ( except for some bad lighting ) , a smooth pace and a satisfying finish ; this one is more enjoyable than the theatrical feature simply due to the casting . Falk and Allen would appear not to be convincing as a former comedy duo from the 1960s , and yet they nearly pull it off .
Satisfying suburban sci-fi . . .	On the eve of his wedding , insurance salesman Tom Tryon is abducted by an alien being on a forest road ; the hideous-looking creature neatly duplicates Tryon's human form and goes through with the nuptials the following morning ! Interesting twist on " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " from 1956 has many of the small town males quickly and insidiously overtaken by the outer space ghouls , whose ultimate purpose is to mate with Earth women and give their race a fresh start . Despite claims the film's narrative is symbolic for Communist infiltration , the low-budget picture isn't especially provocative nor intelligent ; however , Gene Fowler , Jr . ' s direction is smooth and highly confident . The detail and design is also impressive , with imaginative effects and decent monsters , a nice sense of place and astute cinematography by Haskell Boggs . Very entertaining thriller , and one without that then-fashionable sense of foreboding at the finish . Fowler lets his cast ( and his audience ) off the hook happily . from
" I don't care about the money . . . it's all the stuuufff "	Comedian Steve Martin went from cult TV personality to big-screen star with this bright , silly / witty comedy about the adopted white son of a black sharecropper who goes from poor to rich to poor again in the invention market . Martin , who also co-wrote the screenplay with Carl Gottlieb and Michael Elias , has a wobbly sense of comic timing that is alternately funny and perplexing ; this combined with director Carl Reiner's squashy pacing makes for a third act which doesn't have many laughs . Still , for the first hour or so , this is a pretty zany , enjoyable outing , and Martin is matched very well with Bernadette Peters as his love-interest . from
Hokey hysteria ; fun if approached in the proper spirit . . .	Vincent Price , with the fabulous name of Frederick Loren , invites a disparate group of people to his spooky estate , offering each of them $10 , 000 if they can withstand one night of his ( rather juvenile ) demented tricks . Reconceived ( poorly ) in 1999 as a full-throttle horror show , this version was probably meant to be scary but today can be viewed as ghoulish camp , light on its feet and mindlessly enjoyable . William Castle production was originally released in " Emergo " , a gimmick that set loose a skeleton above the theater audience . Fun for enthusiasts , and featuring a colorful supporting cast including cult-actress Carol Ohmart as Price's wife , Elisha Cook , Jr . and a very green Richard Long . from
Intimate strangers , unfamiliar relations . . .	Uptight , possibly frigid , panic-stricken middle-aged New York housewife has to learn to let go of the past , a refuge which doesn't necessarily bring her happiness but does provide her life with some kind of stability . Joanne Woodward gives a good performance here ; not at all vain , and unafraid to let herself be pinchy , selfish , or even annoyingly helpless , Woodward overcomes this rather dreary " woman's picture " material with thoughtful touches and nuances . It's a heavy load however , and she doesn't have much help until the final reel when her needling , provoking matron takes a European trip with her husband ( Martin Balsam , also doing fine work ) and she comes to see her humanity as something she can work with as opposed to frittering it away . Screenwriter Stewart Stern's dialogue is heavy with a writer's pretensions , and often the chit-chat is pedantic , forced and unreal . Near the beginning , Woodward gets a phone call from her mother and asks , " Who is this ? " A few scenes later , Woodward becomes exasperated with her husband and asks , " How many years have we been married ? " These moldy exchanges are lazy outs for a writer wanting to introduce us to the characters ; instead of letting us discover these people and their hang-ups for ourselves , everything is spelled out ( and poorly so ) . We are to understand that Joanne's estranged son is gay after she has a dream in which a male dancer is caught in the boy's bedroom - - in ballet tights ! The ' colorless ' color cinematography is a mix of putrid browns and greens , and director Gilbert Cates begins each new sequence with a big wind-up , as if the movie were starting all over again . The rhythm is off , and with lines like " You approach every new relationship like you would a toll-booth , Mrs . Santa Claus ! " , one doesn't know how to respond to the characters . It's possible that some of Woodward's jaunts to her past , both real and imaginary , will strike some viewers as very personal , but the film isn't especially moving , at least not until the final third . from
Old-fashioned and polished . . . but with an artificial look and a draggy midsection	In 1936 Chicago , a con-artist and a cocky grifter team up to ' 86 ' the slimy racketeer who killed the grifter's best friend . Handsome production , fun ragtime music score ( courtesy of Oscar-winner Marvin Hamlisch , via Scott Joplin ) and lots of star-wattage from a first-rate cast helped make " The Sting " hugely popular in 1973 , leading to seven Academy Award wins including Best Picture . It's an astute , polished movie made with panache , yet the story isn't mounted with much excitement , stretching a fairly standard revenge plot an awfully long way . There's too much talk and story exposition for the film to juggle successfully , and the middle section bogs down . The now-famous finale is pulled off with high good humor , though the set here is an eyesore ( most of the picture is filmed in ugly browns and reds , though cinematographer Robert Surtees did receive an Oscar nod for his work ) . Good performances by Paul Newman and Robert Redford in the leads , a terrific one by Robert Shaw as their nemesis . Director George Roy Hill won the Best Director Oscar ; David S . Ward won for his screenplay . Ward later went on to write a sequel , " The Sting II " , in 1983 , with Jackie Gleason and Mac Davis starring . from
Hollywood's overfed fascination with WWII continues . . .	Frank Sinatra made an awful lot of World War II pictures , though he never looked terribly convincing dressed in battle uniform ( especially the helmet , which covers most of him ) . Here , he's a no-nonsense Lieutenant with the U . S . Army stationed in France , fighting the Germans as well as Corporal Tony Curtis , an educated , self-assured trust fund kid on the run from his life of privilege . They spar a bit before becoming buddies , but when Curtis quickly and skillfully steals Sinatra's girl away . . . well , war is hell . The girl is played by Natalie Wood - - she's French by way of West Virginia and Philadelphia ! - - and there's some hesitant talk early on of her being from a white mother and a black father ( it gives Frank momentary pause , but Tony thinks of her ancestry as a novelty ) . The European locations are well-chosen , though director Delmer Daves ' staging is sometimes poor ( Frank is struck by Natalie the first time he sees her - - which is to say , the back of her head ! ) . The battle scenes are also disappointing , hurt mostly by choppy editing , and when Sinatra and Curtis take on a treacherous plan of attack near the end , we're not sure why these two were picked ( other than they're the stars ) . Not a very good movie , but not a boring one either . Wood's accent is for the birds , but Curtis fills the bill nicely and Sinatra does a solid dramatic turn . His narration is overused , and he has more chemistry with the woman playing Wood's mother than Nat herself ; but , for a wartime soaper , a fairly interesting occasion . from
Everything negative can be redeemed with love	When I read a synopsis for " Kathy O ' " and learned it was about a bratty child star who keeps adults rushing around to please her , I pictured something screechy and inane . " Kathy O ' " is actually a plush little comedy-drama that does nearly the impossible : it illustrates how the pressures of Hollywood can be painful and frustrating even for a child-actor in the midst of her success . Kathy is not a little tyrant , she's tired and anxious and cranky . A publicist ( also all of the above ! ) reintroduces her to family life and normalcy , and she begins to brighten . Movies about personal redemption always tend to work if the build-up is right , and here it's done tastefully and emotionally . By the end , I was enamored of this youngster who blossoms under the right circumstances . Movies about the movies are usually a little coy , but " Kathy O ' " is an exception . It understands the movie world and is quite wise ( but not ugly ) about actors ' lives off-screen . It also recognizes everyday life in suburbia for the grind it can be , but also how much more wonderful it is when shared with people you care about . Kathy learns to care , and , in turn , I came to care about her . from
Sly satire	Nicole Kidman is riveting as self-obsessed suburban nutcase who has big dreams of finding fame and fortune , even at the expense of her husband . Icy , satirical black comedy from Nancy Maynard's book , directed by Gus Van Sant in his usual cobbled-together manner ( here he uses hoary , quasi-documentary devices to propel the story , and the flashbacks and direct-to-the-camera acting gets old fast ) . However , Buck Henry's script is amusing , Kidman is intensely watchable , and the supporting cast is also first-rate . from
The only reason it was made was to to jerk tears - - but is that a criticism or a recommendation ?	One of those absolutely horrendous concoctions that strives only to move audiences to tears . It is cast strictly for effect ( with glowing Swede Ingrid Bergman cast as a glowing Brit who wants nothing but to serve God and help children - - how about that ? - - or Brit Robert Donat playing a Chinese governor ! ) . It ends with such excruciating uplift ( with the music tempo sweetly frenzied , the background score pumping out " Knick Knack Paddy Whack " furiously ) that I suspect most viewers will stop weeping and start groaning . Still , I enjoyed " The Inn Of The Sixth Happiness " for its onslaught of goodness , the sheer hokum-value . It runs nearly 2 hours , yet I was almost never bored . And say what you will about Ingrid Bergman , she does has a musical voice and a saintly allure ; even if the real-life woman wasn't so demure , when Ingrid is on the screen - - as she is here saving babies or rushing into the arms of flawless , loving Curt Jurgens - - I am fooled . The film is not a bummer , as most saccharine-induced biographies of male or female real-life saviors can be ; it wears emotions on its sleeve like a badge of honor . It hopes to wear the audience OUT with emotion . Was I suckered in ? Hey , even a pessimistic film-lover has to soften every now and again ! " Sixth Happiness " allows one to weep and swoon and giggle - - and laugh at one's self for doing so . You'll hate yourself in the morning , but it's a journey worth savoring for its unabashed love for wholesomeness . out of
Hard on the ears	Exceptionally brassy , brawling comedy set mostly in the boxing ring . Barbra Streisand is a perfume executive with the # 1 nose for business ( " It's the kind of scent a man can give to a woman , a woman can give to a man , a man can give to a man , a woman can give to a woman , have I left anybody out ? " ) . Unfortunately , she's been embezzled against and has lost all her finances , except the contract to a boxer who no longer boxes ( he just spends her money ) . Streisand and Ryan O'Neal eke out some laughs from the groaning dialogue ( a really bad joke regarding Patti D'Arbanville's threat to meddling Streisand is the most offensive ) . The plot coasts along on the amiable chemistry between the leads , even though all they really do here is argue . It all bottoms out in the final stretch - - ending with an extremely weak climax which got boos from the theater audience I saw this with in 1979 . Barbra looks pretty sexy though and , braless in T-shirts and showing lots o ' leg in her short-shorts , don't think she doesn't want us notice !
A funny - - if sick - - one-joke idea	Despite a cramped budget , " Westworld " looks pretty good and is well-cast , with Yul Brynner in particular giving a fabulous performance , a variation on his role in 1960's " The Magnificent Seven " , a good in-joke . The plot , about a fantasy vacation resort for grown-ups that goes haywire , is just a set-up for the final two-thirds of the picture , a showdown . There's never much going on behind-the-scenes , only some fleeting details , and then writer-director Michael Crichton gets down to the real business on his agenda : staging lots of deaths ( stabbings , shootings , etc . ) . This would all be much more amusing ( in a twisted sense ) if Crichton had a sense of playfulness , but some of the killings , particularly the stabbing in the King Arthur segment , are off-putting , grisly and nasty . It's hard to tell if Crichton is in on his own black joke , that if he understands how horrible-funny this all is , why are the killings so realistic and ugly ? I liked " Westworld " , I think it has stood the test of time , but it toys with the audience for so long and yet seldom gives us much relief . from
Full of fabricated dramatics - - and highly enjoyable to boot !	" Showgirls " has the mark of unadulterated amateurism . If I didn't know that Paul Verhoeven was a director of some considerable skill and that Joe Eszterhas was a writer of occasional merit , I would believe " Showgirls " was written and directed by kids out of film school ( no , make that drop-outs from film school ) . Pouty young girl from Nowhere hitches to Las Vegas in hopes of being a dancer ( right away her luggage is stolen , but we have no idea why ) . The picture is trash but it does move along at a fast clip . All the dialogue is awful , spoken by the actors as if it were written mostly in italics : " He SAID you were GOING to CALL him ! " " I did CALL him ! " Yes , it's bad , but it is never boring , it looks pretty snazzy and has a ton of energy . The characters are cartoony-repulsive , the scenario gives Vegas the cynical jab in the eye it sometimes deserves , and the over-the-top awfulness is nearly mesmerizing . Colorful , laughable , compulsively hissable , and thoroughly enjoyable . from
Unblinking , unflinching inquisition of the Maid of Orleans	French filmmaker Robert Bresson used the actual transcripts from the trial of Jeanne d'Arc in order to reveal her character through her words in these final days . Bresson keeps leading actress Florence Carrez , a non-professional as are the others in the cast , speaking in a forthright monotone , without much vocal inflection or facial exaggeration in order for the viewer to concentrate solely on her words . His film is intentionally without scope ( and has very little exposition ) and some may find the cut-and-dried handling a bit pedestrian . Certainly it was financed on a minimal-budget , and some of the players are stilted , but the film's compact running time of 68 minutes works to Bresson's advantage : he's able to get right to the heart of things , and he leaves us with a haunting climax . That said , there were three things I didn't care for : the musical intro is so severe for an opening that it may provoke an indifferent response ( the matching closer is less irritating ) ; Joan seems to have a believer in one of the priests at her trail ( he sends her subtle signals ) but this isn't explained ( which may again be intentional ) ; and barefoot Joan's geisha-like quick steps leading up to the gallows are peculiar - - was it her decision not to walk with shoes , and was the ground so hot she had to practically dance to her death ? from
Hitchcock suspense drama has great style but lots of dross . . .	Robert Walker admirably goes all out as a psychotic daddy-hater who befriends tennis pro Farley Granger and discovers the rather naive young man hates his estranged wife ; Walker suggests swapping murders . Lots of intricate plotting in the set-up , but this Alfred Hitchcock thriller is relieved of tension by its banalities , such as the vapid dialogue , an overlong tennis sequence near the finale , and silly situations like the one where Walker " cleverly " winds up in his father's bed when Granger arrives . The frenzied finale plays well , but with some afterthought you may notice how emotionally hollow it is , what with an innocent , elderly carnival worker getting shot dead by the police ( ! ) and nobody seems to care . Flamboyant , if over-the-top , performances , a great deal of style in the usual Alfred Hitchcock fashion , but not much substance . from
Journalistic ethics vs . sensationalism . . . with former friends as news sources	Americanization of the highly-regarded television mini-series from Britain is , at its heart , the exploration of newspaper journalists ( working under even greater pressure today to grab the major headlines first ) having to deal with police procedure once they've gotten hold of an explosive story - - and to sort out the ramifications of friendship when acquaintances become sources and bosses on deadline are demanding results . A female Congressional aide in Washington , D . C . has either been murdered or committed suicide , a story which quickly leads to the young woman's romantic infidelity with a married Congressman - - an old college friend of Washington Globe reporter Russell Crowe . Crowe , playing a scruffy warhorse whose neck is always on the line , teams with cub reporter Rachel McAdams in ferreting out the girl's sordid past as well as the Congressman's ties to a corrupt organization which uses the military for financial gain - - with kick-back to certain politicians . Very much in the same vein as " Absence of Malice " from 1981 , this one too has the proverbial montage of a daily newspaper being pieced together from the ground floor up . The characters are equally clichéd , from Helen Mirren's demanding news editor to Robin Wright Penn's benumbed political wifey ( a thankless role for sure ) . Jason Bateman enlivens the complicated scenario with a colorful bit as a kinky supplier , and Crowe does well when he has the opportunity ( a battle of words late in the game with Ben Affleck is well played , and Russell's contempt / compassion for inexperienced McAdams has its pleasures ) . The picture is alert and detailed , handsomely filmed and occasionally gripping . Yet , the cinematic roots of a journalistic thriller go way back ( beyond the TV series ) , and many of these principle players are starting to become musty nuisances . Essentially , " State of Play " is nothing at all new , but only old-school film-goers will recognize this . from
Potentially explosive subject matter manufactured for depressing results	Federal agent Debra Winger goes undercover in rural Texas as a combine operator , infiltrating a group of down-home guys and their families in the hopes of linking them to white supremacy and the murder of a shock-talk radio host . Winger is romanced by the group's ringleader ( Tom Berenger ) , and very quickly seems to cross many lines that aren't covered in the FBI trainee's manual . Berenger takes Winger to a KKK camp-out , to a human hunt ( with a black man as the target ) and to a bank robbery ( to finance their cause ) , yet Debra's superiors actually request that she get more probing evidence ! An exasperating movie , with facetious , halting dialogue leaving whole sequences feeling half-finished - - and Winger's character without much personality . Director Costa-Gavras seems intent on underplaying this whole matter , to the point where even shocking moments come off as muted , matter-of-fact occurrences . from
Moving , well-acted , but a bit of an over-achiever . . .	Hard-luck case Elizabeth Hartman is not only blind but living with a monster of a mama ( Shelley Winters , playing a shrew-of-all-shrews , and winning a Supporting Oscar as " Rose-Ann " years before her TV role as Roseanne's grandma ) . Guy Green directed and adapted the script from Elizabeth Kata's book , and possibly made the Hartman character too pathetic and unselfish ( she's like a sightless puppy , and seems to harbor little grudge against her mother for treating her like dirt or , worse , causing her blindness in the first place ; any sane person , blind or not , would rebel against this tyrant , though Hartman eventually does ) . Sidney Poitier's role as the saintly stranger who takes an interest in Hartman and wants to help is somewhat facetious ; we can see his attraction to her ( she's lovely when she giggles under a line of dialogue or when she's right upfront in her thoughts ) , yet he's like a storybook prince , and it's not a terribly convincing role as written . The film is an over-achiever , packing a lot of melodrama into its frame - - and striving to be edgy and controversial in the bargain - - but at the same time it is certainly poignant and touching . from
Let's put on a show !	Old-fashioned without being embarrassing , " Broadway " features Janet Leigh as a sparkling small town lass who moves to the Big Apple to work in theater , falling in league with other young hopefuls and staging their own revue . Not too far-fetched ( Carol Burnett did the same thing in real-life ) and Janet bounces happily throughout . Not really remarkable , but a nice time-filler . Bob Crosby pokes fun at older brother Bing in the film's most self-conscious moment . from
" An attraction for obliteration . . . "	Magazine editor Hal Holbrook , husband to a manic depressive and father to three kids who ignore him , contemplates killing himself with a rifle after first eliminating each member of his family . Technically adept , solidly performed drama is decidedly grim , occasionally insufferable , but undeniably potent - - and surprisingly relevant to the times . Director Jeff Kanew , who also adapted Julius Horwitz's novel , goes out on a limb with this non-commercial material , yet he makes a few missteps in the process . With the firm conclusion that " all married men have this fantasy " , Kanew seems to think that familial obliteration is an all-encompassing issue - - an epidemic among dissatisfied husbands and middle-aged fathers - - without any facts to back this up . Kanew's decision to have the man's wife suddenly come out of her fog and attempt to reach her husband with intelligent conversation doesn't quite work ; most viewers won't be able to connect with him , either - - he's like the evil villain on a soap opera - - all of which causes Kanew's ending to seem like a cop-out ( especially the way it's presented ) . Louise Fletcher gets some good speeches as the Mrs . , and her forthright plea for mutual understanding is commendable , but Kanew doesn't allow her to be strong , and the three children ( who have no lines , nor personalities ) appear to be equally lethargic and dim . Hal Holbrook's lead performance is unvarying in its grimness and , while he's a superlative actor , one tends to recoil from scenes of him sexing it up at a brothel ( or , even more excruciating , chit-chatting with the naked prostitutes in bed about his ground-up life ) . Many interesting points are made in the midst of a dramatic muddle , and yet the coldness inherent in the handling comes off as abject indifference . from
Gleefully mad . . .	Director Kathryn Bigelow's over-the-top thriller depicting life on Earth in late-1999 as war-torn hell . Ralph Fiennes is perfectly cast as a dealer in mini-discs which can record human experience and be replayed by anyone with a headset ; naturally , he gets hold of the wrong disc , one that could bring down the entire country ! Middle section of film meanders , with too many scenes set inside a smoky punk club , but otherwise the film packs quite a punch . Bigelow is a filmmaker who loves earth-shaking action , though too often she forsakes logic for thrills . No matter , as her movie is a one-box-of-popcorn thrill-ride , disturbing only in retrospect . from
Dryly humorous , engaging and well-cast . . .	Ryan O'Neal gives one of his better , looser performances in this crime-caper , a handsome comedy-drama involving a high society thief planning a major heist . Warren Oates is the investigator in dogged pursuit , Jacqueline Bisset ( at her most lovely ) plays a love-interest in on the action , Austin Pendleton is very funny as a nerdy chess pro , and wonderfully blithe Jill Clayburgh makes a big impression in the minor role of O'Neal's ex-wife . Engaging fluff with tongue wryly in cheek , well-directed by Bud Yorkin . Terrific non-think entertainment for cable-watchers , yet this did seem a little flat when it played in theaters . from
Some missteps , but otherwise very pleasant	Ernst Lubitsch comedy , adapted from the play " Parfumerie " by Nikolaus Laszlo , involves two sour gift-shop workers ( in Budapest , Hungary ! ) who are unknowingly each other's secret romantic pen-pal . Despite the odd locale , a blithe , easy romantic comedy , well-tailored for stars James Stewart and Margaret Sullavan . Director Lubitsch never strains for big laughs ; true , he doesn't get them , but instead he strives for a more gentle type of comedy with humor deriving from character development and situation - - not jokes . Quite appealing ; remade in 1949 as " In The Good Old Summertime " , staged as the musical " She Loves Me " , and remade yet again in 1998 as " You've Got Mail " . from
It tries to build a crawling sense of dread and menace , but . . .	Jonathan Demme's " The Silence Of the Lambs " is just a spook show , and one without any sympathy for its victims ( or for the audience , who get a good hammering on the head ) . Yes , the performances by Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster have become legendary ( and for good reason , they are both intensely focused and driven ) , but the picture is a let-down , complete with outlandish violence mixed with human drama , filtered through a cartoonish sensibility . I didn't see much art in the picture , particularly in the aftermath of one of Hopkins's rampages ( hanging a mutilated guard like an angel from the tip-top of a prison cell - - and when would he have the time to devise such a maneuver ? ) . I am a big admirer of Foster's work and will watch her in anything , but her FBI Trainee seems to climb the ranks awfully easily , being allowed to do potentially dangerous investigative work on her own , and , eventually , I tired of the Hero As Woman underlying theme . The finale , in a killer's house full of behind-the-door-shocks , is so unremittingly ghastly ( yet with the kicker that all this perverseness is good for a raunchy thrill ) that I couldn't help but to think of all the young people watching in the audience , their eyes wide , saying " Now comes the good stuff ! " To me , that's scarier than a movie psychopath . from
Enjoyable , one-box-of-popcorn thriller	Kids left alone in the house inadvertently play a phone prank on psychopath John Ireland , who has just murdered his trampy Mrs . in the shower ! Whenever you see a biography of Joan Crawford's career , this title usually gets left out . True , she has a minor role in it ( playing Ireland's neighbor , hoping to blackmail him into marriage ) , however it's one of the better movies she was involved in after " What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? " William Castle did a good job as producer / director of this story , and the two teenage girls are very appealing and natural . The movie builds some credible suspense ( underlined with a jokey tone ) and has interesting visual tricks and groovy music . Avoid the awful , too-literal 1988 TV-remake . from
Tired scares , little suspense , but as a showcase for Julia's adorableness - - - not bad	Julia Roberts ' style of acting never wavers : she's resilient and adorable - - always . This brainless vehicle for her - - a monster movie dressed up as an abusive marriage thriller - - has the requisite dopey pleasures , and it's well-produced and moves right along at a fast clip ( even if the viewer is always ten steps ahead of the narrative ) . Seems Jules has married a psychotic-obsessive who abuses her ; she plots a fake demise , which takes her not on a journey of self-discovery but to the Midwest , where she finds a charming old house next-door to a heterosexual drama teacher ( he can't cook a meal without nearly setting his kitchen on fire ) . It's ridiculous , yes , but Roberts has a few choice moments ; I liked the exchange between her and the stranger on the bus , also a sequence with blind mom Elizabeth Lawrence is riveting . The hubby is made to be your standard violent psycho ( how trite ) and utterly wastes Patrick Bergin's charisma , but someone had to play the part . I don't excuse " Sleeping With The Enemy " for being so basic ( and dumb ) , yet strictly as a pulpy , non-think entertainment it isn't bad . from
Occasionally perceptive office comedy eventually becomes arms-flailing cartoon	It had to happen : for two-thirds of its length , " Nine to Five " is a sharp , satirical , recognizable put-down of work-a-day life " at the office " , but in its later stages it becomes a silly revenge comedy , and then a message piece . The messagey last act is the real bummer , with three secretaries taking over their work-place and transforming it into a politically correct nightmare . Jane Fonda is Judy , a just-divorced woman new to office work , and her starchy appearance and nervous manner aren't really all that funny ( she's immediately cold to secretary Dolly Parton on the basis of office gossip alone ) ; her character's big flub in the Xerox room is an example of director Colin Higgins ' use of silliness - - and it's not even to make a point ( the machine goes cartoonishly haywire and Judy just looks like a ninny ) . Lily Tomlin is much better as Violet , a 12-year team player who keeps getting passed over for promotions - - but why she would even want to be promoted into a den of thieves and liars is never really made clear . Dolly Parton is dazed but not frazzled - - she's just pleasantly zonked as Dora Lee , whom everyone thinks is sleeping with the boss ( Dabney Coleman - - who only shines in the fantasy sequences ; his Mr . Hart is a tiresome tyrant who , of course , is not just a show-off and a cheat but an embezzler as well ! ) . Terrible-looking movie with an excruciating background score manages to get laughs with some canny writing ( in the first hour or so ) and because of Tomlin's dead-on impersonation of a working widow with kids who just wants her dignity . But the plot-twists in the second-half take the picture off-track , leading to a storybook ending that is commercially driven - - and not even in keeping with the cynical , satirical tone of the early part of the film . from
Liza's lovely , but film is minor and cartoonish	Every now and then , " Stepping Out " touches down on some heartfelt emotions that most viewers will relate to ; whether it's Liza Minnelli's jerk of a boyfriend , her loyalty to her tap dance students or the anxieties within the group , the script is surprisingly evocative once it gets down to the heart of the matter ( after cutting through the crap ) . There's a lot of dross filtering through here , too many stumble-bums and pratfalls that I assume are there to get laughs , but Liza is solid ( as usual ) and does a good job at keeping the picture on some form of realistic ground . The dancers are colorful and interesting , but Shelley Winters as the pianist on social security has a tough time portraying a ridiculous warhorse in silly hats . from
Another actress learns that Broadway doesn't go for booze and dope . . .	Young waitress from Kansas City in the early 1920s hitches up with a traveling carnival with the fervent , starry-eyed hope of breaking into show business ; once in New York City , she gets herself a drama coach and lands a plum part in a Broadway show after the original actress falls ill . Fabrication of real-life Broadway and silent movie starlet Jeanne Eagels is useless as a biography but rather entertaining as a backstage melodrama . Kim Novak is uneven in the lead , mercurial and brittle ( and occasionally quite amusing when lapsing into a haughty European accent once she finds fame and fortune ) , however the part is a pretty good fit for Kim and she fills the bill . Jeff Chandler ( as a fictitious lifelong beau ) and Agnes Moorehead ( as the drama coach who suddenly morphs into Jeanne's best friend and nursemaid ) are both solid , as is Charles Drake as an ex-football player who marries Jeanne apparently for her money ( yet seems to love her and puts up with her ) . Drake also played a role in " Valley of the Dolls " , which mirrors this film in several ways ( there's even one character called " Neely " and another named " O'Hara " ! ) . Producer-director George Sidney takes great care in setting up this story , which is snappy and brash and looks fantastic in black-and-white . Not everyone will go for the picture's mix of hard-shelled pathos , booze-soaked blackouts , and rags-to-riches clichés , yet the film manages to capture the excitement of stage life quite vividly . Despite its many faults , a near-gem . from
Far-fetched , but intriguing prison-break nonsense	San Quentin inmate Jack Palance hatches quite a scheme to get out of jail - - get his lookalike brother to trade places with him in prison for a day while he constructs a foxhole to hide in , leading to his and his brother's escape . Filmed on-location in Cinemascope at San Quentin prison , with officers and inmates used as extras . It's a ludicrous plot , but the director keeps everything very low-keyed , and Jack Palance is excellent in demanding dual role . Extraordinarily silly , but so well-made you may be absorbed and interested despite yourself . Harold Stone is steely-eyed and cunning as a prison guard and Edward Platt ( later of TV's " Get Smart " ) is believably sympathetic as the nicest prison warden you'll ever see . Barbara Lang also good as the convict's wife , obviously cast for her platinum hair and curvy figure , but giving a grounded , natural performance without showy airs .
Handsome but hokey . . .	Despite the talents of numerous directors ( including Ludwig Berger , the estimable Michael Powell , and Tim Whelan , as well as the uncredited contributions of producers Alexander and Zoltan Korda and William Cameron Menzies ) , " The Thief of Bagdad " is a variable collection of adventures structured in the style of Saturday afternoon serials . Overrated by most critics , the fantasy concerns a deposed Arabian ruler and a young native boy thwarting the evil new king with help from a genie and a flying carpet . Classy British production aimed squarely at kid-audiences of this era ; today , only nostalgic adults may go for it . There's no Robin Williams here , and the special effects are hit and miss . from
Atmospheric thriller in the Hitchcock vein . . .	Carol Reed directed this handsome Hitchcockian thriller about an American author arriving in post-World War II Vienna and learning his best friend was recently killed in a car accident . . . or was he ? After some detective work , the writer uncovers the dark truth . Filmed in chilly black-and-white , Reed's picture has a brooding ambiance that is initially intriguing but may be too much of a good thing ; the stark visuals coupled with the downbeat tone and talky , complicated plot wears one down after a while . The performances by Orson Welles and Joesph Cotton are quite good , as is the zither music on the soundtrack , but overall it's an exasperating movie , full of promising scenes that don't quite take shape and have no pay-off . Alfred Hitchcock was a bit more playful with his stories ; this one could have stood some hearty relief . from
Worth sitting through the racial tensions to hear Harry Belafonte sing	The wealthy whites are the hissable ones once again , lording their money-driven power over the black Caribbean field workers in this timely but talky issue-film . The Barbados locations are just beautiful , and so is Harry Belafonte's buttery voice , crooning Jamaican songs at sunset ( his acting isn't bad either , and his relationship with Joan Fontaine is surprisingly chummy - - if not especially romantic ) . The love story sidebars are soapy but not dull , and they give the film what passion it has . The heated racial debates haven't dated , giving the film some relevance , but who needs them ? ( Certainly not the principal audience targeted for this windswept travelogue ) . What we really want to see is more of Belafonte . He was at a peak here , and since he didn't get to use his own singing voice in " Carmen Jones " , this is a great chance to watch and hear him perform unfettered . from
" My , she's acting queer ! " . . . " That's not an act ! "	A mystical bust of a turbaned god gives a bickering , unsatisfied married couple exactly what they want : they switch bodies . . . but unfortunately not voices , which means the husband - - who is one-third of a partnership in a big city advertising firm - - talks like a girl and prances around his office complete with pocketbook ! Very early entry in the body-switching genre is much fresher than some of the similar comedies which followed years later ; the film doesn't have an esteemed reputation , so it's difficult to imagine that it influenced other pictures , but surely this was the starting point ( or close to it ) . There are some very fast , very funny lines , quick and efficient gags , bright performers - - however the first thirty minutes ( a straight satire on big business before the ' magical ' troubles begin ) is just fine all by itself . The body-switching ploy pretty much comes out of nowhere and sticks out as a gimmick , when actually the movie was progressing very well without it . from
" You're a national institution . . . like the Grand Canyon or the Statue of Liberty ! "	The rise of Hollywood's first blonde bombshell , Jean Harlow , who died tragically at the age of 26 . Magna Pictures distributed this low-budget venture , which was first shot on an early form of videotape and then transferred to film . It competed with Paramount's version of Harlow's story ( also entitled " Harlow " and released in 1965 ! ) , but because of its unusual pedigree , this effort ( ambitious , if rough ) was hardly seen . Carol Lynley portrays Jean not as the raucous , lovable gal who made friends so easily , but as a volatile , impatient , often heartless young woman who wasn't quick to take good advice . Lynley does well in the role , even if her body type isn't right and her voice falls short ( her performance actually improves as the movie progresses , and she has a very strong scene with mama Ginger Rogers near the end ) . Some identities have been changed , and Harlow's first and third marriages are barely mentioned , but the movie makes its point with little pomposity : this was a troubled young woman who had no inkling of her own impact with movie-going audiences , constantly short-changing herself in the romance department . Rogers does solid work ; Efrem Zimbalist , Jr . , as a movie idol à la William Powell , Hurd Hatfield as tortured producer Paul Bern , and Lloyd Bochner as a director are each excellent in support . Does any of it ring true ? Probably not . Writer Karl Tunberg seems to have constructed his script out of fan magazine articles , and the picture is fairly useless for those wanting to know the real dish on the 1930s superstar . Still , there are interesting accents and attributes throughout " Harlow " , and it is seldom dull . from
Carroll Baker takes on the heady task of portraying the screen siren . . .	From a bit actress in the late 1920s to stardom in the ' 30s as a Hollywood bombshell , actress Jean Harlow's triumphs and pitfalls are cartoonishly documented ; it's as if the filmmakers were quite satisfied dishing out movie-magazine nonsense instead of headier truths , with most of the names changed to protect the embarrassed . Harlow manages to hold onto her virginity even through a short-lived marriage , but fate dealt her a bad hand and she died at the age of 26 - - yet the movie sees all this through a rose-colored lens . Carroll Baker is a sweet , sometimes dazed Harlow ; Red Buttons acquits himself affably as her agent and Angela Lansbury is nicely low-keyed as Jean's mother . Viewers hoping for some Hollywood dirt won't be satisfied with the scrubbed-clean goods showcased here , although the pacing is fast and portions of the presentation are very colorful . A rival production , also entitled " Harlow " , was released the same year and starred Carol Lynley and Ginger Rogers . from
Ross is the reason to watch	Diana Ross is gripping as a 42-year-old woman just finished with her third year of medical school who is sidelined by a particularly destructive bout of paranoid schizophrenia , a condition she's aware of and has lived with since her mid-20's . The delusions and voices come and go , but when a kindly doctor intervenes with a new drug , Ross has a chance to actually rebuild her life . A sensitive , educational TV-film that strives - - and perhaps presses a little too hard - - to teach the viewer something about mental illness ( as well as the shame family members feel about the disease , and their eventual acceptance of it ) . It's quite a heady vehicle for La Ross : she takes on this highly dramatic , unglamorous ( and some may say well-trodden ) role and gives it bitterness , rage , confusion , and finally hope . The narrative stresses heavily the goodness of our medical community ( which may seem like a stretch to Ross ' character , having been hospitalized over 40 times ) , while the writing is occasionally too flowery , but the film is still strong , disturbing and moving .
Moving , hard-hitting , tender when it needs to be , and well-acted . . .	An ex-soldier / now unemployed junkie in New York City keeps his addiction secret from his pregnant wife and his visiting father ; his adoring brother acts as an enabler , and eventually things come to a boil when the guy needs a hit and can't scrape together the twenty dollars to get himself through the night . Playwright Michael V . Gazzo made a big splash with this story on the stage ; he's also credited with work on the adaptation , yet the only fault of the film is the dialogue . The back-and-forth conversations between the addict and his wife or the addict and his father don't really ring true ( the words are theatrical , as is the phrasing given by the actors ) . The brother , portrayed by Oscar-nominee Anthony Franciosa ( reprising his Broadway performance ) , spends far too much of the first act drunk - - in that movie-version of inebriated ( stumbling , laughing , fiddling with his clothes , saying , " I'm drunk ! I'm drunk ! " ) . Still , Franciosa gets a good rhythm going with Lloyd Nolan as his father and Don Murray as his brother , although Nolan and Murray don't fare as well when they're on their own . Murray tries hard in the showiest part , and several of his big scenes are effective , but he's too clean , too dry and smooth to really convey the lows of a doper on the edge . Eva Marie Saint has the most under-developed role playing Murray's wife , yet she conveys the polite frustration of this woman with ease ( which is often times harder than pulling out all the stops ) . Nice locations and gritty black-and-white cinematography help tremendously , and the picture is quite moving once the preliminaries are out of the way . from
Strange mix of growing-pains drama and psychological study	Laura Dern is perfect as lanky lass in a small town sparring with her parents , estranged from her older sister , desperate to be liked and to be with boys . Opening moments of this adaptation of Joyce Carol Oates ' story " Where Are You Going , Where Have You Been " - - with Dern and friends doing the mall - - are realistic but nothing too original ; second portion of the film , with Laura meeting smooth talking Treat Williams ( who comes dressed like the James Dean poster on Dern's wall ) is elongated and dry ( you can almost feel the director's confidence slipping away ) . It's an encounter I didn't particularly care for , nor did I buy the rosy ending either . However , there are fine moments in " Smooth Talk " , the most devastating of which lies in a conversation between Dern and indifferent sis Elizabeth Berridge ( in a terrific performance ) : Dern recalls a vivid , lovely childhood memory between the two , but after listening and thinking it over , Berridge tells her , " I don't remember . . . " from
There are 100 things wrong with it . . . but you may catch yourself smiling after thinking it over	It's over-the-top , it's occasionally offensive - - to men , to women , to gays , to lesbians , and to poor Miss Hawaii - - but " Miss Congeniality " has Sandra Bullock , and she's wonderful . The opening moments , with FBI agent Bullock busting Russians in a restaurant sting operation , are so good that the movie might've played very well as an FBI comedy-drama , with Bullock on different cases . I mean , maybe they should've ditched the pageant stuff , at least until next time . But , no , Bullock goes undercover as a contestant in the Miss U . S . pageant , and the movie turns into your typical makeover thing . Lots of breast jokes , TOO many high heel pratfalls , and Michael Caine as a peculiar makeover artist ( he's " dripping with disdain " one minute , fatherly the next , then bitter , then cuddly ) . Bullock has no chemistry with Benjamin Bratt as her boss on the operation ( that's not her fault , however ) and I wanted more of her home life ( and that doomed microwave oven ) , but what works does work well . Sandra's " bonding " paint party with the girls is terrific , as is her friendship with shaky Miss Rhode Island and her attempts to face down snarling Ernie Hudson as the FBI chieftain ( who , like in " Ghostbusters " , gets no funny lines ) . The movie rests solely on Bullock's shoulders , and she delivers . The movie may not be comic genius , but it is congenial . from
" This beach sure is crowded ! " . . . " So is that bikini ! "	Ft . Lauderdale frolic has Elvis Presley cast as a Chicago rock-'n-roller who , along with his outfit-matching band members , takes on assignment to secretly chaperone the boss ' daughter as she vacations with her girlfriends down in Florida . Plush M-G-M musical with a dandy production design , lots of fun slapstick and girl-watching . The plot , such as it is , doesn't make a whole lot of sense ( especially with Elvis having his cover blown by Shelley Fabares ' tyrannical father , who then gets mad at Presley when his daughter decides to go crazy ) . The songs range from very good ( " Puppet on a String " , " The Meanest Girl In Town " ) to awful ( " I've Got to Find My Baby " , " Wolf Call " ) , but there's a groovin ' beach bash with excitable dancing and a funny prison breakout sequence in which EP gets stuck in a cell with twenty females ( and escapes in drag ! ) . Mary Ann Mobley has an insulting role ( and her make-up is too dark , causing her to look overcooked by the sun ) , but Fabares is breezy and there's a nice supporting turn by Nita Talbot as a streetwise stripper . Overall , not a bad Presley-fest , though the screenplay could've used some sharpening , and the extras are often hilariously wooden . from
Slicker than the A . I . P . " Beach Party " flicks , though still not as good . . .	Sorority beach babes in Balboa , CA have to raise $10 , 000 to save their order , eventually resorting to desperate measures ( like entering a cooking contest , a beauty contest , and trying to get The Beatles to perform at the local hot spot ) . Charmingly dim-witted surf-sand - & - sexy girls opus , obviously a knock-off of the " Beach Party " cycle - - and better produced - - but not quite as charismatic . The flick spotlights a bevy of energetic ladies , and also Lesley Gore ( it's unclear if Gore is visiting royalty or if she's just another one of the gals ) . Though it isn't fresh , it is fun , noodle-headed nonsense , given a fast pace and a good soundtrack . from
Not up to " The African Queen " , but not bad	Hardened WWII Marine is shipwrecked on an island in the Pacific with a nun so saintly she glows . Sure , the set-up is contrived but the actors ( Robert Mitchum and Deborah Kerr ) play up the screenplay's strengths and bring humor to the scenario . The narrative rambles and some scenes don't add up ( as when drunken Mitchum makes Kerr cry and run out into the rain ; she gets very sick and is hallucinating when he finds her , but in three days makes a complete recovery ) . Director John Huston captures great beauty in the locations , yet he gets a mite too poetic with repetitive shots of the tides rushing in and rushing out . With other players in the central roles , this might've missed ( and missed badly ) , but Mitchum - - who isn't really dedicated to this character , he's more like a visiting ham - - is actually rather appealing professing his love for Kerr , or when he covers her with his shirt in the cave ; and Kerr stays true to the outline of her character , rigid but helpful , solemn but serene . Their growing friendship forms the basis of this " African Queen " extension ( made by the same director ) that is certainly not as good but nevertheless entertains on a minor level . from
" The Heart of New York " ? ?	Leisurely-paced episode from the classic television series finds the Angels attempting to protect a legendary movie actress from someone who is apparently trying to drive her crazy . Ida Lupino plays the Gloria Swanson-like movie star who has fallen on hard times , but is about to make a comeback in a remake of one of her old classics ( " The Heart of New York " , which looks as though it's being shot all on one set ! ) . Farrah Fawcett-Majors ' Jill has a sketchy role : she has press credentials and snoops around on the movie set , but only the guilty parties seem to take notice of her ; Kate Jackson's Sabrina plays secretary ( a role Sabrina took on too often ) ; Jaclyn Smith's Kelly uses her feminine wiles to get an extra's union card and works on the picture playing a barmaid ( ! ) . David Doyle as Bosley has very little to do , while Lupino chews the scenery ( " There's acting - - and then there's ACTING ! " ) . Two interesting details : Lupino's Gloria Gibson is rather curt with Jill but seems okay with Sabrina and Kelly , while Kelly is shot at three times near the climax and narrowly escapes with her life ( which is then shucked off as ' all in a night's work ' ) . Lax episode is a bit annoying and hugely unbelievable .
Tasteful , well-acted , but padded with generic melodrama and flagging sentiment . . .	Adaptation of Jim Piersall's memoir about growing up with an insensitive father , a tirelessly ambitious man with baseball dreams for his talented son - - and impossible to please even after his kid is recruited as shortstop for the Boston Red Sox . Piersall's eventual nervous breakdown is mounted in careful yet somehow manufactured terms ( when the pressured kid decides to go ice-skating instead of returning home , one can almost comically sense the clouds of doom forming for the next scene ) , and the " meet cute " with his future wife ( possibly the most patient woman alive ) is also by-the-numbers . Anthony Perkins does very well as Piersall , although the ludicrousness of Jimmy's behavior - - defending his father while resting at " State Hospital " - - isn't presented with any irony , and Perkins is too keyed-up to make a success of his showier scenes . As the pushy father , Karl Malden is also good but has a different problem : the character , completely stubborn and unsympathetic , doesn't seem to learn anything , even by the finale ( this is partly the director's fault , who hastens to show the father's progress ) . This tasteful treatment plays very much like a padded " Playhouse 90 " TV melodrama ( one with baseball park stock-shots ) , and Jimmy's psychoanalysis is laid out in such generic terms that he may as well have been suffering from migraines . Still , some good dramatic moments ultimately make the picture a worthwhile one , even though it's too workman-like and without any quirky or personal touches . from
Elegant , but curiously lacking in suspense or danger . . .	Overly-familiar , curiously bland flip-side to " Fatal Attraction " from " Fatal " director Adrian Lyne concerns wife and mother Diane Lane traveling from the New York suburbs into SoHo where she ' meets cute ' with a handsome stud ; she's drawn to him and soon returns , beginning a lusty secret affair that her husband may be wise to . Fails to stir up the same kind of controversy that permeated " Attraction " simply because this one isn't as well written ( and is designed like a heated Harlequin romance to boot ) . None of this is the fault of the players : Lane ( despite a penchant for making faces ) is very good in the lead and Richard Gere is effectively low-keyed as her milquetoast spouse . Yet there's nothing exceptional or gripping about this story , and the final act is so colorlessly drawn-out that our sympathies ultimately shift away from the troubled couple . from
" You have a performance for everyone - - I'm not sure you really exist ! "	Celebrated stage actress in 1930's West End London ( British by way of Jersey ) is tired of giving a nightly tour-de-force at her own theater and longs for something more ; she becomes involved with a young American gigolo , is counseled by the ghost of her dramatic tutor , and trades bits of business with her husband , who has become a partner in her career but not in her bed . Annette Bening does some savvy , colorful acting here , but the material is broadly-drawn , unsubtle and a bit distracting ( the viewer is seldom sure how to take the characters , especially at crucial points in the beginning , and since Julia is such a drama queen anyway , it's unclear how we're supposed to feel about her when she's hurting ) . The direction is so blandly smooth it makes an uncomfortable partner with the script , which doesn't quite give us the heady glimpse beyond the footlights that " All About Eve " did , although that is clearly its intention . Bening ultimately makes up for the shortcomings : she takes a while to find this character , and then has to decide how far to go with her , but her choices are uniformly correct and her close-up at the finale ( bemusement mixed with self-satisfaction and matter-of-fact calmness ) is a masterful touch . from
Slick , glossy , shallow	Remake of Hitchcock's " Dial M For Murder " ( with a worse title ) has the unfaithful wife of a New York City businessman targeted for murder . Unsurprising twists in this updated version do allow Michael Douglas to play a mean SOB again ( after too many years of playing the victimized good guy ) , but the plot feels half-baked . Much of the movie seems to take place off-screen ; mostly what we get are fatuous red herrings and character contrivances . What's with all that linguistic talent Gwyneth Paltrow possesses ? What's the point ? . . . and when Gwyneth travels to the seedy side of town to try her key in a stranger's apartment , why does the editor cut away after she dramatically enters the building ? What does she find inside ? Why does she tell Douglas her intentions at the end , only to freeze against the door-jam when he tries to stop her ? " A Perfect Murder " isn't a dumb thriller , it's fairly tight and intriguing , and the performances are commendable , but it doesn't satisfy on a hearty level ( like Hitchcock ) . In fact , it ends with a whimper . from
For war-movie aficionados , a personal epic . . .	Director Steven Spielberg's usual homey touch ( which infiltrated even " Schlinder's List " in its final act ) is thankfully in slight evidence here , as WWII soldiers attempt to locate one particular man whose siblings have all been killed in combat . The set-up for the plot is a bit formulaic ( and layered with Spielberg's need for romanticism ) , but the very fine performances and exhaustingly exact scenes of violence remain haunting and memorable . Vivid cinematography and frenetic editing won Oscars , as did Spielberg ( who deserved it ) . I was rather surprised by how powerful this movie is , given the feel-good reputations by many of the principles involved . I'm not a lover of this particular movie genre , but the film pulls no punches in detailing many unrelenting scenes of battle . from
Goldie and Giancarlo : a hot match !	Scrappy Italian comedy is made up of bits and pieces , never quite coming together . Goldie Hawn ( vivacious as ever ) is an American actress vacationing in Rome who gets mixed up with her friend's married lover ( a smoldering Giancarlo Giannini ) . They have little screwball mishaps and misunderstandings before making hot love in a hammock ( although on US video prints of the movie , there's an intrusive cut-away just as this scene heats up - - perhaps there is an Italian version Americans aren't ' mature ' enough to see ? ) . Hawn is in scatterbrain-mode , and I got a little tired of her whining about her cat , but she has fine moments too and works well with Giancarlo . There's a funny scene near the beginning when GG visits his current lover and finds her undressed - - surprised , she grabs the first thing she can find to cover herself , which is of course a poster of herself naked ! The editing is sloppy , the sound is fuzzy , and the finale left me scratching my head ( is it Giancarlo's fantasy or for real ? ) , but I liked " Lovers And Liars " / " Travels With Anita " for the little glimmers of good humor . Besides , Hawn is always worth a look . from
So tasteful it becomes mummified . . .	Dramatization of the TV quiz show scandal of the late 1950's , wherein the popular program " Twenty-One " was found to be fixed . Based on the book by Richard N . Goodwin , Paul Attanasio's screenplay takes great liberties with the facts , but is still exceptionally entertaining for the first hour . Director Robert Redford shows impeccable taste in his casting and conception of this flashback in time ( no overt nostalgia ) , and his apparent love for this material is somewhat surprising , yet the film's second-half gets bogged down in legalities that are far less intriguing than the behind-the-scenes drama . Very good performances by Ralph Fiennes and John Turturro nonetheless , with colorful cameos by Martin Scorsese , Illeana Douglas and Calista Flockhart . from
The three leads are more charming than this scenario . . .	Haughty blonde movie star , about to premiere her latest picture " The Kidnapped Bride " , is kidnapped herself by two would-be ruffians who are actually just a couple of nice guys out to catch a break . United Artists comedy-drama , produced on the cheap and with perplexing changes in tone . Jane Russell , Ralph Meeker , and Keenan Wynn are an engaging trio , but turning this kidnap into a joshing love-triangle doesn't convince for a second . The script , based on Sylvia Tate's book , seems to know very little about how Hollywood works ( the opening scene has the star and her handlers in the projection room viewing THE TRAILER to her new movie ! ) . Russell , looking fabulous with or without her wig , is a great drawing card and is very amusing working her way through this sarcasm-laden script with the cynical airs of a seasoned pro . It's quite understandable why both Meeker and Wynn fall for her but , as a screwball romance , the movie certainly comes up short . from
Another ' Miracle ' story from Valentine Davies . . .	Lloyd Bacon directed this swift , compact major-league fantasy featuring a fine cast . Ray Milland is engaging as a college professor who invents a wood-repelling substance . . . which he then applies to a baseball . Soon , he's the star pitcher on a professional ball team , and what appears to be a succession of unqualified strike-outs are all due to Milland's little deception . The screenplay ( by Valentine " Miracle on 34th Street " Davies ) commendably never apologizes for the professor-turned-pitcher's concealment of the truth - - it's his secret , and that's as it should be . The movie is simply concerned with being a frothy piece of sports whimsy , and it's enjoyable fluff for the whole family . Terrific supporting cast includes Jean Peters and another flawless tough guy performance from salty-but-sweet Paul Douglas . from
So . . . how much DOES the Earth weigh ?	One of the better Spencer Tracy-Katharine Hepburn films : a light comedy which doesn't necessitate his anger or her stridency . Hepburn heads up a charming group of gals in the research department of a broadcasting firm ; Tracy is a computer man eager to install his latest creation in their office . Adapted from the Broadway play - - and looking it - - with large , flat sets stretched across the screen and all the actors moving from stage right to stage left . Still , the cast is colorful ( except for Gig Young , stuck in the eternal Gig Young role , that of an SOB second banana who eventually ends up eating crow ) , and the thing is bubbly fun right to the end . It disappears from memory as fast as it came , but this kind of lightweight venture can be enjoyable on an afternoon viewing . from
It has a sweet sensibility that , when looked at in a different light , seems almost sinister . . .	Worldly , willowy art dealer from Chicago , a newlywed hoping to sign a notoriously shy , eccentric artist to her gallery , travels with her spouse down to North Carolina for the meeting ; her husband's family , whom he hasn't seen in three years , happens to live nearby , and the husband's pregnant sister-in-law develops a hero-worship for the new in-law . Carefully-woven but frustratingly hesitant screenplay never allows a character to finish his or her own thoughts ; the start-and-stop conversations are the basis for the relationships which transpire here - - but since nothing is ever really said , the film seems rather facetious in an annoying way . On the other hand , it has some very good acting work by Amy Adams as the perky expectant mother , Alessandro Nivola as the prodigal son , and Scott Wilson as the hen-pecked patriarch ( Wilson's gentle , passive face and busy hands are a thing of beauty , yet director Phil Morrison always has him entering and exiting in the middle of scenes ) . Some of the dramatic consequences of this family reunion aren't delved into with the depth they require in order to really succeed - - and again , the problem lies with Angus MacLachlan's screenplay - - but there are memorable characters here and some funny talk and local color . Morrison seems to want to get out of town as fast as the city couple does , which makes one wonder where his heart lies within this piece . from
Cynically amusing fluff dressed up with pseudo-pungent observations	Director John Schlesinger is so anxious to score points against the British that he almost forgets to make the leading character's childish angst worth watching . Julie Christie , a curious Best Actress Oscar winner ( must've been her work that same year in " Dr . Zhivago " ) , is lovely but ( intentionally ? ) one-note as a working-class Brit who rises above the muck and mire to become a princess . . . but life is unhappy within castle walls . Trenchant look at the classes : the bourgeoisie , the beatniks , the flashy homosexuals , and the royals . Interesting on that level , but some of Schlesinger's visual commentary ( particularly at the auction , when the speaker is telling about starving countries while an overweight woman is scarfing down the pate ) isn't really funny , just obvious and heavy-handed . from
A buried gem . . .	Crafty little B-flick has devoted husband Brian Donlevy finding out the hard way that his wife ( the inimitable Ella Raines ) wants her freedom - - she's been conspiring with her lover to have him rubbed out ! Intricate plot twists and involving characters , courtesy screenwriters Dorothy Reid and Jay Dratler , make for a highly entertaining mystery , better than many of the more-popular film-noirs which became cornerstones of 1940s cinema . There's a high level of suspense throughout , although the finale is fumbled ( it's a bit anti-climactic ) . Certainly worth-seeing however , and sturdy Donlevy is superb . from
Top talents vs . an unsurprising script . . .	Clark Gable gives a giddy , frisky performance as a happily-married magazine magnate in New York City who works closely but professionally with efficient though somewhat demure secretary Jean Harlow ; his wife ( Myrna Loy ) and her fiancée ( James Stewart ) misconstrue the business-only relationship as something more vital , and pretty soon a subtle attraction does develop between the two workaholics during a conference trip in Havana . Carefully elongated from a women's magazine short story , the screenplay here hits on some issues regarding even satisfying marriages which are still relevant today ( mostly that gossip breeds mistrust , and it can come from all corners ) ; still , it doesn't give Gable much to do except talk fast at the office and kiss Myrna in doorways . Loy suffers rather ridiculously ( after discovering her hubby took his secretary along to Havana - - she thinks in place of her - - Loy refuses his calls and starts dressing like a widow ! ) , but Gable obviously enjoyed working with her . Odd to find Harlow so low-keyed ( her performance is really the only surprising thing the picture offers ) , but a Harlow without fizz is rather like a soda gone flat - - tolerable , but disconcerting . from
Why does it have to have that all encompassing , feel-good ending ?	Noble , decent film about a crises in suburbia : a boy , kidnapped nine years ago from a nice , normal family , is returned to them - - a virtual stranger . This premise was done great justice in the grittier TV-film , " I Know My First Name Is Steven " . This theatrical drama has fabulous , full-throttle performances by Michelle Pfeiffer and Treat Williams as the parents , some interesting plot turns , but nowhere to go after the boy comes home . We've seen it all before - - even Whoopi Goldberg as a detective seems shoehorned in from somewhere else ( it's virtually the same character she portrayed in " The Player " ) . I would forgive the film for its assembly-line construction were it not for a downright drippy finale . Sure , it wouldn't have been as uplifting had the film ended a different way ( turning on the kid's decision ) , but why do we always need to be uplifted at the movies ? Is there some Hollywood legend that says all downbeat endings result in flop films ? Well , this one did flop , so there's a double excuse not to end the thing with everyone leaking happy tears in the driveway . from
Surrealistic storybook presented in sweeping , romantic fashion . . . at the expense of the art	Mexican artist Frida Kahlo ( 1907-1954 ) painted self-portraits and surreal acts of God and madness like a woman possessed by a half-demon / half-angel ; a book of her paintings is almost difficult to look through , as her singular sense of color ( such as bloody crimson-reds and inky , staring blacks ) and unflinching composition are violent , penetrating , twisted , and unnerving . Director Julie Taymor and actress-producer Salma Hayek's movie doesn't really get into the explosiveness of Kahlo's artistry , her rage , her desire to provoke - - and no one on the screen comments on it , either . If it weren't for glimpses of Kahlo's artistic style , one might walk away from this film assuming she painted faces and flowers . Taymor is much more interested in the tumultuous love relationship between Kahlo and lusty , brazen , womanizing Communist painter Diego Rivera . Their shared passion for art may have gotten them into bed , yet her fiery need for pushing boundaries and his no-holds-barred take on revolutionary politics kept them together . This incredible partnership is expressed vividly , with wonderful performances by Hayek and Alfred Molina . Yet , the desire here should be to explore Frida's talents . . . what drove her to create such gut-wrenching works on the canvas ? Did anyone recoil upon seeing them , or possibly object to the bloodletting she seemed to take such a morbid interest in ? It's also disconcerting right from the start to hear everyone in the picture talking heavily-accented English in the midst of Mexico City , 1922 . The presentation is indeed beautiful - - maybe too beautiful - - and the stormy marriage of the two artists is gripping ; however , the real Frida Kahlo isn't out front - - she's hovering on the edges of the film , peeking out at us once in awhile like a mad sprite . from
Eckhart's fabulous comic performance nearly saves strident send-up of human principles . . .	Whoever could have guessed that suave , manicured , handsome-devil Aaron Eckhart would become our next great sad-sack comedian ? The rubber-face which Eckhart uses here , playing a disgruntled , disappointed , directionless human resources exec at his father-in-law's bank , is nothing short of remarkable . Cast as middle-aged Bill , Eckhart is extremely courageous and focused - - too focused to become a ham , yet silly and flexible enough to keep this bumpy comedy buoyant and entertaining . The tone of the picture is half-black comedy / half-upper class satire , with possibly too many targets and characters on its plate . Still , the women in Bill's life ( Elizabeth Banks as his cheating spouse and Jessica Alba as a friendly neighborhood salesgirl ) each have their strong moments , and Eckhart's scenes with his gay brother and assorted in-laws are pungent and ripe with nearly-realized stinging possibilities . What doesn't quite work is the sub-plot with a mouthy teenager choosing Bill to be his " mentor " ( also , a duck-hunting sequence with Bill's wife's family is also flabby , its only purpose demonstrating their need to humiliate Bill - - and he being oblivious ) . The filmmakers are careful to let Bill be his own person - - he's often a target , but rarely is he victimized . It's to Eckhart's credit that this stepped-on character remains likable and respectable ( no pathos or pity here , and none are necessary ) . Whether entertaining guests in his camping tent or getting his weary body back into shape , Bill is lurching , funny , struggling , and very human . I didn't quite buy the happy ending , with its vitriolic " I don't where I'm going , but I'm excited " sentiments , but Aaron Eckhart makes this guy a joy - - and for a knockabout , second-string comedy , that's a real achievement . from
Streisand on the stilted side . . .	Now on DVD , this one-hour CBS television special from 1973 has the fatigued conceit of mostly being built around one song ( " I Got Rhythm " ) , with La Streisand changing costumes , hairstyles and personas to become tantalizing women from different countries . Barbra enchants , tempts , and coos to the viewer with unabashed seductiveness , and she's in incredibly fine voice throughout , but her material here is one-dimensional . Dialogue is kept to a minimum , and where there is a little chit-chat doesn't work too well ( the writing is leaden and the booming orchestra drowns out the tail-end of Barbra's lines anyway ) . Her duet with Ray Charles is unpredictably sensational ( it is one of the few times Streisand literally lets her down ) and the closing number " The Sweetest Sounds " has a beautifully evocative , wintry chorus ( although the design for this end-credits number looks a bit like a perfume commercial ) . The much-balleyhooed " The World is a Concerto " number , with Barbra singing to the sounds of everyday household appliances , is a bizarre touch ( more silly than successful ) , but at least it is self-effacing . Streisand lets the camera crawl up close - - very , very close - - to her celebrated profile and she never flinches ( only on a " Sweet Inspiration " high note does her voice break slightly ) , yet her imperiousness is still tough to crack .
Nostalgic grab-bag with silly movie star introductions isn't very useful today . . .	America was so high on nostalgia in the early 1970s that Roaring Twenties dances were being taught at Arthur Murray and even a remake of " The Great Gatsby " was pulling in viewers . M-G-M , on the verge of financial ruin ( and about to liquidate its assets ) , finally found a way to turn a profit very cheaply : edit together sequences from all their old hit musicals into one splashy package . Lesser-known clips are dropped in to keep things curious , but most of the footage here includes musical centerpieces from classic films that many viewers in ' 74 had only seen on the late-late show . Despite an editing job that is so smoothly-efficient it's practically lethargic , " That's Entertainment ! " quickly became a movie-encyclopedia for film-buffs interested in plumbing the past , although it isn't very useful today ( what with cable channels like Turner Classic Movies showing these pictures in their entirety ) . Star-narrators turn up to put their own histories into perspective , but most of them look so aged and tired - - especially Elizabeth Taylor ( filmed through layers of gauze ) , Frank Sinatra ( squinting in the sunlight ) , and Fred Astaire ( who was actually on the verge of a career comeback at this time ) . Some enjoyment and razzle-dazzle , especially in the Esther Williams montage , but pointless to anyone who craves the satisfaction of creative output . Followed by two wan sequels in 1976 and 1994 , and a second-cousin , " That's Dancing ! " in 1985 . from
Mighty silly , but the effects rival " Kong " . . .	A return to " King Kong " territory , with Oscar-winning special effects by " Kong " ' s main wizard Willis O'Brien , is bubblegum , bubble-headed nonsense , though viewed strictly as matinée fodder does entertain in its gaudy fashion . Campy plot has Terry Moore and her humongous pet gorilla lured out of their African seclusion for stardom in the big city , but things predictably go awry . Silly , occasionally slow-moving picture with a decent cast . Moore is a good sport ( if not a first-rate actress ) and the effects ( with help from Ray Harryhausen ) are fantastic . Impressionable viewers should be awed . Remade in 1998 . from
Very smart TV-movie with an amazing cast . . .	James L . Brooks wrote this funny / sad , grown-up television movie about two poker pals ( Gene Wilder and Bob Newhart ) who inadvertently neglect their spouses in search of deeper meaning in their lives . Filmed in 1971 , " Game " is a beautifully nuanced and sardonic middle-age-crazy tale with a sensational ensemble cast , nicely photographed in gritty colors by the esteemed Joe Biroc . Robert Moore directed in a quirky but sure-handed fashion , working from a tight script which never takes a cheap shot . Wilder ( along with Ellen Burstyn as his wife ) is at the peak of his charms here as an actor , and he and Newhart make a surprisingly fine beleaguered-buddy team . Well-received in its day , the movie has been unjustly forgotten ( how it wound up on TV is anyone's guess ) ; this has the look and prestige of a theatrical feature .
Straightforward legal case with environmental overtures . . .	John Travolta gives a dandy performance as a cocky Boston personal injury lawyer who heads up a small but burgeoning firm , almost passing up on headline-making case of a major food company subsidiary found to be dumping toxic chemicals into the water supply of a small-town Massachusettes town , causing many of the children there to get sick or die . Neatly directed and scripted film from Jonathan Harr's factual book allows for both legal statistics and some dry legal humor , and avoids exploiting an emotionally-wrenching theme ( the death of children ) for hug-tugging sentiment . The film is direct and compact , pausing only occasionally for a dramatic character turn , and is handsomely-made if not terrifically entertaining . Travolta and nemesis lawyer Robert Duvall ( smiling like the Cheshire Cat ) are wonderful to watch sparring with one another , and the specifics of the case are intriguing . from
Patty is a whirling dervish of energy	Scrappy theatrical comedy filmed on a television budget , with Patty Duke putting the high school jocks to shame with her athletic abilities ( seems sneaky Pat has been running track to a secret " beat " in her head ! ) . Nothing memorable , but worth-watching for the always-good Jim Backus as Patty's politician father - - who can't seem to decide where he stands on women's issues - - and Patty herself is also very lively . Her short platinum ' do is a bit odd ( and occasionally looks like a wig or a blonde mop-head ) , but she seems happier here than on her self-named TV series and does very well with her two song numbers ( her voice is shaky and without focus , but extremely bright and appealing ) . from
Bringing air power to the Navy . . .	Frank " Spig " Wead's life story , as directed by real-life friend John Ford , starring John Wayne as the hot-shot aviation expert who transforms the U . S . Navy in the 1920s with his piloting prowess , rivaling ( but not alienating ) the Army in aviation power ; later , after suffering a spinal cord injury and a separation from his wife and children , Wead discovers an untapped talent for writing , becoming a successful screenwriter and playwright ! Ford bounces jovially from aerial slapstick to human drama to personal tragedy to wartime chaos , and , despite some bumps , keeps this biography lively and colorful . John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara , both of whom toss cigarettes and matches away with abandon , are reassuring as husband and wife , and though O'Hara's initial exit is perplexing , Ford's handling of the narrative doesn't jar us with unresolved feelings . The third act during WWII is just a jumble of patriotic scenes , but Wayne's expression at the finale is surprisingly genuine . He and Ford do Wead's incredible story justice . from
Clandestine passions well-presented but not altogether convincing . . .	Anthony Quinn is solid playing a sheep-farmer near Reno - - still grieving after the death of his beloved wife - - who marries his sister-in-law and brings her over from Italy . Vittorio Nino Novarese's story , which turns into a love-triangle after the new wife falls for the farmer's unofficially-adopted son , may have had some literary freshness . . . but on-screen the drama which slowly plays out looks like scraps from other pictures . The sheep-farm milieu is interesting if uncompelling , and certainly the brawling Italian family has been seen ( and heard ) before . The secretive lovers thread recalls Eugene O'Neill's " Desire Under the Elms " ( a 1930s play filmed one year after this picture ) , and although Anna Magnani and Anthony Franciosa give their all to their roles , the relationship between the new Mrs . and the ranch-hand doesn't quite convince . Franciosa has seldom been so rugged and handsome , but what exactly does this strapping young man see in this Old World , somewhat-forlorn lady who is trying to learn English and fit in with this family ? It's the missing piece to this puzzle which is never solved , and director George Cukor ( doing uncharacteristically unsubtle work ) bulldozes straight ahead without looking back . Good-looking melodrama with luscious scoring , some amusing family dynamics , but no intriguing ideas . from
Complex , well-acted , but not all that satisfying . . .	Intricate character study from director Hector Babenco involving the relationship between a gay movie-lover and a political prisoner serving time as inmates in a South American jail cell . Allegorical talk-fest won William Hurt an Oscar as the flamboyant Luis Molina , though Raul Julia is just as fine in his role and the art direction and cinematography are fabulous . Still , this story , infused with character-oriented drama , palls just before the final act , becoming too literal and confusing our feelings towards Molina . Leonard Schrader based his screenplay on the novel by Manuel Puig , and his layers of romantic / exotic fantasy atop the harsh realities of the central situation is exciting for any literate audience , yet the determination to ground this plot in a violent sweep leads to some dissatisfaction . Later the basis for a Broadway musical . from
American TV remake of Henri-Georges ' " Diabolique "	A tough schoolmaster ( Sam Waterston ? ? ) , who ignores his wife and beats up on his mistress , is killed by the two women who then dump his body into the private school's murky pool - - where it vanishes completely ! John Badham directed this television-adaptation of the French thriller " Diabolique " ( which was remade again in the US in 1996 starring Sharon Stone ) . It has graceful performances from Joan Hackett and Tuesday Weld , a convincing scenario , chilly atmospherics , but it has no heart - - it's just a workman-like exercise . Badham creates some tense moments , but he doesn't has fun toying with the audience the way a more darkly-humored filmmaker might , and his finale is disappointingly flat .
See it on video - - with one finger on the fast-forward button	For years I watched this movie on a personal videotape with all the dross edited out - - - most of which contains Don Novello ( aka Father Sarducci ) filling up time while Gilda Radner changes costumes backstage . Recently seeing the film " uncut " , I cannot begin to say how Novello drags this down . He is the worst kind of unfunny comedian , with smug , pothead observations about life stemming from the obviousness of the human condition and dated bits of politics which are no longer topical . Radner , on the other hand , is amazing in her sets : rarely frantic or desperate for laughs , she plows right through if a joke happens to bomb . If only Hollywood could've tapped into this bottle of unabashed energy and self-delight , we might've seen Gilda in some hot comedies . Her takes on Emily Litella and Roseanne Roseannadanna are outrageously funny , her timing so sweet when she sings " The Way We Were " as Lisa Loopner , her wit sharp but always tempered with love . She clearly was one-of-a-kind , proving that Hollywood does make mistakes - - one of them being its inability to turn this crowd-pleasing woman into a star . from
Yes , she's a revelation - - but she's the whole picture . . .	Charlize Theron as convicted murderess Aileen Wuornos . Intriguing true story becomes a fashion-staple's Oscar ticket , and for good reason : the speech , the mannerisms , the fierce stare , the bravado of a dead-end life on a ruinous road are all letter-perfect , and Theron's make-down gives our imagination just what it needs - - nothing over the top . I found however Christina Ricci , despite some strong early scenes , badly miscast as Wuornos ' bedfellow and partner in crime ( she's too young , of course , but she doesn't match up well with Theron , either in stature or in their acting styles - - and their love scenes are most uncomfortable ) . The film is slackly directed , with some of the power of the situations muffled by the editing . Scenes run on too long or not long enough , while a few of Theron's outbursts are not fully explored ( sure she's angry , and she's got a right to be , but in a job interview ? and why would Wuornos apply for secretarial jobs - - did she feel she was above warehouse or assembly-line work where she might have excelled ? ) . The overreaching finale misses the mark while striving for higher importance , and this is surely the fault of the director , but Theron manages to eke out a credible characterization , a performance that nearly overshadows big faults with " Monster " . from
Charmingly unconvincing	Jean Simmons never performed without vanity . Even here as a struggling sophisticate ( a schoolteacher who takes a part-time secretarial job in a " sleazy " nightclub run by guys named Tony and Rocco ) , Simmons is coiffed to the gills and everything about her breathes Park Avenue . This inconsequential drama-lite is peopled with lovable low-lifes and features a smoky but mostly scrubbed-clean hot-spot at its center , yet the energy and fake-pizazz may win you over . Paul Douglas and Tony Francisosa work well together as co-managers of the club , and Simmons ( nicknamed " Baby " ! ) is tolerable as the intellectual who improves their personalities . Good supporting cast includes Neile Adams ( looking like a cross between Carol Haney and a young Liza Minnelli ) as Joan Blondell's daughter , and Julie Wilson as a torchy singer who comes on like Patti Page . Robert Wise directed , under the usual MGM gloss . from
Transmits its message about ignorance very clearly , but it is still surface-pretty and shallow	Well-acted , but ultimately disappointing examination of morals in the 1950s , with a prominent married society couple torn apart by his need to cheat on her ( with men ) and her friendship with their black gardener . The scenes between Julianne Moore and Dennis Haysbert ( as the handsome groundskeeper ) are wonderfully captured , moving and lovely - - everything the scenes with Dennis Quaid are not . Quaid is not a bad actor , nor is he miscast here , but I do think his role is somewhat contemptible . The husband is shown not only to be a closet-case , but an obnoxious liar and alcoholic - - weak and crippling . His relationships with two other men in the film are barely touched upon . Is there some kind of movie-law against showing what is so attractive about two men in lust ? True , when the guys kissed , a teenage girl in the row behind me called out , " That's gross ! " ( making me wonder why some people even venture out of the house ) , but I do wish we might have gotten to see different sides to the husband ; as it is , he's just a closet jerk , and an anchor on this story . from
An ambitious , but ultimately dissatisfying paranoia thriller from Pakula . . .	Fascinating premise gets somewhat pretentious , lugubrious treatment from acclaimed director Alan J . Pakula . Conspiracy thriller has newspaper reporter Warren Beatty investigating years-old assassination of a U . S . Senator wherein witnesses to the shooting are all mysteriously dying . Beatty gives one of his better performances here , although the scene in which he defeats a taunting deputy in a bar is fairly absurd ( as is the sidebar involving a hick town built around a dam , which seems to be little more than a red herring ) . Gordon Willis ' arty cinematography is exasperating , although a shot early on of assassin Bill McKinney looking up at the Space Needle is chilling ; McKinney has few lines but suits his role well , as does Paula Prentiss in small part as a frantic ' next target ' . The much-discussed ' Parallax test ' ( a delineation on how innocent boyhood is corrupted by sex and violence at the expense of Mom and Country ) is handled with sledgehammer style , and the unhappy ending is too cynical to swallow whole . from
Intense western with good characterization , but a sour undermining . . .	Former cowboy-turned-rancher Randolph Scott loses his horse in a bet and hitches a ride back home with a private coach carrying the daughter of a wealthy businessman and her sniveling new husband ; of course they run afoul of bloodthirsty crooks who , upon learning of the woman's background , hold the travelers for ransom . Revered western director Budd Boetticher , working from a script by Burt Kennedy via Elmore Leonard's original story , creates great tension and excitement during the suspenseful final stages . Unfortunately , Boetticher and Kennedy get the picture off to an ugly start with the murder ( off screen ) of an innocent widower and his little boy - - and also a friendly coach driver - - their bodies ditched in a well . There is nothing more despicable than introducing characters simply as an excuse to have story-victims . . . and just because Boetticher doesn't show their killings doesn't make him more noble . These people never even get a chance to defend themselves , to fight back , and nobody mentions them again . Scott , alternately smiling and scowling , is a contemplative hero , and magnetic Richard Boone gets to display different shades to his gang-leader . Still , the film is unapologetic in the worst way ; it's brutal all right , but the indifference of the general handling is tough to shake off . from
Not as unctuous as you might think . . .	Debbie Reynolds plays a 17-year-old girl from the bayou who goes to stay with a friendly pilot ( Leslie Nielsen ) and his society folks after her grandfather gets thrown into jail . Corny , yet also surprisingly sensitive growing-pains comedy-drama is silly and trite mostly in retrospect . The film treats its protagonist and her emotions quite sympathetically and the film is sweet without being nauseating . Good support from Walter Brennan , Fay Wray , and the always fun Mildred Natwick . Followed by two sequels in 1961 and 1963 , with Sandra Dee taking over the role of Tammy , as well as a failed mid-'60's television series . from
Sensitive , well-wrought teen nostalgia with pathos . . . nicely-done of its type	Strict all-girl boarding school in 1955 Massachusetts is the setting for thoughtful , gentle , if familiar tale of two senior dorm roommates ( one tall and lovely , the other a flat-chested hoyden ) obsessed with boys and " doing it " for the first time . From " Blue Denim " in the 1950s to " Love With the Proper Stranger " in the ' 60s and " Racing With The Moon " in the ' 80s , it seems every generation gets a movie like this one ( usually set in the nostalgic past ) wherein sexual proclivities are often seen as life deterrents . Pamela Sue Martin doesn't have the range of a studied actress , yet her dryly engaged manner and mature , offhand observations ( mostly cynical ) make her an appealing screen presence . Betsy Slade , on the other hand , does seem studied , but this doesn't work for her wallflower character ( she's too world-weary , too ready to fall apart to really become embraceable ) . The film's ' 50s milieu is extremely well-judged , from the all-important ' mixer ' dance to the best mid-priced hotel , from the authentic cabs and cars to the desolate building of the nearest abortionist . Does the movie pack any more of a punch than your average TV drama covering this same territory ? Probably not , but it has a resonance that stays with one , even if the plot functions and characters have been utilized before , after , and since . from
Brilliant use of color and locales makes the whole thing look like a piece of candy . . .	Jules Dassin's film version of Eric Ambler's book " The Light of Day " seems more like a light-hearted variation of his French heist-drama " Rififi " from 1955 . A glamorous Greek thief and her Swiss lover concoct an ingenious plan to rob an emerald-studded dagger from the Topkapi Museum in Istanbul with help from a disparate group of colorful characters . Peter Ustinov received an Oscar nomination as a British con-artist in Turkey who is initially recruited by Turkish security to keep an eye on this raffish team ( he's wonderful ) . The film works mostly on a visual level , with a bravura use of color and editing to spike the story , though the script isn't as funny or witty as one might hope . The heist sequence is breathlessly intricate - - and what follows is also dandy - - yet there is a puzzling feeling of dissatisfaction which hangs over the end result . from
Fairly strong and involving for a television movie . . .	Jean Smart is a tower of strength as married mother of two who follows a hunch one afternoon and tracks her husband of 20 years to a hotel room - - where he's cozily wrapped in a white terrycloth robe and making chit-chat with a strapping man in a matching towel . His secret's out ! Of course this is all cliché by now , and some viewers will bemoan that fact and give up right there , but the TV film " A Change of Heart " addresses these issues with a lot of forceful emotion and realistic exchanges . There's hurt , and anger , and tears , but it doesn't sink into sap . The male lover isn't given any dimensions - - and seems to have a great home of his own , so why were they meeting in a hotel ? - - and the teenagers involved are tiresomely belligerent , but Jean Smart is the acting centerpiece here and she does the movie a world of good . Her speech to the board of directors where she and her husband work is flawlessly handled , and her bravura spirit at the end will give a lot of viewers hope . A good actress can do that .
Implausible but fast and exciting ; a good ride . . .	Dan Brown's bestseller had all the surprising twists and turns of a Sidney Sheldon novel - - add to that a plot concerning a secret sect of the Catholic Church involved in a conspiracy and a treasure hunt to the Holy Grail and you've got a pretty entertaining thriller . Ron Howard directs this adaptation fluidly ( it may be his best directing yet ) , however the opening moments involving a murder and some nasty self-flagellation are off-putting . Tom Hanks is very good as a famous writer and professor who lectures on the study of symbols as language ; he's pulled into a murder investigation in France and soon finds himself on the run with a French female officer who was the granddaughter of the victim . There's a bit of heavy exposition with the arrival of Ian McKellen as Sir Leigh Teabing , a learned acquaintance of Hanks who helps sort out the clues left by Audrey Tautou's grandfather . Jean Reno's police captain presents a different problem - - he's left too ambiguous without enough material . Otherwise , " Da Vinci " is a fast-paced game of wits topped with exciting flourishes and European travel . from
Patented ' wrong man ' plot becomes top-flight Hitchcock . . .	Screenwriters Peter Viertel , Joan Harrison , and ( of all people ) Dorothy Parker enable director Alfred Hitchcock to expound on what may have been his favorite movie theme : innocent man , wrongly fingered for crime , takes it on the lam . Hitchcock , who some credit with originating the story , engineers a great deal of suspense in plot about a warehouse worker blamed for the explosion which killed his best friend ; he sets out on journey to find the real culprit . Plenty of excitement on a grand-scale , with usually-colorless actors ( Priscilla Lane , Norman Lloyd , Alan Baxter ) doing surprisingly fine work . Even eternally-smug Robert Cummings gets into the proper spirit ! from
Often quite powerful . . .	Susan Sarandon is wonderful in Oscar-winning role as real-life Sister Helen Prejean , an opponent of the death penalty who stirred controversy for befriending a scurrilous killer on Death Row - - and finding his heart in the process . Writer-director Tim Robbins , obviously an opponent of the death penalty himself , lays on the life-in-prison propaganda pretty thick and some of his touches are uncomfortable or heavy-handed ( especially when killer becomes victim , crucified on the table ) ; however , Robbins handles the actors just right , especially real-life love Sarandon , who has seldom been shown to such an incredible advantage . The snappy repartee in the early part of the picture feels a little ' Hollywood ' , but Robbins enjoys a good verbal battle and nearly every sequence between Sarandon and Sean Penn is the stuff of powerful human drama . Based upon Sister Prejean's book , this is thoughtful , heady cinema . from
Remember those great ABC movies-of-the-week ? ?	Cold , unhappy Diana Muldaur schemes with young lover James Stacy to leave her overbearing husband stranded in the middle of the Mojave desert with a broken leg . Who of us cannot wonder : Could this happen to me ? Could I survive if it did ? Arthur Hill is the perfect chap for this rigorous acting workout : he's an Everyman , a survivor , and I sure wanted him to belt that broad when he had the chance . Muldaur made a career out of playing unlikable women , and yet I always admired her skill . Intelligent , glamorous , stylish with scarves in her red hair , I was never unconvinced by a performance she gave . I long for the days when ABC-TV produced classy , intriguing dramas for their prime-time spots . Whether it was Cloris Leachman in " Dying Room Only " , Amanda Blake being driven crazy in " Betrayal " , or conniving Stella Stevens in " Linda " , they were usually worth-watching . Bravo to " Ordeal " , another fine telefilm from the 1970s .
The squirreliest sister in South America !	A novice nun at Convent San Tanco has the Reverend Mother up in arms ; it seems she's so light that the winds pick up her starched habit and away she goes ! Fun TV-series , adapted from Tere Rios ' book " The Fifteenth Pelican " , has Sally Field basically reprising her " Gidget " character in nun regalia . Although she has said this show was embarrassing for her , Sally is very appealing teaching the local kids English and singing them their lessons ( oh yes , she was a Singing Nun too ! ) . Her rapport with the other sisters is warm and friendly , and each week the Reverend Mother learned to loosen up a bit . After the location-rich pilot episode , the series got a little bit stuck in a studio-bound rut , but the flying sequences are always handled with comic flair . A few dud episodes ( such as the one where the Reverend Mother and Field's Sister Bertrille changed personalities ) didn't dim the overall appeal of " The Flying Nun " , which was mostly blessed with fresh writing and a fast , smooth pace .
Very likable , but benign . . .	Coming-of-age piece set in small town America during WWII . Sean Penn has seldom been so youthfully exuberant and amiable playing a young working-class man about to go off to war , finding love for the first time with a sweet lass he presumes is wealthy ( " a Gatsby girl " ) . Richard Benjamin's direction is sensitive and breezy , and Elizabeth McGovern is a good romantic match for Penn ( though sometimes she talks down to him , like a big sister might ) . Nicolas Cage is also fine as Sean's goof-off buddy , yet the slim screenplay hasn't enough meat on its bones and the middle portion of the film goes around in circles . The period flavor has been captured with non-showy flair , and Penn's exceptional performance is winning , making the film a nearly-satisfying nostalgic drama . from
Excellent character study goes a little cockeyed near the end . . .	Dustin Hoffman is surprisingly serious , surprisingly gritty playing a recently paroled thief named Max Dembo who can't seem to straighten out his life . After meeting a new lady who is very supportive of him , Dembo reverts back to the only thing he really knows : robbery . Tough and vivid character study based on real-life convict Edward Bunker's novel " No Beast So Fierce " gives Hoffman a wonderful chance as an actor to stretch some technical muscles ( he hadn't been this focused in years ) . Ulu Grosbard's atmospheric direction aids in Hoffman's triumph , as well as some flavorful dialogue ( worked on by several writers ) . Theresa Russell is lovely as the smitten secretary in Max's life , supporting work from M . Emmet Walsh also good . The picture is marred by gaps of logic or credibility , not to mention by a tepid finale , but otherwise it's quite gripping . from
Shies away from treacle - - and Albert Sharpe is wonderful	Until " Mary Poppins " came along , I don't think Hollywood took Walt Disney seriously as a live-action movie producer . James Baskett got a special Oscar for " Song of the South " , as did Hayley Mills for " Pollyanna " , but a good many of the performances in Walt's early output deserved a more substantial recognition ( as with James Robertson Justice in " The Sword and the Rose " ) . Albert Sharpe is no exception . Playing storytelling oldster Darby O'Gill in this hit film , Sharpe is fabulous spinning tall tales in a quaint Irish village , capturing himself a real leprechaun and being rewarded with three wishes for setting the little guy free . Colorful outing - - better for adults than , say , " The Gnome Mobile " - - relying less on sugary sentiment and doting tots than on old-fashioned whimsy . Sean Connery has a nice romance with Janet Munro ( who is always a pleasure ) and the special effects , particularly near the end , are quite marvelous . from
Enlightenment without true love	Olive Higgins Prouty's novel becomes near-classic Bette Davis vehicle about a dowdy , unloved spinster in Boston who finds enlightenment through psychology ( and , naturally , a way to make herself more attractive through this newfound wisdom ) , but that true love still alludes her . Davis ' Charlotte Vale is one of her best celluloid creations : an impossibly patient , but incredibly aware and forthright woman who falls in love with a married man and realizes you have to be happy with what you've got , not for what lingers above . It's a classic piece of grand , romantic storytelling - - and yet with an ending that isn't quite so rosy . Charlotte's dreams are not completely delivered to her , but she has fulfillment within . It's a gusty soaper , yes , and it does take its time getting started ; however , director Irving Rapper turns out to be shrewd with his pacing , and the screenplay digs a bit deeper than most genre films of this era . Besides that , Davis is impeccable . from
A refreshing change from the John Hughes / " Breakfast Club " generation	A silky-smooth , vanilla-coated pleasure about matchmaking in modern-day high school . Far from the insufferable smugness of all those ' 80s teen-flicks , " Clueless " is bright - - in both senses of the word - - clever , funny , fanciful and yet grounded in reality ( a rich one ) . Alicia Silverstone is adorable , but the supporting cast is affable and seemingly carefully-picked ( they all get their share of funny lines and star-making scenes , particularly Dan Hedaya , superb as Silverstone's father ) . Seems more inspired by Jane Austen's " Emma " than based upon it , with a few mean-spirited lines but plenty of lightly innocent laugh-getters . from
Ironic , often incredible film about sex - - as a repression and as a freedom	French-Italy co-production , directed with tricky élan by Luis Buñuel , has Catherine Deneuve playing another frigid beauty , this one a wealthy doctor's wife who can't seem to get her married life off the ground ( after one year of marriage , she and her husband still sleep in separate beds ) . She fantasizes about sexual clinches , but seems to know little about what makes a man tick . After hearing about another woman who took up prostitution as a way to earn some quick money , Deneuve become obsessed with a local whorehouse ( actually , a rather quaint one , with a madame and only two other girls ) and gradually learns to dispel her repulsion of intimacy . It's a highly enjoyable journey to take part in , and Deneuve is often amazing in her role ( it's easily one of her finest performances ) . The film nimbly balances different moods and ironic passages with subtle flair , although in its latter stages a moralistic tone creeps into the story which I didn't care much for ( the filmmakers seem to be saying , " don't let this happen to you ! " ) . Still quite good , with a thoughtful climax and terrific work from the supporting players . from
Another slice of bittersweet melancholia from Paul Mazursky . . .	Robin Williams is excellent as a Russian circus performer in New York City with his troupe for the first time , deciding to defect and become a U . S . citizen . After appropriately dark , but heavy-handed opening , this comedy-drama from director Paul Mazursky suddenly finds its niche and seldom wavers . It appears from the earliest parts of the picture that Williams may be giving yet another of his overly-colorful , overly-cartoonish performances , but he too gets into the groove of this project and fleshes out this charming , confounding , complicated man ; Maria Conchita Alonso is also wonderful as the working girl who falls for him ( they have terrific chemistry , and Alonso has never been better ) . A fuzzy , friendly , thoughtful film , a bit too long but occasionally sublime . from
Watching the neighbors through the fence . . .	Writer-director Noah Baumbach's style is almost unlike anyone else's in the movies right now ; and , as both a writer and a director , he's amazingly compatible working both sides of his talent ( his dialogue is the music while his direction - - and the nimble editing - - provides the rhythm ) . A small group of erratic , confounding and humorously twisted family members are reunited at a prospective wedding in Long Island , with the estranged Margot ( Nicole Kidman ) behaving as sort of a ringleader to the inner-chaos ( she's not necessarily a reminder of old hurts , but she brings them up anyway , as if it's her duty ) . Baumbach allows his characters to tease and torment each other with quiet , yet unsubtle prodding , and the free-flowing scenes play out beautifully , just like music . If there is a downside to this style , it's that Baumbach can often be too knowing , and when a line or a performance is too clever it can appear forced . Jack Black was a wonderful choice for Malcolm , the unemployed , slacker-bridegroom who finds swimming pools disgusting and the thought of being famous too threatening because of the rejection involved ; however , Black is allowed too much time to find the humor in his slovenly character . He is perfect when he's made out to be the dupe or the target of girlfriend Jennifer Jason Leigh's frustrations , but when he tries to conform to Baumbach's image of Malcolm as an enraged clown , the affectation shows and we lose both the substance and the irony of this man ( we get more than we need - - and more than we already perceive to be there ) . Baumbach is also perhaps too brazen staging talks of a sexual nature between adults and children ; this works extremely well when the subject matter is touched on by just the younger people , but Margot's relationship with her pubescent son ( which Margot already accepts is too entwined ) skirts uncomfortable parameters which may be more amusing if the characters on-screen laughed a little too ( it's left too blasé ) . The movie is brittle but never coarse and seldom vulgar ; it has a great , wounded heart and very perceptive ears and eyes for passive-aggressive arguments and multi-layered misunderstandings . This family can't get over their neuroses because they don't see themselves as neurotic - - only each other , and the world . It's summed up nicely in a scene with Margot and her gift-bearing husband when she tells him , " I hate getting a present that I already have . . . It makes me feel like you don't really know me . " from
It's too bad Nick at Nite doesn't come up with a cable-channel for TV movies like this	Young people just discovering " Three's Company " from Nickelodeon would probably love to see the TV-movies the cast made during their summer hiatus ( Suzanne Somers played a nightclub singer in " Happily Ever After " , Joyce DeWitt played a prospective bride in " With This Ring " and John Ritter takes a dramatic leap here as a paraplegic ) . Casting Ritter as a wheelchair-bound horse-lover who finds love post-accident with none other than Carrie Fisher was a wild idea ( even in 1977 ) , but it pays off . It's a very sincere , heartfelt drama that surprises us not with its message but with the frank dialogue and nice chemistry . It would be very nice to see this one again . . . maybe Carrie Fisher has a copy ?
Deadly-earnest camp musical ; often deliriously enjoyable . . .	Ross Hunter's musical remake of the 1937 fantasy , based on James Hilton's enduring bestseller , was written off by critics and audiences almost immediately in 1973 , sounding off a backlash against musicals in general that gave the genre a bad reputation in Hollywood for years . Group of disparate British and American individuals end up on an emergency flight out of a war-torn Asian country , but their plane is hijacked and crashes in a snowy mountain terrain ; a rescue party arrives and leads the group to an isolated community called Shangri-La , where the sun is always shining and most of the residents are youthful and blissfully content . Some of the performances by the classy cast aren't so classy ( the effervescent mood of the piece , the lilting Burt Bacharach-Hal David tunes , as well as the lightweight direction all conspire to make the performers look just a bit silly ) . Peter Finch is the international peace keeper who becomes involved in a somewhat constipated romance with resident Liv Ullmann ; Sally Kellerman is a malcontent who spits out lines like , " I got tired of taking pictures of people with their heads blown off , so that people with their heads STILL ON - - and usually under hairdryers - - could get one last kick before turning to the latest recipe " ; John Gieguld " as Chang " , an Asian who learned to speak English while attending Oxford , is humorously self-amused ( but why no songs for Chang ? ) . Hal David's dopey lyrics are sometimes jaw-dropping ( " On the Good Ship Lollipop / how did Christopher Columbus / sail across the sea ? " ) and the pacing gets bogged down with all that chatter about the outside world and how nothing is more pitiful today . However , the production is lush and the general handling strangely affecting . The two-dimensional characters are so overly serious they actually become endearing , and the movie's silliness is infectious . It ends up being a lot of fun . from
Orphaned Annette vs . the rich teen set . . .	Walt Disney was always big on stories about orphaned kids and their predicaments ; here , it's Annette Funicello's turn , playing Nebraskan farm girl Annette McCleoud , who must go to live with her aunt and uncle in Small Town , U . S . A . after a family tragedy , immediately pitted against the wealthy teenage clique who tend to look down on her rural past . Appealing TV serial ( adapted from Janette Sebring Lowrey's 1950 book " Margaret " ) from the third and final year of " The Mickey Mouse Club " , running 19 installments total and utilizing break-out star Funicello to good advantage ( she's sweet and simple , sympathetic and not sappy ) . After making her first dress-up appearance at a teen party , Annette's understated elegance brings out the green-eyed demon in Laura Rogan , the town's slickest chick and ringleader . Rogan , played by Roberta " Jymme " Shore , is downright evil , dumping food on Annette and making fun of her singing . At one point , Annette decides to leave the shindig alone ( with the viewer completely on her side ) , but she sticks it out and tries having fun - - only to have Shore's Laura accuse her of stealing her necklace ! Why the other girls don't stand up to Laura is left a little vague , but she's quite the temptress while ordering the ducktailed boys around at whim . Not exactly high drama - - teenage or otherwise - - but convincingly played by a talented group of kids , which includes " Spin and Marty " themselves , Tim Considine and David Stollery , as well as Shelley Fabares pre - " The Donna Reed Show " . Fun stuff from the Disney vaults !
A predictable comedic triumph for Peter Sellers . . .	Side-splitting fracas has fictional European country , the Duchy of Grand Fenwick ( billed as " the smallest country in the world " ) facing a financial crisis after the United States takes over their main export : wine . Hoping to derive sympathy bonds for their efforts , the powers that be declare war on the U . S . , but things don't go as planned . Wonderful British film put Peter Sellers on the map Stateside , and deservedly so ( he's terrific in three different roles , one in drag as Grand Fenwick's bosomy Duchess ) . Jean Seberg also good as a love interest . Clever , amusing picture runs a little too long but is nevertheless a high time . from
Terse , hard-bitten microcosm of America , exposing its lack of morals and ethics	New Mexico man , searching through an old mine for Indian artifacts , is trapped after the floors caves in ; by chance , an over-zealous reporter from Albuquerque is in the area , hungry for a story that will get him out of the hick towns and back to New York City . An exceptionally well-written , embittered , not-happy black comedy littered with greedy men and women lusting for power . Kirk Douglas plays the reporter with nasty , snarling machismo ; he's so well-attuned to his lines that when he spits the words out , they really do sound like his own . The supporting players are interesting but uneven , ranging from peculiar ( Jan Sterling , as the trapped man's soulless wife , who acts like a gangster's moll right out of a film noir ) , to very good ( Richard Benedict as Leo and Ray Teal as the sheriff ) , to downright awful ( Richard Gaines as the New York Daily News editor , whose ranting and raving over the telephone would be funny if it weren't so pitiful ) . The movie makes no promises to finish up smelling like a rose , and director / co-screenwriter Billy Wilder seems to relish this opportunity to make American tourists look like hucksters and scavengers , but Douglas ' pontificating near the climax is a drag , with the irony of the situation substituted by melodrama . A failure for Wilder in ' 51 ( probably due to that dreadful title , which was quickly changed to " The Big Carnival " ) , it is now considered a cult classic . from
Polite and well-heeled melodrama . . . and surprisingly quite enjoyable	Provincial University professor from England chances to meet his diabolical , selfish twin while on vacation in Paris . Daphne Du Maurier's novel gets a highly polished screen-treatment , with star Alec Guinness very fine in the dual role , the split-screen photography and editing pulled off with skill . After being tricked into assuming the French nobleman's eccentric life , the teacher finds himself settling well into this new role as a business tycoon and family man - - until his glinty-eyed look-alike returns . Bette Davis has a small but important , amusing role as a dowager Countess , and there's also a wreck of a wife , a wise little girl , a loyal chauffeur , and an Italian mistress . Gore Vidal worked on the adaptation , and the literate script is absorbing yet constricting for the teacher-character ( he can only attempt to explain so much without throwing the whole plot off-course ) . There's a lot of talk in the early stages that the Count is delusional and perhaps schizophrenic , all of which is quickly dropped once the teacher assumes his life . Still , it's a smartly-planned movie , one without hysterics or false dramatics . Guinness seems a bit uncomfortable at times , though this may have been intentional and is acceptable behavior here . A very entertaining film with some weak or disappointing passages , but just as many adept ones and a satisfying finish . from
Featherweight dark comedy about a sexy bloodsucker , though exceptionally well-done	John Landis is not the type of director who goes for any deeper meaning in his films outside of the occasional well-staged car chase in heavy traffic ; however , this time , working with Michael Wolk's first-rate screenplay , he excels in narrative as well as in visual form . An undercover cop in Pittsburgh , posing as a thief for the Mob , becomes attracted to the scintillating French woman who is hellbent on killing kingpin Robert Loggia ( seems she's a bloodsucker by night - - and forgot to " finish the food " the evening she put the bite on Loggia's Sal the Shark ! ) . Not terribly bright , but full of puckish black humor and one exciting , masterfully staged sequence after another . And when things calm down a bit , as with the motel sequence between hot twosome Anne Parillaud and Anthony LaPaglia , Landis is adept at smoothly changing the movie's rhythm . It's an impressive , gory , foul-mouthed , yet adrenalized and satirical piece of work , Landis ' best . from
Mechanically engineered for scares	Young daughter of a famous actress demonstrates such strange , violently self-inflicted behavior that her mother is eventually told about the Catholic practice of Exorcism . Some audiences start giggling during " The Exorcist " right about the time Linda Blair's bed starts shaking , an understandable response since the film's shocks are occasionally outlandish , and the possessed girl's mother curses as much as the demon ! The film is intense ( sometimes glumly or heavily so ) and also very scary ( battering the viewer with graphic obscenities ) , yet there is art in the way director William Friedkin shaped William Peter Blatty's story , and many scenes are now classics : a haunting shot of Regan's scarred face overlapping the arrival of Father Merrin ; Regan being promised a nice day out on her birthday , instead overhearing her mom on the phone trying to contact the estranged father , telling the secretary , " He doesn't give a st ! " " The Exorcist " is definitely a horror movie , but it's also a psychological suspense story ; if viewers do laugh at the freaky moments , that's because the shocks are engineered mechanically - - they provoke either fright or nervous laughter ( and in a crowded movie-house , reactions can go either way ) . The extra scenes included on " The Version You've Never Seen " were long overdue , however they do not add nor detract from the original product ( although I found the " ghostly apparitions " a distraction ) . The expanded ending is fun for those who know the original by heart , but for the uninitiated viewer I would stick with the ' 73 goods . from
Gorgeously designed showcase for Gene Kelly , who is better than usual . . .	Though rightfully regarded as one of the top musical-comedy talents of the 1940s and ' 50s , Gene Kelly's performances as an actor never get much notice - - and that's because as an actor he makes a terrific dancer . Partly due to his insistence on playing much the same role over and over again ( sort of an overripe , adult Andy Hardy , always on the make and always expressing it grandly ) , Kelly is rather hard to take seriously when a girl breaks his heart . Although his whispered vocals just pass muster in the song department , Kelly's skill as a choreographer and his uncanny and graceful abilities as a hoofer are faultless . Here he's a former soldier in post-WWII Paris who is hoping to gain attention for his artistic abilities ; a rich benefactor ( Nina Foch ) seems to want romance in exchange for helping him along , but Kelly's heart belongs to a French salesgirl ( Leslie Caron , in a sparkling debut ) . The plot-thread with Foch never satisfies because nobody's heart was in it ( not director Vincente Minnelli's , nor Kelly's ) , and I was feeling more for her than I was probably supposed to . Still , the George and Ira Gershwin songs are used to great effect ( except " I'll Build a Stairway to Paradise " , shoehorned in along with a lighted staircase ) and the closing ballet is eye-candy in motion . Some of Gene's extreme close-ups are quite breathtaking ( he can be charming when he wants to be ) , but one senses that both he and Minnelli were out to bowl us over with razzle-dazzle , and that doesn't leave much room for real substance . from
Surprisingly pointed , surprisingly funny black comedy . . .	Katharine Hepburn in a Cannon production ? Yes , and though the color process on the photography is typically brackish and the technical aspects of " Grace Quigley " seem slapdash , this turns out to be a quirky , exceptionally funny piece about a hit-man's friendship with an elderly woman in New York . Reportedly , Hepburn and Nick Nolte clashed during filming , but you'd never suspect that from the finished returns ( they have an easy rapport ) . The crux of the plot ( that aged folks would rather die mercifully at the hands of a hired killer then live in loneliness or pain ) was controversial in 1984 - - and still smacks of bad taste - - yet director Anthony Harvey keeps the whole thing bubbling like the most genial of comedies . As for Kate , she's feisty as usual , but also delightfully daffy and loose ; she's a team player . from
Harrowing look at persecution	The golden days of decadent Berlin , Germany came to a bloody halt when Hitler's regime took over in the early 1930s and gay men were brought down by simple innuendo and gossip ( lesbianism was considered curable , but homosexuality was " catching " ) . Early talk of homosexuality in Hitler's ranks precipitated the reinsertion of Paragraph 175 , an old anti-sodomy law from the late 1800s , and gays were branded with the lowly Pink Triangle . Forceful documentary on a little talked-about chapter of history has just a handful of elderly witnesses but a superlative presentation of personally-shot footage mixed with telling photographs . Some of the recollections are haunting ; the doomed come back to life in these harrowing stories . from
Strange , strange , strange . . .	Truly bizarre mix of elements : character study , romance , crime melodrama , and action flick . Terrifically filmed on vivid Los Angeles locales by a French director and crew , story follows foreign hit-man on assignment in L . A . being tracked down and targeted for death . Some of the characters here are delicious : Jean-Louis Trintigant is super-cool as the French gunman , Ann-Margret sad and desperate as an old flame , Georgia Engel wonderful as an innocent housewife who somehow manages to get involved ( her comments to the press are priceless ) . This is an exceptionally subtle thriller , less frenetic than most American pictures in the crime genre , with emphasis on character detail and emotion . Unusual and worth-watching . Often shown on cable as " The Outside Man " . from
A dance with Death . . .	Bob Fosse's autobiographical look at his life , with Roy Scheider fabulously standing-in for Fosse as Joe Gideon , pill-popping , womanizing director-choreographer on the verge of collapse in New York City . Fosse paints himself as suspicious , paranoid , driven , indifferent , exhausted and horny . It's more than most of us want to know about the guy , who seems intent on showing us what a creep he is . . . but a talented creep ! It's a film that doesn't particularly look good ( it's a gray , chilly movie ) , but it has amazing musical flourishes and the self-styled bombast is actually rather amusing once you get the idea . Jessica Lange is beautiful in an early role as the Angel of Death ( imagine Fosse explaining that role to her ! ) , and Scheider's performance is really something to see ( only occasionally does the camera catch him not knowing what to do ) . Fosse tries hard not to be pretentious , he keeps things playful and perky , and his ironic ending is wincingly funny . The film is alive and ticking - - but that's not Fosse's heart , it's a time bomb . from
" I never make love on an empty stomach . . . "	Smashing suspense-thriller from director Alfred Hitchcock stars Cary Grant as an ordinary Madison Avenue businessman who is falsely accused of being a spy and a killer , jetting all over the States to solve the tangled mystery . Even when covered with crop-dust , Grant always appears dapper and dry-as-a-martini ; both he and this classy adventure hold up extremely well , with Master of Suspense Hitchcock keenly using the patented " wrong man " plot just up to a point . With its amusingly inconsequential title , the screenplay is taut yet clever and droll , and the supporting cast ( including James Mason as an icily controlled villain and Martin Landau as a faintly fey henchman ) does some fabulous work . Even Eva Marie Saint seems to relax here ( she's quite sexy and saucy ; her best line - - an early one aboard the train about making love on an empty stomach - - got dubbed over , which hopefully will be corrected someday ) . Hitch keeps it all snappy and running smoothly , done with a wink and some sly innuendo . from
Rossellini knows her bugs !	Isabella Rossellini wrote ( or co-wrote ) , co-produced , directed ( or co-directed ) , and stars in these cheeky mini-films describing the sex lives of eight garden variety insects . " There's nothing porno about it , " Rossellini says in the promotional introduction , " It's just fun ! " And so it is , with Isabella donning foam , rubber , and latex costumes to become the bug-of-the-moment ( usually , she's in the guise of the male insect , as they are seemingly always the aggressors ) . The eight shorts together total about fifteen minutes of screen-time - - too brief , actually , to delve into the questions we end up having which arise from the mind-boggling situations on display . The segment on Bees ( which has a perverted bent worthy of David Lynch ) tells us the fertilized but sterile female bees born from the Queen do all the hard work , while the male Drones wait around to mate ( they fight each other for the available female , only to get their bee-penis stuck in their partner like a cork in a bottle ) . The snail turns out be a sexual sadomasochist who later curls up in his shell with his anus up against his head ( why didn't they teach us these things in school ? ) . The Praying Mantis male has it the worst however , and this is where Rossellini's apparently morbid sense of humor takes hold ; she delights in the insect carnage , and her beautifully precise diction carefully highlights the shock words for their utmost effect . Although each episode is colorfully designed and informative - - and our hostess is a stitch in every one - - some of the segments are too short to really do justice to the subject ( particularly the Dragon Fly and the Firefly , which clock in at less than two minutes a piece ) . Rossellini's genuine interest is so infectious , one is alternately tickled , amusingly disgusted , enlightened , but left wanting more .
Bitchy , funny , surprisingly telling . . .	Nancy Sinatra playing Las Vegas in 1973 , headlining at the Riviera to a VERY quiet , stony audience , but giving it all she's got . Filmed by a Swedish crew for television ( I assume ) , this forgotten special is more than a showcase for our Boots : it's a very telling tale about pop stars , the Vegas scene in the ' 70s , the grind of performing to unenthusiastic comers , and the indifference which is liable to set in on both sides if the chemistry isn't right . Sinatra is very charming , bitching in the hotel room later about the unappreciative audiences , and Lee Hazlewood is sweet and low-key as her co-star ( when she stumbles a little off-stage , he remarks , " Got a hitch in yer get-along ? You're not as young as you used to be . " ) . It's a wonderful glimpse into the not-so-distant past .
" No matter what I want . . . God always has a custard pie up His sleeve . "	Marvelous film , an extension of the British kitchen-sink dramas from earlier in the decade ( but with a friskier spirit ) , introduced audiences to Vanessa Redgrave's kid sister , Lynn ( in an Oscar-nominated performance ) . She's Georgina , a too-tall , plain and frumpy , kissless clown , a nursery school teacher who plays second-fiddle to her more beautiful flat-mate - - and harbors a crush on her pal's sexy boyfriend in the bargain . While dodging the advances of her father's wealthy employer , Georgina also serves as nursemaid to her roommate when she becomes pregnant , never dreaming of the circumstances to follow . From Margaret Forster's novel , which she co-adapted with Peter Nichols , the film is visually alive , stylish and skittering about with " free and easy " abandon ( yet with moral choices and a sobering heart at its center ) . Redgrave is nothing short of fabulous here ; her " Georgy " is often slumped over sulking , an easy mark with little sense of humor - - she's either completely inflexible or terribly over-eager . The writing is so clever and enticing for everyone on-screen that the supporting characters tend to upstage Redgrave ( and , indeed , her moods are exasperating near the end ) , but Lynn is a wonderful presence . Also excellent : Charlotte Rampling as pregnant Meredith ( who gets the film's most viciously funny lines ) , Alan Bates as her devilish lover , and James Mason as the older man who is the first to harbor a fancy for our heroine . A delightful bit of comedy-drama , one of the few from this era not to use ' mod ' touches to set the time and place . It is as fresh and breezy today as in 1966 . from
Sentimental tale with an uncompromising ending . . .	A touching story told with tenderness : awkward young Jewish girl in WWII America befriends an escaped Nazi POW who is hiding out in her clubhouse . They discuss their lives , she sneaks him food , he becomes her only friend and ally . All this reminded me of the much-better theatrical film " Whistle Down The Wind " , where Hayley Mills befriends convict Alan Bates , but you certainly can't fault the direction here , which is smooth , or the performances , which are sterling . Mature in her pre-teen years , Kristy McNichol carries most of the picture and never hits a false note . Suddenly , when the prisoner is discovered ( and Kristy is found out as well ) , the movie gets very tough . Her father , shocked and ashamed that his child would consort with a Nazi , lays into her with a quiet fury I have seldom seen before ( he tells her " You are dead to me , " which must be devastating for a little girl to hear ) . The final scenes don't cop out : there are no big reunions , no holding hands . The girl has to face the world , and in doing so learns a cynical lesson about neighbors , friends , and family . A startling film . from
Chic , but somewhat enervated caper comedy . . .	Jaunty star-driven fare makes for fun , colorful entertainment in a low-key ( if you're not too demanding ) . Audrey Hepburn ( lovely as always ) attempts to get her art-forging father out of trouble , hitching up with crafty Peter O'Toole to steal back a phony antique out of the art museum . Handsome production , fine supporting cast including scene-stealers Hugh Griffith , Jacques Marin , and wily Eli Wallach , but not many big laughs . O'Toole cooks up an ingenious plan once he and Audrey are inside the museum , and the pacing picks up considerably from there , though it does take a while . Hepburn , at her most " mod " , glides through a bit passively , although she and O'Toole turn out to be a surprisingly good screen match-up , creating sly , suave chemistry . from
Not just a dramatization of real events , but a romanticized portrait of crime . . .	In the 1950's , a quiet but quick-thinking young man who postures like James Dean stirs up trouble for a simple young girl living with her father ; he eventually takes her on a journey across several states by car , leaving dead bodies in their wake . Dreamy , somewhat vacuous ( and intentionally so ) drama by debuting director Terrence Malick was based on a real-life case , one which probably bears no resemblance to this film . The two main characters aren't shaped : they're blobby malcontents who don't even have a plan , they go where the wind takes them . There's a surge of excitement in their initial escape , and the two are viewed as romantic misfits even though there's not much romance between them . This was obviously exactly what Malick intended , but the viewer can't really get a grip on this story ; it's shapeless and blobby too . The low-keyed action and ( amusingly ) droning narration by Sissy Spacek makes the whole thing seem like a non-event , and yet the performances by Martin Sheen and Spacek are highly controlled and interesting . We're probably not meant to be moved by either of these two , but Sheen's joshing confrontation with some officers is incredibly bracing , and his acting in general is raw without ever seeming showy or amateurish . The background score ( with a theme that sounds like jewelry box music that keeps getting louder and stronger ) is evocative and spooky , and the film's ambiance is intriguing - - but neither makes the film very compelling or memorable . The loose narrative slips in and around what we're seeing , as if there wasn't a proper script , and the impression is that the filmmaker was relying strictly on externals . from
The ghosts of Hollywood's ravaged past . . .	Hack screenwriter chances upon mansion of a faded Hollywood silent screen star who ' hires ' him to ghost-write her return project " Salome " , but who really wants him for her lover . Poor Norma Desmond : she's 50 years old and over the hill ! Literate , but queasy black comedy has a great script but creeps its way to the depressingly inevitable . Majestic performances , the palpable taste of old-time cigarettes and the smell of rosy perfume hanging in the air permeates this incredible Billy Wilder film , yet the deeper it crawls into its dark corner , the more repulsive it all seems . It can easily be called a masterpiece , but is it an entertaining movie ? Great to see Hollywood circa 1950 , with Schwab's Drug Store still there , but it's sad to think that even in 1950 , stars were being discarded , the new and the better were taking their place , and even a star like Norma Desmond couldn't get a picture made . Thank goodness she had those oilwells in Bakersfield ( " pumping . . . pumping " ) . There's a lesson to be learned from the film : invest ! from
Thoughtful and poignant , not a downer . . .	Writer-director Randal Kleiser does very nice , fluid work with this moving hybrid of " The Boys in the Band " and " ' Night , Mother " . When an upwardly-mobile gay man in Southern California gets a dreaded HIV-positive diagnosis , it helps to end the relationship he had with his lover ; one year later , the two men find themselves reunited after the infected one discovers he has lesions on his brain and decides to throw a farewell party for himself before committing suicide . Movies about big noisy parties rarely work , but Kleiser's accuracy in capturing this ( not all gay ) eclectic group of family and friends has a great deal of heart and sentiment ( and only a little of the requisite bitchy melodrama ) . A wonderfully odd gathering of celebrities and character-actors pop up in roles , but the leads ( Eric Roberts and Gregory Harrison ) are the most surprising : with the help of astute editing , they are able to create a rapport that genuinely seems heartfelt and real , and Roberts in particular does some of his best work ever . from
Strange , fascinating drama continually eludes viewer perceptions	Just when you think you've got a handle on this picture , it tosses in a curveball . Flirtatious Jane Fonda , married ( but bored ) to an older millionaire , has a tricky relationship with her 20-ish stepson which leads to a steamy secret affair . Director Roger Vadim shows off an amusingly twisted sense of humor ( odd for a director who , with " Barbarella " two years later , showed no sense of humor at all ! ) ; Fonda , at the time Mrs . Vadim , has a marvelous , wicked gleam in her eyes - - she's determined to have not just her slice of the cake but the entire dessert ! There are problems here , but only minor ones : the voice-dubbing of the actor portraying Fonda's husband is bad ( he sounds like Thurl Ravenscroft , the ride-narrator at Disneyland ) and the role itself is sketchy - - he schemes on the side , off-camera , so we only see the results . Also , the background music is a tiny bit excruciating and repetitive . But Fonda and Peter McEnery ( as the handsome kid she becomes obsessed over ) are first-rate , as is the chilling ending . A most peculiar concoction , multi-layered and often devastating , with terrific production design , art direction ( with subtle mod overtones ) and cinematography . Well worth-seeing for grown-up audiences . from
Spirited , if minor	Disney animators ( along with Donald Duck ! ) tour South America to soak up new cartoon ideas . This long-unseen Disney item is full of color and music , but is obviously a holding-pattern release for the company . I saw it on video with the additional 20-minute documentary regaling more of the non-animated adventures , and this is quite entertaining . Never too popular with the kids , probably because a major cartoon segment involving Pedro the Airplane isn't very funny and lacks the local flavor . Otherwise , some visually dazzling bits , but not as good as the similar 1945 release , " The Three Caballeros " .
" K-i-s-s o-f-f ! "	Ostensibly a mindless , flashy car-chase - & - crash B-flick has all the usual drive-in elements , but there's more going on here than at first appears . Two NASCAR enthusiasts , needing to buy a new entry vehicle , concoct an elaborate plan to rob a grocery store ; Larry is the talent behind the wheel , Deke is the contemplative brains of the outfit . Soon they're saddled with good-time girl Mary , stubborn and sassy , who proves her mettle on a wild ride getting out of town . From Richard Unekis ' book " The Chase " , with a plot that is exactly that , yet the script by Leigh Chapman and Antonio Santean is surprisingly funny and literate and John Hough's direction is exceptionally tight with very little nonsense . Peter Fonda is appropriately manic , loose and shaggy , and Susan George has fun playing low-class ( she has a tough time camouflaging her British accent , but it passes ) ; every time Mary uses her brains , it provides more shading and substance in the character . Adam Roarke is a revelation as accomplice Deke , a sensitive , complicated man with heart and soul ; he's not above larceny - - he even masterminds it - - but he's a thinker , and a realist . This film should have broken Roarke as a star in Hollywood , he is incredibly good . Vic Morrow has the standard role of the lawman on the trio's trail ( he plays cat-and-mouse with them , and vice-versa , which is routine ) and it's nice to see Roddy McDowall in a non-hysterical role as the supermarket manager . The chases are terrifically charged with adrenaline and excitement , and while the character animosities are trivial , the movie is stylish and wire-drawn . Apparently a big hit with Quentin Tarantino , who used a film-clip in his " Jackie Brown " ( and adopted this picture's violent , jokey tone as well ) . Good show : from
First-half is great , but it loses its impetus and steam . . .	Three elderly friends concoct a scheme to rob a bank . . . but what will they do with all that money ? Although bank robbery is hardly endearing , director Martin Brest ( doing very nimble work ) glosses over the extremities and gives us George Burns , Art Carney and Lee Strasberg at their most amiable . Brest isn't afraid to be tender , but he's not maudlin and has a good sense of humor and pacing . Unfortunately the script loses steam in the second-half , which gets gummed up with much realer issues and plot-snags ( the weakest of which is Carney's trip to Las Vegas ) . However , up to that point , surprisingly good , with the three leads impeccably interacting . from
Fawcett is good , though maybe too tough and resilient to be convincing as a battered wife	Farrah Fawcett works very hard here at making herself willowy and one-dimensional - - helpless , in other words - - but one can sense right away she's a tough cookie . The deep growl in her voice , the ire in her manner when she gets angry . Portraying a battered wife in " The Burning Bed " , Fawcett is holding herself back so we will more easily understand the plight of this abused woman with no resources , but it isn't always convincing ( and I'm not sure who was responsible for talking Farrah into looking so drab - - I'm sure there are lovely women who are victims of marital abuse ) . Nevertheless , this TV-film is a no-nonsense take on the subject and the flaws can be overlooked . The jazz score is incredible , the kids are very natural , Grace Zabriskie is perfectly hissable as Paul LeMat's mother . LeMat , playing Fawcett's drunken , explosive husband , is effective , but I still think a woman of Farrah's stature could have stood up to him . I believed her much more as the unbalanced child-killer of " Small Sacrifices " than I did her here .
Very touching	Young British working-class newlyweds are having trouble consummating their marriage whilst living with the in-laws , and it gets even worse when neighbors start speculating about the groom's " performance " . A realistic play on a modern-day situation that is still timeless . The elders in this film are especially amazing , their roles full of dimension , though everyone here excels with the solid , no-frills screenplay . This is one of Hayley Mills ' best movies , as she exhibits a strong , self-assured presence and lends nuances to every scene ( she's captivating ) . Paul McCartney contributed the background score , and his main theme is lovely . A fine film . from
" You remind me of a girl nicknamed The Sphynx . " . . . " Are you partial to girls made out of stone ? "	Cheeky , compact crime-drama in an exotic locale off the southern coast of China . Former Army Lieutenant Robert Mitchum , on the run from the law , winds up in the gambling and jewel-smuggling town of Macao without his wallet - - seems pack-up-and-go lounge singer Jane Russell has fleeced him on the boat coming over from Hong Kong ! Luckily , Mitchum becomes friendly with ' salesman ' William Bendix , who is actually working to bring in the crime boss responsible for the death of an international police officer . Very tight and entertaining piece doesn't waste any time getting started . Some of the sloppy editing in the early stages fails to shape the scenes , but director Josef von Sternberg makes up for this with quick pacing and colorful asides . As for Russell , she's a stitch either working some very sarcastic dialogue or warbling seductive tunes down at the local gambling house . Gloria Grahame , as the boss's girl , wants Jane outta town fast - - and it's easy to see why ! from
Taut little B-movie	Slimly-plotted but handsomely-produced second-biller about an escaped leopard in a small dirt town in New Mexico apparently the cause behind several deaths . . . or is it ? Intriguing premise given stylish film-noir treatment . Performances are solid , and Jacques Tourneur's crafty direction lets you see just enough before fading to black . Val Lewton produced , and he gives the proceedings his customary spooky polish . Film tails off near the end , but is still a minor gem . Fantastically atmospheric and fun . Based on the book " Black Alibi " by Cornell Woolrich . from
" Tobacco Road " redux	Erskine Caldwell's two most popular books ( " Tobacco Road " and " God's Little Acre " ) were both made into controversial films , but John Ford's 1941 film-adaptation of " Tobacco Road " made it to the screen with memorably eccentric characters and smoothly segued from absurdity to pathos . Anthony Mann's work on " God's Little Acre " is appropriately uneven ( that's Caldwell's tone after all ) but the switch from ridiculousness to high drama is fitful here and doesn't come off . That's not the fault of the performers , however . Robert Ryan makes a big effort to be loose as patriarch of a Georgia dirt-farm family looking for buried gold on his land , Jack Lord and Vic Morrow are fine as his sons , Tina Louise is torrid as his daughter-in-law who is not-so-secretly in love with unemployed factory worker Aldo Ray . Ray's desperate , lusty character is really the hero of this story ( and with his big hairy arms , Ray is more than adept at taking on all comers ) , but the pacing is slow and a sub-plot about an albino youngster ( Michael Landon ! ) doesn't lead anywhere . The picture is all over the place , but only when it settles into a tight , melodramatic groove near the end does it take on some meaning . For the first hour , " God's Little Acre " is a big , empty hole . from
Not a great movie partner for " Sleeping Beauty " , but beautiful in its own way . . .	Academy Award-winning short subject was the movie prelude for many of the early showings of Walt Disney's " Sleeping Beauty " in 1959 - - and while the two pictures could not be further apart in subject matter , each includes the sweep and spectral beauty ( one live action , one animated ) courtesy of the Disney Studio . I'm not sure whether Ferde Grofe's music suite was inspired by the sights of the Grand Canyon or whether the footage here inspired Grofe , but either way the pieces are lovely ( grand in their own right ) . The first section , introducing us to the mountains and valleys of Arizona ( with clouds hanging low in the sky , casting deep , dark shadows on the desert below ) , is certainly the best . The waters of the Colorado River are hypnotizing to watch ( the intricate culmination of rage and steady flow of the Colorado puts on a show for us all by itself , and the camera-work and editing here are superlative ) . The wilderness footage is reminiscent of Disney's True-Life Adventure films , however this portion - - albeit brief - - may have been handled with more care ( there's some ' funny ' music to accompany a snake slithering up a hill , but the tone of " Grand Canyon " is surprisingly solemn ) . On the big screen in 1959 , this must have looked ( and sounded ) majestic and prestigious - - no wonder it copped the Oscar , it probably dwarfed the competition . from
" Christine Parker , hardened criminal . . . "	Disturbing , controversial NBC TV-movie , one of the most popular television-made dramas from the 1970s ( regularly shown right into the ' 80s ) has young Linda Blair fresh off " The Exorcist " and well-cast as a teen runaway facing hard time in a girls reform school . Gritty , documentary-like production filmed on a low-budget in New Mexico has ( intentionally ? ) fuzzy sound and photography which may put some viewers off . The performances by the troubled girls , including Blair , are natural and compelling ; Joanna Miles ( a Carrie Snodgress look-alike ) is sympathetic as a well-meaning teacher ; Allyn Ann McLerie does a bravura dramatic turn in a clichéd part as a hardened housemother . The film's downbeat theme can be disheartening and difficult as an entertainment , but there are sensitive and moving sequences , and Fred Karlin contributes an evocative score . The sequence with Blair being raped by a group of girls using a toilet-brush handle caused so much controversy after its initial airing that the scene was dropped for the repeat ( intact on DVD ) . Blair followed this up with a handful of other television stunners , and gained confidence as an actress with each one .
Moments of spare , quiet beauty . . .	Spellbindingly pretty tale of a young boy and an Arabian horse becoming ' friends ' while shipwrecked on a deserted island . Once they are rescued , the boy attempts to keep the animal as a pet , but the Stallion is more comfortable on the racetrack . Although Mickey Rooney gives one of his very finest performances as the congenial horse-trainer who takes the kid under his wing , the picture changes focus in the second-half and never quite lives up to its early magic . At a lengthy two hours , the movie does cross the finish line all right , but we don't care as much about the horse-racing stuff as we do for the characters ( human and animal ) involved . The youngster is played by newcomer Kelly Reno , who is charmingly low-keyed ( much like Henry Thomas in " E . T . " ) and wise without being precocious ; Teri Garr has a thankless role as Reno's mother , but it's still nice just having her around . Rooney deserved his Oscar nomination for completely inhabiting and enlivening an otherwise clichéd role . from
Idolizing Hoss . . .	Ross Martin guests as an Italian immigrant and single father making his way from San Francisco to New York City in order to finance his young son's gift for the classical guitar ; the two stop off in Virginia City to find temporary work and raise the ire of a couple of roughnecks who seem to have no course of business other than being bullies . This was a common thread in the " Bonanza " stories : innocents challenged by lawless brutes , with the Cartwrights involved for moral ( and sometimes financial and physical ) support . Here , it's Hoss and Adam who bring the father and son back to the ranch to cook and entertain ( seems Hop Sing is away visiting a sick family member ) , but the villains aren't far behind . Martin's Italian accent is heavy on the Prego Prego , while Michael Davis is curiously out-of-place playing his son ( a year later , Davis turned up in Disney's " The Moon-Spinners " as a Greek kid , again having trouble with his English ) . The gist of this plot , that you shouldn't mess with cowards because everyone's got a fighter underneath , is a bit askew , but the hero-worship sub-plot between Davis and Dan Blocker's Hoss had intriguing possibilities not explored here ( and couldn't have been , at least not with psychological depth ) . A middling episode in the series , which once again puts the focus on select Cartwrights , leaving Michael Landon's Little Joe in the background .
Not the greatest script on Earth . . .	High-flown malarkey under the Big Top ! With the cooperation of Ringling Bros . and Barnum & Bailey behind him , director and showman Cecil B . DeMille delivers a colorful circus-spectacular full of animals and acrobatics , however the overripe screenplay ( worked on by four credited scenarists ) combines " stardust and sawdust " of the most melodramatic kind . Trapeze artists Betty Hutton and Cornel Wilde vie for the center ring - - but when Wilde is suddenly injured , his spotlight isn't dimmed for too long ( DeMille glosses over the rough stuff ; he's not a filmmaker interested in details and he likes a happy ending ) . Charlton Heston is the financial manager and boss of the traveling tent-show , yet , aside from some monetary disputes at the beginning , we aren't told very much about the money-end of the show or how the performers spend their checks on their down time ( do they have off-season lives at all ? ) . DeMille is also uninterested in the freaky end of carny life - - to him it's all in the family - - though he does touch upon the corruption of the midway and some of the back-biting amongst the starlets . A little trimming might've made the picture more immediate ( some of the parades go on too long , and I would've cut Dorothy Lamour's Hawaiian number , though it contains a surprise cameo which gets a big laugh ) . Betty Hutton , who sings like a brick , must be the most masochistic trapeze chanteuse who ever defied death , but Gloria Grahame is fun as a wisecracking elephant assistant and Heston strikes an appropriately no-nonsense stance which , while largely wooden , works for this picture . As for James Stewart as Buttons the Clown , he's supposed to be a little mysterious , a question mark , but DeMille and his editor cut to Stewart far too often and he's on-screen far too much ( they want to make sure we don't miss a trick , such is the way the unsubtle drama is mechanically laid out ) . This Oscar-winning Best Picture is big-big-big , but like all epics this one has its peaks and valleys . It's really corny , but like the man said , " You can shake the sawdust out of your shoes , but not out of your heart ! " from
Swooning , spooky-romantic atmosphere ; lots of fun	A bright-eyed nurse from Canada ( Frances Dee , who amusingly resembles Judith Light ) takes a position to help an invalid woman down in the West Indies ; upon her arrival , she realizes that the lush , tranquil island is not what it seems , that her employer and his brother have a dark family history , and that her " patient " is walking the line between the living and the dead . Well-written take on " Jane Eyre " has intriguing passages and a perplexing , but attractive heroine . Val Lewton's superlative production and voodoo atmospherics are wonderfully ripe . Cast , cinematography and background score are all top-notch , though the final reel is disappointingly tame and the film ends unsatisfactorily . from
" She's the Pied Piper ! "	From the cartoon kaleidoscope opening to the last walk up the staircase for Mame Dennis , this comically-contrived and highly theatrical movie version of the celebrated Broadway success is nevertheless pleasing in almost every sense . Director Morton DaCosta , who also helmed the stage version , uses the theatricality of the piece to his advantage , giving the proceedings the shiny look and feel of a holiday bauble . The movie takes off running , bursting with chatter and frivolity , and Rosalind Russell is a great crazy-quilt hostess , often going in three directions at once . The story of an orphaned lad in 1928 who goes to live with his batty aunt in New York City started life as a book by Patrick Dennis , with Russell playing the lead once it was turned into a play . The film-version doesn't try to disguise the stage origins , but then it doesn't really have to ; DaCosta keeps the pacing so brisk , with characters entering and exiting rapidly , that initially the viewer may feel as though something important may have been missed . The picture isn't loaded down with artificial charm . On the contrary , the romantic sub-plot between Russell and oil tycoon Forrest Tucker ( which , again , is quick - - in and out ) is genuinely sweet ( this is Tucker's triumph as much as it is Russell's ) and the supporting players are impeccably well-cast , bouncing off each other like frenetic ornaments . While the plot does slip into an episodic structure ( and does feel a bit lengthy ) , the smooth maneuvering of characters and quirks and hang-ups and hang-overs is an awful lot of fun . As for Russell , she gives shading and feeling to this woman ; her exuberance can be taken as a put-on ( for laughs ) , yet we never lose sight of Mame Dennis as a ballsy , bright lady , and she never lapses into bitchiness . Mame may have been real , or maybe just a literary confection , but she isn't a phony . She believes life is a banquet , and gets us to believe it too . from
" I wanna grow old with you . " . . . " I'm already old . "	Thoroughly charming ! Jill Clayburgh masterfully plays another savvy , divorced woman attempting to date again , and though some viewers may say she has mined this territory before , Clayburgh absolutely nails the love / hate relationship fifty-somethings have with getting back into the swing of things ( sometimes it's much more enticing to just sit home and mope ) . After a blind date goes south , Jill unintentionally winds up in a gay bar with her girlfriends and they decide to make a night of it ; luckily , exterminator / part-time jazz musician Jeffrey Tambor has also wandered in and the two singles ' meet cute ' ( he tells her he's open to " experimenting " and thinks she's a transsexual , she finds the situation amusing ) . Writer-director Eric Schaeffer loves a good cliché , and he doesn't mind playing up the storybook aspects of this wacky romance , however the film does fall into a predictable pattern ( they meet , they fall in love , they fight , etc . ) . Still , when the writing is this delicious , and the cast is so attuned to the straight-forward , occasionally barbed material , the results can be joyous . While Clayburgh mixes her playful , feisty bit with a more serious , defensive undercurrent ( and succeeds beautifully ) , Jeffrey Tambor is the revelation here . Too often cast in sitcoms as a dunderhead or buffoon , Tambor displays wonderfully dry comic timing - - and the embittered quality of his character is never off-putting ( we can sympathize ) . Tambor seems to have no notion of what a handsome lug he is , and his aw-shucks shuffling and nervous body language is that much more appealing because of it . He's thoughtful and deep ( and troubled ) , but also an old-fashioned romantic at heart , and Clayburgh's salty , sneaky wit brings out the best in him ( he's dry , she's wry ) . Despite some comically ' shocking ' scenes , the film isn't about sexual humiliation ( thank God ) , and Schaeffer wants these two to be together as much as we do . It's a hip , sassy affair that should resonate with a lot of folks over forty . from
Flashes of style and suspense on a nothing-budget	Young British man offers stranded , pretty girl a lift , but is he the psychopathic killer all the police are searching for ? Damp , chilly film from the UK does boast a stylish direction ( the rolling compact , the chase in the parking structure ) and very fine performances from the principals , particularly Hayley Mills in what must have been just a quick movie-stop on her busy theatrical schedule of the 1970's ( she never puts on , never adds more than is needed , and is quite attractive despite a patchy complexion ) . Nerve-jangling yarn will probably surprise you with it's twists . It has a compact script and is very well paced . from
Surprisingly frisky . . .	Despite an ostensibly somber tone and an autumnal look that gives the film a burnished coffee-table feel , Barbra Streisand's directorial debut about a turn-of-the-century Jewish girl disguising herself as a boy to study the Talmud has a lot of heart , a romantic soul and a ticklish sense of humor . Her strengths as an actress are never more apparent , and as a director she's thoughtful , careful , though perhaps too anxious to display her sentiment ( leading to a woebegone conclusion which peaks and ebbs before the fade-out ) . Streisand is the only actor who sings , and although the songs are mostly ornate and sentimental , they are cleverly interwoven into the narrative . The final song ( something about rebelling against " a piece of sky " ) is bad , but Barbra is in strong , assured voice throughout and she gets wonderful acting support from Mandy Patinkin ( in surely his finest performance , which should have netted an Oscar nomination ) and Amy Irving ( who did receive an Oscar nod ) . An enjoyable film with a surprising light-heartedness that catches you off-guard . from
" It may seem a little hopeless . " . . . " That's because it is . "	American doctors from the under-funded Center for Disease Control scramble to figure out the origin of - - and the causes behind - - the alarming rate of homosexual male deaths in the early 1980s ; as a fatal strain of pneumonia and hepatitis B cases begin appearing , as Reagan-era Washington apparently vetoes the mysterious disease as non-newsworthy , and as the gay community ( shown as not one radically adept at helping their own cause ) label the early cases as products of the Gay Cancer , the CDC battles with the Blood Industry in coming up with an inexpensive way of filtering out contaminated blood . Adaptation of Randy Shilts ' frightening , groundbreaking book was seemingly an impossible undertaking , yet HBO Films and co-producer Aaron Spelling manage to lay all Shilts ' information out adroitly and adeptly , with some of the character interaction awkwardly interjected but with most of the principal players doing very well with technical roles . Alan Alda positively revels in the opportunity to play sniveling medical scientist Dr . Robert Gallo , who felt usurped when French scientists initially gained prestige for isolating the virus ; as Dr . Mary Guinan , Glenne Headly does some of the best work of her career ( while interviewing a sexually promiscuous airline steward , one of the earliest men to fall prey to the disease , Headly is remarkably natural and charming ) ; and Saul Rubinek as Dr . Curran , who initiates the investigation and helps sort out all the jargon , is in masterful form . Some of the high-profile cameos aren't shaped for much satisfaction - - they stick out as artifices - - such as Richard Gere's bit as a stricken choreographer ( it is commendable that Gere is here , yet his movie star aura looms larger than his part ) . The film isn't compact - - it isn't a quick-fix wallow or a time-filler - - it is a serious , frustrating , angry movie with no easy answers . And that's as it should be .
A more gentlemanly John Wayne	The Duke ( in ties and jackets ? ) ferrets out Commies in Hawaii along with strapping partner James Arness . For a movie so obviously filled to the brim with machismo , the results surprise us with just a scene or two of fisticuffs and much more romance between Wayne and Nancy Olsen ( who moves quickly , and can you blame her ? ) . The black-and-white cinematography is quite beautiful , with silvery shots of the tropics in all their ' 50s splendor . " Big Jim McLain " features one of John Wayne's best walk-throughs ; he looks a little sheepish , but he's so amiable you forget he's really not in character . The drama at hand is tidied up rather quickly , yet the film is directed with a steady hand and has an easy-going pace . Its flag-waving stance is 100 % purple heart-patriotic , but that's certainly in keeping with the era , as well as with Wayne's all-American persona . from
Mary Poppins vs . the Nazis	She runs , she sings , she prances ! Julie Andrews is back as another nanny ( or , governess ) to rambunctious children ( this time 7 ) but her magical powers are confined to a guitar and a lilting soprano . The love story between she and Christopher Plummer doesn't work because his haughty decadence seems more in tune with Eleanor Parker's ice-poison beauty than with Andrews ' overeager tomboy . Cast as Maria , a novice hired away from the convent , Julie isn't always the jovial Mary Poppins here ; she's rather stern and overly precise , and when she returns as Plummer's wife , there's an awkward chasm between she and the family , as if they're asking , " Who is this new person ? " The songs are fine , and the kids aren't offensive , but I can see why some call this " The Sound of Mucous " . It's ladled with indifference . from
More than one actress's tour-de-force , an indelible and moving human story	In trying to get the textile mill she and her family work for unionized , Sally Field's Norma Rae Webster also tries to earn self-respect at any cost . She's been leading a dead-end existence : a single mother , still living with her family , sleeping with married men who abuse her . But after being inspired by a union-organizer ( Ron Liebman , in an Oscar-worthy supporting performance ) , Norma Rae is awakened to the possibilities of life , and , what's more , everything that is wrong with the mill that seems to suck the energy and hope from those who stand there day after day trying to earn an honest dollar . There are problems with the picture : Beau Bridges ' role as new husband Sonny is treated in a trivial manner ( he's supposed to be a voice of reason , but he's too smooth , maybe condescending , and it's an unconvincing character ) ; Oscar-winner Field's fiestiness occasionally feels overdrawn and / or one-note , but in many of the scenes outside the factory she does indeed excel , seeming vibrantly natural and exuberant . Martin Ritt's direction is focused and firmly rooted ( he never sugarcoats Norma Rae's character , and sometimes she's not that likable ) and the script manages to sidestep preachiness to get its points across entertainingly . The art direction is really the second star of the film : vivid , palpably hot and sweaty , with bits of cotton floating about in the air . The mill in question becomes very familiar to us , as do the people who work there . " Norma Rae " is involved and long , yet it is memorably bittersweet , and with a simple , haunting finish . from
Documentary on a golden era in Hollywood which didn't go sour so much as it evaporated . . .	After 20th Century-Fox's " The Sound of Music " raked in big box-office and Academy Awards , every Hollywood studio was busy for the next couple of years trying to duplicate its success ( it isn't specified here , but Fox itself was one of the hungriest at pilfering from this genre ) . Unfortunately , " The Sound of Music " was really the end of the popular , old-fashioned , break-out-in-song Hollywood movie , giving way to the rebellious counterculture . Seen as a major turning point - - and released before " Bonnie & Clyde " - - " The Wild Angels " , a Roger Corman biker flick from A . I . P . ( which came out one year after " The Sound of Music " ) , signaled a change in perceptions . The studio system was breaking down and actors were no longer on contract ( since the youth movement didn't exactly want pretty stars ) . Most young , hungry American movie makers of this period took their cues from the European directors of the early ' 60s , and this documentary chronicles their battles with the ever-present Hollywood regime into getting their avant garde movies made , marketed and released . Most of the movers and shakers from the past are here , looking quite good , and their recollections from this fertile period for thought-provoking entertainment are fascinating . The downfalls ( the drugs , the egos ) are documented in a matter-of-fact way , nobody is chastised or condescended to , as the rise of the summer blockbuster ( Steven Spielberg's " Jaws " ) heralded the weakening of the character-driven drama . This film does make it seem as if the smaller , more personal Hollywood motion picture is completely dead now , but fails to take into consideration terrific films like " Sling Blade " or " Monster's Ball " which , high profile or not , give serious movie-fans hope for the future . But as a chronicle of this golden era , " Easy Riders , Raging Bulls " , narrated by William H . Macy , is fairly straightforward , mostly accurate , very entertaining , and a great tool for film buffs who weren't privileged to have been there . from
Has spare , beautiful moments , with the horrors of war vividly portrayed	When hard-working China is attacked by the power-hungry Japanese , a pre-feminist Chinese woman struggles with her family for survival ; eventually she and her husband become fighters in the Resistance and help to influence their family and fellow villagers to join them . Hollywood product , with intentions that seem sincere , adapted from a Pearl Buck novel and starring . . . Katharine Hepburn ? Actually , Kate is not flossy or " regal " here ; she's nobody's fool and probably knows she's miscast , but her Asian make-up is commendable and she tries ( not in vain ) to find a character . In support , Walter Huston and Aline MacMahon , as Hepburn's Old World in-laws , are excellent . The movie has beautiful cinematography and absorbing passages , but its length is self-defeating and there are some howlers in the script and in much of the casting . Not a hit at the box-office , but by this time people were so used to Hepburn's hit-or-miss choices that it didn't hurt her . from
" How could I have known that murder can sometimes smell like honeysuckle ? "	Fred MacMurray is a Southern California insurance salesman who stops by a client's house one afternoon to renew a contract and meets the client's wife , an anklet-wearing , glinty-eyed dame with blonde hair styled like a lascivious doll . They flirt a little , but when she starts inquiring about taking out a life insurance policy on hubby without him knowing about it , MacMurray gives her the brush-off ; no matter , she looks him up in the phone book and winds up on his doorstep ! Canny , clever murder-plot concocted by director Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler , via James M . Cain's novel " Three of a Kind " . Cain , who also penned " The Postman Always Rings Twice " ( which this plot has a faint trace of ) , masterfully knew how to create sultry , no-nonsense broads who get what they want , and Wilder's handling of Barbara Stanwyck in this role is sensational . MacMurray , on the other hand , always looks about to blanch , and his character ( savvy on customer relations ) falls prey to Stanwyck mighty quickly . As Fred's boss , Edward G . Robinson does well with a sketchy character , though his wordy summations and ' intuitions ' are just plot contrivances , pushing this story along to its inevitable conclusion . " Double Indemnity " is not without flaws , and has become overrated in the last several years , though it is ripe with scintillating , low-life dialogue and does build suspense even though we all know where these characters are headed - - to the cemetery ! from
Daniel Craig gets the royal 007 treatment . . .	Taking James Bond back to the basics - - literally , back to square one - - might have seemed a daunting task , as the 007 franchise had been waning in recent years ( for a myriad of reasons ) and the idea of a " prequel " , if you will , may have been rather risky . Fortunately , this fined-tuned Bond is what a lot of fans have been clamoring for , and new addition Daniel Craig brings James into the 21st century with thuggish aplomb . Curt , compact and arrogant , he's a secret agent who isn't above making big mistakes , his own ego often times his worst enemy . James attempts to infiltrate a terrorist organization , and within the first ten minutes the film has globe-trotted so far across the map that you may be wondering who all these villains are and what their place in the story actually is ( the movie opens curiously in black-and-white , with a confrontation and also with a flashback ! ) . Judi Dench's " M " really lets James have it for ' needlessly ' killing a bomber whom they hoped to interrogate , but she has a change of heart ( indeed , quite a number of them ) after Bond becomes involved in a high-stakes poker game in Montenegro with terrorist-operative Le Chiffre , a real poker-face ( and asthmatic ! ) with a bloody tear duct . " Casino Royale " is jam-packed with excitement , it looks terrific and has many moments of action , romance , macho violence , and even beauty . The one thing it does lack is humor , but we may get more of that next round . from
" I'm just a girl who lived across the street from you . . . and I don't now ! "	Extremely sensitive and touching film about childhood , and a youngster's need to be " saved " from her own age of innocence . Juliette Lewis is fantastic as vampy young woman in 1960s suburbia whose affair with a greasy-haired rebel becomes the focal point for a little girl who lives across the street . The film's dreamy / quirky tone is reminiscent of " Men Don't Leave " , and its depiction of a big-hearted kid trying to connect with a world much larger than she is both nostalgic and sympathetic . Filled with small but wonderful little touches , thoughtful nuances and a quiet , sweet ending . Well worth-seeing . This may be the best performance yet from Juliette Lewis - - she's flawless . from
Horror-movie buffs will be disappointed . . .	. . . there are no cats or curses in evidence , but nevertheless this is a strange and haunting little movie about an alienated child . Now-deceased cat woman Simone Simon appears as a ghost , visiting her husband's new daughter and coming to her aid when the child is in danger . Slim story , beautiful visuals . Doesn't make a big impression while you're watching it , but 2 or 3 days later you'll want to see it again . Has an eerie and powerful effect that is hard to shake off . from
Robust war epic with hearty Sinatra performance . . .	Superior WWII adventure has American Colonel Frank Sinatra leading large group of English POW's in takeover of a Nazi train near Milano , Italy . Fine characterizations and a full-bodied direction by Mark Robson give this epic a vivid sweep . Full of humor and pathos , the film doesn't present the Nazis as weak targets or stumblebums - - they are all-business , and an evil , clever opponent in war . The Americans struggle and plan , they come up with ideas that don't work out and have to rely on man-power and each other to survive . Excellent work from Sinatra , plus terrific supporting performances by Trevor Howard and Edward Mulhare ( who , as the American priest , has a very funny sequence where he's called upon to impersonate a Nazi ) . A good show , one with a curiously downbeat , but thoughtful and well-staged finale . from
Underrated remake . . .	Terrific film , a remake of 1930's " Outward Bound " , has a disparate group of people ( John Garfield , Paul Henreid , Sydney Greenstreet and Eleanor Parker among them ) on-board a mysterious ocean-liner , unaware they are actually souls being transported to their final destinations . Solemn fantasy is talky , sometimes heavy , but extremely well-acted and occasionally fascinating . Garfield's moment of reckoning is an amazing bit of dramatic acting , and director Edward Blatt is both subtle and sneaky with this fantastic material ( it's a very classy product with no camp overtones ) . It unfolds slowly , but viewers who stick with it will find this a memorable melodrama . from
Entertaining backstage business	Glossy MGM soaper has many things to recommend it , not the least of which is a surprisingly grounded , natural Lana Turner ( looking great , even in ordinary jammies ) playing a successful movie actress who , along with a top screenwriter and director , help producer-on-the-skids Kirk Douglas stage a comeback . Not especially revealing about Hollywood , which at this stage wasn't quite ready to unmask itself , but still engaging and intriguing . Douglas is well-cast ( he spits out his lines with a terse jaw - - nothing new - - but he's right for this part and is commendable ) . Turner is a revelation and deserved at the very least an Oscar nomination for her work . Sharp dialogue and gleaming photography are the other major assets . Gets less attention than something like " All About Eve " , but it's actually more entertaining . from
Thoroughly enjoyable western with romance asides . . .	Terrific M-G-M oater with both a comedic and romantic slant has Glenn Ford playing the new sheep farmer in a cattle community ; he deliberately stirs up trouble for himself with the locals , particularly villainous old acquaintance Leslie Nielsen , to remind them that the grazing land is his to use as well - - and if they wanna run him outta town , he'll fight them to the bitter finish . Shirley MacLaine is at the peak of her charms as a sarcastic gal who initially plays both sides of the fence . Very entertaining western with colorful production makes no overtures to deep meanings or powerful statements . On the frivolous side though it may be , it is one of the most satisfying westerns of the 1950s . Screenwriters William Bowers and James Edward Grant ( Oscar-nominated ) have fashioned a surefire character for Glenn Ford , who is irresistible . Good show ! from
Friendly sitcom	On the run from an abusive drug dealer , foster kid Brooke Shields hides out with ex-vaudeville entertainer George Burns . There are little side-plots here and there ( the drug dealer tracking Brooke down , George's daughter trying to get her hands on his money , best friend Burl Ives stuck in an institution ) , but the bulk of the movie centers on the relationship between the sassy teen and the octogenarian . The script is structured pretty much like a play , with the banter going back and forth between the two principles , yet some wonderful bits surface , as when Burns attempts to distract his nosy neighbors from the teenage girl he has in the house , or a terrific sequence where George's poker buddies - - Ray Bolger and Keye Luke among them - - show up for their usual game and Brooke is displeased ( " Too many people come to this house ! " she scowls ) . George is sweet and tender here ; say what you will about his shuffle-along acting style , I felt he was really in character and genuinely cared for Shields , who is stiff and self-conscious at first but warms up midway . Some of the dialogue is surprisingly crass ( Burns playing tailor and Brooke calling him a ' fag ' ) , but for cynical 1979 it is sunnier and friendlier than most . One of the few mainstream , big-studio movies of this era never to be released in any format to the home-viewing market . from
Cozy romp with some surprising emotional resonance	At first glance , " Houseboat " looks like the worst type of sitcom : stern father gets saddled with his estranged children , later hiring a governess who is really a runaway from high society . Saccharin-prone viewers might bail early , but give it time . Cary Grant plays the dad with an amusing mixture of concern , consternation and suspicion ; he enjoys a good time , but he goads his kids into being more than what he sees , and when his son pushes back it seems an exceptionally realistic reaction . As for Sophia Loren , basking in her movie-star close-ups , she takes a cartoonish character ( which is written like a cynical refugee from " Roman Holiday " ) and gives the lady a big heart . Her bonding with the children ( and with Grant ) is a treat , and while I wasn't quite convinced it would all work out happily , I was genuinely entertained . A surprising jewel . from
Woody Allen slapstick is wacky but takes some disappointing turns . . .	Woody Allen is such a staple of New York and city-living that it's a hoot to see him at the center of the far-out futuristic surroundings in " Sleeper " . His nuttiness isn't tempered by the visual gimmicks , and the movie is both recklessly daffy and wonderful to look at ( it's great eye-candy , one of his best designed pictures ) . Allen's screenplay , about a modern-day man frozen and thawed out many years later , is a doodle that desperately has to work up new sub-plots just to keep going , and the entire amnesia thread is wearing ( although it does allow Diane Keaton to do an impersonation of Brando which is very funny ) . The film is extremely shrill , and the neurotic one-liners ( mostly about sex ) seem to come from nowhere . Still , the movie has a lunatic decadence to it , and a kind of nostalgic abandon , which makes it both silly and edgy at the same time . from
You'll want to see Venice ( and the Bridge of Sighs )	Smashing romantic comedy-drama about two youngsters in love . A movie-loving French boy and the American daughter of a movie actress meet and eventually run away from France to Venice to seal their love within the bonds of a legend - - never suspecting the romantic story they've been told is a tall one , thought up by a wily pickpocket ( Laurence Olivier , hammy but not overdoing it ) who ends up acting as their guardian . Herky-jerky continuity and a too-heavy police interrogation sequence do not mar otherwise lovely and funny film with a beautiful score by Georges Delerue ( which deservedly won an Oscar ) . Diane Lane , in her debut , is a wise little princess with understanding eyes and a husky , charming voice . from
Dreamily disconnected from reality . . .	" Bear Cub " isn't really a comedy or a drama , it's a gay fantasy with a bit of reality thrown in for balance . Director and co-writer Miguel Albaladejo opens the film with a very sexy lovemaking scene between two woofy chubs , but he quickly and quietly moves on ( it turns out the sex at the beginning is between two secondary characters whom we never get to know , being used as a comical subtext ) . Pedro , a 30-ish gay dentist in Madrid , Spain , takes in his young nephew after the boy's mother is jailed in India , leading to complications between the dentist ( who leads a promiscuous sex life ) and the child's unyielding grandma . We get a small glimpse of Pedro's gay life ( cruising the bars and parks , partying with his husky , furry friends ) , yet not enough to give us insight into this man - - whose health woes are facetiously dropped in . The film is a major step forward in showcasing gay lives which are not so wildly colorful , but the situation with the kid is only a serviceable plot function and is never quite as involving as the adult passion . from
The dramatic narrative doesn't quite hang together , but the performances and presentation are often incredible . . .	Stark , brutal Warner Bros . drama about the Ku Klux Klan , in much the same vein as the studio's " Black Legion " from 1937 ( and with curious echoes of Tennessee Williams ' " A Streetcar Named Desire " , written in 1947 ) . Fashion model from New York checks in on her recently-married kid sister once she's down South , only to run into a KKK lynch-mob and their murder of a white male reporter who was attempting to unmask the Klan's dirty financial dealings ( seems the Grand Dragon was doing a little money laundering on the side , as well as evading the I . R . S . ) . Ginger Rogers doesn't dance , Doris Day doesn't sing , and Ronald Reagan ( as the County Prosecutor ) doesn't win one for the Gipper ; still , the star-trio does remarkably well with this provocative scenario , unusual material for these particular actors . The middle portion during a court hearing ( with Rogers perjuring herself on the stand to keep her brother-in-law out of trouble ) sags a bit with the weight of too much melodrama - - and for someone who dearly wants to get out of town , Ginger certainly takes her time getting her act together - - but otherwise the film is heated and prickly , overwrought at times but engrossing . from
Groovy , atmospheric melodrama	Ordinary crime plot , written by Zekial Marko from his novel " Scratch a Thief " , is given vivid , hyperkinetic Ralph Nelson direction , beginning in a jazz club with a drum solo that is crazy-cool . Marko and Nelson really lay on the mid-'60s jive , but Nelson's quasi-European handling and groovy cinematic tricks make the film visually arresting . Story concerns ex-thief in San Francisco , trying to lead a clean life with his wife and little girl , fingered for the murder of a Chinese storekeeper by the police sergeant who hates him ; worse , his shady older brother is in town wanting his help in pulling off a job . Interesting characters ( one of the villains is a fey platinum-blonde punker years before his time ) and performances , with Ann-Margret doing some of her best dramatic work as Alain Delon's wife . The talky lulls are given a boost by Marko's slangy , hip dialogue and by Nelson's fervent rhythm , but some may see all this as just ridiculous . It's certainly amusing , and the San Francisco locales are a big plus . from
Religious drama rakes the heart . . .	In 1858 Lourdes , a young girl causes an unintentional furor after she claims to have seen a holy vision in an unkept grotto and travels there every day to pray . Lovely Jennifer Jones is perfect in the lead , bolstering an occasionally wayward narrative that spend perhaps too much time on the town-naysayers who think young Bernadette should be locked up . Jones , who spent the rest of her career trying to convince people she really wasn't the saint this film painted so vividly in our memories , won a well-deserved Oscar as Best Actress . Supporting performances by Anne Revere , Charles Bickford and Lee J . Cobb are also fine , though Vincent Price's snippy skeptic doesn't allow him anything fresh to do . from
Thoughtful , compelling TV-movie . . . even with all the clichés	Dory Previn wrote the teleplay ( and the songs ) for this Hugh Hefner-produced television drama about an aging chorus girl ( Kim Novak , looking stunning ) coming to a crossroads in her life : her thirteen-year relationship with a popular lounge singer is going nowhere , and the club where she works is going topless . What's a classy hoofer to do ? Kim takes up with a strapping , 23-year-old delivery boy who promises her the moon , which lights a fire ( finally ) under her boyfriend . With gritty New York City locales and fabulous Gayne Rescher photography , this ' woman's picture ' certainly looks terrific . It also features one of Novak's best performances , a fine job from a singing Tony Curtis , and lots of terrific character actors ( as well as Hefner's then-squeeze Barbi Benton ) in supporting roles . The sub-plot involving handsome lunk Michael Brandon doesn't really work ( his early scenes with Kim are totally fabricated ) , though it gets the picture where it needs to go , and the freeze-frame ending is downbeat yet provocative .
Wonderfully bright , cynical , jaded , and romantic biopic	The mid-life years of ( now genteel ) decadent behavior by one of late Victorian England's celebrities , the Irish-born novelist-poet-playwright Oscar Wills Wilde ( 1854 ? 1900 ) . Director Brian Gilbert doesn't bandy about giving us the childhood torments of a literary genius ; instead , he and screenwriter Julian Mitchell delve right into the more prominent chapters of Wilde's life , his marriage to a woman - - producing two children - - before realizing his homosexual desires , leading to some promiscuous indiscretions before finding love with churlish , childish poet Lord Alfred Douglas . Stephen Fry gives a masterful performance as Wilde , and the portrait allows for many shadings ( this isn't a plea for the misunderstood gay artist , as Wilde himself is shown to be occasionally fickle , lusting , and selfish ) . Jude Law is equally good as ornery , demanding lover ' Bosie ' , whose tyrannical father brought about a court-case and two-year jail term for Wilde ( covered previously in 1960's " The Man with the Green Carnation " ) , contributing to his early demise . A provoking , insightful , eloquent film - - not at all stuffy or coy , which is due in large part to Gilbert's dexterous way with his actors and a keen sense of pacing and audience-involvement . from
Despite some fundamental weaknesses , it has really held up over time . . .	Two accidental female fugitives elude the police while attempting to drive across the Southwest to Mexico . Filmmaker Ridley Scott shows a terrific talent for directing women here , and the performances by Susan Sarandon and Geena Davis are almost uncanny . One can hardly believe that these two haven't been friends for years , their give and take seems so lived in . Salty waitress Sarandon , initially the savvier of the two , is loose and girly with Arkansas housewife Davis in the beginning , but both their colors change , with each woman eventually taking turns playing the brains ( I didn't really believe it when , having been pulled over a cop in the desert , Sarandon's Louise becomes kind of a dingbat , but you accept it for the moment and the movie quickly rolls on ) . The men in the cast obviously don't get much of a chance to shine , but Harvey Keitel does the understanding detective bit very well ( it's almost the same character he portrayed in " Mortal Thoughts " ) ; Brad Pitt has a scene-stealing , star-making role as a cowboy hustler , yet this film took a long time to gain a fully appreciative audience . It did modest business and garnered Oscar nominations for the ladies , but only afterward did it take on some resonance ( it's now viewed as a feminist statement and has a loyal following among lesbian audiences ) . It creaks a little , and the twangy main theme gives way to a ridiculously melodramatic score , but the narrative is so tight and the women are so good that it keeps you watching - - and returning . from
An exceptional western . . .	Paramount's remake of their own 1936 western " The Texas Rangers " has three small-time stagecoach robbers separated after tangling with a sniveling extortionist and his cohorts in 1879 Texas ; two of the men inadvertently join the Texas Rangers and find that working for the right side of the law really suits them , while the third man becomes a notorious outlaw . Despite some confusion in the character motivations and loyalties , this is an astute , absorbing drama with beautiful photography and solid performances . Who would've ever guessed Macdonald Carey could be a worthy opponent for William Holden ? Dressed all in black , with a smug expression and heavy-lidded eyes , Carey is a surprisingly formidable villain . Holden , despite several sigh-heavy movie star close-ups , is very convincing with a gun and a horse ; his character's playing both sides , while also falling for tomboyish Mona Freeman , provides the heart of the story , and Holden is never less than exciting to watch . Extremely well-directed by Leslie Fenton , with fine supporting work by William Bendix and a bouncy score by Victor Young . from
One of Walt Disney's personal favorites	A boy-and-his-sheep story , set on a farm at the turn of the century , and a valentine to childhood . This family film from Walt Disney opens , literally , with help from a collection of animated greeting cards . It proceeds from there with bits of animation accentuating the story of a likable youngster entering his beloved pet sheep in a county fair contest . Attempt to recapture the uncanny mix of animation and live-action warmth and humor of " Song of the South " doesn't completely succeed because , although the same kids - - Bobby Driscoll and Luana Patten - - are present , there's no Uncle Remus or any memorable songs beyond " Lavender Blue " ( which , granted , is a dilly ) . Still , the film is meticulously produced and overwhelmingly heartfelt . A nice addition to the Disney catalogue , and rather touching in its old-fashioned way . from
Sensitive straight / gay romance pre - " Will & Grace "	Despite a downright peculiar finish which gives new meaning to the term ' feel-good ' , " The Object of My Affection " is a careful , perceptive and insightful comedy-drama about a straight woman and her gay-male best friend living together . Keeping the obvious sex-jokes at bay , the movie strives to create three-dimensional people and works most of the time . This is due in large part to Jennifer Aniston , an easy presence on the screen . The set-up is pure formula , but the results are occasionally offbeat , squirrelly , sometimes funny and moving . Story thread with Nigel Hawthorne as an elderly gay man who gets dumped-on shows the casual cruelty inherent in gay relationships , and this is handled with quiet taste . Not everything works in " Affection " , but it is remarkably pleasant and ( for better or worse ) hetero-friendly . from
Packed with plot . . . and plenty of sexy action	Some of these early episodes of " Charlie's Angels " have enough plot for a TV movie . . . with the strong production elements and supporting cast worthy of a television feature . A tragic auto accident out on the dustbowl racecar circuit leads the Angels to believe there was dirty-pool being played out on the track , but that's just the first half of the story . Sabrina ( who it turns out did a little racecar driving in her youth ! ) poses as the new driver - - with a Texas drawl ; Bosley and Jill are father and daughter Holy Rollers ; Kelly does some leg-work interviewing the victim's parents ( in a sensitive scene ) and later joins the gang at the arena , amusingly getting one suspect arrested for drunk driving . Exceptionally well-plotted installment , though I doubt Jill would be so sloppy as to leave evidence behind in a motel room , or that all her nosy questions would be overlooked by the locals with just a flash of her blinding-white smile .
" I won't dance . . . don't ask me "	The Angels infiltrate a dance studio that fronts for a blackmail partnership between the owner , the star dance teacher , and a sleazy local detective . Farrah Fawcett-Majors ' Jill poses as a disco instructor ( " A little hustle , a little bump , and a little freelance , " she says at her job interview ) ; Jaclyn Smith's Kelly takes over for the detective once Charlie and Bosley get him on a place to Washington , D . C . ; and Kate Jackson's Sabrina poses as a suicidal heiress and dance student . Smith's real-life husband Dennis Cole is well-cast as Tony , the ladies ' man dance teacher who gets Sabrina's alias in a hotel room for compromising photos . The writing here tries to be twisty and surprising , yet I'm not sure where the money to cover the assignment is actually coming from ( not to mention the ten G's Charlie is paying back to an elderly woman who got duped ) . Still , it's fun when Kelly gets to confront David Doyle's Bosley with a gun ( Smith is excellent at feigning hardball ) and John Van Dreelen is terrific as a debonair cheat ( but not a liar ! ) . This episode culminates in an abandoned bowling alley , and how much you wanna bet Farrah gets to throw a strike ?
Witty , intelligent drama . . .	Three society wives ( all close friends ) receive a letter stating that a fourth friend has run off with one of their husbands . Cynical , but exceptionally rich , occasionally quite humorous and enjoyable soaper featuring good work from Jeanne Crain , Linda Darnell , Ann Southern , and a young , green Kirk Douglas . Celeste Holm provides her voice as the letter-writer , and her delivery via these proceedings is impeccable . An Oscar winner for Joseph L . Mankiewicz's direction ; he also had a hand in the screenplay , taken from a Cosmopolitan magazine story - - forever stamping the movie as a ' woman's picture ' - - though it's a lot of fun for any film-lover . Remade for television in 1985 . from
Inconsistently developed , but clever , magical and amusing	Once they magically enter the black-and-white world of a 1950s TV sitcom , squabbling siblings Reese Witherspoon and the ingratiating Tobey Maguire instinctively bring with them their ' 90s sensibilities , which causes havoc and miracles . Strange though that the residents of Pleasantville are immune to miracles . Gary Ross's writing seems to skip over these developments in order to push the plot forward , but I would rather ponder the details . When Maguire tells a slick-haired teen tough to " get the hell outta here " , the kid doesn't even react to word ' hell ' . Has the town - - by this point - - become that jaded already ? Still , flaws and all , I really enjoyed the idea here , and Ross as a director gets fabulous performances from everyone , particularly Witherspoon ( who , up to this point , had left me cold ) . Not the fluffball , fish-out-of-water comedy I was expecting . A lot of thought went into this , and a lot of emotion comes out . from
Convincing war-time drama packs quite a punch . . .	Brave , hard-hitting adaptation of Phyllis Bottoms ' novel concerns tight-knit German family in 1933 Europe who are suddenly ( and violently ) torn apart by the invading Nazis once Hitler rises to power . A shattering chapter in history is vividly recalled by director Frank Borzage and a terrific cast including James Stewart , Margaret Sullavan , Robert Young , Robert Stack , and Frank Morgan . MGM production was banned in Germany and , in fact , caused all MGM product to be banned there for several years ! Story of family love overcome by war and power has not aged a bit , with haunting scenes and fine b & w cinematography . from
Terrific title for a middling episode . . . the Angels suffering from a case of the blahs	Not-bad episode of the TV detective series from Leonard Goldberg and Aaron Spelling concerns a hospital beset with an attempted rapist high on a new stimulating drug ( Hycodroxcin ! ) . The Angels get on board right away : Jill and Kelly posing as student nurses , Bosley as a patient - - with an actual bone spur in his toe - - and Sabrina as a reporter for a medical journal . Lots of potential suspects in this one ( a doctor pushed to the brink of exhaustion , an intern with a Don Juan image , a patient who makes suspicious midnight phone calls ) , and the outcome is pretty surprising if flatly-handled . Director Bob Kelljan can't seem to get this scenario cooking , and the sloppy end results feature far too much overdubbed dialogue while Kelljan's camera searches in vain for somebody to focus on . Farrah Fawcett-Majors ( with the fluffiest mane in television history ) has a finely-tuned scene of sarcasm popping Don Juan's balloon , while Jaclyn Smith slips in and out of offices with a skeleton key that looks like a paper clip . Once again , Kate Jackson gets stuck with the detail work ; frankly , if I worked at this hospital , I'd be wary of this stranger asking so many personal questions ( Jackson's Sabrina also makes a near-disastrous goof , discussing confidential matters with Bosley while a suspect hides in the closet with the door ajar ) . Some good scenes here and there , but one poor suspect's vindication is glossed over blithely , while the chief hospital director ( and the guy who hired the Angels in the first place ) gets completely lost in the shuffle !
McQueen is the king	Thoroughly entertaining gambler's flick has Steve McQueen well-cast as stud-poker player involved in sweat-inducing winner-take-all poker tournament in New Orleans ; Edward G . Robinson is the card-playing master who is Steve's main competition , Tuesday Weld is Steve's innocent squeeze , Ann-Margret is a sultry flooze . Great acting fuses a screenplay that seems cobbled together from different styles . It's hard-boiled at times , cartoony pulp at others . Ann-Margret is mostly used for visual flair ( or as a punchline : while doing a jigsaw puzzle , she files down the pieces to make them fit at whim ) , though she's still quite a presence on the screen . Weld is very lovely , and the sequence where Steve shows up at her parents ' house and does card-tricks is a little miracle of film-making : perfect writing , directing and acting all coming together wonderfully . Flaws and all , a slick genre piece and well-worth the viewing . from
Cluttered script fails to flesh out the large cast of characters . . . but the girls look great	An ambitious episode of the detective series which might have been better as a two-hour special , or a TV-movie ; there simply isn't time on the clock to do justice to all these ideas . The Angels investigate a modeling agency after a startling beauty ( a " dead ringer " for Kelly ) is found strangled with a rag doll ( seems she was just coming out of the shower , so why was she wearing a smashed diamond watch on her wrist ? ) . Among the suspects : a fey photographer who comes off like a bitchy gay ( but who is revealed to be a kinky straight ! ) , a Dutch designer who bristles at any sexual innuendo , a leather-jacket wearing toughie who does nothing but hang around , the director of the company ( who was having an affair with the dead model ) and his estranged wife , herself a fashion star . Jill and Kelly pose as models , Sabrina cons her way into a job as a stylist , but more girls are attacked - - as well as one male in a sour , unfair plot thump . Some tasty dialogue exchanges ( and Jaclyn Smith in a stunning white bikini , covered for no reason by a light wrap ) make this an enjoyable installment , even if the writers can't quite cover all their tracks ( how can the killer possibly hope to pass off one murder as a suicide ? and why does Kelly attempt to stop the fleeing strangler by standing in front of his speeding van , waving her arms ? ) . Kate Jackson has a funny encounter with the photog ( who nearly defiles her ! ) , while Farrah Fawcett-Majors does an outstanding job in her little bits and pieces with Alex Henteloff as Heinz . Henteloff does something amazing with this seemingly throwaway role : he creates a three-dimensional character out of just four or five scenes ( without many lines ) and we instantly connect with his lonely heart ( he does masterful work , aided by La Fawcett ) . Bosley does the usual paperwork back at the office , while the girls settle on a theory - - and , as usual , their assessments are right on the money .
Intelligently-crafted doomsday thriller on a tight budget . . .	Thoughtfully considered , well-acted made-for-TV drama stars Peter Graves as a family man on an excavation excursion with his kids in the California mountains who survives a radioactive blast followed by an earthquake ; slowly , the family comes to realize the astronomical proportions of the accident when they get back to town and find desolate streets . Writers Lewis John Carlino and Sandor Stern do not trivialize the situation with soap opera ; the budget may be slim , but the emotional experiences on hand for Graves and his children ( and two others they pick up along the way ) are harrowing . Cinematographer Michael D . Margulies does terrific work behind the camera , and the direction is solid except for some stiffness at the beginning and a voice-over narration that was unnecessary . Television movies really came into their own in the 1970s , providing capable TV actors with meatier roles than what was otherwise available to them in the form of popular weekly shows . This is certainly the case with Peter Graves , who retains his laconic , low-key persona but who also excels with some hard-hitting scenes ( such as a moment of private grief up in his bedroom ) ; Verna Bloom is also terrific as a mother who has seen her entire family decimated , and young Kathleen Quinlan is outstanding as Graves ' warm , maternal daughter ( this is a very underrated actress giving an early performance worthy of high praise ) . Worthwhile , unpretentious fare , a precursor to " Damnation Alley " , " The Day After " , and many others .
Old-fashioned corn given new Hollywood sheen	Iowa farmer and his wife are the laughing stock of their small town after he plows over acres of his corn field to build a baseball diamond . Why ? Because a whole plan has been set into motion , and Ray and his farm are the lucky ones chosen . A meaningful experience for moviegoers , especially men , touches upon everything that we collectively hold dear to us : the past , the dead , redemption , forgiveness , and the reuniting of loved ones and heroes . The performances are variable , with Amy Madigan's post-hippie spouse way over the top and James Earl Jones as a reclusive writer giving sermons in place of a performance ( although I loved his exit into the corn field , and his giggle of pure joy ) . Kevin Costner carries all this whimsy on his shoulders like a trouper ; he has that old-time Hollywood magic like a modern-day Gary Cooper , and he is surprisingly appealing , comfortable and relaxed . The film really has no shame , and pulls out all the sentimental stops , but if you're attuned to its themes , you're likely to find it magical .
A smart , sophisticated movie that unfortunately palls with 30 minutes to go	Although puzzlingly slow-moving , " Starting Over " is a gentle , funny film about a newly-divorced man attempting to date again . I loved it when Burt Reynolds ( in a benign but amiable performance ) hits the furniture store to fill up his apartment , but then sits in his studio surrounded by all the new pieces and now has nothing to do . Or when girlfriend Jill Clayburgh shouts at him , " I am no one-nighter ! I am a teacher ! I am going for my Masters ! " The movie doesn't know what to do with its characters near the end - - taking us down a few roads which disappointed me - - but otherwise it's a smart , subtle comedy and the appealing players make the most of it . out of
Amo Que Paso ?	Annette Funicello does her second guest turn on Walt Disney's television serial " Zorro " ( this episode being part of the " Disneyland " series , separate from the regular two-season run of " Zorro " ) . She plays a young miss from Santa Clara who arrives to visit her adoptive " uncle " Don Alejandro who , along with son Don Diego , suspects the girl is in romantic trouble when a suitor with designs on her dowry comes to call . Well-written story keeps Guy Williams busy switching from Diego to Zorro , though some may complain Zorro isn't around enough . There's some funny action , amusingly " bratty " behavior from Annette ( who also sings two songs ) , but a peculiar bit with Sergeant Demetrio apparently getting drunk in the tavern ( and having a tussle with the barmaid over his many mugs of ale ) . Not the best episode in " Zorro " ' s run , but still quite entertaining .
Depression-era fantasy , heavily-padded but with lovely moments . . .	Mia Farrow gives one of her best performances as Cecilia , a Depression-era waitress with her head in the clouds who gets dumped on over and over ; after a miraculous situation comes her way and promises a better life , she has to choose between reality and fantasy . . . although some outcomes are predestined . Luminous Farrow is at her most vulnerable , and writer-director Woody Allen allows her to be funny too , yet the film is a preconceived , bittersweet whimsy about dashed dreams ; it's ready-made to collapse . In the interim , we get bland Jeff Daniels in two roles ( occasionally working the same scene ! ) , a whorehouse full of romantics , a group of acidly funny movie actors on a theater screen , and Danny Aiello as Mia's abusive husband . The theme of " Cairo " concerns the blurred line between movies and reality - - it's a valentine to the magic of the movies - - but the central idea plays itself out too quickly , and Allen's sub-plots don't always work ( you can sense that he's biding his time ) . Wonderful production design and music score , some marvelous sequences . from
Thoroughly gripping despite glum production . . .	Robert Shaw leads a group of stooges in the violent hijacking of a New York subway train ; Walter Matthau is the acerbic detective assigned to the case . Nearly-perfect urban thriller adapted by the ingenious Peter Stone from John Godey's book . The atmosphere is charged with tension throughout ; one can almost taste the grit in the air and sense the palpable dread , though the film isn't quite the ugly downer its chilly production makes it appear to be . Screenwriter Stone displays his darkly comic sense of humor in several instances , leading to a fabulous conclusion . Curiously , some professionals critics were put off by the film , yet the suspense is sustained remarkably by director Joseph Sargent , and Matthau is priceless . from
Fast , exciting action flick with possibly too much shooting ( and everyone a bad shot ! )	Christian Slater plays an armored truck guard who has to deal with thieves , the crooked police , a fierce Indiana rainfall , and a flooded town while trying to protect three million dollars in the company vehicle . Well-done action flick isn't epic-scale , but does have many suspenseful close-calls and colorful characters , plus good performances by Slater , Morgan Freeman , Minnie Driver , and Richard Dysart and Betty White as an elderly couple who didn't evacuate when they were supposed to . Randy Quaid overplays heinously as a trigger happy sheriff , and the continual shootouts in the final third get repetitive , but this scenario ( an entire town slowly being submerged ) is exceptionally well-captured and the filmmakers didn't forget to add some good humor into the mix . from
Ragged but interesting	Unusual film was wrongly advertised as a wacky comedy ; it is actually a surprisingly sensitive and light-on-its-feet drama about friendship . Mentally backward man ( James Belushi , in his best performance ) hits the road with an escaped female mental patient named Eddie ( Whoopi Goldberg ) who has a brain tumor and keeps thinking she sees Jesus going by . Sort of a tragic love story between two unfortunate people that life threw away . Both stars are just fine , but the sloppy editing shows signs of an indecisive captain of the ship , and the blue-collar rock-n-roll on the soundtrack is irritating . Panned by just about everybody , I found a great deal of depth here , some scattershot laughs , and I was really moved by Belushi's matter-of-fact performance ( no showing off ) and his touching scene at the funeral . from
Serious-comedy with the offbeat Sturges touch . . .	Shoplifting young woman in New York City is nearly sent to the pokey over the holidays , but is rescued by the prosecuting attorney on the case , who takes her home for Christmas . Mitchell Leisen directs a screenplay by Preston Sturges ; despite reported trouble between the two , Leisen seems to completely understand the writer's changes in mood and tone , and the peculiar mixture of comedy and very serious drama is nearly a success . The film's first act verges on screwball , what with the courtroom antics , a car accident , and a cow with a taste for ladies ' hats . The sagging midsection aside , the rest of the picture is a bit more serious , almost brazen in its juggling of different themes , and the ending isn't a cop-out . In the leads , Barbara Stanwyck makes a difficult role seem effortless ; Fred MacMurray has some very efficient moments , though his usual sneaky look continues to resemble that of a hanging judge . Leisen does excellent work with the supporting players as well ( even the gross caricature of a black servant is handled with unassuming bemusement , and the actor Snowflake is fun to have around ) . Time is wasted with some nonsense involving a shotgun-toting farmer , but the movie always gets back on track after it missteps , and the final moments with Stanwyck and MacMurray's relatives is surprisingly bracing . from
Masterful courtroom drama , impeccably cast . . .	Otto Preminger's film-version of John D . Voelker's book is perhaps the ultimate cinematic courtroom showdown , one which has little to do with the actual case of an Army soldier on trial for killing his wife's alleged rapist . James Stewart ( as the small town defense attorney ) and George C . Scott ( as the high-powered big city prosecutor ) lock horns in fabulous fashion as the details of the crime ( along with the courtroom witnesses ) are intricately placed and played out with masterful aplomb . The married couple at the center of the storm ( Ben Gazzara and Lee Remick ) never elicit anything more than superficial interest , however real-life judge Joseph N . Welch ( who became something of a TV celebrity after grilling Joseph McCarthy on the air ) is perfect as Judge Weaver , and the supporting cast ( including Eve Arden as a secretary and Arthur O'Connell as a tippling lawyer who hasn't had a great day in court in years ) superbly compliment each other and the male leads . Stewart and Scott both do Oscar-worthy work . from
Boozy rage , hard-fought battles , empty triumph	A fading professor and his boozy , malicious wife invite a nervous , innocuous young couple over for drinks . . . and so begins a wrenching battle of wits . It's a night of spite and malice , practically medieval torture in the verbal form . Were it not for the evocative cinematography and the amazingly raw performances by Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor , it might be too tough to sit through . However , for discerning adults , it's a grown-up game of pain with rewards throughout . Burton and Taylor are two human land-mines , dodging each other , and it is an amazing acting workout for both ( Taylor and supporting actress Sandy Dennis won Oscars , yet Richard Burton is nearly flawless as well ) . By the end , the couple are spent , unraveled , and lonely for the past . Perhaps these two were " Ozzie and Harriet " at one time , and this is what life has done to them . The more you contemplate it , the more fascinating " Virginia Woolf " becomes . from
Sex : it's on everyone's mind !	The sexual foibles , perversities and hang-ups of a trio of sisters , their parents , neighbors and friends - - told in a low , slightly monotone , key . It's a rich carousel of scared , scary lives with an inter-connecting pattern : the disillusionment of coupling - - and how one keeps trying to succeed in this department despite the humiliations . Pretty funny once you get the idea - - and only if you're attuned to this kind of sick black humor . Not for the faint of heart , but extremely clever concoction from talented writer-director Todd Solondz ( whose first film , " Welcome To The Dollhouse " , struck me as a stunt ) . This one is frank , funny , and very warped - - almost over-the-top in places , especially the ending - - yet kept on track by the terrific performances . Some might compare this to the later " Magnolia " ( they're both tapestry films ) , but " Happiness " is superior , and certainly less pretentious . from
Golden Girl goes solo !	Bea Arthur is wonderful ( as always ) playing a widow who becomes reacquainted with her high school squeeze ; trouble is , he's got a relationship going with a young sexy thing , but may just dump the nubile girl for this older , more sensuous woman . One of the best lines has Arthur dressing herself up for a date in frilly clothes , looking in the mirror and dead-panning , " I look like Dolls From Around the World . " She's a stitch , and works well with sturdy Richard Kiley as the old-flame . Arthur didn't get many opportunities to shine in feature films ; on television , her exasperation and earthy , what-the-hell disposition feels very intimate and real . Too bad this hearty TV-movie hasn't been released on DVD , we could use more of Bea Arthur's dry-martini magic . A highly enjoyable show .
Byzantine collection of California lives	Absorbing , shocking , grandiose , overwrought . . . words that only fitfully describe a generally undefinable movie about different characters in California . It is filmed with such sweeping passion , such oddly nuanced grace , that I was willing to overlook some of the nastiness in the handling and the long sections of talk that really don't tell us anything . The acting by the all-star cast is terrific ( particularly John C . Reilly as a dedicated cop who wants to be loved ) , Aimee Mann's songs are haunting , the production is flawless , but it's a very difficult picture to sit through . I had to take a time-out in between videotapes just to catch my breath . from .
Terrific TV thriller . . .	Lois Duncan's young-adult mystery novel " Summer of Fear " gets a fine , if low-budget , television treatment , capably directed by Wes Craven . Intriguing story features an appealing Linda Blair playing popular young woman and horse-rider whose family takes in her orphaned cousin - - a perplexing girl who harbors secret evil powers . Craven's pacing is careful and sneaky , drawing the viewer in while mounting Blair's suspicions with just the right touch of creepy delicacy . Lee Purcell is excellent as cousin Julia , pulling off a showy role without lapsing into camp ( although the make-up and special effects near the finish are somewhat cartoonish by today's standards ) . A compact thriller , very well done , and Blair - - as always - - is charming and makes her character easily identifiable to viewers .
Masterful film-making	A perversely enjoyable unease permeates this psychological thriller from writer-director M . Night Shyamalan , here following his commercial success with " The Sixth Sense " in top form . A comic book connoisseur with an alarming , lifelong bone density deficiency befriends a security guard who was recently the only survivor of a massive train derailment ; convincing the survivor he may in fact be unbreakable proves to be quite tough . . . however , even super-heroes have a weakness . Meticulously mounted film features one of Bruce Willis ' best performances ; he is altogether convincing , vulnerable , touching , and sympathetic as a modern-day man afraid of what powers he may possess . The film does err on occasion ( a sequence in a comic book shop at night is confusing , and the picture's main color scheme - - steely blues and grays - - becomes visually monotonous ) , however the wonderful script and performances take the movie to a higher realm for this genre . There is a great deal of art in Shyamalan's presentation ( including a gorgeous shot of Robin Wright Penn being carried up the stairs ) , and he works wonders with the supporting cast - - even the two-line players are perfection . from
Bullseye !	Technically mediocre , but an adrenaline-fueled crime-thriller adapted from Anders Bodelsen's book " Think of a Number " . Bank employee Elliott Gould dupes bank robber Christopher Plummer out of a small fortune , leading to a head-spinning game of cat-and-mouse . Gould and Plummer both do career-peak work , with Plummer never more riveting ( violence turns him on , making him a dangerous , bloodthirsty cat ) . The film's R-rated mayhem may be over-the-top , but the movie is never off-putting and director Daryl Duke , working from Curtis Hanson's screenplay , nearly keeps it on track the entire way . Duke mounts the proceedings with flair , accentuating the coal-black humor inherent in the tension for a terrifically lively effect . Engrossing picture was unjustly swept under the carpet in 1978 , but has more excitement than most big-budget films in this genre . Watch out ! from
Nostalgia gone askew	John Waters reveals a somewhat more sentimental side with " Hairspray " , a movie several people have told me they absolutely hated . I wondered what it was about Waters ' style as a filmmaker that could provoke such anger ? I think it's his affection for ' 60s movie-clichés transposed through nostalgia and Waters ' own gross-out sensibilities ( and his particular brand of humor , which can be quite wicked ) . I didn't much care for the film the first time I saw it , but I gave it a second chance and it grew on me . The reckless amateurishness is off-putting at first , but you have to meet " Hairspray " halfway . There is much to enjoy here , not the least of which is Divine as Ricki Lake's mom ( and also as a bigoted network bigwig ) ; wheeling and dealing after her daughter finds TV fame , Divine becomes a coiffed society queen , twisting away in front of the television and tossing off jaded quips like , " It's the times . . . they're a-changin ' . " The performances are all happily hammy , colorful and amusing , and the lightweight story comfortably shoehorns-in relevant political issues to counterbalance the slapstick . Ricki Lake is very appealing in her debut ; also hilarious , Pia Zadora as a beatnik and Debbie Harry as the mother of Lake's main rival ( " 1-2-cha-cha-CHA , 1-2-cha-cha-CHA ! " ) . It's not a seamless , polished picture , but it does have heart and charm and this sold me - - but on the second time around . from
Stella Stevens in perfectly shrewish " Poseidon Adventure " mode	After seeing " The Poseidon Adventure " in 1972 , I had a new favorite actress : I thought Stella Stevens stole the show ! So it was a wonderful surprise to see this TV-film advertised on ABC's Movie of the Week - - just a few months after I had ' discovered ' this fantastic lady . It all begins with Stella gunning a woman down on the beach . Suffice it to say , there are crosses and double-crosses that really threw me for a loop . The film was remade ( again for TV ) with Richard Thomas playing Linda's naive husband , but I didn't watch it because I didn't want to ruin my memories of this version . I haven't seen it in years , but I found out it was based on a well-regarded book by John D . MacDonald . I wish it had some loyal followers . As for Stella Stevens , she's right on the money : selfish , sarcastic , and appealing as hell .
Eerie , provocative take on Bergman's " Persona " . . .	Complex , byzantine drama with sexual heat , and nearly impossible to describe . David Lynch's purposefully over plotted sex-drama plows ahead with its confusing minutiae ( and Lynch's penchant for personal fetishes ) as if we all feel the same way . His story , about a bright-eyed , naive young woman arriving for the first time in Hollywood , parallels one of a glamor-puss on the wrong path , but how one parallels the other ( and why things happen ) are both intriguing and frustrating . Lynch doesn't divulge many answers ( and he's not fond of dropping clues ) , but he does lead this dance of psychological death with aplomb : you may not know where you're heading - - or where you've been - - but you trust that the director does . You have faith in Lynch , as the actors obviously do . The film is a jigsaw puzzle in which concrete conclusions never quite materialize , which is pro and con . There's no final summation . David Lynch's world is a wicked one , but he's happy to invite us in . from
Although rather naïve today , it is hands-down the best sci-fi drama of the 1950s . . .	Director Robert Wise takes a clichéd thematic approach to this science-fiction drama about an outer space visitor who escapes military confines and goes to live amongst regular American citizens , to hopefully find out why we're so cynical a race and eventually spread his message of peace . This is the type of ' 50s non-rabble rouser which doesn't want to get too many noses out of joint ( there's a dig at the Democrats , which is very funny even today ) . Wise begins the picture with shots of different newscasters from around the globe reporting the U . F . O . sighting in their native languages , all of them speaking into the same bulky microphone ; this is followed by reams of newspaper print going through the press machines , and , inevitably , the melodramatic headlines . Such hoary clichés were commonly used by directors of this era as visual shorthand , yet the simplistic exposition can be overlooked in the wake of the compelling story , which is well-written and satisfying ( if , finally , a bit soft ) . Michael Rennie is amazingly sensitive as the alien who insinuates himself in a Washington , D . C . boarding house , befriending single mom Patricia Neal and son Billy Gray ( both terrific ) . I almost hated to see the mechanisms of the plot take over , which meant less of the human interaction , but Wise guides the picture through to a well-rounded climax . from
He's a man so shy , he doesn't even think he deserves love . . .	Solemn , but terrific mood piece about a shy , chubby cook in a rivertown restaurant who fantasizes about getting to know the new waitress who just hired on , a perky young thing with long brunette hair and a big charming smile . Graceful film never goes the commercial route , injecting shady characters into the mix or throwing in some kind of kookiness to give the film comedic uplift . The picture is all on one level , which may drive some viewers batty with impatience , but I found the whole thing quietly invigorating . The lead character , Victor ( Pruitt Taylor Vince ) , daydreams , watches airplanes , has secret hopes ; he's a loner , and the filmmakers are careful not to flood the screen with potential conquests . There's Debbie Harry as a loose waitress with weary eyes and Liv Tyler , the new hire , who brings fantasy into Victor's life , but , as with all fantasies , the advent of reality diffuses the passionate tension . Everyone is sad in this film , and I imagine some audiences won't get with it , but I admire director James Mangold for putting this story on film so eloquently . It's a new " Marty " . from
Tough on Hollywood	Say what you will about the Shyer-Meyers team ( " Private Benjamin " , " Father Of The Bride " , " Baby Boom " ) , they know how to craft a movie , often exploiting every ounce of sentiment from their scripts . " Irreconcilable Differences " is somewhat of a departure for them however , a depiction of neurotic movie people , denizens of Hollywood , who have hardly any good points . As soon as the young couple finds success , it's a rich road downhill . The plot set-up has youngster Drew Barrymore trying to emancipate herself away from her famous mom and dad , and the H-Wood high-life is shown as both cause and effect . A terrific sequence involving Sharon Stone in a quasi-musical version of " Gone With The Wind " is satiric comic genius , yet the movie is so hard on its players , so brittle and tough , it's difficult to shake off the bad vibes even as the third act winds down to a sunny conclusion . Perceptively , the screenplay includes many awful ( and awfully funny ) truths about marriage , money and careers , but the cynical undermining of the picture may put viewers off . from
Long but cheerful , colorful Howard Hawks western . . .	A marvelous , rather witty oater in old Hollywood's best style . Dean Martin plays a drunken Texas sheriff saddled with a volatile situation : he's got custody of a killer who's in league with his strong arm brother , a well-known rancher who promises to set him free ; the sheriff enlists the aid of a drifting cowboy , a cantankerous old coot , and a guitar-pickin ' kid to outwit them . Howard Hawks directed western-lite is underpopulated , but is nevertheless full of wily good cheer , shootin ' , spittin ' and singin ' . John Wayne's cowboy is matched up quite nicely with ex-shady lady Angie Dickinson , while scene-stealing Walter Brennan gets most of the funny lines . Hawks later tried to duplicate this film's success with the lookalikes " El Dorado " in 1966 and " Rio Lobo " in 1970 , both starring Wayne , but this is the one you want . Handsomely produced and shot ; a whole lotta fun . from
Surprisingly touching	This TV-movie begins like most others in the good-girl-goes-bad vein , but it drew me in regardless . It's quickly apparent that " Shattered Innocence " is a well-made , well-acted and written picture and it really caught me off guard . The young woman whose innocence is shattered is based on real-life porn-star Shauna Grant . Scenes such as the one where Shauna goes back home for Christmas , proudly showing off a scrapbook of nude photos to her family and then getting rebuffed by her appalled mother , are both tender and sad , and Shauna's fight to reclaim her life at the finale is quite gripping . The film doesn't have the theatrical style of something like " Star 80 " , but it's actually a much better film . All the acting is solid and Sandor Stern's direction is both careful and easy . His picture resonates with a sad , gritty truth that is tough to fathom but well-portrayed for our benefit .
Goofy , fast-paced , innocuous	Minor fun featuring Shirley MacLaine as a cabaret dancer who gets a chance to become a key player in a major heist masterminded by thief extraordinaire-wannabe Michael Caine . It has lots of twists and surprises , and it's fun , but the sleek , more serious opening moments prepare you for a totally different picture then the one you eventually get . It seems as though this is going to be classy stuff at first , but it's just a daffy live-action cartoon . Energetic though , and the leads work well together . from
Mazursky's penchant for the sublimely ridiculous gives the film a wafty comic undertone . . .	An acting triumph for Jill Clayburgh , playing a N . Y . C . wife and mother whose husband tells her he's fallen in love with another woman . Brittle , biting , funny , and moving serious-comedy benefits from a screenplay which is sometimes strangely over-the-top and yet nearly always on-track emotionally . In his determination to find The Truth about the American woman in the 1970's , writer-director Paul Mazursky gets a little kooky : Clayburgh's Erica throws up on the street after her husband confesses his affair ; she later fends off the affections of both her doctor and a blind date ( one of those guys who tries covering his bald scalp with overlong side hairs ) . She's also in therapy and her doctor turns out to be a lesbian ( and we never see Erica in therapy again ) . The mother-daughter dynamics between Clayburgh and tough little nut Lisa Lucas are precise and believable ; when Mom brings a man over for dinner , daughter feels defensive and gets mouthy . But the night ends playfully , with the ladies playing piano together and singing Paul McCartney ! Alan Bates enters in the second-act as a burly , not-pushy artist who falls for Erica , yet she's not so sure . Why she's so reluctant to throw down her defenses for this man isn't made quite clear ( playful , sexy Bates would be a godsend to any unattached woman ) . The film isn't necessarily logical , though it takes pride in being flaky and tart . There are big , passionate feelings in " An Unmarried Woman " and , instead of being some kind of emotional work-out , it is surprisingly romantic ( which ticked some feminists off , who wanted more than lightweight laughs ) . I enjoyed it , although it probably seems dated by today's standards . It certainly is peculiar , with Mazursky's penchant for outrageous dialogue punctuated by genuinely affecting emotions . from
Rather like a raucous " Flintstones " extension . . . but the serious edge gives it so much more substance	A Chicago tour guide and his live-in girlfriend , an art gallery seller , have a messy split , but neither wants to leave their condo . Viewers expecting a wacky romantic comedy with lots of nutty behavior will pretty much get what they want for the better part of an hour . Yet , this surprising film has a tough , edgy undercurrent that brings forth a great deal of relationship truths - - enough to resonate deeply with the rest of us wanting a little more substance . Perhaps it is because of the film's ' simple ' framework that serious cinefiles shunned it ( the picture may appear to be a mass-market entry initially ) , however it caught me off guard with an apparently desired , serious need to be more than just a skin-deep star-throwaway . Jennifer Aniston is quickly becoming the most underrated actress of the past ten years ; several of her big moments ( whether crying in her room , catching her ex in the middle of a drunken orgy , or just trying to sort out her feelings while on the job ) are flawless . Vince Vaughn is equally good , and the pathos he manages to convey near the end obliterates the movie's sitcom set-up . Instead of a wild free-for-all , the film manages to be funny in a prickly way , never losing sight of its characters and never condescending towards the audience . Without going into unnecessary , hokey background detail , it shows clearly how little hurts and upsets can erupt into life-changing decisions , and those who recognize these people will clearly understand and sympathize . It's the best relationship movie in a long , long while . from
Engrossing , underrated sci-fi	From Ray Bradbury's novel about totalitarian society that has banned books and printed words in order to eliminate independent thought ; Oskar Werner plays professional book-burner who becomes enraptured with stories . Possibly a bit too thin at this length , but a fascinating peek at a cold future ( which the times have just about caught up to ) . Didn't get a warm reception from critics in its day , yet the performances by Werner and Julie Christie ( in a dual role as both Werner's wife and his rebel girlfriend ) are top notch . I was never a fan of director Francois Truffaut's too-precious stories of childhood , but this film , curiously his only English-language picture , is extremely well-directed ; the sequence with the woman and her books afire is one amazing set-piece , with tight editing , incredible and precise art direction , and the camera in all the right places . Truffaut lets you feel the agony of book paper curling up black in a mass of orange flames , and the proud defiance of the woman as she herself strikes the match . Unforgettable . from
Fascinating restoration and behind-the-scenes gossip . . .	Chronicling the restoration of Alfred Hitchcock's masterwork " Vertigo " , we get background information and amazing behind-the-scenes photographs and gossip about one of the greatest films ever made . I loved getting to see those rare pics of Hitch in San Francisco , and that original cover of the French novel " D'entre les Morts " , upon which " Vertigo " is based , is stunning ( try finding that in a pinch ! ) . Roddy McDowall narrates in his inimitable , non show-offy way . The quick interviews with Kim Novak , Barbara Bel Geddes and others are very enjoyable . Perfect for whetting the palate for a " Vertigo " viewing , so put them both on ( this one first ) for a stylish , informative evening .
Hoss and the Scarlet Lady . . .	Unbeknownst to him , Hoss Cartwright has fallen in love at first sight with a woman of ill-repute ( played in an extremely polite manner by Gena Rowlands ) who is visiting her sister from racy San Francisco . This being 1963 , the writers can't use the words ' jezebel ' or ' prostitute ' , but the point is made clear when Adam Cartwright is seduced by man-hungry Gena right in her sister's front yard ! The crux of the story however is a bit outdated , that a woman with a bad reputation is much like a leopard - - she could never change her spots . Rowlands gets a good lecturing by Ben Cartwright - - we even get to see the Cartwright brothers come to blows ( minus Little Joe , who spends this entire episode hovering in the background ) . I'm not sure why the " Bonanza " stories couldn't feature each of the main characters equally when it came to tales of family conflict , but it seems the lead parts were divvied up week by week . This fifth season of the show was strong on episodes featuring Dan Blocker's Hoss prominently , and here he gets to utilize a colorful range : lovestruck rancher , clumsy gentleman caller , jealous boyfriend , hurt and angry brother . It's a triumph for both Blocker and Hoss , as we see a loyal and dedicated side to the big guy when it comes to matters of the heart ( he even agrees to leaving his precious Ponderosa if his lady-love wants a life in the city ) . The film-stock used on " Bonanza " was terrific , as the colors just pop off the screen , and Rowlands ( in an off-the-shoulder , Lily Langtree-styled party dress ) has never looked so dreamy . Blocker , too , looks a might handsome , and his devotion to her is exceptionally heartfelt for a weekly western television program .
Courtroom drama par excellence . . .	The combination of Agatha Christie's play , Billy Wilder's fluid direction , and superlative performances by Charles Laughton , Marlene Dietrich , and Tyrone Power combine to make this film quite extraordinary , if outré . Laughton plays a brandy-swilling English barrister defending Power on the charge of murder ; Dietrich is Power's German wife , who claims her husband is guilty ; Elsa Lanchester ( never better ) is Laughton's devoted nurse and John Williams ( superior , as always ) is his legal assistant . Don't be put off by the powdered wigs or the legalese ; Wilder keeps this intriguing case peppered with amusing incident , and the double-twist finale is staged with aplomb . If it's a bit over-the-top , that's forgivable , for the picture is full of " actors " ( on the surface and undercover ) and everyone here has a grand time . from
Crackerjack thriller !	Intelligent , nail-biting drama came out of nowhere in 1979 and soon was on the cover of every newspaper in America ( when life imitated the film ) . A nuclear power plant employee in Southern California is threatened by superiors when he decides to go public with the real story behind an accident at the plant . Ostensibly a stuck valve problem , a TV news-crew's film shows that it was an accident verging on disastrous proportions - - and worse , that safety conditions are being scrubbed to save millions of dollars , a cover-up that endangers everyone's lives . The movie occasionally gets too technical ( especially in the second-half ) and could use more human interplay , however the performances by Jack Lemmon , Jane Fonda ( as a puff-piece news-woman in the right place at the right time ) , and Michael Douglas ( as a freelance cameraman ) are superb . The throwaway bits involving nuclear protesters is both entirely accurate and bitterly satirical , and the news-biz ( with its corporate structure and vapid yes-men ) is vividly captured . from
Viva Vaccaro !	Brenda Vaccaro never really fit into any conventional Hollywood mold ; even a brief stint as Michael Douglas ' real-life girlfriend didn't get her major press , so the lady had to find her own way . Terrific early spots in " Midnight Cowboy " and the Robert Mitchum mood piece " Going Home " didn't quite afford her a following , but in 1974 she got an Oscar nod as an unabashed man-chaser in " Once Is Not Enough " , and Hollywood finally began taking notice . In this TV-pilot / French film remake , Vaccaro really hits her stride playing a crafty crime-solver surrounded by colorful helpers ( including a charming Ron Silver , back when he really WAS charming ) , Brenda is feisty , funny , and totally into her character . The subsequent television series was also good but lacked the consistently strong writing of this opener . Years have gone by , but I still think of this movie and some of Vaccaro's expressions and responses . She's a gem !
Coppola's best film	Ingenious and mesmerizing little art film from Francis Ford Coppola , just off " The Godfather Part II " and doing astounding , fluid work . Gene Hackman gives a superbly controlled performance as a wire-tapper who gets too involved in one of his cases , leaving him in the center of a macabre swirl of events . One of those quiet movies that fans of today's blockbusters probably won't appreciate ; it tells us quite a lot about the main character without actually saying much at all , so assured are the visuals . It ends on a chilling note that leaves the protagonist alienated from his life , but Coppola is careful never to alienate his audience . It's a winner . from
An eyeful ! and what eyes !	Nancy Sinatra's TV special ( originally aired on the night of Dec . 11 , 1967 ) has arrived on DVD in immaculate condition . It has built up such a mystique over the years that most people probably expect GENIUS . Well , there's a touch of genius in it . It's campy , most of all , and could benefit from better pacing , but if you love Nancy Sinatra you'll love " Movin ' With Nancy " . To review it is to review her . She wears a variety of wigs and outfits , incredible eye make-up , she shakes her groove thang with Sammy Davis , Jr . , cuddles up with father Frank ( who is delightfully loose , warm and paternal ) , and trades stiff quips with so-droll-he's-drifting-off Dean Martin . My favorite part of the show is Nancy singing " This Town " to a host of mannequins . I enjoyed " Younger Than Springtime " and the tribute to Ol Blue Eyes . The RC Cola commercials from 1967 are included as well , and are wonderful ( Nancy in the white " cell " is breathtaking - - striking poses like Mariah Carey's big sister ) . But the show just doesn't MOVE ! There's no urgency in her singing , no passion in the staging of the songs , odd and / or awkward touches and cut-aways , variety-show choreography . The songs play well on CD , but coupled with the visual , you ache for more excitement in both . It's a mixed-bag . Nancy-fanatics will just rate it a ' 10 ' and end the argument .
" It's a flaw . . . in the iris . . . "	Seminal classic of ' 70's cinema , with Jack Nicholson excellent as a mostly-ethical ex-cop turned private detective in 1930's Los Angeles who believes he's been hired by the wife of the Chief Engineer of the Water and Power Department ; she thinks her husband's cheating on her but , as it turns out , she's not the real Mrs . at all , and so propels Nicholson's Jake " J . J . " Gittes into a tug-of-war between powerful ex-partners , with carnality and family secrets the key to unraveling the mystery . The Oscar-winning screenplay by Robert Towne ( who also penned the 1990 extension , " The Two Jakes " ) is filled with complicated story threads and characters with chequered pasts - - lots of fun , though it is somewhat unfair the script is always two steps ahead of the audience ( it would be nearly impossible for a first-time viewer to solve this case on his own ; Towne sets up the game and ends up solving it for the rest of us ) . However , the picture is so deftly orchestrated , and entertainingly played out , one becomes engrossed in the proceedings even while being bombarded with both clues and extraneous matter . Faye Dunaway's performance , as the breathy , mysterious daughter of water-czar John Huston , walks a fine line between melodramatic and campy - - still , she's entirely in the spirit of the piece , and an interesting screen-match for Nicholson . The film is so assured , it pulls you in without giving out enough information concerning the milieu - - and yet , this lack of knowledge for our sake doesn't hurt the movie . A cannier , guessing-game approach to the plot might've made the film more commercial ( it was a modest box-office hit ) , however this presentation , messy though it may be , is still quite arresting . Repeat viewings are a must . from
Quirky characters who eventually grow on you	The shifty , funny / serious tone of " Terms Of Endearment " caught a lot of people off guard in 1983 and word-of-mouth about it being a seriously good tearjerker / comedy was strong ( opening near Christmas probably didn't hurt it come Oscar time either ! ) . But since then , TV sitcoms have been mining this kind of flippant , edgy , raw sense of dynamics ( " Roseanne " comes to mind ) , and " Terms " doesn't seem as fresh . Watching it again the other night , I couldn't help feeling that some of the juice was missing , or that Shirley MacLaine's Aurora Greenway was actually more of an irritant than a sympathetic harridan . But on closer inspection , the lives of these characters are quite endearing , and the tender music on the soundtrack always underlines a poignant scene at just the right moment . Vivid Debra Winger is incredible as MacLaine's daughter , as are John Lithgow , Jeff Daniels , Jack Nicholson , and Danny DeVito ( in a small but telling part ) . As for MacLaine , I think she makes a few missteps in her characterization , and I didn't like the scene where she leaves her own birthday party in a huff and finds herself at Nicholson's door - - it feels put on - - or her famous scene with Jack driving on the beach , which is highly improbable . However , her determined will and loving possessiveness / detachment towards her daughter makes her a complicated and colorful bundle of nerves . The picture is flawed , yet has scenes of worth and love , many memorable lines of dialogue , and shows a real skill for balancing different moods . from
Not without flaws , but beautifully presented	Wide-eyed , hard-working young woman in Holland circa 1665 leaves home for a job as scullery maid to a painter and his family ; quickly , she becomes the artist's secret assistant and muse , eventually posing for Vermeer's famous title-named portrait . Stunning art direction , lively pacing and an absorbing narrative all make up for a few key performances which seem too modern , and minor instances where the editing isn't as sharp as one might hope . The maid's many entrances and exits are repetitive , but Scarlett Johansson proves to be a very intuitive actress who excels in a role with very little dialogue . Quite good overall , with a finale that smartly leaves the breathless viewer wondering . . . asking . . . wanting more . from
" Hey Kate , I'm getting some static ! " . . . . " Not as much as you're going to get . "	P . J . Soles should have become a big star after playing Riff Randall , # 1 fan of the punk rock group the Ramones . She's so exuberant , you don't care that she's obviously too old to still be in high school ( that fact is leveled out by having all the high schoolers look 24 ) . It's a fast-paced frolic that doesn't cop-out ; everything gets blown to smithereens at the end , and that's just as it should be . Mary Woronov , an innately kinky and funny presence as the Nazi-like principal , gets a great , one-of-a-kind bit at the beginning where Frisbees fly dangerously close to her head ( how many takes did they use on that , or was it a fluke ? ) and Dey Young is very appealing as Soles ' best , Kate Rambeau . The weakest link , ironically enough , in this " High School " chain-gang is the Ramones . They can't act , they're not funny , and their concert segment goes on too long . One Ramones song , " I Want You Around " , is treated as a fantasy and is well captured ; other incidental songs are good , particularly a rare Paul McCartney & Wings ballad heard near the beginning ( " Did We Meet Somewhere Before ? " ) . Good show ! from
Not really camp , more in the line of grisly good fun !	Connie Stevens once again shows what a fine , natural actress she is , here playing a young lass from Wisconsin who must spend seven nights in her late father's house of horrors before she can receive her inheritance ; Dean Jones plays a reporter who smells a story and befriends the easily-spooked girl . Terrific second-biller from Warner Bros . , ostensibly aimed at kids ( " Attention Guillotine-agers ! " ) yet bolstered by a very strong script with nice attention to dialogue . The movie has good effects , funny / spooky scenario , and surprising chemistry between the two leads . Stevens is very good , especially in the prologue playing her own character's uptight mother . It all comes to a commendable ending , thanks to a very clever . . . EXECUTION ! from
Very calculated and pressed out , but some of the manufactured heart is indeed moving . . .	The marriage of an upscale New York City couple with child falls apart when the wife wants out ( " It took a lot of courage for her to walk out that door ! " a neighbor tells us ) ; the busy , distracted husband takes on the " motherly " responsibilities and grows closer to his son , but soon the wife returns . Highly manipulative picture doesn't give us a very realistic familial unit ( with young Justin Henry certainly not resembling the product of a marriage between Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep ! ) , but the dynamics are intriguing and involving , and director Robert Benton keeps the pace popping with lots of cleverness , marvelous classical music , canny editing and surefire bits of humor . Streep's character is designed to be a cold , self-centered witch , but I was ready to feel a lot more for her than Benton probably wanted . It all has to be painted in terms of black and white , good and bad , with Hoffman learning how hard his wife had it and getting a second chance at being a good parent . The film never falters from its preconceived path , and very fine acting nearly saves it , but I'm not sure where Benton was steering the film in the final act , and the closing scene is awfully abrupt . from
Pure lyrical nonsense !	Both ridiculous and magical , this is a comedic fantasy which really works . Former armed forces dog - - a German Shepherd who just inherited a fortune from a wealthy people-hater - - is poisoned and dies , reincarnated soon as a private detective out to solve his own murder . This set-up may sound an awful lot like that Chevy Chase / Benji comedy from the early-'80s , but those who give up on the picture early will be missing a treat . The writing is ticklish and pointed , and the sharp handling is sprightly and lyrical . Dick Powell is , as always , wonderful in the lead , matched by amusing Joyce Holden as his assistant ( in her previous life , she was a horse ) . Sounds silly , but it works a special brand of wacky magic . from
James Brolin : a television hero	Forget " Marcus Welby " ! When I think of James Brolin , I instantly recall a host of terrific movies he did right in a row in 1972-73 : " Skyjacked " , " Westworld " , the TV-film " Short Walk To Daylight " , and this compact little thriller . After being mugged and knocked unconscious by teenagers in a department store men's room , Brolin wakes to find he's trapped in after closing time . This might be some people's dream , but Brolin has to fight off vicious guard dogs all night long , and so does in heroic ways . James Brolin meant a lot to me during this time . Him and Richard Crenna . I wanted to see them in everything , and for a while there I did .
A technical marvel , it also manages to be emotionally charged and involving	I half-expected an overwrought concoction of incredible high drama , but James Cameron's fictionalized film of a real incident from 1912 is nearly free of derivative devices or sappy puppy love issues . Before the infamous ocean liner perishes in the icy Atlantic Ocean , two passengers - - third-class gadabout Leonardo DiCaprio and conflicted first-class passenger Kate Winslet - - fall in love in what is a very captivating romantic interlude . Cannily-made picture is , of course , full of marvelous effects , but its this key romance that most people will end up remembering ( and with good reason , as the performers are terrific ) . Cameron's pacing is both giddy and tight , and he draws vivid characterizations from the supporting players as well . High entertainment . from
Excessive , expensive , but undeniably shrewd and funny . . .	Blake Edwards ' tribute to silent-era slapstick , a live-action cartoon about a turn-of-the-century auto race , is full of wild gags , pratfalls and fast talk . The film really engages the viewer in its hammy mix of comedic elements and the cast is very game . The autos and locations are wonderful , but the film runs too long and the " Prisoner of Zenda " send-up in the last act ( with Jack Lemmon in a dual role ) is a little bit wearing . Tony Curtis , his teeth sparkling like a matinée god , is in fine , enunciating form but ends up playing straight man to Jack Lemmon ( at his most wily ) , Natalie Wood ( sharp as a whip playing a fast-thinking suffragette ) , Peter Falk ( as Lemmon's sidekick ) , and even Keenan Wynn ( wonderfully smooth , especially in the prison sequence with Wood ) . Barroom brawls , pie-fights , and a hair-raising fencing sequence aside , the relationships between the principles becomes surprisingly three-dimensional and the movie is extremely smart and well-written , if not compact . out of
A quiet menace	William Wyler's rather even-keeled thriller about a psychopath who , upon winning a lotto pool , takes up residence in an isolated manor and kidnaps a beautiful co-ed , keeping her in a hidden room / dungeon . There are no melodramatic hysterics , no crazy-eyed antics , no gory slashings . . . just a straightforward story about a disturbed man ( a butterfly collector ) and his prisoner , who - - thankfully - - does not fall in love with the deranged youth and ask him to carry her away . " The Collector " , adapted from John Fowles ' book , is a very unromantic , uncharismatic look at a hostage and her captor , and I found it riveting if lacking a bit in genuine intensity . Superb acting by Terence Stamp and Samantha Eggar in the demanding leads . from
Haunting and deliciously involving	Southern psychic and single parent Cate Blanchett is pulled against her will into the logistics of a popular local girl's disappearance . Although the brutality inherent in the script is laid on with a trowel , " The Gift " has many mesmerizing moments , not the least of which is the casting of luminous Blanchett , sensational in the lead . Anyone who has seen Kevin Bacon's " Stir Of Echoes " will notice some curious similarities , but I found this movie much preferable , as it uses a terrific ensemble cast to its full advantage , and weaves a plot that is by turns outrageous and completely absorbing . I bought right into " The Gift " and stayed with it breathlessly every step of the way . from
" I have the feeling one of us is gonna get to play call-girl . . . "	This episode of Aaron Spelling's " Charlie's Angels " , only the tenth show of the program's first season , already knew how to exploit Farrah Fawcett-Majors ' appeal to budding male ( and female ) teenagers : put her on a skateboard and have her roll for her life ! The Angels are assigned to the case of a missing man , an antiques dealer and sometime-mama's boy , who was also the unwitting victim of a prostitution / robbery racket . All three of our girls get a chance to shine here : Jaclyn Smith gently shakes down a bartender for vital info ( just after ordering tequila with lime salt ! ) ; Kate Jackson climbs over a barbed-wire fence and into an industrial yard , only to be taken hostage by the two goons who pull off the robbery schemes ; and Farrah , well , she aids in the nabbing of a prized racehorse and then outruns the nutcracker-wielding villain on her trusty skateboard . Sure , it's ' 70s kitsch , and not without flaws ( the biggest lapse comes when Jill and Sabrina pick up the racehorse , with the horse's maniacal owner apparently nowhere in sight ; they return to the office and call him , and he's right there on the property ! ) . Still , the dialogue is sometimes fun ( Farrah to prostie Laurette Spang : " Your name isn't Tracy . It rhymes with Stacy and Macy and all those other JIVE names hookers pick up ! " ) . The repartee between the Angels ultimately holds this episode ( and dozens of others ) together , and when Bosley gets involved it's usually a hoot .
" Sounds like an inside job . . . "	Wealthy Grace Rodeheaver of Los Angeles hires Townsend Investigations to uncover the identity of the person ( or persons ! ) responsible for stealing expensive jewelry out of her wall-safe . . . without leaving so much as a fingerprint ! Immediately , detectives Jill , Kelly , Sabrina , and ever-faithful John Bosley discover that Ms . Rodeheaver has great personal devotion to her spiritual adviser : one Madam Dorian . A trip to the medium ( under the guise of an oil heiress ) nearly proves fatal for Kelly , however : her ruse is deflated under hypnosis , but worse , her troubled years as an orphan are brought to the fore along with memories of a matron named Beemish who locked little Kelly in a dark closet ! We have already learned by this point in the series that Kelly Garrett was raised in an orphanage run by nuns , yet no saintly sisters appear this time . Where did Beemish come from ? And where were the nuns when Kelly was being abused ? Amusingly , Jaclyn Smith's Kelly is in a perpetual foul mood throughout this episode ( except for when she's picking out a new dress for the séance ) , allowing for some rare prickly exchanges between the Angels . At one point , Kelly turns to the others with a harsh , " Would you stop big-sistering me ! I'm FINE ! " This makes for an interesting personal dynamic between the characters , who are usually seen joshing with each other when they're not on a case . There are definitely holes in this teleplay , though nearly every episode managed to stretch realism just a tad . Hypnotized , nightgown-clad Kelly apparently walks home early in the morning from the soothsayer's digs to her own house - - which looks to be a quite a journey indeed ! Farrah Fawcett-Majors , who complained years later that this series never allowed her to explore a real character , must have forgotten her genuinely moving scene with Jaclyn Smith in a runaway car , and there are two savvy guest-performances by Carole Cook as Madam Dorian and Rene Auberjonois as her nefarious partner . The big scene with Kelly and Jill at the séance demonstrates what was so tasty about Aaron Spelling's " Charlie's Angels " : a little seriousness , a little tongue-in-cheek playfulness , some camp value , but always with an unerring eye on the personalities of the Angels , sharp ladies we have come to know so well .
Incredible cast and production design , erratic script	I would be hard-pressed to find another comedy with a cast this good . Everyone ( Gene Wilder , Madeline Kahn , Marty Feldman , Peter Boyle , Cloris Leachman , Teri Garr , Gene Hackman , Kenneth Mars ) sparkles in their own realm of dementia here - - especially Wilder , whose brand of mayhem uncorks at whim and sometimes sends us scurrying for cover ! It's a very funny - - and yet serious - - spoof of the " Frankenstein " movies , with humor that derives from our nostalgia and the set replicas as much from the dialogue . The plot is ( intentionally ) familiar , but the script isn't always so predictable , throwing the audience a curve-ball now and again , yet the cast and director / co-writer Mel Brooks almost always manage to stay on track . Wilder teamed with Brooks on the screenplay , and there was a small feud about who did most of the work ; consequently , they never did another picture together . It was their loss as well as ours , for despite some OK films ( Wilder's " The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes ' Smarter Brother " and Brooks ' " Silent Movie " ) , neither reached the heights they climbed with " Young Frankenstein " . out of
Appealing Christmas confection !	Bright and engaging holiday-themed romantic comedy has single mom Janet Leigh wooed by two men over the holidays : devil-may-care Robert Mitchum ( who really does have a sardonic demon in his eyes ! ) and staunch , dull Wendell Corey . Poor Corey really has a thankless role here , not only playing the third wheel but berated for it as well ; still , he plays dishwater-dull to perfection and his voice of reason would surely give Leigh cause to second-guess her heart . Surprisingly quirky film isn't the least bit obvious or clichéd , and Janet's screen-relationship with the likable youngster playing her son is very well handled . Top-notch writing , directing and acting ; a gem . from
Early Goldie , early Spielberg , both first-rate . . .	Petty crook is busted out of jail by his determined-yet-reckless wife ; seems their infant son has been farmed out to a wealthy couple while the two were behind bars and the Mrs . wants her baby back now . There's a scene midway through " The Sugarland Express " that still takes my breath away : Goldie Hawn and William Atherton take refuge in a mobile home parked in a lot next to a drive-in theater , a cartoon is up on the screen and Atherton supplies the sound effects - - but , as the cartoon descends into violence , he stares out the window while his wife giggles on , oblivious to the parallels between the film and the paths their lives have taken . It's a miraculous moment in a high-spirited comedy-drama about trying to get what you want - - even at the expense of the law . I'm surprised most Spielberg fans turn their noses up at this movie , it's one of his best . The finale doesn't really work ( the picture switches gears too many times and eventually leaves us eating dust ) , but Goldie Hawn's performance is brave and funny and wonderful . In fact all the acting is excellent , right down to the last two-line player . from
Masterful blend of comedic , dramatic and romantic elements . . .	Alexander Payne directed and adapted Rex Pickett's book about two former San Diego college chums , a schoolteacher and a TV actor , taking a week off for some rest and relaxation up in California's Santa Barbara County , planning to attend a wine-tasting convention but hooking up with two lovely ladies who have no idea what they're in for . Payne's nimble , easy pace and unfettered style never feels forced or ham-handed ; he works lovely magic within this emotionally provocative scenario , and he shows off his four principal actors ( Paul Giamatti , Thomas Haden Church , Virginia Madsen , and Sandra Oh ) to their best possible advantage . The movie is so subtly good that it runs the risk of being tagged as overrated ( the critical raves might not prepare one for Payne's quiet contemplation , which some may interpret as ' slow ' ) ; however , it captures empty longing , helpless need , and warmly familiar melancholy better than any character study in recent memory . from
More surprising than the outcome is how well Carol Lynley holds her own against Laurence Olivier !	Carol Lynley does some fabulous work here as American woman newly arrived in England whose little daughter is apparently kidnapped from school on her first day . The catch is , nobody knows the child and Lynley is having trouble proving she even exists ! Terrific mystery from director Otto Preminger , an uneven filmmaker who does strong work just up to the finale ( which is somewhat anti-climactic ) . Laurence Olivier is the police inspector on the case and he's very smooth , cunning and yet sympathetic to Lynley . There are some mod overtures which seem misplaced , and Noël Coward has a gratuitous bit as Carol's drunken landlord ( and BBC celebrity ! ) , yet the film does have many sharp bits of minute detail , intriguing and funny supporting characters , terrific cinematography and locations . Does it all add up ? No , but it's inscrutable fun nevertheless . from
Terrific episode featuring spunky Annette Funicello . . .	Available on VHS under the title " The Mystery of Don Cabrillo " , this is a terrific episode from Walt Disney's " Zorro " TV series . Wonderfully spunky Annette Funicello guest stars as a pretty , but seemingly confused young girl , perhaps a pathological liar , arriving in Los Angeles from Spain and attempting to reconnect with her estranged father - - whom no one has ever heard of . The identity of her papa is a big surprise ( and is deftly handled ) while Guy Williams lays on the smooth charm as Don Diego / Zorro , the best of all-time in my opinion . Tongue-in-cheek moments of humor and adventure make for a highly entertaining show , and again , Annette is terrific in her colorful appearance , and even sings a little ditty on the guitar ( but don't watch her strumming fingers too closely ! ) .
One of Clark Gable's best films - - Doris's too	Classy , rapid-fire comedy that combines " His Girl Friday " with any one of the Spencer Tracy / Katharine Hepburn battle-of-the-sexes . The set-up of the plot is rather hoary and contrived ( gruff city editor of a New York newspaper - - who is so anti-education that he hates the smell of chalk - - falls for a journalism teacher ) , yet the writing and the deft handling are so assured , you can nearly forgive the sitcom devices . The actress at the beginning of the film who begs Clark Gable to fire her son is such a wonderful , believable find that she gets the picture off on just the right note ; Gable and teacher Doris Day are lovely together , fighting and flirting and completely at ease in their roles . When Gable finally plants one on DD , she turns away in a huff , only to melt with wobbly knees . It's a fantastic moment in this unjustly forgotten , underrated classic . from
You don't have to move . . . . . . if you're smart enough	Superb whodunit with all the pieces right there for you to place : James Coburn is wicked as the cunning gamester inviting to his yacht the failed screenwriter ( Richard Benjamin ) , his alcoholic wife ( Joan Hackett , in a sympathetic performance ) , the catty agent ( Dyan Cannon , more wired than ever before ) , the starlet ( Raquel Welch , looking a little out-of-it ) , the starlet's husband ( Ian McShane ) , and a director down-on-his-luck ( James Mason , the calm-head who pays attention to the details ) . The only trouble with the film is that the first-half ( involving a hilarious personality game ) is SO good and clever that the murder-mystery second-half lets you down a bit . Still , these characters are a wonderfully tainted , self-absorbed lot and Dyan Cannon's breakdown after someone almost offs her is a wild bit of breakneck acting . I also admired Welch's scene at midnight on the top deck , talking about stealing a coat ( she's very seductive and charming , though she continues to whisper her dialogue throughout the film and comes off as slightly dazed ) . The character conflicts and the reasoning behind who-does-what-to-whom doesn't bear a great deal of scrutiny ( even after several viewings , I'm still not clear on that business regarding the cabin keys ) ; still , the film is extremely entertaining , a verbally exciting match-of-wits by a group of Hollywood hopefuls and burn-outs . from
From among the dead . . .	Alfred Hitchcock's " Vertigo " has a narcotizing effect , a lulling , dream-like ambiance that is hard to shake off , which may explain why many viewers keep returning to it . Retired police detective James Stewart meets and makes over a woman who reminds him of his only true love - - a suicidal woman he lost , but perhaps can find again by dipping back into the past . Hitchcock seemed to relate to Stewart's " Scottie " more so than any other character in his films , and , having a gleeful touch of nastiness himself , is careful not to let him have his way , so the climax may be disappointing to some . However , this glamor-mystery is blissfully gorgeous , fascinatingly written and extremely well-acted . Only one question : is the hotel manager ( Ellen Corby ) part of the scheme or just a dotty old broad ? from
A sucker punch to marriage	' Mature ' is an apt description of this drama written and directed by Woody Allen , centering on a New York couple whose relationship hits a wall after finding out their best friends are splitting up . It's an often gut-wrenching picture that doesn't shy away from some really tough scenes and emotions . That said , I didn't buy the ending that attempts to wrap things up with a bow and a smile . This plastic conclusion seems foisted upon Allen , who sucker punches marriage and then gives us an ' everything will be OK ' tag . I don't feel Allen's belief in this section of the movie , but it's such a small portion that it can be forgiven ( or , at the least , overlooked ) . Mia Farrow and ( especially ) Sydney Pollack give amazing performances ; Judy Davis ' highly-strung character is one of those too-smart-for-her-own-good types who tend to grate if they're on-screen too long ( and she is ) . Woody himself gives another of his wise performances playing a teacher , Juliette Lewis is very sweet and real as one of his students , but Liam Neeson is a bland hunk . Overall , a scathing dissection of marriage , and arguably Allen's best film of the 1990's . from
Maybe not as " charming " as most Disney films . . .	. . . and certainly " Pinocchio " had a more popular and memorable song score , but for my money I'd pick " Alice In Wonderland " as one of Walt Disney's top achievements in animation . From Lewis Carroll's story , and filled with knock-out colors ( pinks and blues and reds on inky blacks ) , this episodic tale would not have worked so well if the direction hadn't been so graceful , setting a light , jovial mood , and the songs so tongue-trippingly clever . Alice herself is lovely and funny , the supporting characters appropriately manic , and the quiet moments gently even out the craziness ( as with the Tulgey Wood / " Very Good Advice " sequence ) . Disney certainly runs hot ( " Pinocchio " , " Peter Pan " ) and cold ( " The Aristocats " ) , but this fantastic journey into nonsense , from a practically-unfilmable book , is endlessly interesting from a visual stand-point . from
First-class slapstick and romance	Is this Doris Day's best movie ? Probably not , but it is one of her funniest and I laughed more here than at any of her bedroom comedies from this era . Fashionably advertised as a spy comedy - - it's really not ( there's one spy late in the film ) - - it features our Doris as a kooky widow with a menagerie of pets who spends her nights at school ( some of her classes are ballet and map-making ! ) and her days as a tour-guide at NASA . On the weekends , she dons a mermaid's tail and swims beneath her father's vessel . Doris is very down-to-the-earth here , never too-cute . I loved the warmly feminine feel she gives to the song " Soft As The Starlight " , and the lovely look on her face after Rod Taylor kisses her for the first time . The slapstick stuff is very raucous and noisy , but I laughed out loud when Paul Lynde followed Doris into the ladies room dressed in drag , or when Doris makes a date with two different men for a romantic evening , and the men are the ones who end up ( innocently ) in bed together . Dick Martin says to Edward Andrews , " Do you wanna meet early and pick out the furniture ? " An exceptionally smart bauble : breezy , plushly-made and essentially brainless , but it makes for a great couple of hours . from
The whine of a harmonica , the shriek of laughter born of pain . . .	A terrifically intense dramedy which features possibly the most realistic familial unit in TV sitcoms , not to mention a marriage between Roseanne and Dan Connor ( Roseanne and John Goodman ) which is pin-point exact , warm and right - - and feels lived in . All non-believers have to do is watch a few episodes : the timing is deceptively shaggy yet perfect , the characters believable , their predicaments immediate . Fully realized by Roseanne herself , who never let her real-life chronicles get in the way of the show . The writing is continually sharp , with dialogue that frequently evokes whole lives , such as in the episode where Roseanne sits in a coffee house after hours talking to a tired waitress who confides about her late husband , " I miss him . It's so quiet . Sometimes I'll turn a football game on , turn it up real loud . . . and I hate sports . But what'ya gonna do ? " Tender moments like this , seemingly throwaway bits , elude some viewers looking for a fast laughter fix ; " Roseanne " was always something more , and it aches in laughter and in life's woes .
Heartbreaking Buffy	Brian Keith proved to be so good working with little kids : he is warm and paternal , tough but never rigid , always bemused by their antics and reassuring everyone with his calming smile when their spirits were down . When Buffy makes friends with some kids from the bad section of town , Uncle Bill buys her hand-me-downs to wear so she'll fit in ( and even tags along and makes friends with a parent , Jackie Coogan ) . Sebastian Cabot made the perfect valet ; he too is charmed by these kids and pretends to be surly even though the idea of having a real family suits him and somehow appeals to him . Kathy Garver is a gregarious big sister and Johnny Whitaker a loyal , dependable brother who rarely got mischievous ( he's very grounded and sometimes gravely serious ) . As for Anissa Jones as Buffy , she didn't seem to be just reading lines that an adult wrote for her , she really WAS Buffy . When her doll gets lost , or when she loses her spot in the Scout Troop , or when the Mod Maidens hurt her feelings ( in the terrific episode " The Joiners " ) , Jones works the most tender of childhood emotions in a way that is neither flashy nor incredible . She was a very subtle little actress with a beaming smile that could appear out of nowhere .
Slick , smoothly-done laugh-getter	Not only does this Disney comedy feature the least-objectionable performance by Dean Jones EVER , it also has Hayley Mills and Dorothy Provine as a wonderfully kooky pair of suburban sisters AND a fantastic feline hero . This Siamese cat is just gorgeous , and it's a lot of fun watching the bumbling humans trying to tail him down alleys and city streets . The bad guys of the piece are also letter-perfect : threatening but not overbearing , just enough menace to make the kidnapped bank teller's scary predicament that much more real . I also loved the next door neighbors ( a wacky Elsa Lanchester and William Demarest ) , Hayley's surfer-boyfriend named Canoe , and befuddled Ed Wynn as a watch salesman . Simply put , a wonderful modern-day adventure for parents and kids . Puts the remake with Christina Ricci TO SHAME . from
Hollywood schmaltz or deeply felt love story ?	Actually , " The Way We Were " is both , and happily so . It's a classy romantic period drama about a 1940s wallflower in New York who blooms in love with her ex-jock boyfriend ( an old acquaintance from their college days ) , and the movie overflows with star-power . None of today's celebrities have the kind of chemistry Barbra Streisand and Robert Redford bring to the screen , and Streisand in particular is so deeply into this character that the herky-jerky editing and breathless writing don't harm her or get in the way ( the faults can easily be overlooked ) . When writer Redford adapts his novel into a screenplay and the couple marries and moves to Hollywood in the McCarthy-Blacklist era , her passion for politics gets them both in hot water ; that's where this script hits a snag , with increasingly melodramatic plotting ( Redford's affair with a former flame ) and confusion in the character motivations ( this primarily due to hasty , eleventh-hour editing ) . Still , it is a handsomely-produced movie with a great tearjerker ending and two fine stars who plow right through the nonsense and bumpy continuity . They transcend the make-believe surroundings , turning the picture into something really special , something to remember . from
A fresh , funny , askew ( if flawed ) valentine to love's aftertastes . . .	Say what you will about Woody Allen , he knows how to write dialogue for women particularly well . They are seldom condescending or man-hating , they are just as flaky and scattered as the men they love , and their feelings are never prettied up nor put down . The female-roles in " Manhattan " for Diane Keaton , Mariel Hemingway , Anne Byrne , and Meryl Streep are fabulous , and each actress does wonderful work ( Byrne was Dustin Hoffman's wife at the time , and I've never seen her act since , which is a pity ) . The male characters are Woody and Michael Murphy ( with kudos to Wallace Shawn ) and Allen in particular crafts his individual scenes with each woman in a fresh and nuanced way ( he's much different on a date with 17-year-old Hemingway than matching wits all night with neurotic genius Keaton ) . The film has lovely b & w photography by Gordon Willis , sumptuous scoring from the Gershwin songbook and some very funny lines . If it fails to shake off its own mortal coils by the final act , at least it leaves us with a sweet farewell . Allen does a lot of waffling in his character's final assessment , and I'm not really sure where his character would go at the story's close , but that's a dandy bit with Hemingway in the lobby at the finale , the " little girl " showing Allen she's the most mature of all . from
One of the better written episodes of the show's sterling first season . . .	The Angels come to the rescue of blackmail victims who have been instructed to play poker at an out-of-county casino and lose heavily with each monthly visit ; the gambling action takes Jill , Sabrina , Kelly , and faithful Bosley to Las Vegas , where Kelly poses as a showgirl , Sabrina is a tax auditor , and Jill is a gambler with big hair ( not a stretch for Farrah Fawcett-Majors , although she does get one juicy scene trying to escape from a thuggish muscle number in a crowded parking lot ) . Surprisingly , Bosley gets the best scenes in this one , sharing an intimate conversation with a luckless dancer ( a tender Brooke Bundy ) and later playing a lascivious high-roller who hooks up with Kelly's alias . Highly enjoyable nonsense , with one telling conversation between Sabrina and Jill about girls who turn to hooking . Sabrina : " I don't know what I would do in a situation like that . " Jill : " Well , let's hope neither one of us ever has to find out . " Amen , Angels .
" But . . . I . . . don't . . . have it ! " . . . " Then get it ! "	Exceptionally winning and entertaining film , a lovely piece of yesterday groomed by extraordinary cinematographer Laszlo Kovacs and director Peter Bogdanovich . Adapted by Alvin Sargent from the novel " Addie Pray " , story of a con-artist in the Depression who gets saddled with a streetwise orphan doesn't mess with moral issues , instead plows ahead with high laughter and gritty sentiment . Smashing performances by everyone in the cast : Ryan O'Neal in particular does some of his finest work ; 9-year-old Tatum O'Neal , with her lisp and icy stare , is clever and endearing , winning the Supporting Oscar ; Madeline Kahn is a hoot as Trixie Delight ; P . J . Johnson wonderful as Kahn's maid . Simply terrific - - and one of the best films of all time . from
Seems almost an accidental classic	I don't know if George Lucas really knew what he had in this picture - - surely the script seemed funny enough , and the thought of the cars and the period music was enticing - - but did he really know these " unknown " actors who bring these characters to life ? It seems almost a fluke , shot in 29 days and on a tight budget , but " American Graffiti " is a four-star classic . It is perhaps pure nostalgia , mixing pathos and humor , sadness and craziness , hope and reflection , in quiet little bursts of excitement . After cruising with Milner all night , teenage Carol hates to say goodbye but does , waving from her porch with the light on ; Toad survives one bad accident after another , but his real moment is in hearing praise from his date ( fantastic , husky-voiced Candy Clark , dolled up like a speeding Sandra Dee ) just before she says good night ; after chasing his dream date all night , Kurt ( Richard Dreyfuss , green and anxious , and appealingly bemused ) finally gets to talk to the stunning blonde wonder on the telephone , where she whispers a wrenching goodbye . The whole movie is steeped in reflection . It has great , great humor , yet it leaves one with a bittersweet melancholia . For yesterday is in the past , with our music , our memories , and our hesitant farewells .
Brief but exquisite ; one of the most amazing documentaries you'll ever see . . .	Theatrically-released documentaries today seek to inform and ( most importantly ) entertain and amuse us , and for the most part they do a very good job . But how about a documentary experience which is something so personal , so special , it has the viewer reexamining his formative years ? This PBS valentine to education is quite like that : moving , emotionally and intellectually provocative , tender . There's not a grandstanding or shallow moment in the hour as Los Angeles teacher Rafe Esquith ( his students address him simply and naturally as " Rafe " ) goes through his own personal rigors to teach a class of inner-city immigrant 5th graders all the standard elementary school topics as well as Shakespeare , and at the end of the year they perform " Hamlet " for their amazed families . I was amazed , too at how Mr . Esquith , a handsome , gentle , friendly man , manages to turn a classroom into a forum for ideas , truth , honesty and intellect . One ends up reconsidering his own years in grade school , and I know I was one of those kids who dreaded the thought of going to class in the morning . Esquith has his bad days ( and amusingly admits there are times when he feels like packing it in ) , but he also knows that he'd be cheating many , many children by giving up , and cheating himself as well , and I don't believe he ever will . Ironically , a teacher like this , who is so effective at reaching his students , is actually resented by OTHER teachers at the same school ( it's like a high school-pecking order mentality but amongst adults ) . And yet , Esquith proves to be heroic . This simply-shot , simply-produced hour ( with wonderful appearances by Ian McKellen and Michael York ) shows that lives ARE being changed , year in and year out , by one person who gives a damn . When the kids are gathered for one last goodbye backstage , it is a graduation of honors - - they have been honored and they feel honor - - and the tears are of hope , joy , pride , and maybe nervousness , for they have each grown to see their future become an open book in front of them with pages they soon will fill . It sounds corny to say " I laughed , I cried " , but this recorded document of learning ( and the love of learning ) should touch a lot of people - - I did laugh , and I did cry .
Martin Scorsese in a rare romantic mood !	Starring the incomparable Ellen Burstyn , giving an Oscar-winning performance ( one of the finest of the 1970s ) , this comedy-drama is gritty and tough , but never off-putting . After her husband dies , 35-year-old Alice Hyatt from New Mexico and her smart-mouthed 11-year-old son Tommy take to the road , chasing her girlhood dream of finding songbird success in Monterey , CA . They get stuck in Phoenix , where she meets up with a frightening Harvey Keitel . Later , waitressing at Mel & Ruby's Cafe in Tucson , she meets a gentle farmer who's had his share of heartbreak . This is a perceptive , amusingly knockabout film regarding ordinary people trying to make it , episodes in their lives that enrich or derail them . Alice and her son have a wonderfully natural give-and-take , and the oddballs they meet on their odyssey ( like Jodie Foster's shoplifting tomboy or the sweet , overweight cowboy who gives Alice a singing job ) are deliciously silly , yet incredibly real . Burstyn is a joy cutting up with her neighbor in the backyard , having a Coke fight with her kid in a seedy motel , trading quips with Diane Ladd's salty Flo in the diner . Some critics complained that the happy ending felt tacked on , but you come to really respect Alice and her choices , and most of the film's little faults are camouflaged by director Martin Scorsese's bittersweet framing and Robert Getchell's vivid screenplay . Far superior to the TV sitcom , " Alice " . from
Has a crazy rhythm all its own	It may take two or three viewings to warm up to " Beetlejuice " . It has a kooky , cockeyed sensibility and a rhythm that is by turns easy , lazy and frenetic . A charming couple in New England die and come back to their beloved home as ghosts , determined to rid the place of the horrendous new tenants . Possibly the most benign and engaging performance ever by Alec Baldwin ; Geena Davis , Winona Ryder and Sylvia Sidney are also very appealing . The new couple from New York who take over the house ( Jeffrey Jones and Catherine O'Hara ) aren't as well written or thought-out as the other characters and some of their bemused , dry-ice comic lines take a few seconds to reach you . Of course , there's Michael Keaton , wildly comic as Betelgeuse . I heard a lot of comments back in 1988 that Keaton wasn't around enough to make the picture worthwhile , but that's only if you only watch the film for the fast quips and sight-gags . Keaton is truly wonderful , but he's also bombastic , and I felt there was just enough of him to satisfy - - it's really not his story anyway , it belongs to Baldwin and Davis ; Betelgeuse is used as a horny , vulgar punchline . Director Tim Burton is very careful not to overload the movie with raunch ; he is surprisingly careful in setting up this story , and he works magic within a dubious scenario : a comic fantasy about dead folks which ultimately celebrates life . from
