Scarecrow reviews a horrible mess of a film	Obviously a film like this is destined to have a fanbase . While I absolutely found it truly awe-inspiringly dreadful , that same feeling I had as I sat through it will be a reverse for those who love absolute trash which is what this is . I never had a clue anyone could make such an inept hunk of crap and pass it off as funny . The plot , as incredibly ( and messily ) convoluted as it is , is about some Aztec glass skull which seemingly grants powers . Jesse and Charlie , two buddies living in a house that has rooms which lead to other times or alternate universes or whatever the hell these rooms lead to , decide to dig up dear old Gramps ( played by Royal Dano , covered head to toe in dead make-up ) . Gramps is the holder of the skull , but certain beings from the alternate universe rooms each desire to covet the skull . So it's up to Jesse and Charlie to keep the skull from the hands of those willing to take it . The film has a nemesis of Gramps , nicknamed Slim who was the one that killed Jesse's parents in the opening of the film . Bill Maher has a small role that fits him like a glove . . he plays the head of a record company who desires to have Kesse's woman and finds a way thanks to Rochelle , an old flame from his past . Due to bad luck , Jesse loses his girl , Kate , to Maher who finds that Rochelle , for some odd reason , is hidden in a cabinet . How a drunken Rochelle got there is a mystery ( the one Jesse actually put in there was Gramps who , coincidentally found a button which revolves the wall of the cabinet ) , but Jesse loses Kate anyways . So Maher , playing the scumbag ohh so perfectly drives off with Kate and her bags while Jesse and Charlie commence prying the skull away from a Ptierodactyl . Yep , the skull was taken by a caveman who carries it to his jungle ( in one of those rooms in the house ) . As Charlie was about to be bashed by the caveman , this giant dinosaur eats him . So they are able to get the skull just to lose it to a Ptierodactyl who drops it off on a high tree nest . And on and on the absurdity goes . There's a tribe of men who steal the skull from Gramps when he had just gotten it back thanks to Charlie and Jesse's " trading " a piece of raw meat for the skull ( the Ptierodactyl actually enters the world from his jungle as does a caterpillar dog ! when Jesse falls off the tree trying to pry the skull away from the friggin ' bird ) . Soon Charlie and Jesse ( with the aide of Ratzenberger , as an electrician / adventurer ) have to battle the ancient tribe for the skull and save a potential female sacrifice in the long run . Shall I go one ? There's eventually a showdown between Slim and Jesse for the rights to the skull and the cops come a callin ' when gun shots are heard . Slim tries to shoot Jesse ( but his head is gone when Jesse shoots it off with a shotgun ) and hits a policeman outside instead commencing in a round of fire into the house burning it down . Jesse and crew wind up in the old west and get to bury Gramps who dies after Slim shoots him . This film , as I have tried somehow to describe above , is absolutely absurd . It's a junkpile of ideas cobbled together in the hopes that something entertaining might spawn from it and never does . You have this house who abilities are never explained . How come these rooms are a gateway into other times ? Beats me . Why is there a caterpillar with a dog's head or an Aztec skull with powers to keep Gramps alive ? So many goofy questions , and such little motivation by me to care . A disaster for which I consider one of the worst films of the 1980's .
The Scarecrow reviews " Virus "	Dreadful sci-fi / horror hybrid based on a comic book about an alien force which electrifies a Russian space station which in turn links to a Russian scientific research vessel down on the ocean of earth . A tug boat helmed by nut-case captain Sutherland ( in one of the worst performances of his career , battling an Irish accent and really lacking any presence whatsoever ) , with crew-members Curtis , Baldwyn , & the " ready - to - be - slaughtered - prime - time - players " suffer a cataclysmic leak on their boat after they try to pull a barge during a typhoon . They come across the Russian ship which seems to be deserted and ram-sacked and decide to salvage it with dollar signs glistening in their eyes for a big payday . The ship's power source is cut off and they do not not know what lies in wait once they re-power it . This film has nothing new to offer as characters are merely on script to be killed , completely lifeless and stupid . The alien force seems to operate anything mechanical and little robotic spiders and giant machine monsters run amok doing victims in . Curtis is too damn good in this film and it does not deserve her talents . Baldwyn does what he can with an underwritten hero simply written in the film to save people . . he doesn't even get to crack wise . Pacula portrays the only Russian survivor who tries to warn them of what they are up against . The film seems to be about explosions and more explosions . The evil electrical alien force doesn't even get much story . . it's simply in the film to kill , nothing more & nothing less . The force , for some reason , also assembles robots together using human remains along with wires and steel . Terrible mess which just gets worse and worse as it goes along .
The Manitou	Awful ( and I mean AWFUL ) horror flick using Native American folklore and undermining it for unintentional laughs is an embarrassing statement about Tony Curtis ' career ( this is the same actor who starred in SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS & SOME LIKE IT HOT ) . He plays a supposed fortune teller named Erskine ( mostly working cash from wealthy old widows ) whose lady love Karen ( Susan Strasberg ) has a growing fetus on her back ( ! ) . Come to find out the fetus ( which is growing at an alarming rate ) is actually the spirit of a powerful medicine man , Misquamacas ! During a séance thanks in part to orchestrator , mystic Amelia ( Stella Stevens , dressed in blackened face paint with gypsy garb ) who was Erskine's teacher in the Tarot arts , the spirit of Misquamacas reveals himself which leads them to the home of Dr . Snow ( Burgess Meredith , playing this doctor very quirky and evading with a sense of senility ) who wrote a book on Native American folklore which mentions spirits invading the body of innocents so that could emerge into reality . Snow tells Erskine their only possible route to saving Susan is fighting fire with fire by calling on a living Native American medicine man . Erskine , after being rejected by other medicine men , gets deep-voiced John Singing Rock ( . . out of all the names the filmmakers could've come up with actor Michael Ansara is stuck with this one ) to lend him a hand . We are informed through Singing Rock that Manitous ( those spirits ) can manifest themselves in anybody or thing . So even X-Ray machines have manitous ( I kid you not ) . After , Singing Rock calls on the spirits of wind , trees , and just nature in general , his circle of dust surrounding Karen's bed seems destined for crossing since that thing growing in her back emerges from the skin as a Native American midget with a vile visage . Misquamacas calls on various demons to kill hospital personnel , makes the hospital operation room floor into an icy fortress , shakes Dr . Hughes ' ( Jon Cedar ) room with Erskine , Singing Rock and others resembling lottery balls ready for plucking , and turns Karen's room into a place of stars with only her bed & Misquamacas visible . In a major climactic battle , when Misquamacas calls on the main Satanic demon to assist him , Erskine's love will help the computers ' manitou spirits ( ! ) within the entire hospital send volts through Karen's fingers ( with her naked body exposed ) with mankind's possible existence hanging in the balance . Whatever . The absolutely preposterous premise and horrendously awful special effects sequence in the major battle towards the end will surely make this a cult classic . No matter how terrible any film is , it's sure to find an audience willing to accept it into their arms with love . Not me . It's terrible in every conceivable way imaginable . I can not , for the life of me , understand why Curtis and Meredith would step foot in such a things as this . Using Native American folklore can certainly work in the horror genre , but in this flick it's embarrassingly over-the-top . I mean the scene where the midget Misquamacas spirit " exits " Strasberg's back I couldn't help but laugh . . it's supposed to be horrifying , but winds up being jaw-droppingly hilarious . The scene where one of Curtis ' clients is lifted off the floor , by Misquamacas , and sent down a flight of stairs while spouting Native American gibberish has to be seen to be believed . The effects sequence in Cedar's office where the floors twist is a show-stopping highlight because it is just so eye-openingly farcical . But the ending takes the cake . . Strasberg firing bolts from over-powered computers possessed with spirits shooting at a midget Indian with scary eyes and a nasty cackle . The whole flick is played so straight , I just felt pity for all involved . How does a cast " get up " for a film like this ? I think all who participated in this should have had electro-shock therapy , because they were certifiably insane .
Revenge of the Living Dead Girls	Simply excruciating French " Zombie " film , badly dubbed ( with horrendous dialogue ) , sleazy ( plenty of full frontal nudity . . but not erotic , just boring ) , & cheap ( the zombie get up , face mask and hand gloves are easily recognized as rubber ) . It's about supposed living dead girls , who were former employees of a chemical factory with corrupt toxic waste disposal practices using an idiotic outside contractor , who seek revenge for those responsible for poisoning them with toxic milk . The zombies even rape a prostitute vaginally thrusting her with a sword ! The protagonist is a scientist with a " diseased " hand , whose wife's bulging pregnant belly opens to expose a dead child ! In the film's finished product , the villainess of this flick , the assistant to the chemical plant executive who is drowned by the zombies ( in his pool , no less , we notice that the zombie girls ' skin is proper pigment exposing the so-called rotted flesh that is so dormant on their faces and hands . . just rotten effects ) , actually is shown picking up the zombies in her car after stealing money from the place of her employ . Shortly afterward , as we never understand why she'd stop for the zombie girls and why they would not attack her , the villainess and undead die in a car fire set off by the police who wanted the violence and bloodshed to end . Now there was an alternate ending ( . . which is infinitely better than the one placed in the film ) which explains why the villainess picks up the zombie girls and why they do not attack her . This ending explains a lot of things , ESPECIALLY why the zombie girls are rotting on the face and hands , but not throughout the rest of their bodies . Still , the film as it stands is amateurish , badly edited , with messy resolution and inept characters .
Deadly Daphne's Revenge	Charlie Johnson ( who looks like Hank Williams , Jr . but sounds like an aging hippie ) rapes Cindy which places him and his buddies ( they were at the scene of the crime . . an old lodge which seems to have an escaped mental patient living in it's woods ) under the microscope with heavy scrutiny changing their once comfortable lives . When hope seems lost , Charlie goes to his mob boss ( who he markets a drug trade for through his wealthy trucking line ) for assistance by way of a hit-man . Charlie's half-brother Steve made love to Cindy that night ( he is a teacher ) , and with her being a minor ( she says she's 17 , but looks 32 ) his profession takes a turn for the worse . Cindy's lawyer informs her that she must file charges against all four men that were there for " sex with minor " so that Charlie will go to prison . This conflicts her because Steve is indeed innocent . . and she actually cares for him and vice versa . The " Deadly Daphne " of the title is indeed the loony who is living in the lodge woods and she has a history with Charlie we find out about towards the end . For a Troma production , this sure is formulaic and dull . . made-for-television-esquire tripe all the way . The acting by the rotten cast would work better if this film didn't take itself so seriously which is quite uncommon for a Troma film . Terrible , terrible film .
Stay Alive : The Video game to Die For	A group of young adults open a plain of escape for the spirit of Elizabeth Bathory when they recite her poem from a video game supposedly representing a séance . The only one who dies in the game is Miller ( Adam Goldberg ) who also is found dead the same way he perished in said video game . While the others ' characters didn't die in the video game , their reciting her poem has instead unleashed the video game into reality with walking CGI characters stalking and killing each of them , one by one . They must follow certain methods using a mirror and nails to defeat Bathory and save their skin . If this premise sound stupid , that's because it is . The characters are ho-hum rejects from bad WB television shows , this time allowed to spout profanity . This flick follows the slasher rules , but doesn't show much violence or gore . It stays PG-13 safe with most of the death taking place off-screen . There's a scene where the true hero and heroine are running from video game characters pursuing them . Yes , it's that bad . Nothing at all to recommend . Good-looking cast including Sophia Bush as the appropriately named October .
Blood Freak	A buff , but gentlemanly , biker rides into the life of two sisters , one a Born-Again Christian , the other a heavy partyer who enjoys smoking pot and having a good time . Thanks to some kind support from his Christian pal , an employer at a poultry farm gives him a job . Hershell ( Steve Hawkes , who also co-wrote , co-produced and co-directed ) agrees to eat experimented turkey ( ? ! ) and suffers such an illness it causes him to fall unconscious . Before taking the job , he fell under the spell of the care-free sister , smoking some pot with her which re-awakened a habit he suffered in Vietnam after an arm injury . Coupled with the experimental meat , it seems Herschell is effected drastically . . he grows a turkey head ! Any woman in the surrounding area other than the two girls Herschell cares for are victims for his blood thirst . Often victims are hung upside down , their necks cut with blood pouring into the beaked fiend's human hands . What will Herschell do ? How can he control his craving for blood ? Simply dreadful in every conceivable fashion . I could not find one single aspect of worth throughout the entire painful experience . It's clearly visualized that those responsible for this abomination had no reason to ever make a film in the first place . Those involved should've cut their losses and forgot about ever making this inept travesty . The camera work is simply putrid as is the editing . Some narrator smoking a cigarette is reading off some pamphlet about change or behavior , which really could've wisely ( . . if any wisdom whatsoever was used during the entire process of this thing's production ) been left on the cutting room floor and is merely intrusive ( . . which , if it were any good , would be a welcome interruption from this vile pile of garbage ) bothering us with opinions that irritate instead of enlighten . The beaked , feathered bird head is a laughing stock . It is the icing on the cake and will certainly appeal to those who enjoy the worst kind of films possible . The acting is brought to us by a gathering of the directors ' friends , I guess , and they all look about as interested as I was during this whole abysmal experience . The attacks on women are about as laughable as the sawed-off leg of one drug pusher with blood gushing forth . Loud screams are repeated in cycle over and over the scenes of violence which bring chuckles instead of terror or repulsion . If anything brings repulsion it's the camera set ups which often shoot characters out of frame and off-focus . I don't ask for much . . just shoot your actors in the center of the frame for Chrissakes ! And , the actors often look off as if attempting to understand when they're supposed to talk ( . . and perhaps seeking help with their dialogue ; I'm pretty sure they could've ad-libbed and it would've been just as effective as what they had to say ) and where to look . There's a legion of beloved fans for this turkey ( . . pun intended ) and those who enjoy this junk can have it . While others find it incredibly entertaining , I found it pathetic and just plain tedious .
An American Laugh or two	Really , really lousy ghost tale supposedly based on a true story about some kind of entity terrorizing John Bell ( Donald Sutherland ) and his daughter Betsy ( Rachel Hurd-Wood ) . They believe it to be Kathryn Batts ( Gaye Brown ) who threatens them with witchcraft . Sissy Spacek plays the worried mother , Lucy . James D'Arcy plays a concerned schoolteacher of Betsy's named Richard . The editing is crippling to this film as we experience a cavalcade of flashback sequences which really grate on the nerves not to mention uninspired , cheap special effects ( there's a sequence where Betsy's hair is being pulled and you can see the wire pulling it or the constant cheap effect where the bed covering either pulls from Betsy or is pulled back over her . . anyone can see the device underneath the covers winding the sheets and blanket ) . There's a Gothic look , but that can not save a cast who wishes they were somewhere else . How the talents of Sutherland and Spacek got swindled into this horrible movie is anyone's guess . But , it's who that is doing the ghostly tormenting that'll make you laugh your ass off . Terrible beyond words is that final twist . The film stays completely straight-faced and is hilarious to see unwind .
The Possessed	Cassidy ( Kacia Brady ) puts a gun in her mouth blowing the back of her head out on boyfriend Neal ( Jason Dibler ) . Cassidy was the lead singer of a " demons and death " rock band who couldn't shake the sad feelings of her boyfriend's neglect towards her ( you know , I can find other reasonable ways to solve this other than putting a bullet through your head ) . She returns , however , possessing the soul of Dora ( Jill Small ) her friend who is to replace her on vocals so that the group can finish the album halted by Cassidy's untimely death . But , Cassidy made a deal with the dark one and souls are to be collected . . she's consumed by this anger towards mainly Neal , but all the band members or anyone within the music studio get dead when they fall prey to whom they believe is a rather distraught Dora . . not Cassidy returning for payback . Lousy micro-budget horror flick looks cheap , has a cheap cast who should make plans in another line of work , and boasts cheap kill-scenes which aren't effective one bit .
Witchcraft ( Evil Encounters )	Witchcraft / Witchery / La Casa 4 / and whatever else you wish to call it . How about . . Crud . A gathering of people at a Massachusetts island resort are besieged by the black magic powers of an evil witch killing each individual using cruel , torturous methods . Photographer Gary ( David Hasselhoff ) is taking pictures for Linda ( Catherine Hickland whose voice and demeanor resemble EE-YOR of the Winnie the Poo cartoon ) , a virgin studying witchcraft , on the island resort without permission . Rose Brooks ( Annie Ross , portraying an incredibly rude bitch ) is interested in perhaps purchasing the resort and , along with husband Freddie ( Robert Champagne , who is always ogling other women much younger than him ) , pregnant daughter Jane ( Linda Blair ) and grandson Tommy ( Michael Manchester , who just looks bored throughout , probably wanting to watch Sesame Street instead of starring in this rubbish ) , go by boat to the resort being treated to a look at the property by Realtor Tony Giordano's son Jerry ( Rick Farnsworth ) , obviously a pup in the business getting his feet wet . Along with these folks is architect Leslie ( Leslie Cumming , whose character is a nympho ) who might help Rose re-design the resort . The boat's captain is killed by The Lady in Black ( Hildegard Knef , wearing her make-up and lip-stick extra thick ) and a storm is brewing . The boat drives off by itself ( . . guided by the invisible power of The Lady in Black , I guess ) with everyone stuck in the decrepit resort , which is in dire need of repairs . Most of the victims , before meeting their grisly fates are carried through a type of red wormhole whose vortex leads to another dimension ( . . perhaps a type of hell or something ) where they are tortured by these fiends dressed in raggedy clothes with a crummy visage . One victim has her mouth sown before being hung upside down in a chimney , roasted as the others light the fireplace . One poor soul is tortured by harsh twistings of rope wrapped tightly around her flesh before being found hanging from the snout of a swordfish penetrating through her neck . One fellow is slowly suffocating as his veins bulge ( . . and bleed ) and neck's blood vessels burst squirting in Hasselhoff's face ! One fellow is crucified with nails hammered into his hands before being hung upside down over an open flame . Blair's pregnant victim becomes possessed with her hair standing on end speaking in another woman's voice . One is raped by this demonic man with a " diseased " mouth as the hellish hobos stand nearby gleefully cheering . The film , despite it's excesses , is mostly dull fodder for those who really wish to see the lowest point in the careers of Hasselhoff and Blair , who deserve better than this . Almost unbearable at times , building little-to-no suspense . Clumsy execution of the death sequences which look cheap and laughable . Sure some gore is okay , but most of the film shows victims after they've been run through the ringer . We do get a chance to see pregnant women ( . . who look exactly like stuntmen in costume with bad wigs ) jumping out three story windows . Oh , and The Lady in Black's reflected face often pops up on inanimate objects for characters to see . Tommy has a little Sesame Street recorder which tapes The Lady in Black's mumbo jumbo chants , obviously used for later . For some reason , The Lady in Black likes to visit little Tommy . He's not at all scared of her , for Tommy's just too bored to show any expression on his face , much less fear . Need I say more ? This one's a real stinker . Ugh .
The Rockville Slayer	Just plain rotten " thriller " { . . well , that's what it's called anyway } about three teens supposedly murdered by an escaped convict . There was a fourth " victim " named Steve who knows more about the mysterious happenings that night than meets the eye . Also unearthed is the unfortunate secrets withheld from policeman Charlie . His mother was a looney played by cult-queen Linnea Quigley ( . . who must've REALLY needed the money ) and he slowly begins to see bad memories of visiting the asylum for which his nutjob mother was being kept . Sheriff Duncan ( Joe Estevez who needed to speak up a little louder so we , the viewer , might understand what the hell he was saying ) and Charlie's dad ( Bob Farster , whose acting is a farce ) finally come right out and spill the beans about why he was never told about his real mom . Meanwhile , Det . Amy Rodgers ( Nicole Bueher , who might need to keep her career options opened ) can not shake the feeling that the case of nutzoid Jessica ( Amy Brown ) isn't as guilty as laid out in the perfect package as it seems that the one remaining survivor of that fateful night , Steve ( Michael Kessler , who needs to try out those wonderful acting schools that have the ability to shine turds like this actor ) might know more than he has spoken . On and on this deadened paced movie goes , but I left my enthusiasm to care around the opening credits . . they moved like a turtle just as the film does . Nothing about this film is professional . I felt like some supposed filmmakers and their friends got the bright idea to make a movie . Perhaps they had friends in low , low places such a Robert Z'Dar and Quigley who both never get enough screen time to build strong enough characters . Quigley does bare her breasts momentarily and the film shows moments of blood , but even the crime scenes are uninspired . The shoddy script and limp acting , bad editing . . all lead to one thing , a director who just doesn't know how to tell an interesting thriller or inspire a viewer to care .
Black X-mas	College girls are being slaughtered by a serial killer named Billy ( Robert Mann ) and his " sister " Agnes ( Dean Friss ) on Christmas Eve . We see flashbacks to when Billy was growing up using snippets of certain years at Christmas . We see his mistreatment from his mother who , along with her lover , kills Billy's father in the same method he adopts . . a black garbage bag as the suffocating weapon with some sort of sharp object to finish each victim off ( his father was killed by a hammer ) . Agnes was born through Billy and his mother . Billy , borrowing what he learned from step-dad and mother , kills his parents viciously ( . . as a result Billy winds up in an asylum . . after jabbing his " sister " in the eye , Agnes will be sent away , but vanishes ) . In the opening of present day Christmas time Clair ( Leela Savasta ) is murdered by someone who appears from under her bed via garbage bag and pen . Clair's sister Leigh ( Kristen Cloke ) is supposed to meet up with her and winds up at the sorority house wondering why the rendezvous never occurred . We see Billy escape the mental asylum / prison by fooling a numb skull guard eliminating him oh so easily ( one of many hilariously ill-fated antics by the screenplay writer and director Glen Morgan ) . Billy , as a sick joke tossed in , has a yellow pigmentation . The film is an endlessly mean-spirited gore-fest where each member of the sorority is destroyed in gruesome fashion . Like THE FOG remake , this film takes it upon itself to over-explain everything about Billy leaving absolutely no mystery which made Bob Clark's original so haunting and fascinating . Billy and Agnes is simply a joke leaving absolutely zero suspense . . just various bloodshed with sharp tools . Lots of blood spraying and the crackling of the killing tool as it penetrates the flesh with ferocity . The flick has a nasty , vile , mean-spirited attitude leaving little glimmer of hope regarding entertainment value . To be bluntly honest , this stinker is about as entertaining as the pulling of teeth from the roots . It's a moronic , by-the-numbers exercise which insults the original . The females that populate this flick all seem to follow the mold of Margot Kidder's chick in Clark's original . The problem with that is Kidder's novelty was that she was the only female of said film who spoke bluntly and rudely so it was funny . When you have an entire cast of these types , it gets annoying fast . And , the ending ( . . oh boy , that ending . . ugh ) takes the cake . Truly awful .
Skeleton Man	A Delta Force Army unit , assigned to find a batch of missing Green Beret bad-asses not known for going completely missing , will be in a fight for survival against a cloaked skeleton man , the supposed spirit of an ancient Indian warrior who was revived when archaeologists disturbed his grave . The Skeleton Man rides a horse and has the ability to propel to and fro using a type of dimensional portal , and seems unaffected by bullet-fire and explosives . The Skeleton Man's horse leaves no hoof prints and he can ride from behind and around his prey silently . The film's point-of-view through the Skeleton Man's eyes looks at his prey with a different color . In other words , he's not seemingly human , so how can Captain Leary ( Michael Rooker , as grizzled and intense as ever ) and his gang of would-be commandos stop this menace ? For some reason , the Skeleton Man murders employees of a nearby chemical plant . What are the Skeleton Man's motives for slaughtering endless human beings ? And , why is a blind Indian living in the forest our commandos inhabit spared if the Skeleton Man , as a human , slaughtered his entire tribe to prove himself ? As completely stupid as it sounds . Just unbelievable horrible . This is the kind of film that can deaden brain cells . Casper Van Dien gets second billing in the credits just under Rooker , yet is saddled with a ridiculously underwritten character who exits the film quite early . Rooker deserves better than this . If I were an actor , I wouldn't want this movie in my resume . The Skeleton Man is a reject Templer Knight from a de Ossorio film . He has a spear which can merely knock certain people down while exploding the head of a woman on impact . An arrow shot from the Skeleton Man's bow actually destroys the propeller of a chopper plane . For nearly 99 % of the film , bullets are shot at the Skeleton Man and he can go in and out of that portal thingee yet , at the end , all of a sudden , he becomes vulnerable to attack . Oh , and the horses also change as the Skeleton Man freely moves through the forest from that portal . The film is written and edited by clowns . The attack scenes are poorly constructed and the characters , who are supposed to be experienced pros , make really bad decisions throughout this film . The mind boggles with this film . Good for some laughs , and some gore scenes make this hunk of pure crap watchable as a trash movie .
Miner's Massacre	A group of friends receive word from a pal who has found gold in an old mind shaft nearby an ancient abandoned western town of Suttersville . Despite warnings by the local sheriff , Murphy ( John Phillip Law ) , Old Man Prichard ( Richard Lynch ) a bedraggled hick who swindles tourists with supposed collectible Wanted posters , and kooky superstitious Aunt Nelly ( Karen Black ) to stay out of the mine due to it's notorious legend ( . . that an evil coal miner who sold his soul to devil and murdered a priest's ( Jeff Conaway ) daughter will return from the dead to kill those who remove the gold from his shaft ) , these people only see the green , not the blood red which could potentially ooze from their slain bodies . Finding the gold of Jeremiah Stone intact , they line their pockets and carrying cases , prepared for the bright futures that supposedly lie ahead . But , when you do not heed the warnings of those you consider backwoods loons , the obvious result will be gruesome death . Jeremiah Stone , as we see , is lying merely a skeleton near an alter containing skulls lined next to each other as the candles on top of them light up , the pickax underneath awaiting it's master , with dust particles returning him to a grotesque corpse with demonic exposition , his eyes aglow with wrath . This hapless group , hoping for some fun around the campfire with gold providing them with warm prospects for life ahead , will fall prey to the vengeful ghoul and his mean pickax . Another victim will meet the nasty end of a shovel thrown through the windshield of her vehicle , directing it's path straight into her neck . Another failed attempt to retreat has Stone causing a frightened victim to drive his car into a tree , his body engulfed in flames as he fails to escape without harm . Another , a local girl searching for her new friends , worried about their well being , receives the pickax buried into her stomach . Aunt Nelly informs those still alive about the Forty-Niner and the curse on those who raids his eternal stash . . and pays the price for relating such information . Will anybody survive ? Or , is the entire group fated to perish at the hands of the zombie miner ? Make-up effects artist and monster creator , John Carl Buechler directs this supernatural slasher without worrying about logic or strong story-telling , opting instead to allow his zombie miner to destroy anyone and everyone who happens to be in his path . He provides just enough back story , and this is feeble at best , for the killer allowing special guest star , Karen Black ( . . oh how her career has sunken into the abyss ) to explain to the viewer about him . The story given to us has the miner holding a priest's daughter hostage , threatening to execute her as the Suttersville authorities warn against such an action . Startling enough , Stone plants that pickax right into her back , with the opposition unloading their guns with little effect because he sold his soul to Satan . Retreating to his domain , the mine shaft , Stone sends out a warning against anyone even attempting to take what's his , the loot . Typical of most slashers in general , this bunch of twenty-somethings are your garden variety victims , with little development other than some banter and exchanging of words provides as filler until the undead maniac pops onto the scene to slaughter them . They are the usual group , from the city , trespassing unto unfamiliar territory , resurrecting an evil that should remain dormant . Like many of the later 80's slashers , a good deal of the violence is off-screen . What is on screen , the minimal gore , is rather mundanely presented and happens rather quickly . The ghoul make-up for the killer is only shown occasionally ; he's mostly shrouded in darkness , the victims ' horrified faces as he catches or chases after them are given more credence than the method of destruction . One thing's for certain , stunt men were set on fire many times . At least three times , a character is burned alive by either a lantern or flaming vehicle . Martin Cove has a minor cameo as Black's former husband , Caleb , now living with a much younger , and dense , honey . Vernon Wells ( . . of The Road Warrior and Commando fame ) has the back story role of Jeremiah Stone as a human , still capturing the same type of menace he specializes in . John Phillip Law seems to be enjoying himself as the rather polite and hospitable sheriff , welcoming the outsiders to his neck of the woods . Buechler has quite an attractive cast of actresses , all wearing tight pants and smallish shirts , showing off their sleek and athletic figures , especially Elina Madison as easy-lay Roxann , always willing to remove her clothes for greedy jerk , Hayden ( Rick Majeske ) . Stephen Wastell ( The Ghosts of Edendale ) is Axl , a rather clumsy foil , used as a butt of many jokes including his " dump in the woods " scene and current unemployment status .
Serum	Dr . K ( David H Hickey ) has been trying to master a formula that would end all disease and handicaps , but needs live donors to complete his work . His doctor brother Richard ( Dennis O'Neill ) has a son named Eddie ( Derek Philips ) who is accepted to medical school . Eddie has a girlfriend named Sarah ( Lizabeth Cardenas ) who is pre-law and plans to attend law school herself the coming fall . She and Eddie resume their relationship when Sarah calls things off with her current boyfriend who is also shagging the lady of Walt ( Bill Sebastian ; Eddie's best friend who recently paid for his cheating girlfriend's boob job ) . Eddie accidentally gets hit by a car and appears on the throes of death when Dr . K makes a suggestion to Richard . . let him " recuperate " Eddie using his secret , illegal methods . When Dr . K applies his serum to Eddie horrifying results occur . Eddie's face bulges massive warts while he has also acquired a taste for human flesh . Many will die so that Eddie can feed this uncontrollable appetite he can't quench . Soon he may even pose a threat to his father and girlfriend . . Eddie Monster must be stopped . Typically awful direct-to-video horror flick suffers from a severe lack of budget , acting , and overall talent . The premise , which seems like an interesting fright-fest , fails to deliver even as a zombie flick . The gore is limited with a few munching scenes but most of the violence occurs off-camera . The use of time to move the story along can really get annoying .
Return to Sleepaway Camp	Pointless , juvenile , absolutely worthless ( . . unless you just have an urge to see stars from the original returning to reprise their roles ) sequel to the original Sleepaway Camp ( . . the second and third films featuring Pamela Springsteen in the " prominant " role of Angela are completely disregarded , which is probably a good thing , I guess ) has a psycho-killer , in black hoody , targeting those who victimize and mistreat extremely repellent frog-devoted Allan ( Michael Gibney ) , always the center of negative attention in regards to practically everyone , in constant disagreements , arguments , and skirmishes with the teenagers / adults in camp . He's either starting trouble or the recipient of it , but Allan is certainly a lightning rod towards the inner-workings of the plot . . the film displays many embarrassing scenarios featuring the flabby whiner and people die because this . When the mean teenagers belittle and abuse him , Allan retreats into the woods to find refuge with his frogs . Allan has a crush on Karen ( Erin Broderick ) who assists her friends in playing a practical joke leaving him quite scorned resulting in quite the killing spree towards those who delighted in his misery . A penis is pulled from a counselor whose bound , by rope , to a tree . A female counselor gets her head and face twisted in barbwire while attempting to flee in a jeep . A black teen girl , often at heated odds with Allan , is squashed by a mattress of nails . The head counselor over the Camp has his head caught in a cage after awakening from a hammer blow to the head , tied , with rats to feed through his face , shown gnawing within his torso . One pot-smoking slacker is burned alive after being force-fed gasoline , with his stomach exploding . A real practical joker who often bullied Allan gets a wooden spike stabbed through his eye . And , a vulgar cook who ridiculed Allan endlessly , gets his face shoved into cooking grease . Lots of of-screen violence , but some gore should please those who found the original SC lacking in this department . Fans of the franchise ( . . which I'm not ) might find this irresistible , because RETURN feels positively dated , attempting futilely ( . . in my opinion , at least ) at sophomoric humor , failing miserably . Cast of really obnoxious teens and profane adults couldn't die fast enough as far as I was concerned . Perhaps many will feel this captures the wacky spirit of the original , RETURN is an aimless exercise highlighting the crude and unruly behavior / shenanigans of the camp's teenagers . . the adults who are supposed to be in charge of supervising these brats are about as bad , if not worse . The film feels like it was written by 13 year olds and we are witnesses to wedgies , lighted farts , fat-jokes / gags , and other grating activities . As I pointed out already , I'm pretty sure a whole bawdy crowd will embrace this with open arms just for it featuring returning " stars " , Paul DeAngelo as counselor Ronnie ( . . still in stunning athletic shape , but still lacking in the acting department ) , Jonathan Tiersten as Ricky ( . . blond this time , still needing his mouth washed out with soap ) and special guest Felissa Rose as Angela in a cameo ( . . and in another secret role as well ) . WE have a sheriff often popping up after murders take place trying to keep everyone civil as a killer is on the loose . The identity of the killer will surprise no one unless you are REALLY that gullible and / or easily fooled . Sad and unfortunate , this was Isaac Hayes ' last role , playing a very disgruntled cook . Vincent Pastore is the lead camp counselor with a special fondness for his pet bird he often embraces with a kiss .
Dee Snider's Strangeland	Now this is one sick puppy . If there ever was a totally worthless film , STRANGELAND is just that . Dee Snider's name is all over this dreck regarding a sicko with a body modification fetish who uses the internet to lure victims to his home where he bounds them in his basement , torturing them through the use of hooks and other metallic weapons which pierce / penetrate flesh . I'm not sure what crowd this caters to besides those fascinated with the film's content . Dee Snider , in a positively dreadful performance , portrays the weirdo of the film , Carleton Hendricks who used the internet name Capt Howdy ( . . from THE EXORCIST ) on a teen chat site to communicate with girls and boys . Mike Gage ( Hevin Gage ) becomes personally involved with the case of Hendricks when his beautiful daughter Genevieve ( Linda Cardellini ) is kidnapped and tortured by the freak . Gage needs help from a niece ( Amy Smart ) regarding the hunt for his culprit because he's not exactly tech / internet savvy . Gage's wife is portrayed by Elizabeth Peña . Robert Englund is a white trash caricature , Jackson Roth , who stirs up a mob who hang Hendricks after he's released from an asylum , later becoming a target when Carleton doesn't die . Barbara Champion is a Christian group leader who also becomes a victim of Hendricks ' , attending his lynching , voicing her disapproval for his being released on the streets . The opening of the film elaborates Hendricks ' lifestyle , his torture lair , and Gage's pursuit in catching him . Then after he's caught through some stellar detective work by Gage , the court lets him out after about three years in an institution which itself is a load of hogwash . Embarrassingly , we are supposed to accept that Hendricks would transform into a timid , shy brand new human being from the sadistic scumbag he once was , in a sick way of garnering sympathy once he's treated to a wrongful lynching . Oh , and his pills are what help keep Capt Howdy at bay . . once he loses his pills , Howdy emerges and those who attempted to lynch him are in for a world of hurt . And , the film attempts to have us believe that Hendricks would be able to kidnap Genevieve again . . this was simply unacceptable as far as I'm concerned , that Carleton could be able to secure Genevieve once again so rather easily . Anyway , it's written by Snider so what do you expect ? The film is brutal featuring skin often torn through by hooks and we often see mouths stitched shut , as victims can not cry out for help . Carleton's mouth is constantly spouting gibberish regarding his insane philosophies . Film emphasizes the threat that the internet poses towards teenagers who incite gatherings with mysterious people they do not even know . . that message does have relevance , but it's muddied within such an ugly freakshow . The film awakens us to an entire subculture , regarding those who embrace external expression ( . . the term " modern primitives " ) through tattoos and piercings .
Bats	Two huge virus-based bats from Indonesia escape from mad scientist Dr . McCabe's lab infecting others in the dusty realm of small Gallup , Texas where Sheriff Kimsey ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) finds citizens being attacked viciously . The Center for Disease Control call on Dr . Casper ( Dina Meyer ) to help figure out how to stop the bats from spreading the infection on bats throughout the country . She is bewildered at why fruit bats would turn carnivorous , assaulting humans and finds that McCabe designed for them to do so . When asked why McCabe would design these bats to do such things , he answers , " Because we're scientists . That's what we do . " Okey dokey . With help from Casper's partner Jimmy ( Leon ) , she'll assist Kimsey in trying to trap the " roost " ( this is a term describing the entire bat group collectively in one location ) annihilating everyone of them before they have a chance to move on to another spot . But , will McCabe allow them to destroy the monsters he created ( . . for the military . . yawn ) ? And , better yet , will the bats comply to their wishes of staying put ? In the center of the film , Gallup is attacked by the swarming bats with people dropping dead one after the other . Really , really stupid " animals run amok " flick doesn't have a smart bone in it's body . And , the director tries convincing us with rubber bats ( which look like rubber bats ) through dizzying editing techniques and blurry stretches of the camera lens as they attack . Truth be told , they are about as menacing as Kermit the frog . Even worse , they expect us to believe that bats can throw a large male through a windshield while tossing others grown men through windowed doors . The film is an unintentionally hilarious monster flick . The cast try their best with a dumb plot .
The Scarecrow reviews " Death Tunnel "	There's this supposed fun little initiation for four girls chosen by a supposed hunk for a supposed popularity push . So the initiation takes place in an old Kentucky institution for researching and housing those who were infected by a white plague . The film's creators thought it neat to claim this film was based on real events , but the film is far from believable even as a phantasmagoria of horror . Where Booth desires to hit like a ton of bricks with thrills through a massacre of jump cuts and plays with photography and film speeds , the film comes off amateurish and laughable . When a sequence in the film is supposed to be scary , it comes off as so silly one can't help but chuckle under his breath . The idea seems thrilling enough . Four girls trying to find their way out of this huge building of decay with ghosts of those who died of disease and violence ( it's offered in the story that the administrative doctor attempting the creation of the cure may've experimented and murdered many with the compound amongst a number of other horrific acts of violence such as suicide ) . But , it appears that the director Booth through his film roll in a blender and mixed it all up so that the story is all over the place and hard to decipher through . While the film desires to say that it seems the girls are here ( as is Richie , the hunk who finds that his friends were eliminated by those ghosts running amok ) for a purpose , the film's original idea of watching characters being chased loses steam . The film is just poorly executed and hard to stay interested in . Instead of keeping the film still at all , it seems the viewer is following a wild goose chase instead of the characters . Booth can't seem to keep his camera still long enough for us to identify with the characters , but I guess he has to take up the slack of rotten , amateurish acting . The film is just a failure . The Scarecrow says , stay away from this garbage and follow some other goose chase instead . Perhaps , you'll be less dizzy .
Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The New Generation	Sick-in-the-head sequel to the Texas Chainsaw Massacre franchise featuring another group of teenagers ( after their senior prom ) unequipped psychologically against the twisted sickos who live nearby . Only poor pretty Renée Zellweger seems able to survive the twisted onslaught lead by Matthew McConaughey ( tearing rabidly into every scene like a rabies infested mutt ) and others as she's either running for her life or going mad , with whimpers and nervous twitches as a result . Leatherface ( under disguise is Robert Jacks this time around ) is mostly dressed under female skin , wigs , and dresses ( ! ) swinging his chainsaw like a madman never knowing what it might take out whether it be a limb or door . Tonie Perensky as Matthew McConaughey's squeeze Darla is as nutty as the rest of the clan , although she looks relatively normal on the surface . Sadly she's really Zellweger's only ally . You have Joe Stevens as WE , who is always quoting something someone else has put to paper , whether it be Shakespeare or Emerson , even though the saying might have nothing at all to do with the event in front of him . Poor hottie Lisa Marie Newmyer as prom queen Heather gets thrown in a freezer containing dead skin , hung on a meat hook , doused and set on fire , & her skull crushed . What's even more sick is whose ACTUALLY behind all these psychopaths . . some man of wealth who believes that what horrors he offers the unfortunate victims is means for a more spiritual experience ! McConaughey drives his tow truck over one poor soul numerous times for fun , Leatherface slams a sledgehammer over one's head ( at least it stopped there for him ) , and Renée Zellweger actually scales the sick clan's house with Leatherface slicing bricks from their chimney with his chainsaw at her ! There's a moment in the film where Joe enjoys sticking Zellweger with a cattle-prod . And , to cap off the madness , not only does McConaughey like to cut himself with a knife when angered , he also has this robotic leg that goes haywire if somebody has this specific remote control .
The Double Garden	A stressed NASA scientist , Dr . Bragan ( James Craig ) , who finally saw the launch of his space shuttle from Cape Canaveral , takes a much needed vacation to Japan at the behest of his assistant , Paul Nakamura ( James Yagi ) , working with his relative of Tokyo , using a Venus Fly Trap he dug from a swamp in North Carolina as part of a botany experiment trying to prove that human life started from plants . Nakamura's female relative ( . . I have no information on the actress who portrayed this role ) who assists Bragan , provides him with a secluded resort , abandoned by her father because it was in too threatening a location , surrounding a possibly dangerous volcano , bad roads with frightening curves , and mountains which avalanche rocks . Using the resort's greenhouse as a lab , and the hunchbacked grounds keeper as an assistant , Bragan will embark on his mission to create the greatest creature in the Universe . Finding a carnivorous plant in the Japanese ocean , Bragan will graft it together with the Venus Fly Trap , creating a hideous amalgamation which will soon threaten a nearby village . Crummy , leaden-paced mad scientist movie with a loud , cranky , moody , bossy , rude lead character performance from Bragan , who is imbalanced from the moment the movie starts until it ends . . Craig is never likable even when his character attempts to kindly approach Nakamura's relative , a real sport who has to tolerate his unruly behavior , often sustaining his nasty shouting and barking when she questions his intentions and motives . The film is obviously made on the cheap in Tokyo with a few scenes possibly shot in America . The monster is a ghastly rubber suited creation with tentacles as hair , no eyes , arms and legs carrying Venus Fly Trap mouths with sharp teeth . When the creature reaches for a victim , the screen turns blood red . We do see , on occasion , the " hands " capturing a victim's head in it's grasp , but this is never gory because the teeth aren't convincing in the least . The version I watched was titled Revenge of Dr X , but it's actually called The Double Garden . An abandoned sub-plot had Bragan hiding his hand zippered in a black glove after cutting / infecting his finger during the grafting experiment . . we can only guess ( . . after he put a mouse in the glove , zipping it back ) that his hand was turning into a Venus Fly trap .
The Being	One eyed blob monster , a product of the usual toxic waste dumping ( . . as mayor José Ferrer put it so adequately , Pottsville was chosen by Industrial governmental scientist Martin Landau as " the most sophisticated dump site in the country . " ) , with slobbery sharp teeth and terribly sensitive to light , attack the locals by wrapping it's lizard tongue around their throats , whisking them out of the camera frame . Sheriff Bill Osco , who dresses like a truck driver , even when at the town station , is to the rescue , ready to kill the monster if he doesn't bore him to death first with his non-performance and monotone voice . The blob monster could very well be the son of a haggard Dorothy Malone . Meanwhile Mayor Ferrer's wife Ruth Buzzi is having Easter egg hunts with the children , holding rallies against the new massage parlor coming to town supposedly advocating an arrival of filth to the community , and holding an opera within her home for a gathering of town folk . Marianne Gordon , who seems to escape the embarrassment in a low-key performance as a waitress and possible love-interest to Osco ( . . why she'd even be interested in someone as lively as a block of wood is anyone's guess ) , will be the woman in peril who would eventually walk Malone home and never be seen in the film again . Now , to take a moment to talk about Landau . I think we can use " The Being " as an educational tool on how a prominent actor , at the very bottom of his career starring in this cinematic equivalent of a toilet bowl with fresh smelly turds , can rise from the ashes like a Phoenix thanks to two directors , Woody Allen ( . . in probably the finest performance of his career , " Crimes and Misdemeanors " ) & Tim Burton ( " Ed Wood " ) . I actually think Ferrer , last seen in this film driving off , quite wasted and frightened after seeing the blob monster , plays his role a bit tongue-in-cheek as a constantly annoyed Mayor who just wants to grow his potatoes and make his little town a wealthy place to earn a spot in Washington . Buzzi , is and always will be , Buzzi . . she is the busybody always organizing something , and is aggravating as ever . I imagine that those still populating drive-ins as this flick came out ( . . I'm guessing , temporarily ) probably cheered when Buzzi was on her way out of the picture . I think Dorothy Malone is a sex icon thanks to her work with Douglas Sirk , specifically her delicious nymphomaniac in " Written in the Wind " , but is handed a terribly thankless ( . . practically meaningless , if the script hadn't made her son the one effected by the toxic waste ) role in this steaming pile . On Jackie Kong's directorial decisions come a narrative voice at the opening after a radio DJ tells us about rain showers and thunderstorms moving into the area , prophetically announces doom to the little town of Pottsville , Idaho . She also gives us a run-down at what the surviving characters did with their lives after the incident at Pottsville is over . The climactic showdown between the hilarious monster and Osco should earn some good laughs . This hunk of excrement will probably work the best for fans of rancid schlock . I did find the drive-in sequence near the beginning pretty fun . . the movie playing equals " The Being " in quality which I find irony in . There's an attack scene where the monster , in gelatinous form , oozes from the air conditioning vents and radio to somehow kill a couple making out . It also puts an arm through a deputy holding his heart . Most victims , though , are pulled away by the thing . Best kill is probably the poor kid who tries to escape the monster getting his head removed .
Shocker	A serial killer of families , Horace Pinker ( Mitch Pileggi , really overexerting himself ) , makes a deal with a demon or evil spirit or something for which provides him with an opportunity to travel from human body to human body thanks to some sort of electrical current spawning from a botched execution in the Chair . He has one main goal , other than killing as many families as possible , and that is to kill his son , Jonathan ( Peter Berg , whose face remains frozen in a state of cluelessness for most of the picture when he isn't constantly running from the killer ) . He already brutally murdered Jonathan's mother and lover Alison . . he even kills the guy's football coach and pal ( Ted Raimi , Sam's bro ) . Michael Murphy ( why is he in a movie like this ? ) portrays Don , Jonathan's foster father and cop trying to nab Pinker and then worried about his son Jonathan sore afraid he's losing his mental faculties as well with all this talk of Pinker flowing through the bodies of different people and electrical outlets . Jonathan's pretty lucky Pinker couldn't shoot if his life depended on it because he wastes two different guns trying to plug him . Once Pinker has become this electrical traveling journeyman , only one thing can stop him from taking over a host shell until the lifeforce is sucked dry . . strong willpower or a specific heart-shaped necklace worn by Jonathan's beloved victim of Pinker . Soon , Pinker and Jonathan battle inside the television switching from program to program until his football buddies shut off the main power to the city closing the gateway of electrical travel . Really , really awful Wes Craven vehicle is bad beyond mere mortal words . It has lots of special effects in it , but the story-telling is so insipid , uninspired , and reckless you never fully know how the hell Pinker could accomplish such a feat . The film is crippled by ineptitude thanks to the premise's overall goofiness . What also hurts is the fact that Alison's ghost seems to fight Pinker . . how ? The necklace that seems to weaken Pinker and how Alison just communicates away with Jonathan . . these elements just compile to create an unmitigated disaster . By far one of Craven's worst films . . if one didn't know Craven's other films , probably couldn't believe there isn't an amateur in the director's chair calling the shots . I mean the film never makes much sense and creates situations for it characters as it goes . What a disaster .
Slaughterhouse Massacre	Perfectly dreadful , no budget slaughterhouse slasher that's sluggishly paced , with poorly executed gore attacks and wretched performances from a talentless cast . The director , Paul Gagné ( emphasis on GAG ) also stars as the killer , Marty , whose been dead for 10 years thanks to a group of college kids who hung him in revenge for his murder of their friend ( . . barely surviving this , he also beheaded by a naked girl whose sex partner was stabbed in the back with a sickle ) . Marty is conjured back to life thanks to a rhyme , spoken by four college students within the chalk outline of his fallen body . He stalks them throughout his darkened slaughterhouse , sickle in hand , killing each when they're at the most vulnerable . The only way , according to some myth , to stop Marty is to behead him . Lame story-line apes the Bloody Mary tale , to bad effect , and Gagné shoots a lengthly walk through of the slaughterhouse hoping to build dread , instead inducing the viewer into a comatose state . . dare to try not to nod off as the four students , football stars Bobby ( Vaedynn Orland ) & Justin ( Maurizio Rasti ) and their girls , Tina ( Stacey Denson ) & Stacey ( Shaila Vaidya ) trip through the abattoir for several minutes , screaming multiple times , before locating the place where the killer was finished off . Marty mines Freddy Krueger , cracking wise , as he pursues his prey . The film has an opening sex session with a couple in ' 93 , who are to be attacked by Marty , which then segues to a class room where a teacher warns Justin and Bobby of passing a class assignment or else suffer a failing grade ( . . this whole scene could've been left on the cutting room floor , only servicing the plot in regards to them being college students ) , retreating into a rather pointless and annoyingly long party with drinks , weed-smoking , and naked lesbian chicks kissing . Finally , after half an hour of tedious filler , does the film finally find itself in the abattoir where the slasher formula develops . Skip this one and save yourself an enormous amount of boredom and aggravation . . SLAUGHTERHOUSE MASSACRE is a taxing experience that just isn't worth it . Attractive leads , Vaidya and Denson , do provide nice eye candy , though . I'm definitely an advocate for low budget filmmakers , but suggest at least finding enough funding to adequately deliver decent production values and effectively executed graphic violence . Of course it also takes talent and many low budget directors have actually created a real sense of dread and spooky atmosphere . . in SLAUGHTERHOUSE MASSACRE , such is not the case .
The Thing Below	A creature , found inside a meteor that was buried deep near the earth's core as an oil rig was digging for a new energy source , escapes from a canister housing it . It's tentacles spring forth to enter the victim's body erasing their identity and taking control . The thing can also telepathically read your thoughts if an individual gets too close causing hallucinations as a means of drawing victims near . It's up to Capt . Jack Griffin ( soap opera vet Billy Warlock ) and his minor ship crew to find out if anyone on the oil rig is still alive and can inform them on how to stop the alien force before it consumes everyone . Clichéd flick is your basic rip-off of John Carpenter's THE THING and INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS . This perhaps could've been more fun if Jim Wynorski had found a good make-up effects designer instead of opting to go with the horrible , putrid computer effects instead ( they are so cartoonish they elicit laughter instead of terror ) . As a creature feature this film flunks because it doesn't have an original bone in it's body or a creative leg to stand on . Warlock is fun as the hero , but the other characters are rather boring . Destined to find it's true home on the Sci-fi Channel where these kind of dreadful flicks , with terrible cheap effects , can live and breathe .
Hell of the Living Dead	A group of police officers , a reporter and her camera-man run afoul of New Guinea zombies , awakened from their death sleep by toxic vapors released accidentally from Hope Centre Nuclear plant . The police officers are supposed to meet the island that houses the Hope Centre plant , even though reporter Lia ( Margit Newton ) and her cameraman have no idea what their plans were . They run across a tribe who have not buried their dead , paying the price when they awaken with hunger for human flesh . Our " heroes " soon run up against another zombie horde when they stop off at a fancy estate and once they reach the nuclear plant destination . What were Hope Centre's real motives behind their nuclear program and will any of our " heroes " survive to tell the world that secret ? Bruno " Vincent Dawn " Mattei's zombie " film " is a laughing stock of badly edited tribal / nature footage , incredibly mindbogglingly rotten dialogue , over-the-top acting , and terrible make-up ( what's with the green and dark black mess scattered throughout the faces of these zombies ? ) . Some zombies turn immediately , others turn quite slowly . There's a social message in the plot regarding what the Hope Centre was concocting thanks to the government's desire to find an answer to overpopulation that gets little acceptance thanks to a film whose sole purpose is to sicken and repulse . Zombie gore in abundance and this has to be the film's main draw . . if you read the numerous " positive " user comments , even the most die-hard zombie fans claim this one is " so bad it's good . " I just thought it was bad , but so many have found enjoyment in this laugher . 10 pages of user comments ! I was in awe that a film like this could inspire so many opinions on it . I do say that this film is specifically designed for fans of flesh-eating splatter and masochists who enjoy terrible film-making . Some really wild scenes include a child turning on his father once he dies from a nasty flesh-wound , a dead elderly woman zombie with a cat that emerges from her torso ( ! ) , and a tribal woman ( with her child suckling her breast ) eating maggots from the eye socket of a rotted skull . The slow-motion nature scenes seem like little more than padding for the film since there's nothing much else going on . The Goblin score ( mostly ripped from Romero's DAWN OF THE DEAD ) is a welcome presence in this wasteland of ineptitude .
I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer	Four teens , about to graduate from high school , are part of a prank which leads to the accidental death of a dear friend , prepared for military service , whose dad was a police chief . Using the disguise of a former killer , from the first two " I KNow What You Did Last Summer " movies , the prank frightened the locals as a manhunt is underway due to the fact that those responsible made a pact of silence . A year later , July 4th , those who made this pact of silence will face an unknown psycho , dressed in the fisherman's slacks and wielding a wood-handled hook , dying one by one . Anyone with knowledge of the tragedy , keeping a vow of silence , are in grave danger . More of the same except this one has a cast of no-names and the killer in a fisherman's outfit , stabbing the victims with his hook whose identity is a real howler . The pacing lags like a snail , the plot is on life support with situations and characters very similar to those in the first . It'll feel like you're watching a cheaper , inferior version of " I Know What You Did Last Summer " . " I know what you did last summer " is spoken throughout as if the filmmakers insisted on reminding us of what movie we were watching . The director tries to implement jump scares which fall flat and jump cuts among other modern film-making techniques which annoy rather than startle . Unless you're a die hard fan of the first two films , not needing anything refreshing or interesting , hoping for that " same-ole / same-ole " effect , then this might work for you . It's minor budget shows . Nevin , as the final girl Amber is adequate , if average as the lead . Torrey DeVitto as Zoe , the alt rocker . David Paetkau as the Ryan Phillipe a-hole from the first film , Colby , Amber's ex-boyfriend . Seth Packard as the trickster who couldn't deal with their silence regarding the participation in an act that led to a good pal's tragic death . Ben Easter as Lance , the dead pal's cousin who knew about the prank and kept his mouth shut ( . . he's also the pretty boy who carries a torch for Amber , with them rekindling a few sparks present from the previous year ) . Most of the murders happen away from our sight , showing the looks on the character's faces as the hook stabs them , although one clever death sequence shows a police deputy impaled on a fork-lift tine . And , a combine harvester is used to okay effect . There's nothing special here and I'd say to look elsewhere for a decent slasher flick . The killer's mystery , for those who find importance in this aspect , will leave you rather underwhelmed , if laughing to yourself . But , it shouldn't have been made in the first place . . a , uninspired cash-in direct-to-DVD flick , that's instantly forgettable . To be honest , I had to fight nodding off .
Panic	A laboratory experiment goes terribly wrong leaving a scientist , Professor Adams , radioactively infected with a horrible mutation effecting his whole body . Now a grotesque cannibal lurking the underground sewer tunnels of the town of Newton , the powers-that-be are planning to drop nerve bombs if the monster isn't found and killed in time , so that the viral contagion Adams is currently carrying will be contained . If this drastic decision is to be halted , Captain Kirk ( David Warbeck ) , Adams ' lab assistant Jane Blake ( Janet Agren ) , and Newton's Police Sergeant O'Brien ( José Lifante ) will have to race against time to find the mutated fiend and save thousands of innocent lives . During this chase to find it , the monster is scouring streets targeting citizens , feasting on flesh , retreating to the sewers periodically to escape from harm . Rampaging through a theater , it finds a female as others flee , tearing away at her face right before Kirk is able to catch him . The monster breaks into the locked door of a Catholic church , invading a sacristy as a priest helps his choir boys find escape , murdering him as the padre defends his kids . Kirk's boss , Milton ( Franco Ressel ) unloads two shot gun blasts into the beast before it rips away at his leg . Even Kirk is able to unload an entire gun of bullets into the thing without downing the monster . This monster has quite a threshold , as Kirk and O'Brien flood the sewers with gas hoping to corner it after sealing off escape routes . That monster is damned elusive , that's for sure , quite motivated to keep on going , no matter the resistance it faces along the way . The version I watched , on a 50 pack of Mill Creek films , is incredibly murky and seems to be cut . The movie's absent of gore and the monster itself is wisely hidden in darkness , with only mutated ( . . latex ) flesh made visible as light briefly flashes on it while in pursuit of new victims to eat . I didn't think the monster is very convincing when the film finally unveils it at the end . I won't lie , this was a pain to sit through ; positively boring , with an absence of thrills . If the plot were even remotely original or effective , I might've enjoyed it more . On paper , this hybrid of suspense elements ( monster on the loose eating folks ; threat of spread virus ; possible nuking of town ) should be a winner , but under the direction of Tonino Ricci , it plods along at a languid pace covering familiar ground formerly trampled on by more capable filmmakers . In the version I watched , the scenes of violence disappear from the screen as the monster often engulfs the entire frame . Even as Kirk and O'Brien survey the crime scene carnage left in the monster's wake , Ricci fails to give the viewer the gory goods . Just a sheer disappointment that , if handled by someone else , might've been better . An Italian production with the story set in England ( why not Rome ? ) .
Venom	Venomous snakes , carrying the evil removed from the souls of murderers and sadists , attack a gas station owner / tow truck driver , Ray ( Rick Cramer ) when he removes a voodoo witch ( responsible for " milking " the evil using snakes as the hosts to house them ) from her car dangling over a bridge after an accidental crash . Ray , newly possessed , leads a bloody rampage in his path as he aims for the final in a generation of voodoo witches , Cece ( Meagan Good ) . A group of young adults , such as grieving Eden ( Agnes Bruckner ) , who recently lost a loved one , and her boyfriend Eric ( Jonathan Jackson ) are what stands in Ray's way of ridding himself of future " cleansing . " In one scene , when Ray aims to kill Eden , we can see the snakes slithering under his skin . Slowly , Ray is turning into something else , growling loudly in anger . Can Eden and Eric survive Ray and , with help by an undistinguished voodoo witch , kill him ? Or , will Ray end the line of witches allowing him to go on killing innocents forever ? If you can accept this preposterous , cheesy premise then maybe there's entertainment value here . It'll come down to that , I believe . There's only a modicum of truly graphic violence as most of the bloodshed happens off-screen . The snakes , when they briefly appear , aren't that convincing . Mostly profanity and certain throat slashings ( Ray uses a hook to kill most of his victims ) keep this from complying to the typical PG-13 rated standard . Agnes Bruckner , blossoming into a beautiful young woman , is too talented for drivel such as this .
Children of the Living Dead	Lame-brained zombie film , with film-making duties by various participants of " Night of the Living Dead " . This particular flick concerns teenagers who died in a vehicle crash over a cliff thanks to a zombie , Abbott Hayes ( A Barrett Worland ) , who wasn't killed in a small town extermination . Hayes resurrects their corpses by biting them , and as a group they pursue live human victims as a major car dealership development is underway . The film centers of the blossoming relationship between Matthew Michaels ( Damien Luvara ) , whose father is the head honcho behind the dealership , and Laurie Danesi ( Jamie McCoy ) , the small town waitress . Sheriff Randolph ( Marty Schiff ) is in cahoots with the developers in pulling up the caskets and headstones from a cemetery burying the loved ones in a mass grave to save money . Abbott Hayes will lead his zombie troops on a raid on the diner as Michael , Laurie & Randolph hole up awaiting help from the development workers . I think many might wish to check this one out for the opening fifteen or so minutes where make-up effects legend Tom Savini goes bad ass as a survivalist town deputy who takes out zombies singlehanded . The opening of the film resembles the close of " Night of the Living Dead " as townspeople work as an organized hunting party eradicating the walking dead with guns and rifles . Once Abbott Hayes is introduced ( . . first looking like a corpse , and when the film moves fourteen years later , resembles a monstrous ghoul ) the film sours immediately . The screenplay is uninvolving never remaining focused with the film becoming an uneven and tedious exercise where boredom sets in like gangrene rotting away the viewer's patience . . well , that's what this film felt like to me , gangrene rotting away my patience . I kept hoping that something would come from this film , but when you have dialogue this putrid with a cast equally as painful , there's no hope at all . I am not sure this will even work for the most enthusiastic zombie fan . The final showdown at the end has workers , with plenty of weapons and ammunition toiling with the zombies in hand-to-hand combat ! While the fighting occurs , Abbott Hayes is shown delighting as the carnage ensues . Hayes seems to be merely in the film to wickedly grin as his minions attack pea-brained human clowns . What a travesty . Actor Bill Hinzman tries to put some energy into the photography , but that shot in the arm can do little to inject life into a film where quality whithers minute to minute . This film would've done better to follow Savini throughout the film wasting zombies rather than focus on a car dealership development and the dull relations of a would-be couple . Savini and some minor moments of zombie gore lift this to 2 stars instead of 1 .
Lethal Eviction	The tenants of a decrepit apartment complex fall prey to a killer hidden slightly out of the camera frame with the viewer only getting a glimpse of hands and , at times , a shadowy figure in the darkness . The film's main focal point are " twins " Sarah and Tess who are staying in adjoining rooms but never seen together by anyone other than us ( . . and even that is through an oddly tilted mirror ) . Sarah is the quiet , kind , caring sister while Tess is a grungy , sad , volatile who was recently a member of a psychiatric facility . Amanda ( Stacey Dash , who looks terrific ) , with assistance from dear old daddy , Gus ( James Avery ) is the new apartment manager who wishes to relieve herself of older tenants so that she can hike up the rent . Then there's Tess ' former attending physician Dr . Sheppard ( Judd Nelson ) who has been having a recurring nightmare of his murder at the hands of his former patient . Shep will seek her out because he's afraid that Tess is still not mentally well and needs help . Soon a drug-pusher Sarah has a history with named Brian ( Adam Huss ) , an old busybody , Elsa ( Michael Learned ) , and two goofy friends of Brian's ( Mark Shunock & Marshall Cook ) are all potential victims . Sarah has a transvestite pal named Hector ( Andy Martinez , Jr ) & a new love-interest named Ian ( Todd Babcock ) . Carpenter , in the leading " dual " roles , is pretty dreadful , Judd's had better hair days , the film lacks any suspense , is boring & cliché . Seek your entertainment elsewhere .
Do You Wanna Know a Secret ?	Simply awful slasher , molded from the I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER type of fodder , has beautiful wealthy college students spending spring break in a Florida condo being murdered one by one . A misfire in every category imaginable from properly built suspense to the executed death sequences . . nothing is handled properly and the characters leave little more than caricatures you root to see decimated as quick as possible . Del Tenney ( The Curse of the Living Corpse ; I Eat Your Skin ) , of all people , executive produced , co-wrote , and stars as a priest in a pivotal role whose relationship to the killer I guess means something to why he's psychotic . The revelation of the killer is awkwardly handled and ineffective , probably not surprising a soul who watches it . There are a lot of attempted jump scares , with one character popping out to frighten their friend , which couldn't even manufacture a few cheap thrills , because they are so calculated in such a tepid way . Most of the attacks occur off-screen with bleeding throat cuts ( . . or pools ) representing the only real display of violence . The protracted finale , where the killer goes on and on with the actor desperately trying to make his villain as diabolical and demented as possible , is embarrassing and tense-less . There's not one single positive to derive from this clichéd and dull exercise with the pretty cast making little effort to rise past their one-dimensional roles . And , for pity sake , they could've at least allowed us to see Joey Lawrence get decapitated or something for withstanding the misery of sitting through this junk heap for 90 agonizing minutes . Dorie Barton , as the heroine final girl , Beth Morgan , who the killer seems to be obsessed with , couldn't be more vacuous and uninteresting ( . . oh , she was in rehab , and takes pills for her nightmares ; such intriguing exposition ) . Chad Allen , cast against type as a very intimidating " friend " of the group ( . . who happens to disappear from the film first , setting up the idea that he's the first victim ) , has a tough hill to climb with his role , so steep he eventually stumbles , rolling uncontrollably with no end in sight . Jeff Conaway , needing some cash I guess , has the beleaguered FBI agent role , whose daughter's murder motivates him to seek out the killer , leading him to Florida . Jack McGee has his usual a$$hole role as a smart-mouth Florida Police Chief who is often nose to nose with Conaway's agent . Oh , the answer to the title's question . . not really . Because once you get the answer , you will wonder why you bothered with this anyway .
Warrior Queen	Sword and sandals smut with Sybil Danning ( who looks bored throughout the whole film ) as the supposed Queen of the title . The film depicts the life of various people before Pompeii is blasted by a volcanic eruption . Donald Pleasence ( Claudius ) is ruler of Pompeii , who tries his damnedest ( . . to no avail ) to please his highness , Danning ( Berenice ) , through forms of entertainment . You have pretty bad actress Tally Chanel ( Vespa ) vacantly portraying a beautiful blonde virgin ( . . cackle . . snort . . ) slave becoming a love interest to her valiant hero Rick Hill ( Marcus ) who rescues her from strongman brute Marco Tullio Cau ( Goliath ) as he attempts to violently molest her . You have porn star Samantha Fox as the wife of Pleasence's ruler who carries a lustful torch for Hill's Marcus . This is pure exploitation where slaves are hung upside down naked as the rich toss out wagers for them as if they were cattle . You have sounds of orgiastic pleasure on the soundtrack echoing the chamber halls where the film spends ample time showing the same boring sex scenes gratuitously repeating over and over . There are some coliseum gladiatorial combat sequences like the discus throw where Goliath stabs a member of the audience heckling him and his opponent in the belly with the poor guy's guts sliding out . You have an arm wrestling match where if the loser's hand falls onto the spike he dies of poisoning . Pleasence tries to please Danning by capturing doves in a net . . yes , sad , isn't it ? Goliath forces a royal , out-bidding him on Vespa , to swallow an obscene amount of gold coins . And , to top it all off . . juxtaposed in this cheap-ass film , during the volcanic eruption that closes this travesty , are scenes directly lifted from another movie . Geniuinely awful movie might be perfect fodder for Grade Z connoisseurs . . it's rancid cinema of the lowest order which might work wonders for masochists looking for the next painful experience . Pleasence's role might be worth some laughs if you don't pity him . At the very least , the film has nudity in abundance and could be excepted as enjoyable trash . You've been told , so don't come crying to me after you waste precious amounts of time alive on this heap of garbage . Fantastic VHS box cover , though . If Danning would've showed her tits , I might've been kind enough to give this three stars instead of two . . oh , well .
Shrieker	Hunk of trash only the Full Moon Studios could make has a group of college kids , staying for free in an old hospital with no one knowing , as a demonic creature with two faces ( barely visible the entire film because of incomprehensible lighting ) passes through walls killing each member who has a certain sheet of paper with ancient markings . Someone amongst them ( it won't be too hard to prove , but a slight twist is so uninspiringly revealed and limply executed you'll just scoff ) is the mastermind behind who the beast kills and must be revealed before it kills everyone . Cheap , badly acted mess has a " That's it ? ! " kind of weak ending that'll have you exasperated at why you just wasted your time . Tanya Dempsey , who couldn't act her way through a wet paper sack , has the heroine duties as the newest member of the college rooming bunch named Clark . Oh , and the title refers to the sound the beast makes before it attacks it's next victim .
Evil Breed : The Legend of Samhain	Karen ( Bobbie Phillips ) mentions , after one of her kids gets out of hand with his lame annoying jokes , that she'll never survive this trip . . boy , is she ever on the money . Karen is a school teacher taking her group of kids from the Shepley College of Historical Studies to the butt ugly locale of a run-down manor in the major dung-heap of Ireland . . surely there are places in this country more appeasing to the senses than this ? ! The caretaker of the manor , Gary ( Simon Peacock ) warns Karen and her students to stay on the path and not to stray into the forest . There's a myth regarding the Sawney Bean Clan , a ritualistic druid cannibalistic inbred family celebrate Samhain ( the end of Summer , October 31st ) " Feast of the Dead " where sacrifices are needed to appease the spirits . Gary is supposedly clairvoyant , his cousin Pandora ( Ginger Lynn Allen ) tells us , because he was born on Samhain . Funny , because he sure doesn't see outcomes well or even give advice accurately . Nearly everyone dies ( . . even those who never stray from the path ) and he doesn't even see his own gruesome fate . What this monster we hear breathing is a victim of way too much inbreeding . . it's face resembles a malformed mushroom and it looks like a hideous reject from a Mad Max picture . It doesn't take long before the " evil breeder " is killing everyone . Paul ( Howard Rosenstein ) is Karen's love interest who made the wrong decision coming to Ireland without his girlfriend's prior knowledge . Horrible formula slasher doesn't stray from the norm . It's minuscule budget shows loudly and the characters are assembly line clichés churned out yet again to be slaughtered in the usual gory ways . Most of the violence flashes across the screen quickly with not much dwelling on the breeder's acts of death towards his victims . Lots of guts get pulled out during the fast edit cuts as one scene whisks to another . Seeing Gillian Leigh's gorgeous naked body for a moment or two isn't incentive enough to recommend it . Phil Price has the really irritating trickster character , Steve , often shedding bad jokes . . how he is able to get Leigh's Barbara naked in the shower for some action is anyone's guess because I have no reason why he'd stand a chance with such a hottie . Brandi-Ann Milbrant has the fortunate role of Shae , the quiet virgin smart girl ( who is also quite hot ) who we know will be the one chosen by the screenplay to survive . Jenna Jameson drops by long enough to get her heart cut out of her chest ( at least we see her breasts momentarily before her chest is opened up ) with a few minor lines about two missing friends she's looking for . The film's main problem is that the story and character development grinds to a halt because it's realized that none of them are at all interesting so director Christian Viel just lets loose his monster to run rampant causing carnage , obliterating an entire cast almost in one fail swoop within ten minutes . Oh , and Richard Grieco has a minor opening cameo as a victim who strayed off the path to tent camp with his chick .
Axe	Raven ( Darlena Tejeiro ) & Ashley ( Andrea Bogart ) just stopped into a bar after hiking a nearby mountain and run into a nasty group of bikers led by TJ ( Thomas Crnkovich who overplays the raspy voice and just doesn't provide much menace as the head biker of a band of motorcycle baddies ) . Stealing one of the gang's motorcycles , Raven and Ashley get run off the road and have to walk on foot after evading the bikers trying to catch them . They found a money bag containing stolen loot which belongs to the sheriff ( the corrupt sheriff who gets a cut of a stolen 300 thousand lifted from a location not specified ) . At a decrepit flea-bag inn , they catch a few zzzz's before TJ and his gang run up on the owner of the establishment , Ned ( Joe Goodrich ) and his employee , Doug ( Stephen Ferguson ) . TJ wants his loot and Ned decides the money should line his pockets so a shoot-out presumes . What none of the characters know is that an escaped loony , nicknamed the " Axeman " ( Tim Sitarz ) is on the rampage chopping anyone to pieces he comes in contact with . You have the owner of a bar , Robert ( Jason London ) who also conspired with Ned for the money . Everyone , including the heroines , want that damn money which results in nearly an entire cast wasted until a few survivors remain . Ivan , The Axeman is a ridiculous unstoppable killing machine who is stabbed numerous times , shot in the back numerous times , pinned to a stone wall by a truck going really fast , & even falls off a mountain . . yet , he still keeps coming ! London is dreadful as Robert , the turncoat who seems friendly and courteous but is anything but . In a minor sub-plot , we follow the sheriff ( Nathan Anderson ; the one looking for the loot that is supposed to be his share ) and Ivan's psychologist , Margaret ( Fiona Loewi ) as they are trying to find Ivan . Bogart is smokin ' as Ashley , wearing barely little ( exposing her incredibly sculpted figure ) and Tejeiro as the main heroine Raven is quite cut as well . They are VERY easy on the eyes and might provide enough motivation to waste your time . No-budget stinker with poorly staged axe-murders . Most hilarious scene . . Raven and Ashley , driving a station wagon , can not outrun Ivan who is chasing them on a four-wheeler !
The Heretic	A Priest ( Richard Burton , sleepwalking ) has his work cut out for him when he must somehow destroy Pazuzu , a demon buried deep within Reagan ( Linda Blair , blossoming into a young woman ) . When going deep within hypnosis , interlocking thought and mind with Reagan , Father Lamont discovers a possible Voodoo Priest Komumo ( James Earl Jones ) who has power over Pazuzu . Lamont will seek out Komumo , against The Church's order to break away from a case where he was only to investigate the reasons behind the mysterious death of Father Merrin ( Max Von Sydow ) , in the hopes of joining together to defeat Satan's angel and save Reagan from certain future horror . Louise Fletcher portrays Dr . Gene Tuskin , Reagan's doctor in charge of seeing that Reagan gets proper psychiatric care . She invented the tacky , wacky hypnosis machine with it's strobe light and mechanical sound . She is a scientist and simply will not accept that Reagan has some sort of supernatural evil buried within ( in a startling sequence where she is interlinked with Reagan , Pazuzu almost kills her gripping her heart in it's evil grasp ) . I will not take up for the film overall , because I think it's crap like the majority , but will give credit to William A Fraker for his stunning cinematography and the great Ennio Morricone for his eerie , spine-tingling score which brings an atmosphere to this wretched exercise it really doesn't deserve . The dialogue and acting is anything but great and Burton looks embarrassed ( I read that the only reason he'd even accept this role was that he'd get the lead psychiatrist role in Sidney Lumet's marvelous , " Equus " ) to even be in it . Fletcher has her bright career moments , but doesn't spark or even glimmer in her role . She's like an actress just starting out trying to remember her lines . All this could be because they do not believe in the material and no inspiration seems to be in the story either where we follow ESP and Voodoo mumbo jumbo , not to mention we actually " ride " on the wings of a locust in a dream as Burton's Lamont is being led by Pazuzu to the Voodoo Priest within Reagan's hypnotic state . The final climactic showdown is merely the tip of the iceberg in that it is a noisy , ridiculous , special-effects laden incoherent mess which leaves the viewer ( . . or at least me ) feeling like they do not know what just happened . It's derivative and laughable and closes the door on the fact that this film couldn't be saved from being a laughingstock and disappointing considering those involved .
The People Under the Stairs	Fool ( Brandon Adams ) has life a bit difficult . His mother is dying of cancer and sister trying to make ends meets with several children by different dead-beat fathers who are no-shows . They are told to leave their crummy apartment dwelling which is so scummy , rats would have a hard time adjusting . They are merely just another case in a whole line of unfortunate renters evicted from their homes by sicko brother and sister landlords ( Everett McGill & Wendy Robie ) who have kidnapped males ( they have been stuck inside an isolated room in the basement so long they look like ghouls ) searching for the perfect son . They also have a female who they abuse named Alice ( AJ Langer ) who they call daughter , but she is just like those boys down stairs . . her existence is in a room constantly being patronized by mommy zealot constantly referring to others ' certified trips to hell not even giving a second thought to the nightmares she has caused in her . . and brother's . . violent wake . Fool is coerced by thuggish thief Leroy ( Ving Rhames ) to steal gold hidden in the landlords ' home and once inside they become trapped . Leroy is soon dispatched in grisly fashion while poor Fool must find ways of escape using different little halls inside the home introduced to him by Roach ( Sean Whalen ) , one of the aforementioned abducted males who has adopted a form of transportation as means of getting food from Alice upstairs . If there is a place to scurry , the tongue-less ( cut out by the landlords ) Roach can find it . Fool learns a lot from Roach who soon becomes victims of McGill's shotgun blasting ( he carries the blaster everywhere he goes ) . It's up to Fool to put an end to the crazies once and for all . Fool also wishes to help out the poor souls trapped underneath the stairs and Alice . As expected , Fool will run into pratfalls from time to time because the pair have booby traps and other devices all throughout the house and keep the windows locked & sealed off . This film is absolutely bird-brained . Wes Craven wishes to expose the rich and how they treat the lower class who work under them struggling to make ends meet , but how can his message really be heard underneath so much silly chaos . And , Everett McGill must have been part of the program that made Lee Majors the 6 Million Dollar Man , because I've never seen a man get hit over the head with so much and continue as if nothing happened . I mean Fool hits him over the head with a metal toilet top , a flower vase & a fireplace poker . Robie is throttled in the knee with the poker and stabbed yet continues . Who are these people and how strong can they actually be ? There are disturbing layers I don't even wish to think about only hinted at such as skulls and skeletons dangling about in the room housing the unfortunates , and , at one point , McGill is dressed to the nines in S & M leather suit . There's a scene where the dog lunges right into Fool yet he's able to defend himself against a massive , monstrous pit bull ! And , at one point Fool blows up McGill with dynamite for Petesake and his body remains undamaged ! Logic and credibility never have a chance to survive in such a film as this .
Faust : Love of the Damned	What a mess this was . There are some fans of Wishmaster evil demonic genie Divoff who plays , I believe , Lucifer here ( . . with albino white hair ! ) and he certainly has a way of exhibitioning pure evil with the way he tilts his head and twists his face . This film seeps every ounce of artistic integrity from the original play bludgeoning us over the head with Ringo knows what . Faust himself was once this artist named John Jaspers ( Mark Frost , incredibly hammy ) whose lover was killed by her portly pimp and his accomplices , wishes revenge to the point he'll sell his soul , gain from Divoff these Wolverine-esquire titanium blades , kill those who did his ole lady in , and face the consequences for his harbored anger and blood-lusting vengeance . Divoff has control over him and forces him into destroying a Chinese Consul meeting wiping out something like 19 people . Jeffrey Combs is a detective who wishes to know why he did it as Faust ( in human form at this point ) is catatonic . A psychologist , Jade ( Isabel Brook , a stunning beauty ) who uses music to get inside what makes the mad crazy , soon becomes a chess-piece between Divoff's Lucifer and Faust ( still John at this point ) . Soon Divoff is through with his acquisition and buries him alive , but the joker kills a skeleton choking him ( huh ? ) and returns from the near trip to hell as a steroid-n-crack version of the Daredevil who obliterates , I'm guessing , more than 20 or so people ( and a slew of damned cops . . I figure the entire police station was emptied into Faust's feverish wrath ) . Divoff has a chick by his side , Claire ( Mònica Van Campen , melts fervent heat right from the screen ) always trying to seduce someone into robbing her master of his power since Lucifer's human shell is weakening ( . . I don't know , ask those who made this damn thing what the point is of Lucifer staying in a weak body when he should be able to invade many of those who worship him ) . She loves showing her breasts ( they are quite delicious , I must say ) and cavorting around like a cat in heat . Jade has issues . . a buried rape from someone whose face is covered in wax ( you think this sounds silly , wait until you see the method of torture used to project who the rapist was ) and she falls in love with the John . Combs soon joins allegiance with Lucifer and the poor Jade is tricked by him into Divoff's lair . . she is a hostage at the mercy of her captors . Meanwhile , Claire who desires Lucifer's seat will perhaps get her wish . The film throws the kitchen sink at you . . are you willing to duck ? Because , the climax has this beast summoned from hell , Faust trying to save Jade from being impregnated by Lucifer , Combs swallowing a serpent removed from the stomach of Lucifer's Claire who betrayed him , and a blood , sacrificial orgy of Satanists . Phew , I'm telling you , this flick is messed up !
The Grudge 2	Kayako's evil will transcend the confines of the cursed house and spread somehow as a result of it almost being burnt down . Karen ( Sarah Michelle Gellar . . how she got top billing for doing practically nothing I'll never know ) is in the hospital and blamed for burning the house . . and her beau . . alive . Aubrey ( Amber Tamblyn , who is handed barely anything to work with yet does more with less than Gellar did in the previous film with more screen time ) is commissioned by her dying mother . . who always expresses how disappointed she is in Aubrey . . to go to Japan to find and bring home Karen . What Aubrey will encounter is the very evil Karen warns her to stay away from . Three teen girls will also dare go inside the house . . with two playing a prank on the third resulting in poor Chicago apartment dwellers receiving damned Kayako's evil when the terrorized chick returns home while her prankster international school chums become victims . Aubrey will attempt to stop Kayako with the help of photographer Eason ( Edison Chen ) . The film alternates between Tokyo where Aubrey is and Chicago where it appears the curse has spread into America . An unbearable snoozer which never catches fire and croaks along at a languid pace . I don't think the main problem is the direction as much as the sloppy screenplay which , from American Stephen Susco , tries cobble together ideas inspired by Shimizu's far superior first Japanese film using American actors and fails because there is zero development . The film is solely built on scares which ( unlike the first film ) come off as unintentionally hilarious . It feels laboured and uninspired , but who could blame director Shimizu when you're stuck with such material to work from . I believe that when Shimizu works from his own material , the characters are better inserted and more fleshed . It might take away some scares , but in a film where he writes and directs ( . . like the far superior Ju-on 2 ( 2003 ) ) there's a nice subtle yet creepy vibe that permeates . This film seems to want to cram so much into a 95 minute running time that most of the sequences set in Chicago fall flat . This film is polished and has some cool special effects , but they don't scare as much as evoke giggles which shouldn't be the intent but are .
Jaws 3	An underwater sea park is attacked by a great white with a bite radius of nearly a yard . When it attacks a underwater tunnel , with many civilians trapped inside , it's up to Dennis Quaid and crew to weld a plate in place of the breach . Simon MacCorkindale portrays a Brit photographer who likes the media spotlight , but courageously offers to be " live bait " ( . . and is in the film's best sequence as the shark chows down on him with the camera recording this inside the mouth , really a remarkable effect ) as a distraction for Quaid to complete the welding task without harm . Bess Armstrong is Quaid's lady love who decides to go down and watch his back just in case the shark swims toward them . Louis Gossett Jr . is the head honcho of the theme park who watches in horror as his dream goes up in smoke thanks to the shark's desire to feed . The 3D effects just aren't very good . . they might've worked in 1983 on the big screen , but just make the viewing experience now a burden . The 3D effects look like just that . . separate from everything else . What hurts even more is that nothing really happens for nearly 1 hour and a half until the shark makes it's attack on people in the water ( mainly Lea Thompson , the love interest of Dennis Quaid's brother John Putch ) . The shark effects range from good to awful . . especially rotten is the scene where the shark breaks through the glass housing the control room with Gossett Jr and company . The cast , except Bess , are merely going through the motions and it's quite easy to see that the franchise was about finished off . . JAWS : THE REVENGE would be the death nail on the coffin of the Jaws franchise .
Incubus	A wreck leaves a group of adults , led by Tara Reid , stranded in the middle of the Montana Mountains . They seek shelter from the cold and find a seemingly abandoned scientific installation , housing something sinister within . The film opens with one lab-coated scientist chasing another female lab-coated scientist , which ends in both killing each other . The young cast finds the dead scientists and attempt to find any way out as quickly as possible . Their entry into the place , led down by a rope , snaps leaving them stuck inside . . they must find a way out immediately because an experiment those scientists were working on , locked into a bullet-proof cell holds a comatose killer ( . . notorious for the murder of his kin ) with feeding tubes inserted into his body keeping him alive . It seems that this killer has the ability to invade the dreams of those who sleep , taking possession of their bodies and minds operating them at will . He was the cause of those scientists turning on each other , behind a hidden scientist who murders one of them with a screwdriver when they attempted to find the generator which would keep the lights burning inside the installation , and soon invades members of the group when they fall asleep . Reid and company hope to find a way of stopping him , attempting to use his method of travel against him long enough to somehow escape the installation or else . But , the killer is far more powerful than they realize . . To be honest , the methods of the killer are fleetingly explained in the film , mostly through the conjecture of Reid's character Jay , who read through some appropriately detailed papers and videotapes left by the scientists . Your liking this movie will solely depend on if you buy the premise of the killer's invasion abilities . Reid as your lead ought to dissuade more cautious viewers who might not wish to waste their time on this film . There's some graphic violence ( the killer bites his own tongue out as a child in a flashback sequence , committing the same act through one of the characters we follow in the film he invades ; the fate of Jay's brother , who is badly wounded by the attack of the scientist , with the use of a screwdriver ; accidental suffocation with a plastic bag over the face of one of the remaining characters when an attempt to trap the killer while inside the body of another backfires ; the unfortunate murder of one of the group believed to be still possessed by use of a wrench ) and the darkened halls of the installation where a killer could be lurking around any corner provides some eerie moments . But , I couldn't really find much to recommend truthfully , unless you are a Tara Reid fan . . she's certainly had better days , although her fake breasts jiggle up and down throughout her constant running from evil in pursuit . I found her dialogue , concerning the idea of leaving your body when you sleep , rather funny . The final ten or so minutes I found rather ridiculous ( . . well , I found the whole premise rather ridiculous , but getting back to my point . . ) as the killer somehow , despite what one remaining character along with Jay does to him , roams free , talking awfully well for someone without a tongue , as he easily snaps a neck like Chuck Norris . This flick is basically characters is search of an exit while being picked off by a killer that has a unique method of terror .
Plasterhead	Four college students are on holiday driving to Miami for some sun , making the mistake so many idiotic characters in slasher movies make . . instead of staying on the main highway , the driver , Steve ( Josh Macuga ) decides to take a " short cut " onto a country road leading into " middle of nowhere " West Virginia . Almost out of gas , the group encounter a book bag containing money and a person's belongings ( . . a journalist we see fall into the trap of a psycho at the beginning ) when David ( Ernest Dancy , the token black character with attitude , who likes hip hop and saying the f-word ) finds it while draining his lizard . Nearby town of Rolling Glen ( . . with no gas station ? ! ) has a buried secret that will be unleashed on these kids and selected citizens before the night is over . . a black truck driver named Ray Williams was severely beaten , face rendered a hideous visage , by drunken locals and dropped at the old Dixon place in Ellis . Ray's body wasn't recovered because he isn't dead . . far from it . Creating a plaster mask to hide the monstrous face he now endures , his identity and humanity lost , now lives off the animals of the wilderness , killing anyone who dares " invade " the territory of the Dixon area . David pleads with the others to leave for Miami with the 500 dollars they found , but Steve's girlfriend , Maggie ( Kathryn Merry ) insists they seek out the identity of the person whose bag was found . An address of the Dixon place written on paper in the unknown journalist's bag , Steve and company find it , deciding to stay the night due to the fact that they are in fact out of gas . Audra ( Raine Brown ) and Steve decide to wait at the Dixon house while Steve and Maggie see about information regarding the nearest gas station , heading for a local bar . That's where they hear about the local legend , and the truth regarding Rolling Glen's crooked sheriff , Earl Taggart ( Gerard Adimando ) who covered up the attack on Williams , the ones responsible never seeing a moment in prison . Returning the house , Steve and Maggie will find out from David that Audra's missing and the terror commences . Polished cinematography aside , PLASTERHEAD is simply another cheap , run-of-the-mill slasher with limited graphic violence shown on screen . The fate of Audra is pretty unsettling ( Williams uses barb wire to drag her by the mouth from behind ) and another victim's guts appear from an open wound . The killer of the title is merely a black version of Jason Voorhies . . uniform , walk , weapons , everything . The bad casting of Adimando , fighting a thick New York accent , doesn't convince as a hick sheriff . The premise has been done to death regarding college kids making the wrong turn into West Virginia due to heavy highway traffic . And , I have a really hard time believing these kids are gonna pick up 500 bucks and constantly pursue the identity of whose cash it is . The most unpleasant moment is the make-up work for Williams , seen at the beginning , before applying the materials needed for his plaster-cast . Raine Brown , as slutty Audra , fails to convince with that phony Valley-girl imitation . . a bit old for such a tired cliché . None of the characters rise above their stereotypes , and the cast is pretty amateurish . Jason Snells score loudly intensifies , attempting to add suspense to a movie that lacks atmosphere or dread . The house is about as menacing as Micky Mouse and doesn't particularly seem as ancient as the Rolling Glen locals ( . . or the outsiders who make plenty of snide comments regarding how old it looks ) would have us to believe . The film does feature a really grim conclusion , but PLASTERHEAD lacks the necessary budget needed to truly grip us . . having to shoot away from Williams ' attacks on victims proves this . Confusing attack on employees at a diner made little sense to me . . how come Williams decides to attack them ? If they have been around for a while , why would he just up and decide to kill them ? Ludicrous performance from Tom DiNardo as Artie , a foul gas station mechanic who doesn't have any fuel for Steve and his friends ( . . woefully attempting to sound and act like a disgusting redneck , his New York accent remains bleeding like an open wound as DiNardo fails miserably to hide it ) . If you wish to have realistic hick carciatures , hire southern actors who actually have an accent . . don't hire New Yorkers who sound like they came right out off the streets . A real waste of time .
Necropolis	Scientist Charles ( Peter Coyote , who must've either had a stroke recently or bad facial plastic surgery for his face seems frozen in one direct position ) is up to no good in his experiments with the undead pumping them in glass chambers with foreign agents within steam testing their motory functions among other things . What is really happening is the corporation he works for , Hybra-Tech , are creating Uber-Zombie Soldiers to enforce their will over the entire world . Zeke ( Elvin Dandel ) , a motorcycle friend of Julian ( John Keefe ) suffers and ill-fated crash , but instead of being carried to the nearest hospital the ambulance transfers him to Hybra Tech research center . Katie ( Jana Kramer ) , working as a security staff member , notices that her ex Zeke is being carried in and informs Julian . Cody ( Cory Hardrict ) , a hacker wiz , taps into Hybra Tech's main frame and discovers where they are holding Zeke . So as a collective group , Julian and his Scooby Gang head off to Hybra Tech to rescue their friend . Once inside , Julian finds out some ugly truths about his Uncle Charles regarding not only what he really does with Hybra Tech , but also what truly happened to his parents whose car crash may not have been an accident as led to believe . To make matters worse , there's a security breach which unleashes the dead from their cages resulting in an outbreak . Charles is able to break from the gang's clutches as they must find a way out of the building before being brain-food for the zombies . There are some hilarious moments where the boys have hand to hand combat with zombies while hard rock music blazes away on the soundtrack . When our heroes shoot the zombies , they seem to hit every part of the body besides the most vital one . . their skulls . Not to mention that the whole purpose of getting into this situation . . rescuing Zeke . . is compromised when he gets bit not long after escaping from the clamps locking him on a table . As the film continues , it just gets sillier and sillier with some of the most ridiculous zombies you've seen . It's really crap .
Boogeyman 3	The Boogeyman manifests itself when a female college student , whose father was psychologist Tobin Bell from the previous film , reads his journal truly believing in it's existence giving the ghoul life . The girl , Audrey ( Nikki Sanderson ) returns to college where the Boogeyman lifts her off the ground , strangling her as best friend and roommate Sarah ( Erin Cahill ) looks on in horror . After Audrey's death , Sarah keeps the Boogeyman alive by constantly referring to it , researching past cases where others encountered the legendary ghoul , and insisting to her friends that the thing is real . Soon everyone begins believing it , and her friends are stalked one by one , falling prey to the Boogeyman as it besieges them . Yawner is chock full of wacky death sequences ( . . such as a girl dragged into a washing machine , one victim's face slammed into a broken bong , another pulled into a chest ) and buckets of blood ( . . blood oozes down walls , out of washer-driers collecting into a pool on the laundry room floor , out of ventilation ducts , splashed all over potential victims ) . This film is closer to the very first film as the second was more of a slasher . The closet itself ( . . a source of fear for Barry Watson's character in the original film ) has a vital role in perhaps producing some scares to more wary viewers who jump easy . The ghoul itself pops up on folks , appearing , disappearing , then reappearing once again to spook those who decide to believe in the Boogeyman . Director Gary Jones features nudity in this film and often displays these attractive college girls in small , tight shirts and panties . The film has an amusingly ironic twist . . the lead female character , Sarah , is a psych major going bonkers thanks to a creature brought to life by her own fears . Sarah even has a radio program with her psychology professor helping students with emotional problems ! So imagine how her pals react to claims of a ghoul which threatens her entire dorm ( . . in the film's best sequence , an entire hall of bloody bodies are seen in Sarah's nightmare , perhaps a premonition ) . To be honest , I watched this movie because of my wife . . I really thought the first two films in the series were crap ( . . although , I did think the original had a few moments ) , and didn't enter in to this sequel expecting anything of value . Others might find it a bit scary , but the whole ordeal was rather predictable & the special effects were cheap and tacky for the most part . The characters ( victims ) were cardboard for the exception of Sarah . The Boogeyman itself resembles a witch from some grimm fairy tale , never on screen for any substantial period of time , just flashes of it's presence attacking victims .
The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things	The Heart Is . . is a certifiable horror film . . a journey into the abyss that no child should have to take . Jeremiah has the misfortune of being the son of Sarah . Sarah takes Jeremiah from a certain wonderful childhood with tenderhearted foster parents and instead lives with a mother who experiences a long series of sexual relationships with various men , uses various drugs , and enjoys listening to punk rock . Jeremiah gazes into an unkempt adult world his young eyes have no reason to witness . Through this unbalanced pretentious film , Argento makes the child's journey dizzying and uncontrolled . We witness a series of abuses from different males such as physical leather belt whippings to sexual abuse . Sarah even has him wearing a dress pretending to be her sister ! When he is left by his mother , the adoption agency sends him to a family's religious commune headed by Pastor Peter Fonda ( talking about bizarre casting ! ) , but even here he can not escape certain violent acts taken out on one of his " brothers " by Grandfather ( Fonda's name in the film ) as a form of punishment . This is merely an ambling coming-of-age ( in the most extreme form ) which is about as entertaining as chugging battery acid ( . . for which I'm not surprised Argento's Sarah doesn't attempt to try ) . I'm guessing there's a point to this but I was too disinterested to care .
Wolfhound	A successful author , Colum ( Allen Scotti ) returns to his ancestral home in an Irish village with wife , son and daughter in tow hoping to rekindle possible memories of slain parents he never knew . What he does discover is that inside him lying dormant is an animal desiring to get out . Threatening his well being is an imposing , gruff villager , Macroth ( Brian Monahan ) who may very well have been behind the death of his parents . Colum's wife , Stella ( Jennifer Courtney ) , wishes to go home , quite a city gal longing for her hot coffee from Starbucks , having a great deal of trouble adjusting to her new environs . What's worse is that she feels a rift coming between her and Colum whose behavior is questionable . Colum realizes that an Irish wolfhound scouring about his cottage's grounds is in fact the animal form of a beautiful , voluptuous woman , Siobahn ( Julie Cialini ) who wishes to make passionate sexual contact with him . After succumbing to Siobahn's seductive allure , Colum finds the beast within starting to emerge , while Stella yearns to leave without him if necessary . Meanwhile Macroth eyes Stella causing quite a bit of friction between all involved . What Colum and Stella soon find is that the village folk are not all they appear to be . Ambitious but lackluster fantasy regarding a village of people who can actually transform into animals . Like Macroth who changes into a wolfhound like Siobahn . Another changes into a crow . The plot resembles the story of Cat People ever so slightly , but I had a problem with how the fantasy element of transformation is handled . . it deserves more exposition as does how Colum's parents died . I think a great deal of the film is little more than getting Julie Cialini as naked as possible . Certainly her delicious naked flesh doesn't hurt , as long as she kept her mouth shut , but I didn't think she had that many sparks with Allen Scotti , for whom is her sexual partner during a few scenes . I never thought their love-making provided the right amount of erotic heat which is surprising since chains get thrown into the mix and blue light ( . . often quite an effective tool for erotica ) within night scenes never quite elicits fireworks . The fight scenes between Macroth and Colum never catch fire either and have clumsily inserted dogs growling in the attempts to sell the beasts themselves attacking . The morphing sequences from human to beast leave much to be desired . Special effects in this film just are too cheap to effectively convey what the director so desires and he often has to resort to the use of objects to cloud humans before and during their transformation to , I guess , save on what little budget he obviously had . There's an unnecessary sex scene between Colum and two lesbian women ( . . Julie K & Regina Russell ) that should also be erotic but comes off surprisingly empty because the director fails to establish whether or not they're actually even on top of him ! I'd suggest seeing this merely to see Cialini naked , slapping Colum as he's chained to the bed while on top of him having the ride of her life . She also has a rather effective strip scene , removing her gown inviting pleasure . Maybe the problem is the lead actor , Scotti , who fails to generate fire with his new lover or a sense of love with his wife . The character of Stella spends most of the screen time upset with her husband's decision to leave home , feeling distant from Colum , or warding off Macroth's advances .
One of them	A group of teens have the misfortune of falling prey to hoodoo worshiping occult masquerading as a Catholic school for troubled girls . The town doesn't discuss the place and we see what one villain , underneath a hood and robe , does to Trina , a member of the school trying to get away from her pursuers . Trina's uncle is out to find the real truth of what happened to her and will uncover some grisly truths he might've never expected . Anyone with information regarding the cult often wind up dead . A young male and female are actually the leaders of the cult and commit the violence towards those they want as ghostly minions to serve them . Only brother and sister , Liz & Jeremy might stand a chance against this cult , but leaving appears to be a problem as escape does seem unlikely . Corny , micro-budget occult thriller with the typical terrible acting and silly supernatural goings-on . The gore effects range from decent to awful according to method of death . The wood chipper death is a howler ( it actually looks like the victim throws himself in ! ) and the hoodoo elements are really cheesy . There's even a voodoo witch and ghostly apparitions throw in the bungled mix for good measure .
Bride of the Monster	A very sickly Bela Lugosi stars as Dr . Eric Vornoff , a scientist who wishes to make supermen so he can take over the world . He has a pet rubber octopus and massive lab assistant , Lobo ( Tor Johnson ) he whips when the mute beast doesn't obey his commands . News reporter Janet Lawton ( Loretta King ) pursues the reasons behind missing folks who were being either consumed by the octopus or treated to Vorkoff's failed experiments . She is soon captured by Vornoff who will attempt to use her as an experiment , but LObo takes a shine to her . Janet's fiancé , Lt Dick Craig ( Tony McCoy ) will be in hot pursuit , following his girlie's tracks eventually finding himself in the swampy lair of Vornoff . Capt Tom Robbins ( Harvey B Dunn ) will have to rescue not only a pesky reporter but his own detective as well . That's if his inept Keystone cops don't foul things up . Typically pathetic Ed Wood feature with cheap sets , laughable octopus with men unrealistically " captured " within it's tentacles which never move , Tor Johnson's " method acting " ( haha ) , amateurish acting , jokes and the cast's delivery which fall flat , an enormous stunt double who doesn't even remotely favor Lugosi fighting Lobo , gun shots which fire directly point-blank at Lobo yet never even cause him to flinch , dreadfully laughable brawl between Lobo and Craig ( . . and , especially Lobo and Lugosi's stuntman ) , and clumsily inserted scenes ( . . such as a lightning bolt exploding a house into flames , and a shot of Vornoff supposedly falling into the octopus ' pit , but one can clearly see that the victim captured was another character thrown in it's clutched earlier in the film ) . Lugosi's sincere portrayal is admirable despite how ravaged his body is of time and vice . His use of " hypnotic " hand ( . . something which many might find reminiscent to Lon Chaney from the silent age ) to put Janet to sleep is a bit embarrassing . I do think Wood was so proud of having Lugosi in his film as evident with the long scenes where his mad scientist exposes his dementia when confronted by those who threaten his work .
Voodoo Island	Scientist Phillip Knight ( the always marvelous Boris Karloff , even in this ) who debunks myths and superstitions as folly for the weak-minded , is sent by a major hotel industrialist to a specific island to see what has turned a man ( Glenn Dixon ) into a living zombie who appears healthy , but shows nothing on his face . Knight's secretary , Sarah ( the simply stunning Beverly Tyler , who just looks fantastic from the moment she appears on screen to the close ) and " designer " Claire Winter ( Jean Engstrom ) come along with Knight along with the industrialist's right hand man Barney ( Murvyn Vye ) . Matthew Gunn ( Rhodes Reason ) is the skipper who will boat them to the mysterious island and Martin ( Elisha Cook , Jr . . who might . . gasp . . just die again in yet another movie ) who stands to benefit financially from the success of a resort area if one is created on the supposed voodoo island . Upon once getting to the island , they encounter carnivorous plants ( ! ) , a voodoo cult who are shown often poking their heads slightly out of the forest leaves , and , gulp , possible death . It's corny , there's just no way around it , but fans of cheesy B-movie chillers might bask in it's lameness . The killer plants look like rubber inter-tubes , the hokey romance development between Sarah and Gunn is filled with horribly limp dialogue that might make you snicker , and could very well have the worst performance of Elisha Cook , Jr's career . His death scene towards the end is hilarious instead of frightening . . the supposed impact of that scene elicits guffaws instead of fear . Karloff shows why he was such a wonderful actor and presence on screen when he can even make the flimsiest dialogue leap somewhat . He's damn good even when facing a dead body wrapped in killer leaves and stiff " Native Chief " Friedrich von Ledebur who looks bored out of his skull . The stench from this stinker can be smelled a mile away , but somehow Karloff still comes out of this unscathed . Known by many to feature an open lesbian seeking a relationship as Winters tries every way to convey her lust for Sarah .
Urban Legends : Final Cut	In the wake of Wes Craven's phenomenally successful SCREAM there was an army of cash-in clones that emerged and , sad to say , I was one of those who went and watched a slew of them at the multiplexes . This revisit dredged up all those bad memories of disappointments . Director John Ottman ( . . who seems to be a jack-of-all-trades , but he wisely decided to compose music instead ) and writer Paul Harris Boardman set the film within the trappings of college film-making referencing movies and having characters running around sets getting killed by a masked psycho wearing all black ( . . I think that's a fencing mask he was wearing , not sure what that was for , but oh well ) . URBAN LEGENDS : FINAL CUT follows the formula of characters stalked one-by-one , all members of Amy Mayfield's ( Jennifer Morrison ) crew . There's a link , of course , and it's a irksome twist which leaves a sour taste . It's hard enough sitting through lamely executed death sequences which lack any potency whatsoever , but to endure the final climactic revelation ( . . which deals with Amy's deceased Documentarian father , yawn ) just adds an extra kick to the groin . Good news is Morrison would move on to the popular television show HOUSE , and has blossomed into a lovely woman , and good actress . She's not bad as the lead , but her character is a direct model to the established Neve Campbell final girl which would populate the resurgent post-1996 contemporary slasher for years to come . Amy is often alone and fleeing from a determined pursuer , narrowly escaping . There are red herrings in the form of Trevor Stark ( Matthew Davis , who was in EVERYTHING at this point and time ) , the twin brother of a slain talented college filmmaker , and Toby ( Anson Mount ) , a Director of Photography who so desires to win the prestigious Hitchcock award that he walks out on Amy out of contempt for her " intruding into his genre " . Trevor solidifies himself as the worst protector ever in a slasher as Amy can never depend on him to be there for her when she's being chased by the maniac ( . . it's obviously designed to cast doubt on Trevor ) . Amy's film-making project is to film a series of Urban Legends , a horror movie consisting of grisly vignettes but her crew are getting killed , not showing up to the set the next day . Soon she is the target until the typical ending featuring the room of suspects , a killer's identity uncovered and the scramble for a weapon . Hart Bochner ( Terror Train ) is a hip bit of casting as a film school scholar , Professor Solomon , and Loretta Devine returns from the first film as a college security guard , Reese Wilson ( . . such a welcome presence in a movie that doesn't deserve such a vibrant personality ) . Joey Lawrence even stops by as Graham , a student with a wealthy father who has connections into the industry . . this would be one of MANY clunkers for " Joseph " after BLOSSOM . Eva Mendes has a thankless role as a lesbian assistant to Amy , Vanessa . . far from the sultry tasty dish she'd soon become . The opening kill-scene packs a punch ( . . concerning an actress who is drugged , finding herself in a ratty apartment buried under ice , her kidney removed , attempting to escape , her stitched womb pried open by the killer before using a broken window glass to behead her ) but the subsequent murders leave much to be desired . Other recognizable faces include Anthony Anderson as a make-up effects wiz and Jessica Cauffiel as a really terrible actress , who couldn't even scream effectively . Rebecca Gayheart ( . . the psycho from the first film ) has a cameo at the end as a special wink to URBAN LEGENDS . Very similar to SCREAM 3 , and certainly not as entertaining or clever . Unfortunately , an even worse sequel ( . . how could that be possible ? ) would come much later , BLOODY MARY .
At Hamilton High . . it's prom night !	Alex ( Tim Conlon , quite terrible in the lead ; he resembles Zach Galligan to me ) is just your average guy flunking high school and a loser on the football team . He meets up , one night , with the demonic presence of ole Mary Lou Maloney ( Courntey Taylor ) who we see explode from her grave at the opening and they have a tumble . The next day she's gone and he only has the American flag as covering for his nude body when students walk in ready for classes while Alex scurries to the restroom . Alex has a steady girlfriend , Sarah ( Cynthia Preston , a cutie pie ) and best friend , Shane ( David Stratton ) , but all that changes when Mary has an impact on his daily doldrums in high school life . She kills teachers that stand in the way of his passing school ( Mary Lou even fixes his term paper to an passing grade ) and gives him the supernatural ability to score winning touchdowns . All she wishes is for him to be hers . With Sarah in the way and guilt regarding his burying the bodies of Mary Lou's victims , Alex begins regretting his ever meeting this ghoul . Soon , Alex breaks up with Mary Lou , as preposterous as that sounds , and let's just say she doesn't take it lying down . Mary Lou's wrath will be aimed at Sarah ( . . and his friends and school mates ) with poor Alex being sent to jail for the murders of his teachers when the corpses are found buried on the football field underneath the sod grass . Of course , a showdown will occur on Prom Night with Alex breaking free from jail and meeting with Mary Lou face to face . In a bizarre state of affairs , Alex agrees to go to " zombie hell " with Mary Lou in exchange for her ceasing the bloodshed . Though he does this , Sarah won't just give him up that easy . Bird-brained , really stupid exercise is drenched in clichés . . as a matter of fact the flick is drowning in them . Alex is a weak protagonist because Conlon is so awful . Attempts at tongue-in-cheek humor fall flat because most of Mary's quips aren't very funny or even slightly amusing . The school intercom jokester has most of the funny lines . The ending in zombie hell sums up the moronic approach of all involved . And , really the string of outrageous killings , committed by Mary , are quite unnecessary . Mary has really been turned into a joke .
Initiation : Silent Night , Deadly Night 4	Reporter Kim ( Neith Hunter in an awful performance ) , tired of working the Classified section and Calender at her male-dominating newspaper , decides to follow the unusual suicide of a young woman whose body was found charred from the waist down . What she walks into is a coven of strange witches led by Fima ( Maud Adams ) who wishes to use Kim , through various oddball witchcraftian concoctions , to bring back her daughter ( . . who indeed is the burning suicidal girl who took the plunge from the top of the apartment complex ) . The witches have this belief that Kim can rid herself of the parasitic males who have " ruled " over her by carrying out the ceremony of " Isis " where she would sacrifice the brother of her lover ( . . and co-worker ) Hank ( Tommy Hinkley ) . Kim is reluctant to do any of the things Fima and her co-horts desire and often faces bizarre hallucinations as big bugs ( cock-roaches mainly ) and larvaic worms rear their ugly heads everywhere she frequents . The biggest bug she can't rid herself of is ogre-like Ricky ( Clint Howard playing his usually disgusting troll who Yuzna embellishes by photographing him with imaginative angles ) who is the coven's gopher / soldier doing their bidding so that their ceremonies and such get accomplished . Will Kim be able to escape the clutches of the witches ? Or , will she suffer the same fate as Fima's daughter ? Your usual Yuzna weirdness . Lots of nasty bugs grown to massive size to give those who dislike them the creeps thanks to Screamin ' Mad George's workshop . Hell , even Kim's spaghetti " breathes " at one point ! There's a grotesque scene where Kim begins to morph into a worm and really violent scenes where Ricky attacks people such as Kim's boyfriend Hank with a steak knife or like choking Hank's father with Christmas lights . Oh , and Yuzna makes sure to show us why this film is in the series as a fourth film ( . . other than merely exploiting the title for his own purposes ) by showing an excerpt of the previous sequel where the blind girl dreams of being nearly attacked by the killer Santa . The film really is merely an exercise in disgusting effects with a spit of witchcraft thrown in for good measure . One talent Yuzna shows is how to express creepy facial expressions out of rust on doors and through tree branches as they often form faces . Phantasm fans might dig the minor role Reggie Bannister has as Eli , the man in charge of the successful newspaper Kim wishes to become a reporter at .
Fade to Black	Film nut Dennis Christopher fuses Hollywood fantasy into his mental framework and can not distinguish what is real as he kills an assortment of people who fracture his ego . Whether it be his boss or punk-bully Mickey Rourke , each die by one of his villain alter-egos ( such as Dracula , The Mummy , or Richard Windmark's lunatic gangster Tommy Udo from " Kiss of Death " ) until Christopher's Eric Binford is completely taken over by fantasy . Tim Thomerson is a police psychologist who wishes to help Eric before he gets himself or others killed . The Eric Binford character is overwhelmed with this passion for a Marilyn Monroe lookalike ( Linda Kerridge , who stunningly favors her quite a bit ) he believes is the real woman . He'll do whatever it takes to have his paramour . Terrible film had potential . The clips from classic old films selected and spliced within certain scenarios featuring Eric would've been a great idea if a better actor with greater depth played him . Christopher , following his success in " Breaking Away " , isn't up to the task and shows his character as erratic and unfocused . It's hard to watch him for one hour and 45 minutes as he overdoes his maniac scenes . He just doesn't have what it takes to draw you into his pathetic existence . Thomerson and Gwynne Gilford ( as Officer Anne Oshenbull ) have very underwritten roles as the ones trying to figure out how to get to Eric . . who is so far hidden within the madness of character personalities . James Luisi is Capt . Gallagher , a cop who sees Thomerson's type as a quack who merely gets in the way of real detectives . . although he's right about Eric . The film rather pursues the kind of possession Hollywood holds over those who love film too deeply . To partake in the experience of film to the point that it engulfs you separating you from the reality around you . If only a better actor could've been chosen as the lead ( and the film stayed on one course instead of going all over the place at times and not focusing enough on the police trying to stop Eric and his murderous ways ) the film might've had some potential .
House by the Cemetery	Stupid , retarded exercise works merely as an excuse for gore and abandoning any chance of providing us with a decent enough storyline to hang our hat on . The gore provided may be the only attribute he can give us because the family is not interesting , the acting is bland and limited , the incoherency runs rampant as Fulci uses all kinds of oddball sub-plots to try and connect his abilities to splatter the screen . This family moves into this haunted house , and don't seem to get the idea that . . well , they might ought to leave ! This family ought to have their head examined for taking this dump anyways . This group of three just can't help but journey down that f'n basement time and time again . . even after the father is attacked and bloodied by the bat ! You think I'm about to venture into a basement where a big ass bat just ripped chunks of flesh from the hand . . these idiots obviously didn't get the point that hanging around in a spooky place may not have very many benefits . The stupid blond kid sure can not seem to get the point . . he goes down there so many times it's hard to feel sorry for him . It's funny , the kid can remain trapped in that basement ( . . with miraculous doors which lock in place as if the killer down there had the abilities of a telepath ) forever and the creepy nanny ( . . the most underwritten character of the film whose strange behavior is never explained ) is down there like ten seconds and her neck is hacked repeatedly . This film is the perfect example of shocking gore and nothing else . I must say , after seeing so many praise this hunk of trash , that I might be one of a brave few to go against it . Oh and the damn dubbing of an adult's voice in place of that kid grated my nerves about as much as the music's stops and starts .
Invisible Ghost	Really weird Sam Katzman production with an unusually sympathetic performance for Bela Lugosi as the doomed Charles Kessler , a respected citizen in the community who is unknowingly strangling his hired help at the hypnotic command of his loony wife ( Betty Compson ) . Charles ' wife ran off with another man , but he always had hope she'd return . For some strange reason , Charles ' gardener kept her hidden from him so that he wouldn't discover her in such a psychologically damaged way ( . . she had survived a car accident which killed her lover , resulting in irreparable mental damage ) , yet she returns almost every night to force Charles into a hypnotic state ( . . his kind face twists into a homicidal menace , hands clinching his black coat , lurching along until finding the next victim to die , often startling them ) the result being another strangulation . Charles ' daughter , Virginia ( Polly Ann Young ) worries about her father due to the mother's exit from their lives , how he hasn't come to terms with the separation , always believing she'll eventually return . A portrait of her hangs where Charles can gaze upon it each and every day . When a maid is murdered , Virginia's fiancé , Ralph Dickson ( John McGuire ) is convicted of the crime for he had relations with her at one point , and Charles ' butler , Evans ( Clarence Muse ) overheard the two in a heated conversation where tempers were tested with uncharacteristic words said that provided motive . The nail in his coffin was that Ralph couldn't tell of his whereabouts because of his state of mind and no alibi for that night of the murder . After his execution , Ralph's twin brother , Paul surprises Charles and Virginia and is invited to stay . . mentioning how his brother was convicted on reasonable doubt , he was concerned that the wrong man was sentenced to death and seeks answers . Meanwhile , Charles continues to kill at his wife's command . . how long can it go on before he's caught ? I'm never quite sure what Mrs . Kessler's motivations are for forcing Charles to commit murder to people who are of no importance to her in any way . The film provides a reason in her not returning because he'd kill her . . HE'D KILL ANYBODY . The " HE'D KILL ANYBODY " approach was all that writers Al and Helen Martin had to go with in giving an excuse for Lugosi to strangle folks . The idea of hypnotism as well is rather poorly realized . . how could she hypnotize him in the first place ? The film's feature reason for Lugosi to kill is terrible and extremely flawed , but he himself rises above such material because he provides a kind , polite , and caring character completely oblivious to the fact that he's the one responsible for the murders under his own roof . Surprisingly the production values are rather good , the film is professionally made with fine camera work and solid B & W photography . It's the story itself which is preposterous and far-fetched . Whatever the case , Lugosi is the draw here even if the plot itself doesn't accommodate the performance .
Sleepaway Camp III : Teenage Wasteland	Tongue-in-cheek slasher spoof , made back-to-back with the previous installment , Unhappy Campers , from director Michael A Simpson and writer Fritz Gordon , has serial killing transsexual Angela Baker ( Pamela Springsteen ) assuming the identity of Maria , a street kid she plows through with a garbage truck , so she can infiltrate a new Summer Camp near where she was once counselor . The camp is an experiment where underprivileged and rich youth join together in a unified setting proving that " we all can get along " no matter what kind of family and locale we come from . It goes horribly wrong when Angela , under wig , returns to her " Angel of Death " role murdering those she considers morally corrupt . Three wilderness groups are formed with the various youth camps spreading out with a counselor assigned with Angela wiping out one set of victims at a time , moving to the next one when she's finished . Before you know it , there are few left to slaughter . Cute red-head Tracy Griffith ( Skeeter ; The Final Power ) as a suburban band student , and potential boy-toy , East LA Latino " thug-with-a-heart-o-gold " , Tony ( Mark Oliver ) soon find themselves baring witness to Angela's rampage perhaps doomed to the same fate . Kooky B-movie character actor Michael J Pollard has a funny role as one of the founding counselors , with a Playboy bunny belt buckle , who tries landing a wealthy " skank " in a tent , actually succeeding before Angela corners him for execution , sickened at his fornication . Cliff Brand is a cop , Barney Whitmore whose son was beheaded by Angela , the third counselor hoping to someday catch and kill the murderess responsible . Sandra Dorsey is lazy counselor Lily who has her campers performing menial tasks for her such as taking away the trash and bringing her bug spray . Her demise , through the use of a lawnmower , is rather unique . The other victims are the same clichés paraded out for Angela to dispatch in one way or another . Those who either rent or purchase the DVD should check out the raw gore footage included in the special features . While most of them pretty remain intact within the finished product , there's a beheading from Angela's ax ( . . showing hands still moving with gushing blood flowing ) and a nasty aftermath of a victim hoisted by Angela up a flag pole falling head-first splatting to the ground , that are rather memorable . While the sequels to the franchise have a fervent cult following ( . . Angela using various methods to destroy human lives , following up each murder with a type of witty / witless one-liner ) who embrace them as cheesy 80's slasher flicks , I really find them rather joy-less exercises , with most of the murders cheap and clumsy . They are really no different than those repeated Friday the 13th sequels , with Angela assuming Voorhies ' role , with the exception of her being a chick and alive . The idea that Angela can kill so many without being discovered is a stretch , to say the least , especially with all the screaming . And , while many love the warped humor Angela provides , this sequel even strains to deliver in that category , giving us something to smirk at here and there because most of the characters are developed for us to despise so that we can giggle when she destroys them in creative ways . One victim has his arms removed by a rope tied to a jeep Angela drives . An ignited fire-cracker is used on a practical joker's face . Angela uses a stick to pummel victims across the head . One is shot several times by a gun into the chest . Tent spikes are hammered into a victim's hand and head . But , even though they sound gruesome , director Simpson shies away from displaying the gory goods for the audience clamoring for such violence .
Hydra	Yet another perfectly awful Sci-fi Channel CGI monster movie . Yet another variation on The Most Dangerous Game has four unlucky human prey , selected by a millionaire because they had prior criminal records and were able to " escape the system " , kidnapped and dropped on a supposedly uninhabited island with an actual living multi-headed hydra of Greek myth who follow the heat of their chosen victims , chomping down on those they catch . Tim Nolan ( George Stults ) is personally selected by boat captain Sweet ( Michael Shamus Wiles ) because of a personal grudge which occurred in Iraq . Nolan is an ex-commando so he's a resourceful survivalist who can assist his fellow hunted , Gwen ( Dawn Olivieri ) , Crick ( James Wlcek ) and Ronnie ( Texas Battle ) using his brains and skills in an attempt to evade both the hunters ( . . each wealthy paying their " supplier " millions so that they can hunt their prey ) and the hydra . Meanwhile , the hunters themselves find the hydra isn't effected by their superior weaponry . . if you blow of one of the heads , it grows two more ! Nolan and the group soon discovers an archaeologist , Valerie ( Polly Shannon ) whose expedition found the island with her the only remaining survivor . She informs Nolan that in order to truly defeat the hydra is to cut off the heads with a mythical sword of Hercules himself , buried in small lava pit ! Got all that ? ! Alex McArthur is millionaire Vincent Camdon and Jana Williams is his trophy wife , Dixie . They orchestrate and prepare the hunt for their clientèle . The CGI for the film is as dreadful as you'd expect as the hydra chomps down on human heads and it looks unrealistic and laughable . The whole mythical aspect of the Hercules sword and how the hydra is effected by it will induce certain chuckles from an audience with an inability to take any of this nonsense seriously . Stults , as he was on 7th Heaven , is as stone-faced as ever . As expected all the villains get theirs , each getting ripped apart and eaten ( . . including one poor soul who is shown swallowed whole ) .
Future Kill	During my struggle to stay awake during this borefest , I fought through my near-dosing off to discover some silly plot regarding fraternity schmucks , quite incredibly obnoxiously annoying , running into trouble with a psychotic , radioactively damaged half-human / half cyborg named Splatter who sends his soldiers after them for the murder of their prestigious , politically vocal leader ( . . for whom Splatter killed himself , setting them up to take the blame so he could become the leader ) . These face-painted freaks form a group who express their feelings anarchically , though non-violently , living on dilapidated streets abandoned by the " civilized world " voicing their concerns regarding nuclear disarmament . Anyways , most of the film has these five frat goons running throughout darkened streets with graffiti walls , as Splatter and his punks pursue them . Thankfully for these guys , they find a punk chic to assist them on their journey out of this rather ugly terrain with which they're unfamiliarized . This territory the frat guys are immersed is a veritable labyrinth of streets and alleys with the idea of an exit out most difficult particularly when crazies and Splatter's bunch occupy nearly every turn . Yeah , I was duped like others thanks to the HR Giger poster which is most excellent . If only he had been the designer of this dreck . . this is not the case and we , the viewer , are left a film modeled after , of all movies it seems , Walter Hill's THE WARRIORS , except this film doesn't have the style or grit that film has . The film has a plethora of unfunny bits and lame confrontations between the frats and the punks with hand to hand combats often laughable . The setting is rather interesting , and there are some atmospheric uses of neon light , but it's not the environment that's the problem . . it's the plot and characters within the environment that grow tiresome . The saddlebags under my eyes weighed heavier every minute this movie continued . Yes , Texas CHAINSAW stars Edwin Neal ( . . quite a funny voice-man , who has an entertaining interview on the DVD I rented for this flaming turd of a film ) and Marilyn Burns have " key " roles as opposing members of their faction against the government resulting in the final conclusion within a building complex at the end . Neal's character Splatter uses these metal spikes which emerge from his metal arm to kill his victims .
The Sentinel	Universal's answer to " The Exorcist " isn't a very good one . Unfortunately , the film offers bland , unimaginative direction from Michael Winner who wastes an outstanding cast with a screenplay massing crater-sized plot-holes . Not to mention , it's unbearably silly never explaining certain key elements within the story . Model Cristina Raines moves into a high-rise owned by the Catholic Church with a creepy , blind priest John Carradine , who holes up in there always at the window . She begins to suffer faint spells and nausea . What's worse is tenants she meets in the building such as Burgess Meredith ( with a cat and a canary ! ) and a young Beverly D'Angelo as a lesbian . Ava Gardner ( looking great at 55 ) is the Realtor who showed Raines the place . Cristina's lover is Chris Sarandon , whose wife " committed suicide " after finding out they were having an affair . José Ferrer has a small role as the " Priest of the Brotherhood " who informs Monsignor Arthur Kennedy to be careful as he heads to the very high-rise not only housing Carradine but Raines as well . Sarandon sends a hired-hand up to the high-rise one night to check out a certain room above Cristina's apartment where she heard metallic clanging and other loud racket . He winds up dead the very same night Cristina " kills " her DEAD father in a nightmare . Screaming mad on the street , Cristina does indeed have blood on her which leads police detective Eli Wallach and partner Christopher Walken to investigate them with sure certainty that it all somehow leads back to Sarandon who is a hot-shot lawyer who once beat the cop in court regarding the whole wife's suicide . That case is really a motivating factor is Wallach's dogged approach to finding out whose blood was really on Cristina and if Sarandon has anything to do with it . You also have Martin Balsam as a professor who understands this type of Latin Cristina mysteriously understands and unbilled actors such as Jeff Goldblum as a fashion photographer and Tom Berenger as a man interested in this certain room that has become available in the very room ( now renovated ) that Cristina once stayed in ! What bothers me more than anything is lack of explanation . Towards the end of the film Wallach and Walken are forgotten and we are left wondering why they just up and quit investigating . Their characters are just left on the back-burner . How the priests know that " now is the time " when a certain man will die and must be replaced to guard a certain gate in that high-rise and why Cristina suffers through the trauma she does isn't adequately explained . How certain ghosts just appear to Cristina and disappear when she tries to show Gardner the rooms they occupied during a cat's birthday ( see for yourself ) isn't adequately explained . Not to mention Gardner's role in the grand scheme of things . . she brings people to that high-rise , but what is really her reasons in the film ? It seems like this film should've been longer and cleared things up left lost to a rushed conclusion that is just laughable when it should be scary .
Pulse	To be honest , this Americanized version of Kiyoshi Kurosawa's film is just . . americanized . The plot is essentially the same except completely elaborated upon instead of elusive like the Japanese film . We get all the information on why these ghosts do what they do and how they got here . Why the red tape is essential to keep them at bay , and also we learn how they travel . The ones that die turn into ash , but we actually see how the ghosts take over those who have to surrender their life force . Victims are left with only a shell of what was once a vibrant , living human being . Through technological means , they are able to seek out and destroy those who use such equipment as cell phones and computers . The numb skull who unleashes the " virus " is Josh ( Jonathan Tucker ) , a master hacker who taps into these ghostly apparitions which roam free in our world taking the will to live from humans leaving them to slowly turn into eventual ash or to commit suicide because the pain as they dies drives them into a deep abyss of depression ( as one victim friend of our heroine Mattie explains . . the slowly dying tastes like lead with each breath taken ) . Mattie ( Kristen Bell . . I like her , but she deserves a better vehicle to express her talent which is unfortunately dormant in dread like this movie ) is Josh's girlfriend and through her we see the chaos that erupts thanks to the ghosts that lurk as clear shadows ( almost like river pool ripples we can see appear in moments ) . After Josh's death , Dexter ( Iam Somerhalder ) receives his computer and finds out what Josh was up to finding a video diary mentioning a computer guy named Ziegler . Ziegler might hold the knowledge on how they came unto this world and how to stop them . Also , Dexter finds a possible computer part that might execute the virus of ghosts that Josh had hidden in a safe place on his computer . We see a city in complete desolate ruin where nearly an entire populations is gone . The film strip is drained of color like other Americanized remakes of Japanese films and for once I'd like to see a film show vibrant colors . This film looks like it was shot on the outskirts of Antarctica or something . . completely dreary and lifeless . The characters have no life , the cast is going through the motions . The film has no energy or heart . When you pay more attention to how great Bell looks in her tight jeans than what her character is going through in the movie , something is indeed wrong .
Psycho : the remake	What can I add that hasn't already been said . It's easy to criticize Van Sant for his direction , but pretty much anyone sitting in the director's chair calling the shots wouldn't have been able to successfully pulled it off . I think the decision to remake that film was a hasty , not-well-thought-out idea . The first time I watched the film , it didn't trouble me as much as tonight's viewing because it's so easy to see that this whole remake was a bad idea . Vaughn just doesn't have that ability Perkins has . . not many , if any , do . Heche as Marion is merely a casualty of bad dress ( who ever fashioned Heche must've had a grudge against her ) . Poor Viggo just looks plum out-of-place and silly in his cowboy-dress as Sam Loomis . William H scores in his role as nosy Arbogast who gets so close to the truth it costs him his life . Julianne Moore , who carries a back-pack and walkman for Petesake , is the representative liberal modern gal full of cynicism and bitterness . . it's hard to watch her stuck in this parody of a role ( . . although , certain shots show her beauty ) . Many of the shot-for-shot scenes pretty much copying Hitch's style makes the whole film seem but like a waste of time . Even worse is when Van Sant tries to put his stamp on the film in awkward little images during key moments ( such as the infamous shower sequence and the unveiling of mother ) . One complaint that didn't bother me too much ( . . well , actually a tiny bit ) was the flick being shot in color , although Van Sant's use of color is odd , especially in how the Bates Motel looks as well as Bates Mansion . Wardrobe seems to be aimed as a joke , although I'm never sure if it's intentional or not . The shower sequence remains pretty much the same instead it's real blood in the tub this time . I did like one image as Van Sant's camera closes in on Marion's eye as it loses life ( . . although the shot of the cloudy sky is bonkers ) .
Dark Fields	A group of obnoxious high schoolers are on their way to a concert when they find that their car is running low on gas . The driver , dweeby , pimple-faced Drew ( Ryan Hulshof ) also gets the gang lost , having missed the highway leading them into hicksville , where a sinister farmhouse and massive barn reside on a country road . Clownish Zach ( Brian Austin Jr ) , his fraidy-cat ( . . the kind afraid of her own shadow ) constantly complaining girl-friend Justine ( Lindsay Dell ) , annoying immature jock Josh ( Eric Phillion ) , and high school hottie Taylor ( Jenna Scott ) find themselves looking for Drew when he leaves to find a possible fuel pump nearby the farmhouse never returning . As they search through the farmhouse and barn , they encounter a backwoods psycho whose face is hidden by long messy black hair , quietly awaiting each victim before attacking from behind when they are most vulnerable . Those who are able to get away , head for help and a phone trying to stay one step ahead of the predator . Obvious Texas Chainsaw Massacre clone lacks any tension whatsoever . Despite some eerie locations such as the abandoned farmhouse falling to waste and ruin , a barn still equipped with livestock and hay , and a slaughterhouse up the road from the main setting of the film , there should be an abundance of atmosphere . But , it seems instead of building dread , director Al Randall builds boredom as his cast spend 85 minutes of the film searching for either each other , a phone , or assistance . Walking , walking , and walking some more , these characters are always looking with little action taking place . The violence on display is lacking as one victim sticks his hand in the blade of farming equipment ( dumbass ) attempting to prove that no one is among them , one victim is stabbed with a screwdriver , and another is knocked unconscious by falling hay . Jenna Scott as " final girl " Taylor , is very attractive eye candy , certainly nice to look at for 90 minutes , often seen pulling off her shirt with the director establishing just how developed she is under her bra , has no personality whatsoever . She's merely on screen , constantly keeping her hair out of her face , belly exposed after scissoring her shirt early in the movie . Taylor's confrontation with the killer during their final showdown is numbingly ineffective , devoid of tension . The killer spends a lot of time off-screen as the two girls run around trying to find a phone , easy prey yet the predator seems little inspired to catch them . When he does trap the two girls in the slaughterhouse , he moves so slow and gives his quarry plenty of time to fight back . Just a terrible climax following a tiresome 80 or so minutes of wasted time .
The Scarecrow reviews " Star Crystal "	Believe it or not , I actually enjoyed this obscure B-movie as a child . But , one sees a film differently with more astute eyes . The film seems outdone by everything all at once . The budget is perhaps ( next to simply bad writing and overall story development ) the main culprit in this film's demise . You can tell how things are elevated ( you can tell a part is being picked up by a wire ) , not to mention in one shot you can actually see the rod that moves the model space ship . The cast for the film are simply not very good at exposing the trauma within the characters and the dialogue , which is sheet-thin and unimaginative doesn't assist them . The story seems to be two separate films . . one horror and the other a weeper . This makes the film completely uneven . It starts as an alien clone as this creature and these crystals " birth " from a rock taken by two astronauts from Mars . They want to put a laser to it , but perish thanks to such thinking . As an act of survival , the alien defends by killing . . basic fundamentals for defense against anything violent . Once it is on board a space shuttle , several crew members feel threatened and react with hostility against something they don't understand . Somehow , the alien starts out as goo and begins to shape and form over the course of the movie . Also , these crystals seem to provide the alien the basic fundamentals of learning and power . The alien , through the power of the crystals , is able to elevate and control anything . The crew are at the mercy of this alien as it kills three of them when they try to kill it ( not to mention exploding a space station early in the film ) . Yet , once the alien begins to read , through the memory banks of the computer , the Bible , it comes to know Jesus and becomes much more understanding and kind to the two crew members that remain . The film is pretty preposterous for it just doesn't know where to go . . it's as if we see the director is throwing all kinds of ideas at us expecting us to enjoy the botched narrative . It seems to be a real horror film , with some pretty good gore with goo and blood . Then comes a morality play which just seems to be an unfortunate detour which is just laughable . If you read through the credits on this film , it's clear that no one made it very far . . the whole film is quite amateurish and bad . There does seem to be ambition , but ambition needs talent to fully evolve into a good movie for which this film lacks greatly .
Hellhole	Cult cast highlight trash movie regarding a poor young woman who finds a leather-clad , slick-haired , Elvis-sideburns , hood strangling her mom to death with a scarf . He was simply supposed to retrieve bank statements for a corrupt psychiatric doctor and he just got carried away . The poor woman is Susan , portrayed by the petite beauty Judy Landers . The killer is Silk , portrayed by Ray Sharkey who seems to be enjoying his part as a hired vulgar fiend who torments his victims with relish . Susan , attempting to escape Silk , falls from a building , bumping her noggin and garnering amnesia . Matters only worsen for her as Susan is sent to a mental hospital under the care of the sociopathic Dr . Fletcher ( . . played cold-blooded by Mary Woronov ) who enjoys performing experimental lobotomies on patients who " misbehave . " Working along side her is Dr . Dane ( Marjoe Gortner ) , who wishes to help the patients , while Fletcher seems to enjoy them for homicidal kicks . The Hellhole of the title is a prison and lab for those patients who are mistreated to the lobotomies . . we get a look at one of the failed procedures as Dane and Fletcher insert a large hypodermic needle into a religious freak and watch as she trembles and convulses into catatonia and death . Will Susan be treated to such a punishment as she pursues an escape route or will the kind orderly Ron ( Richard Cox ; who is actually an agent trying to infiltrate Fletcher's operation so that the lobotomies to innocent patients will end ) be able to save her from a horrifying fate ? The crooked doctor hired by Silk to recover the bank statements ( . . and later recruiting the slime-ball to pose as an orderly within the hospital to torment and terrorize Susan for she saw him murder her mother and to find out about where those bank statements are hidden ) is Monroe ( Martin Beck ) . Robert " Maniac Cop " Z'Dar is a hulking guard named Brad who , along with other men , forces patients into the hellhole and has a rather lame / disappointing fight with Cox's Ron towards the end . Edy Williams gets naked a lot as wacky patient Vera , often engaging in lesbian encounters . As a matter of fact , this film carries several Women-in-Prison characteristics such as the copious amounts of female nudity when the patients are in the showers ( . . there's even a hilarious cat fight between Vera and another patient over another woman ending in bare knuckle fisticuffs ! ) . Silk wishes for Vera to find evidence on Ron for he doesn't trust him . . Vera is basically a love-doll for Silk to sexually ravage , and she doesn't seem to mind it at all . Sidnee Hammond ( Terry Moore ) is the one Ron communicates with . . she needs hard evidence that will convict Fletcher of her inhumane crimes . The film wallows in sleaze and the presentation is scuzzy and imbalanced . . with a more polished screenplay this could've been a lot better . The motivations of the characters are often in question ( . . even Susan makes a few dumb decisions which leave you scratching your head , such as places she runs to hide ) such as why Fletcher makes such a outrageous , hasty decision towards the end regarding her experiments ( . . and not escaping from the place opting to instead confront Dane who is releasing the damaged lobotomy patients ) and allowing Silk to run free throughout her establishment boggles the mind . So many problems like how Susan remains unharmed for so long and how someone as sadistic and obviously psychotic as Fletcher could hold such a high-level position over an institution , exist , and the flimsy set up of the story . . a killing over bank statements . . really doesn't help matters . And , why would a doctor as Monroe ever hire such a loose cannon as Silkis anybody's guess . Poor Marjoe Gortner is stuck in yet another lousy movie , the guy just couldn't catch a break . And speaking of Gortner , why would his psychiatric scientist agree to work with such a disturbing individual as Fletcher knowing that she was unreliable as a doctor and human being ? And , why would he continue working in such an absurd environment with individuals he doesn't get along with ? Even decisions he makes at the end as Fletcher wishes to abandon their work , kind of lacks logic ( . . he'd be willing to jeopardize his career releasing patients that had been tested on like guinea pigs he himself contributed to ) , although maybe the filmmakers were hoping to humanize him a bit because in working out a formula he was hoping to cure brain ailments .
The Beginning	Who would've thunk it . . a polished turd . Boy , a lot of money was sunk into this film . The camera-work ( . . and how the characters are framed through artistic placements ) is good and this , like other modern horror flicks of it's kind , is lensed in that dark , grainy cinematography . Though , it's main problem is that this prequel creates no mystery . We have seen the main killers in the film from 2003 so we know they won't die and that the unfortunately selected victims will have no chance . How can we root for them if we already know the outcome ? R . Lee Ermey returns to ham it up as deranged psychotic " Sheriff Hoyt " , but even his routine is tired . The well is indeed dry as a bone . It felt very familiar and is coldly executed . . the filmmakers weave an empty , hollow gorefest where Tommy / Leatherface ( Andrew Bryniarski . . no Gunnar Hanson , that's for sure , merely a robotic killing machine ) gets to chainsaw through victims a lot . He gets to skin . He puts on his mask . We get to see pretty Jordana Brewster , running for her life drenched in hubby's blood . The stylistics just can't save a same-ole , same-ole horror film which seems uninspired by Hooper's original masterpiece . I guess that's what is missing . Sure , the filmmakers try some black humor on for size as Hoyt gets Tommy to saw off Uncle Monty's bad leg , but seeing as the cutting job was sloppy , decides to have his boy clean up his task by lopping off the other one for balance .
Devour	A young man ( Jensen Ackles ) , with a very promising future , finds that his violent dreams are becoming frightening real when an Internet game , called The Pathway , introduced to him by his troubled pal Conrad ( Teach Grant ) might by controlled by Satan himself ! What's even worse is the fact that his " waking " nightmares are used in killing his friends and family . He seeks comfort in the arms of beautiful nurse Marisol ( Shannyn Sossamon ) who attends to his crippled wheelchair ridden mother . Dakota ( the very , very sexy Dominique Swain ) is Jake's friend / sometimes-lover who was a product of molestation and now receives visits from her professor so that she can pass . Aiden Kater ( Martin Cummins ) is the creator of The Pathway game , who practiced black magic in Satanism . Ivan ( William Sadler ) is the Master Satanist who quit teaching others when Aiden supposedly sacrificed his wife and child to the Devil . Jake has a deeper connection to Ivan than he realizes . There's reason why he has survived while others , such as his two friends , succumbed to suicide after killing those who caused them harm in life . I felt the development of the premise and it's characters feel rushed . I felt like there was some post-production tinkering which leaves plot holes and inconsistencies . Such as what happens to Dakota . While we actually do see what occurs to Conrad from the phone call that coerces him through emotional manipulation into murdering a person he had issues with , we might not see his death take place , but do get a glimpse of the horrifying " suicide . " But , Dakota's exit from the film isn't fully realized and all we really know is that she murdered the man troubling her finishing herself off through self-mutilation . It's a scene totally left out of the film and is quite an important part of the development of the story . Anyway , later Jake is knocked unconscious by Conrad's ghost ( ? ) and he awakens in Aiden's plush mansion . I can't understand this , but oh well . Aiden is here to inform us who Jake really is . Instead of developing Aiden , he's plopped in the flick for a few minutes and dispatched . Ivan's wife , Anne , is a major part of the grand scheme of things and we see who she has been emulating so to stay close to Jake . The final thirty or so minutes really rushes a build up during the film . Someone calls Jake's Uncle Ross on the phone . We do not know who it was . It would've been nice to know . He later is found by Jake and Marisol . And , then the film makes a bold statement that what we have witnessed , including the revealing of the Demon behind the Pathway possessions , could be just figments of Jake's demented mind . He asks for us to help him . The director and screenplay writer are the ones who needed help the most . Oh , and I do admit that Swain is an absolute sexpot , but perhaps she could try other roles that just the slut . She's become quite typecast .
City of the Living Dead	Moronic gory exercise about a priest who hangs himself in a Dunwich graveyard resulting in the opening of gateway ( s ) to Hell . How this comes to happen is anyone's guess . I'm guessing it's the significance in the location . In folklore , Dunwich was built over the ruins of Salem . . the witch's playground . Now , how hanging yourself in a graveyard in a town once housing witches is one thing , but how a priest's suicide unlocks the gates of hell is another . If Fulci would just take the time to explain the reasons why a priest's suicide could do such a thing , I might be a little closer to accepting this poor excuse to throw up gore scenes and supernatural hocus pocus . The zombies are incredibly photographed , but understanding how they come to be and why the priest brings them back to life confuses me . Okay , this priest hangs himself , comes back as some sort of ghoul who finds victims , scaring them to death . Once they are dead , the victims come back as zombies pulling brains out of poor people's skulls while their backs are turned . Some actually come from thin air , I'm guessing because they represent some sort of fear , but trying to come up with answers to all this foolishness was tiresome . Some perv named Bob gets a drill all the way through his skull thanks to a vengeful father whose daughter was almost molested by him . The film has a woman psychic who actually dies during a séance where she sees the priest kill himself . . how she awakens and why are a mystery . Anyhow , she gets a reporter to take her to Dunwich to find the remains of the priest before " ALL SAINTS DAY " because if he arises , the dead will walk amongst the world to feed on flesh . . they do already , but that is beside the point . You know , thanks to a psychiatrist who lost his girlfriend to the priest's fear ( . . and comes back as a zombie ) , the three find the burial tomb of the priest , but it is too late since ALL SAINTS DAY had begun . Oh well , Fulic just abandons that whole line letting the priest die anyway when he gets a cross thrust through his stomach as his torso burns to ash ( . . and so are his relatives who rise momentarily to moan a bit ) . The film is so incomprehensible and badly conceived , one should simply watch for all the bloody effects like one of the priest's victims who vomits up her intestines . Have a nice day .
Video Violence 2	Howard and Eli return in this satiric sequel , as hosts of a pirate public access station snuff show where they mutilate and dismember special guests ( . . the guest on their show in this movie believes she's test screening for a role in a splatter movie ) invited and unknowingly volunteering for their own destruction . Eli and Howard provide their bloodthirsty audience with a series of violent acts to this actress such as scissoring through her arm using the veins as a way to give the camera the finger , extracting her eyeball , removing her thumbs , etc . The show also has commercial breaks featuring recordings of murders to other victims including the damage inflicted on a victim tied to a home-made electric chair , what happens to a pizza boy thanks to three man-hating women who decide to kill for the first time , what employees and customers of a video store do to an outsider attempting to rent some movies ( . . nice use of saran wrap and a blow-drier for this particular girl ) , a newly hired employee at a grocery mart is used by her bosses as an example for their new experimental devices such as a slice'n'dicer that chops fingers into little pieces and a blood drainer if you have a taste for something different , and a little pet monster for sale who can kill your children if you are a tired parent looking to decrease the members in your family . Sicker , more twisted ( . . and more tedious and outlandish ) sequel from writer / director Gary Cohen stretches his premise a bit thin . The two twists at the end are amusing enough , I guess . Many of the gore gags ( . . like the exploding face of the victim being shocked in the hot seat ) are more laughable than before , but slasher fans who liked the first film from Cohen might get a kick out of this one . I kind of found this sequel rather long-in-the-tooth , wearing out it's welcome pretty quickly . Uke and Bart Sumner , as the warped duo , are living it up again , cackling and giggling as they torment their new victim . Everyone in the film seem to be having a good time .
Bone Eater	Construction workers disrupt the Native American burial ground of a large , hulking skeletal monster which disintegrates it's victims with it's touch , breath , or bone sword ! The head honcho over the resort project , Krantz ( Jim Storm ) orders his construction crew to keep their skeletal findings secret for much would halt the continuing development if the nearby Katona tribe caught wind that remains were being dug up and disturbed . An aging Bruce Boxleitner , likable as always , stars as half-breed Sheriff Evans trying to keep peace between the Katonas and Krantz's crew . The peace was strained , at best , but with that skeletal monster running rampant making it's victims vanish without a trace , soon Krantz wants answers to why members of his crew are missing . . Evans begins losing citizens as well . Evans is warned by Katona Chief Storm Cloud ( Michael Horse ) that an ancient demon , the Bone Eater , has been loosened and can only be stopped with a sacred war axe ( . . the axe was removed by a worker who found it's remains with the weapon lunged inside ) now in the back seat of his daughter Kelly's ( Clara Bryant , who wears tight jeans and shirts to reveal how daddy's girl has grown into quite a striking lady ) boyfriend's truck . Evans must somehow defeat the demon if the killing will stop . . and this must occur before the Eclipse or it's power will become too strong for anyone to vanquish . A solid cast , floundering in an embarrassing horror outing . The CGI , isn't very good , although the monster could've been quite threatening if done with a better budget . It rides a horse made from dust chasing after it's prey , for Petesake ! Some cameo appearances include BUCK ROGERS Gil Gerard as Evan's deputy Big Jim , STAR TREK's Walter Koenig as a coroner , & HOUSE's William Katt , as a Country Doctor attending to the wounds of Evan's deputy . None of these cameos last longer than one minute or so . . sad , really . Adoni Maropis , impresses in an underwritten role as a brooding Katona , Johnny Black Hawk , who wishes to use the Bone Eater to drive the white man off his tribe's land . Jennifer Lee Wiggins portrays Kaya , a tasty dish of a Katona female whose against Black Hawk's hatred for the white man and wishes for Evans to follow his Indian blood regarding putting an end to the Bone Eating monster . This might be worth sitting through if just to see Boxleitner dressed in war paint and Indian garb . I felt for the actor , to be honest , as Bruce tries to keep a straight-face in such a terrible movie . In yet another over-worked and tiresome cliché , Bruce's sheriff has an estranged relationship with his daughter , whose 17 , hot , and wanting to date the " bad boy " . . although this winds up being an underwritten sub-plot as is most of the plot concerning the killing skeleton and many of the poorly developed characters .
Scarecrow Gone Wild	Jerk hazer Mike ( David Zelina playing this college frat man as one major bastard you want to see die right away ) and his college cronies leave hypoglycemic diabetic Sam ( Caleb Roehrig ) hanging on a wooden cross along with this scarecrow which is a legendary ghost story . They get PO'd at Sam who essentially goes into shock and aims a swinging punch at Mike that lands across his girlfriend Patty ( Kristina Sheldon ) instead so leaving the poor guy hanging is his punishment . Somehow , Sam's soul " emerges " with the inanimate scarecrow who comes from the cross to destroy everyone who left the poor guy there to rot . Mike and the gang send the uninitiated dorks back to bring Sam down but they are the first to receive a swinging blade across their throats . Mike and his posse head for the beach to gulp booze , play volleyball & bicker until the scarecrow arrives to end their little soirée . Sam's substitute brother Jack ( Matthew Linhardt ) is supposed to look out for him , but decides to sleep with new love-interest Beth ( Samantha Aisling ) instead . So when he receives a cell-phone message from Mike concerning how they left Sam hanging on the cross while they were off at the beach taking in the sun and sand , Jack is frenzied with fear . Beth's estranged father is a doctor and he agrees to see after Sam's condition after they cut the nearly dead young man down taking him to emergency hospital . Returning to the beach to confront Mike because of his negligence ( . . not to mention Jack's promise to coach Ramsey , played by UFC fighter Ken Shamrock , regarding no hazing ) , Jack and Beth will face the same straw-stuffed assassin that is bumping off the others . Coach Ramsey , who was part of a past hazing incident that went awry causing killer-scarecrow-mischief , has to confront some demons himself as he informs the survivors of the group about what they are up against . Babes , boobs , and blood . . this flick follows the basic slasher guidelines . Yet , this flick also carries the typical slasher traits of corny characters , acting , dialogue and overall plot . The flick shows signs of it's low budget particularly in the violence as most of the real action takes place off-screen instead of showing it happening up , close & personal . What appears on screen is mostly the aftermath of the killer's vengeance : one fellow holding his guts , another with a stake ( holding up the group's volleyball net ) plunged through his chest , blood spatter after a woman gets hit over the head presumably with a large rock , one chick laying dead after the scarecrow hit her with the SUV , etc . There is also some dubbing problems where it's clear the sounds of their voices often don't match the movements of their lips . . particularly the unintentionally hilarious sequence where Ed ( Travis Parker ) , wannabe rock star , is singing to his buddies a horrible song they all seem quite impressed with .
Infested	Imagine if the unseen suicidal victim of " The Big Chill " secretly loathed the group gathering together after his funeral , in his memory , unleashing a deadly army of genetically engineered flies that enter the human body , taking control of the host , forcing them to attack those who haven't been invaded , as one by one become infested victims . Well , " Infested " is such a movie . And , as you watch , this film directly rips from " The Big Chill " with characters almost identical to those from the popular film from the 80's . I kind of chuckled to myself at the one responsible for causing the infestation towards the group who were supposed to be his pals , thinking that perhaps writer and director Josh Olson was poking fun at " The Big Chill " whose characters are a bit self-absorbed and self-important yuppies who wax existential at how they have changed since they last gathered looking at their lives differently . . Olson plays on that and then turns the swarm on them , with brutality often inflicted on the human hosts . It was like Olson was saying , " Take that you materialistic intellectuals , with your ideals and fancy lectures on how everything's going into the crapper as you live lavishly and comfortably ! " There's this use of bad 80's music in possibly endangering the flies that will probably cause some giggles and light kills them , so the characters at least have a fighting chance , even if it's minute . The effects are below-par , of course , and the CGI swarm of flies fail to impress . There's a great little icky scene where Zach Galligan's television actor Warren attempts to nurse a nasty flesh wound where a long gash forms down his leg with flies seen underneath the skin . But , there's one attack on a headless corpse , still invaded by flies , who is set on fire with laughable CGI that will have you rolling your eyes . Many Mighty Morphin Power Rangers fans should chuckle at former heroine Amy Jo Johnson , the final girl who must square off with the " King of the Flies " , who lets the f-bombs run rampant . Despite some early banter and a glimmer of exposition , it doesn't take Olson long in inflicting these characters with the infestation . Mark Margolies has an amusing cameo as a very unorthodox priest , with an especially entertaining closing scene .
Waxwork	David Lincoln ( David Warner ) sells his soul to the devil and murders the ancestor of Mark ( Zach Galligan ) at the beginning by putting his head in the fireplace as it was burning wood . Mark , Sarah ( Deborah Foreman ) , China ( Michelle Johnson ) & Tony ( Dana Ashbrook ) decide to got to a Midnight showing of a Waxworks . . this is a " museum " whose proprietor is Lincoln who hasn't aged a bit . Each museum exhibit is actually a gateway into another time where the classic monsters of horror await those who enter and are gullible to believe that these creatures can harm them . You have the worst Dracula in the history of cinema in Miles O'Keeffe , horrible werewolf costume representing John Rhys-Davies , J Kenneth Campbell as the Marquis de Sade turned into a cartoon , and the Mummy . Other creatures such as an alien , zombies , and Frankenstein's monster never get their full due because director Hickox can not slow the movie down enough to provide us with any kind of substance to hold a hat on . I swear this film is held together by plywood and string . Poor Patrick Macnee must do with a character called Sir Wilfred who has been planning an attack on Lincoln for sometime . The film is episodic showing what each character faces as they enter ( . . or are thrown into ) each exhibit . There's plenty of gore and the lovely Deborah Foreman is probably enough to give this film a go . Obviously lovers of the classic Universal horrors might find some worth in this drivel , but I have a feeling they will find the make-up work of these creatures as laughable to the point of disrespect . The whole film ends with Wilfred's unit of " soldiers " doing battle with the monsters once they are released from their " cages " after the museum is provided with enough souls by those who venture into the other world . It's a mess of bodies and violence that can become unbearable .
The Shaft	An elevator shaft , seemingly possessed by a malevolent force , is behind a string of violent attacks on innocents hitching a ride inside the prestigious American landmark Millennium building in New York City . Pleasant elevator repairman , Mark ( James Marshall ) , always having the same troubles holding employment , is basically holding this current job thanks to pal Jeff ( Eric Thal ) . Unfortunately , Mark comes across newspaper reporter Jennifer Evans ( a pre-stardom Naomi Watts , who is horribly dressed in this film . . it had to be some sort of gag ) who misquotes him risking his job and causing the police to label him as a possible suspect behind the evil elevator's malfunction . Mark finds that his friend , and colleague , Jeff had a friend who died tragically . . Jeff is also seen speaking with a lab-coated scientist named Steinberg ( Michale Ironside ) who was canned from a failed military project concerning bio-chip technology fused with the genetics of dolphins . The idea that you can cross computer technology with real living tissue could lead to quite a handsome profit . Could this be the cause of the shaft's going berserk ? Joining forces with Jennifer , who shows him a collection of cataloged recordings showing that the supposed suicidal ride of a rollerblader being pulled into and thrown out of the wicked shaft was merely a matter of seconds , Mark will seek to find the truth . When Jeff turns up dead , and it seems a cover-up is taking place labeling him a deranged terrorist , Mark will be extra-motivated in discovering the truth regarding the elevator and how to stop it . The question is will Steinberg , who is passionate about his life-s work , let Mark destroy the evil causing the shaft to kill ? A great cast squandered in this perfectly dreadful horror-comedy where it's clear from the get-go the director is winking at you that this hunk of waste is supposed to be giggled at as a tongue-in-cheek parody . If only it were entertaining or funny , but alas it isn't . Loaded with profanity , the film has an ugly streak amongst it's supposed good-natured humor . A B-movie failure that was a chore to sit through . It only has some gory bits , and that cast , going for it . Ron Pearlman is wasted as the head of Meteor Elevator Repair .
Leatherface : Texas Chainsaw Massacre III	A boyfriend and girlfriend traveling through Texas on their way to Florida have the misfortune of running up against the likes of Leatherface and a brand new clan of nutcases ( including a young Viggo Mortensen ) . The film shows a barren landscape of dirt and forest . The forest is the setting at night and inside it is where Leatherface and his clan ( including a mother with a mechanical voicebox and a father whose been dead quite a long time ) live . . a compound very similar to the one we are familiar with from the first film . Ken Foree is Benny , a hunter passing through who almost hits the couple trying to flee Leatherface who had just tore the trunk door off it's hinges . Will Benny be able to help the couple escape the cannibal clan's clutches ? I watched the mutilated version with studio demanded cuts . If it weren't for the excessive profanity , this could've easily covered the PG-13 market because the gore is missing . Even true graphic violence almost always appears off-camera . The ending feels like it was hacked by a chainsaw . And , Benny must have 9 lives , because there are at least three different instances where , for all intensive purposes , he should've been killed . The flick's cannibal clan aren't that demented enough and the direction is rather limp . There's no moment in this flick that raises you to a different level and the photography is just not that effective . The film might increase in quality a notch if the gory bits are inserted , but I'm not sure if even that will help much . The flick is uninspired and silly . Leatherface , despite his BIG chainsaw , isn't that menacing or memorable . Kate Hodge , as the terrorized female , is not very good . She really isn't even put to the test like often happens in other films . It also feels like it aspires to be a macabre comedy which might work if the humor was smart enough . It could just come down to Burr's direction which is anything but stellar .
Creepshow 2	Trio of tales based on Stephen King stories within an anthology which doesn't hold a candle to the first film which not only featured more stories , but more entertaining , gory ones . The first is titles OLD CHIEF WOOD'NHEAD and is about three bastards who decide to pillage a kind husband and wife ( George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour ) who run a department store . It ends in both being murdered by Native American heel Sam Whitemoon ( Holt McCallany ) who wanted the family jewelry given to the couple by his father Ben in accordance to owing them borrowed moneys during poverty-stricken times . A tall wooden Native American named Old Chief Wood'nhead comes to life to destroy them . The second tale is about four teens who decide to drive to a river spot holding a raft in the center . These kids realize that some massive form of sludge is coming towards them as they make their way onto the raft . One by one , the sludgy oil slick " eats " them until there's little choice but to try and swim for the shore where their car is parked ( the radio was left on ) . But , will anyone be left to take that swim ? The third is about a successful lawyer ( Lois Chile ) who is returning home after a tryst with a male prostitute . She accidentally hits a hitchhiker , and yet leaves the scene of the crime . What she doesn't expect is the hitchhiker's ghost who keeps returning for his ride . To be honest , this anthology is very mediocre and features decent , if uncomplicated , gore effects which expose how cheaply made this was . The cast isn't as lively as the previous film and the wraparound is made in weak animation one might expect to see on NBC in the 80's Cartoon Age . Just disappointing . The stories themselves also lack bite or true scares which also hurts . THE RAFT comes the closest to creating blood-curdling terror because of the difficult situation the young characters face against a blob that has you when it grabs hold . Stephen King has a small role in the segment THE HITCHHIKER as a truck driver and make-up extrordinaire Tom Savini is " The Creep " our guide through the tales .
Class of Nuke ' Em High	Tromaville High has become an amoral wasteland of filth thanks to the aftereffects of the nearby nuclear plant's accidental release of toxic waste . Unrestrained chaos crammed with absurd violence and crude behavior . Rather horrible , obviously intended to be , mess of a film with the filmmakers cutting loose the reins allowing the untalented cast free reign to ham it up . Craft was far down Troma's list of objectives for this gory sleazefest . The honor society are punks with eerie face paint jobs and wacky outfits . The German teacher who becomes a member , through a " toxic kiss " has the streaks down one side of her face that really gave me the creeps . The toxic monster , which dispatched the ANNOYING punks towards the end , is pretty cool , though . Kind of movie trash connoisseurs will embrace wholeheartedly .
Cutting Class	Someone is bumping off the teachers of a school and it's up to the lovely innocent Paula Carson ( Jill Schoelen , always a sight for sore eyes , especially when bending over in a short skirt ) to find out who it is . Is it her hot-headed boyfriend Dwight ( Brad Pitt ) or the recently released ( from a mental institution , no less ) Brian Woods ( Donovan Leitch ) , often hiding behind bushes and other objects to stare at Paula ? Someone shoots an arrow that lands in the torso of Paula's district attorney father ( Martin Mull ) who is out hunting ; he's the one responsible for putting Brian away for the murder of his abusive father . A running gag of the film has a hurt Mull trying to seek assistance , but never seeming to get it . Roddy McDowall has an amusing minor role as the high school principal , Mr . Dante , who lusts after Paula . . who could blame him for that ? The film follows Paula's uncertain search for the killer ; as the film continues , she's not quite sure if it's Brian ( who does seem like an appropriate suspect ) or her beloved Dwight . CUTTING CLASS is the 80's slasher formula on it's last legs . . the well has dried up and creativity is lacking . The murders are half-hearted and uninspired . . the film wreaks of tired clichés . You might even say CUTTING CLASS is a performance of the last rites for the 80's slasher genre . In my opinion , the only reason to see CUTTING CLASS is for Jill , wearing only a shirt to get the paper at the beginning of the film , and in a cheerleader uniform . . that is far more entertaining than this lifeless , stale exercise in tedium . I thought Leitch ( . . and Pitt , actually ) was terrible in the lead , and not the least bit convincing .
Tomb of the Werewolf	Elizabeth Bathory ( Michelle Bauer , REALLY getting into the role ) agrees to sacrifice female victims . . and , most importantly , bathe in their blood . . to her Lord Lucifer in exchange for eternal beauty and youth . A broke , yet brimming with charm , final descendant of the cursed Daninsky line , Richard ( Olen Ray alum , Jay Richardson ) asks for the face , Melanie ( Danielle Petty ) and producer Tony ( Leland Jay ) of the low-rent television program , Current Mysteries , to host a show at his family's European home of the infamous late Waldemar Daninsky ( Paul Naschy , merely in it for a little bit to get paid , but one can see he at least cares ) . Waldemar was on the verge of losing his beloved Eleanor ( Stephanie Bentley ) to the black plague when Ebath posed an offer he doesn't refuse . . in exchange for Eleanor's life , he sells his soul to Lucifer's angel , yet in return is cursed with lycanthropy . It is written he attacked , and killed , Eleanor when under the full moon curse . Imprisoned and killed with a silver cross embedded in his heart , Ebath will hypnotically force Richard to release Waldemar from his slumber , removing the large dagger as the werewolf emerges from his crypt to kill again . During the day we see a weary Waldemar looking on in sadness from the bushes and over cornered walls of his estate and the crew of Current Mysteries remain around the manor conducting their affairs . What Richard was seeking is supposed treasure , but this was merely a ruse by Ebath for unleashing Waldemar once again as anyone who has the misfortune of standing in the path of the werewolf will be torn into . Meanwhile , aging skin will force Ebath to chose another victim of the Current Mysteries crew for their blood . Well , to be honest , this is a sex movie without the special ingredient one watches it for . In actuality the film is smut masquerading as a horror film . . perhaps , that's why the sex scenes are removed . The distributer perhaps wanted this film to be marketed as a legitimate werewolf horror flick . . to it's credit there is some werewolf carnage . Some torn throats as flesh is ripped away as the werewolf munches away quite rabidly . Bauer really just let's it hang out as E Bathory just bathing in the red stuff and slurping away . In the version I watched , there's ample nudity ( mostly breasts ) and the lesbian sequences consist of groping and kissing . The cast is equipped with porn stars so you ought to know where this film's head is mostly at . . but , without the sex , the film really only consists of bad actors and uninspired dialogue . I rented it as a Paul Naschy / werewolf completest , but one shouldn't go into this thing expecting a massive amount of thrills . At least if the sex had remained , a certain crowd could've had that aspect for pleasure . As is , the film is cheaply made trying to have us believe the setting is in Europe with poor effects . For Fred Olen Ray fans only . Danielle Petty is quite striking as the raven-haired Melanie . . both in and out of clothes .
Ice Spiders	Prehistoric spiders , found in Afganistahn , are used in a DNA splicing process with live spiders from this age with their growth secretly altered by a governmental scientist ( David Millbern ) for their strong silk . . a notion conceived by our brain-trust in the secret portion of the government believe this silk can equip soldiers with bullet-proof armor among other things . The spiders are ravenous & bloodthirsty and obviously break free from the secret installation in the mountains where a ski-resort is located . Those tourists , and a team of skiers training for the Olympics , and the ski-resort personnel's lives are in grave danger as these different looking deadly monstrous spiders attack with a vengeance devouring their victims intensely . It'll be up to a past ski-pro ( Patrick Muldoon ) , who trains clients of the resort ( . . and in charge of teaching the ski-team , as well ) how to ski for he seems to be the only levelheaded person around . He befriends Dr . April Summers ( Vanessa Williams ) who works at the installation , but keeps their work there confidential . But , when she returns to the installation and finds her colleagues ' body parts strewn throughout , and one webbed to the wall with his legs removed , she will have to break her wall of silence to save lives . With Muldoon , Summers will have to find a way to stop the spiders which have them barricaded in the lodge , with only a matter of time before the things find a way in . Meanwhile , the ski-team , and the proprietor of the ski-resort ( Stephen J Cannell ) , are stuck in a school bus after an accidental crash , with a black widow spider slowly webbing them inside . The military are trying to find a way to keep from killing the spiders because of specific commands / codes they can not break , but will need Muldoon and Summers assistance . Muldoon and Summers wish to kill the spiders so that their threat to the outside world will be purged . But , our cunning slimy scientist Millbern will do whatever it takes to see his spiders back in the laboratory for more experimental testing . This is simply another clichéd monster movie where the government screws around with nature leaving the end result of dead innocents attacked by creatures of immense size . The computer effects are as mediocre as always since Sci-Fi Channel productions often do not create realistic enough effects to satisfy . There are some gory bits where limbs lay in cakes of blood as Summers looks at the carnage that ensued from their attempts at merging the DNA of two very different species . These government people will never learn . This contains the same clichéd heroes going through the motions and the same evil scientist who gets his comeuppance . Nothing new here to report , just same-ole-same-ole . The climax with Muldoon being chased down a slope with one hand while the other is carrying a torch producing heat to antagonize the spiders so that they will become trapped by the military waiting down hill is preposterous . And , the twist with a possible cover-up after all that has taken place is pure rubbish . I mean , there's no way anybody could cover up that much carnage .
Graveyard Shift	This is one that goes under the title , " How To Make a Bad Creature Feature . " Still , it's completely trashy nature charms me somewhat . It certainly has enough filth , garbage & rats to satisfy anyone who loves to immerse themselves in low-rent horror . Down in the bowels of a cotton mill lives something quite sinister , with an appetite for factory workers who venture anywhere near his lair . John Hall ( Dana Andrews , who is simply a lifeless blank ) is a mysterious drifter who wanders into the position of running a Graveyard Shift textile machine once operated by someone else who saw something massive and fell it that blasted machine providing the rats with nourishment . Warwick ( Stephen Macht , a hoot as he overextends his character's menace to the extreme ) is the manager of the mill with a bit of a nasty streak which hides under a vile visage . Tucker Cleveland ( Brad Dourif , who easily steals the film with his limited time on screen ) is the exterminator of the mill who works day and night wasting those rat-vermin who wish to rear their ugly heads from the bowels . This mill should've been closed down forever , but Warwick has a way of extending time for a 4th of July clean-up where those who decide to work for double-pay , including Hall and his love-interest Jane ( Kelly Wolf ) , will find true horror down in the basement of the place . I have no right whatsoever recommending this hunk of pure trash to anyone , but those who enjoy rats and garbage may find it amusing . It's full of nefarious , colorfully animated characters like Macht's evil manager and Dourif's exterminator which may bring a delight to trash-lovers everywhere . Highlights include Dourif's exterminator explaining to Hall about an experience in Vietnam which inspired his choice of occupation where a prisoner of war is used as meat for specially trained rats ( as he expresses in exact detail , Dourif gets so caught up in the intensity of the character he sheds a tear . . that ought to bring a bit of respect from some that an actor of his caliber would care so much to give away part of himself to such a rotten movie ) , or how Hall traps the monster in the textile machine . But how Warwick goes over the edge , insanely with face paint used from grease of an old jar , as he chases after the creature has to be the ultimate highlight . I think the best audience for this type of film is those lovers of bad Creature features , because in it's own ugly way , this film can be entertaining . But , it doesn't have one good bone in it's body , so others might wish to stay as far away as possible .
Creature Unknown	" Steve " ( Chris Hoffman ) gathers a group from high school for a reunion at the cabin location where his twin brother Wes went missing . While they are there , a reptilian creature in the shape of a man ( reminded me a lot of the Gillman from CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON ) awaits in the wilderness choosing the right time to pick them apart one by one . A biker , Ellen Ripley-type time female bad-ass , Kat ( Chase Masterson ) has an underground military bunker she practices experiments in , while it also serves as a place of safety from the thing on the bloody rampage . Kat knows more than she's telling ( she also suffered the loss of a child ) , but there's another novelty twist most of the group have no idea of . This creature might just be more human than they realize . . and it's former identity might shed some light on a deception only one other person has been hiding since Wes ' death . Kat holds the key to many of the mysteries that unlock as the group remains near the cabin . Thankfully , a large portion of the film stays away from the creature which leaps in the air while we also see a hazy screen when we look through it's eyes . The film has Dawson's Creek-type melodramatics which often hinder any real tension that needs to build in a little monster movie . The direction is very bland leading to a relatively dull experience instead of eliciting scares . The cast is rather life-less and uninteresting . Pretty Maggie Grace ( THE FOG remake ) might be the only draw for this film .
Lake Placid 2	A sheriff ( John Schneider , really stuck with some corner one liners when he blasts the monsters ) must contend with several large crocodiles which are eating locals . His past lady-love , Helen ( Sarah Lafleur ) , an animal conservationist , along with an egotistical wealthy hunter ( Sam McMurray ) and his sidekick Ahmed ( Joe Holt ) will assist the sheriff in his duties to take each croc out . They try to pry knowledge about these crocs from Sadie Bickerman ( Cloris Leachman , the only thing that works in this film is her nasty loathsome character who loves the crocs more than people ) who loves her " babies " and seems unwilling to give them jack squat . Making matters worse is that the sheriff's son ( Chad Collins ) , and his love-interest Kerri ( Alice Ziegler ) are fending for their lives after a couple of the crocs devoured their high school pals . Leave it to the always reliable Sci-Fi Channel to drop another rotten giant monster movie of low quality in our laps . . this one having the misfortune of being a sequel to the entertaining B-movie that came out year back from writer David E Kelley and director Steve Minor . While that film had a very enjoyable cast consisting of Bill Pullman , Bridget Fonda , Oliver Platt & especially scene-stealing Betty White ( . . Chloris plays Betty's sister in the sequel ) , this sequel has no-names with limited ability to even convey a minuscule of charm . It could be because the dialogue is so laughable and special effects so poor . How can anyone , much less Schneider proclaim the quip , " Afterwhile , Crocodile ! " and make it work ?
Oasis of the Zombies	Leaden paced , practically unbearable zombie film which features very little of the undead attackers . Jesús Franco effectively shoots the desert dunes , but his camera lingers on a lot of unimportant details regarding the planned expedition in search of an oasis in the Sahara desert containing 6 million dollars of gold stored there by Nazi German soldiers who died in a shoot-out with British soldiers in WWII . Leading the expedition is a college student , Robert ( Manuel Gélin ) who discovered the truth about the gold reading his slain father's ( Javier Maiza ) diaries . Robert's father was betrayed by a colleague , Kurt ( Henri Lambert ) who desired to have all the gold , along with his wife ( Myrian Landson ) , carrying two workers to help him dig up the buried loot . Besieged by the risen corpses of those fallen German soldiers , only Kurt escapes alive , badly bitten on the throat and haunted by what he had witnessed . Despite seeing Kurt die before his very eyes , undaunted , Robert forges ahead to greet a friend of his father's , a sheik ( Antonio Mayans ) who helped him recuperate after the firefight with the Germans . Warned by the sheik to not go to the oasis , Robert is still unpersuaded ( . . some guys just can't take a hint ) and will be assisted by his lead towards the direction of the dangerous oasis . Before setting off for the sheik's palace , Robert and his friends met a professor , Konrad Deniken ( Albino Graziani ) and his assistant , Sylvie ( Caroline Audret ) who had planned to go to the oasis . Sylvie actually had sparks with Robert's pal , Ronald ( Eric Viellard ) before she and her boss headed off for the oasis . Robert and company find the oasis and discover Professor Konrad , Sylvie and their crew unconscious after an attack by the zombies ( . . only Sylvie , with cuts and bruises , and a critically harmed Konrad , still alive ) . . but , even this doesn't turn Robert away from attempting to find the gold and staying the night . Robert has to be one of the most bird-brained characters in movie history . . and his friends aren't off the hook either . I mean seriously , what evidence isn't presented over the film's running time that doesn't say that going to that oasis is a really ill-advised idea ? ! And , not surprising , Robert's friends are under attack as the sun vanishes and the rot-faced undead Germans descend upon them . Franco uses a lot of zoom and really shoots faces up close . There's a great deal of repetition , though , and it grows increasingly tedious because there's no imagination in shooting the same images over and over . The zombie faces are grotty and worm-infested , and this is actually rather effective , but the music score and bizarre sound effects ( full of a series of really odd noises ) that accompany them are just annoying and uneventful . Scenes featuring characters are often drawn out . . this would be okay if they were even remotely interesting , which they are not . And , you know , it's really hard to feel any sympathy for a group of people who continue toward a destination with every possible warning of danger is displayed before them . You just want to shake the moron out of them . The zombie attacks are not the least bit gory and Franco doesn't spend very much time on the swarm of undead as they mob a victim . The oasis and the surrounding sand are of more interest to Franco than the story itself . The film devotes a lot of time to Robert's father's courageous fight against the Germans and his romance with an African named Aisha ( Doris Regina ) after her people help him heal his wounds , setting up the plot regarding the oasis , Nazis that dies there , and the gold everyone covets . It's 82 minutes than feels more like 2 hours . Hardcore zombie fans will probably find this hard to sit through unless they fast-forward through all the uninvolving filler . There are some incredible uses of the sun ( . . as it lights the desert horizon ) which show that Franco can indeed spellbind you at times , even if the pace and characters do not . My favorite sequence has Franco shooting the darkly silhouetted zombies emerging over the dunes , after arising from their sandy graves , making their way towards the group , in the climactic showdown .
The Mummy's Tomb	Cheap , mediocre sequel to the successful " The Mummy's Hand " has presumably dead evil Professor Andoheb ( George Zucco ) preparing his predecessor Mehemet Bey ( Turhan Bey ) for the quest of revenge overseas to America using mummy Kharis ( Lon Chaney , Jr who has no reason being in the disguise . . any stunt man could do the same credible work lumbering around and choking victims ) in the goal of killing the surviving members of the Banning family whose patriarch Stephen ( Dick Foran ) and assistant Babe Hanson ( Wallace Ford ) retrieved the mummified corpse of Princess Ananka from her tomb in Egypt . . Andoheb considers this an outlandish act of desecration and wants the family to suffer for doing such an awful deed towards an ancient Egyptian custom . Bey and the mummy Kharis find a nice hideaway in a cemetery where the High Priest of Karnak can work as a caretaker in disguise . Every Full Moon , Bey will feed Kharis a form of liquid derived of several Tana leaves which will keep him not only alive but subservient to his master's wishes . Bey commands Kharis to kill Stephen and his sister Jane ( Mary Gordon ) , while also biding time for Babe to return so that he will become victim # 3 . Dr . John Banning ( John Hubbard ) plans to wed Isobel ( Elyse Knox ) , but doesn't know that Bey secretly covets his fiancé making plans to kidnap her with Kharis ' help . John's life is in danger because of his father . . he's also the last remaining member of the Banning line . If Bey has Isobel , there's no chance of any more Bannings being born . The police must find Kharis and the one responsible for his carnage . . Bey . This film is a continuation from HAND set years later as members of that film , Foran , Ford & Zucco all appear in " aging " make-up providing wrinkles showing the gaps in time as Andoheb has been preparing for the deaths of the Bannings . The cornball romance of John and Isobel seems merely in this plot so that Bey will screw up endangering his perfect plan which was being carried out successfully before he loused it up . And , Bey merely sees her frolicking with John on the grass . . the whole " love-at-first-sight " rubbish really didn't wash for me . Plus you have the mummy being able to kill people with one arm . . is any mummy really THAT powerful ? This film also uses a ton of footage from the previous film to save budget on this sequel to it . There really isn't that much story here and yes , typical of Universal monster pictures , even in America a mob of people will light . . ho hum . . torches going after Kharis . You know how it'll end . . John and the super-powerful Kharis will square off in some huge mansion with fire burning all around them with the evil one being engulfed in flame .
The Mummy's Ghost	Lon Chaney Jr returns to lumber along as the mummy Kharis seeking his mate , Annanka whose soul now resides in the beautiful host of descendant Amina ( Ramsay Ames ) . Andoheb , High Priest of Arkan ( George Zucco ) leaves Yousef Bey ( John Carradine ) in charge of Kharis to continue their evil-doing ways . Tom ( Robert Lowery ) must find a way to save his beloved Amina from certain future mummy terror . Routine , predictable entry in the Kharis series proves that nearly every film follows a specific format / formula . The city is threatened by a skulking , one-armed corpse masked in wrapping who seems to have been gifted with superhuman power to choke the life out of able-bodied men who are restrained with relative ease by a mere chokehold from Kharis . Frank Reicher , who saw Kharis in action . . and knows a great deal about Egyptian history . . in the previous film ( The Mummy's Tomb ) , proves that anyone who happened to survive a previous encounter with the mummy is sure to die if he returns in the next flick . Well produced , but lacks originality that would set it apart from the other films in the series . Sadly , Carradine sleepwalks through his role as the evil Yousef Bey . Embarrassing script mistake has Kharis , who is known for donning a crippled , lame right arm , carrying an unconscious Amina with both arms for long distances with no ill effects . One aspect , the shocking climax where Tom's attempt at heroism doesn't go according to plan as Kharis holds his damsel-in-distress hostage , lifts the film from the doldrums slightly .
The Scarecrow sadly reviews " House of the Long Shadows "	I have to admit that seeing Cushing , Lee , Price , and Carradine in the same room together gave me thrills and joy . What saddens me is that their great monumental teaming is in this turgid exercise which is , at times , a daunting task just to sit through . While the film has some wonderful lighting and the manor for which Arnaz , Jr stays is ominously photographed . Sadly , it's the ebb and flow of the film itself that disappoints . The film is a mixed bag for me . While I pleasured every moment the great stars spent on screen , they were stuck within a story that was a trial to watch . What hurts even more is that bore of a character played by Arnaz , Jr . who ought to thank his lucky stars mama was Lucille Ball for he did nothing for the film whatsoever except prove how bland and unlikable that prick of an author could be . I wished that Lee would spring from the shadows and bite a plug out of his neck so I could continue to watch the other stars for whom I really desire to see . The film is supposedly about an author who bets his publisher he can write a horror novel in 24 hours . His author has a manor for Arnaz , Jr to stay in and so this is the place for all the " action " to take place . Arnaz , Jr . finds that the manor is filling up with mysterious characters who represent the Grisbane family ( Vincent Price as Lionel , Peter Cushing as Sebastian , John Carradine as Lord , and Sheila Keith as Victoria ) . This family harbors a dark secret which is held within a sealed room in the manor . Christopher Lee portrays Corrigan , someone who buys property and is to possibly purchase the Grisbane estate , but there's more to him than meets the eye . Julie Peasgood portrays Mary Norton , Arnaz , Jr . ' s publisher's assistant , and possible love interest . The film follows Arnaz , Jr as he tries to uncover the mysteries that lurk behind the Grisbane family for deaths start to occur thanks to the " curse " in the house . The film has some genuine moments of Gothic atmosphere , but unfortunately too many twists at the end , not to mention not enough screen time for the legendary horror kings make everything such a waste . Arnaz , Jr . just doesn't have any charisma and I just kept feeling like there should be more to this film than ever materializes .
Ripper 2 : Letter from Within	A group of deeply troubled teens take part in an experimental " humanizing " program once they are all sedated . It's a means of facing the horrid evil that plagues their delusional fantasies , using serial killer , Molly ( Erin Karpluk ) as the catalyst . The program seems to hinge on how Molly reacts to the virtual world created once they together are induced in a deep sleep . The terrifying element is that the evil inside Molly indeed separates and for the first time she is normal without the evil . But , the birthright and genes of being a descendant of Jack the Ripper wish to reunite with Molly and it is represented by a hulking figure covered with a giant Grim Reaper-esquire cloak . Each member who participated in the program are being annihilated by the evil manifestation within the dream state and when you are killed in this realm , you die in reality . Will Molly be able to deny the evil which wants to reconnect ? The doctor behind this project , with all it's flaws , is Samuel Wiesser ( Richard Bremmer ) who honestly believes he can remove what ills those who are not normal members of society . The flick basically rips off A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET with a cloaked Ripper in place of Freddy absent the goofy macabre wisecracks . The film is ambitious enough , but doesn't have the budget or smarts to hold together . The premise , though , comes off rather silly and confusing . It's not gory enough and the ending really only fuels the incoherency of the whole picture . The film is just too herky-jerky for it's own good . Does have atmosphere to spare , but that's pretty much it .
The Brain That Wouldn't Die	Frankenstein gave birth to many hell spawns in the Mad Scientist genre and one of the most notorious cases of this is none other than THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE . Positively bizarre in every shape and form , this movie gives you exactly what it says in the title , the disembodied head of a nurse , decapitated during a violent crash , is kept alive thanks to an experimental serum , created from the genius of a brilliant , but quietly psychotic ( . . perhaps to fellow scientists , he'd be referred to as " emotionally driven " ) , scientist . Jason Evers is this very scientist , Dr . Bill Cortner , and his fiancé , the one whose brain was kept alive , is Jan ( Virginia Leith ) . Jan doesn't want to live and realizes that the serum keeping her from death is providing great mental powers . A monster resides in a locked room , a victim of Cortner's various transplantation experiments , is very angry , and wants out . . Jan has a mental line of communication with this thing and is concocting a plan to free it so that her miserable existence can end . Meanwhile , Cortner scours around town looking for a delectable body to transplant to Jan , finding one in an enraged model , Doris ( Adele Lamont ) , a man-hating beauty whose furor derives from the abuse of a former lover who left a hideous gash down her left cheek . Cortner's assistant , Kurt ( Leslie Daniels ) , has an ongoing war of words with Jan over her being stuck in the very uncomfortable position and current predicament . Kurt's left arm is withered and crippled and he continues helping Cortner despite how obviously psychotic he truly is , because of that hope of potential success in the transplant ion of limbs and flesh through a truly perfected serum . Jan's only ally in stopping Cortner's madness is the beast in the locked room and he must be freed . The premise is just beyond crazy and all you can do is watch in awe as the whole movie transpires . Leith as Jan is a hoot , full of vitriol , vehemently opposed to her fiancé's dangerous scientific methods and immoral conduct , constantly voicing her displeasure in regards to being a head in a tray . Her feud with Kurt is an unintentional comedy , the way they attack each other's current weaknesses , and the insults fly . The monster's facial make-up looks like a botched version of the Cyclops creature , and the man portraying it is huge . The handsome Evers drives around checking out the ladies he comes in contact with as jazzy burlesque music plays in the background . Lamont as the bitter model is also noteworthy , spitting venom at lecherous photographers who want to get more cozy with their luscious subject . It's also amazing how Kurt can not , for the life of him , stay away from the door of the beast , and clumsily opens a hatch ( . . a hatch just big enough for the man-monster to fit his giant hand through no less ) resulting in getting his arm ripped off ( . . this occurs off screen , but Cortner later finds him , and the walls of his lab , a bloody mess ) ! The final climactic sequence ends rather abruptly with your typical laboratory going up in flames just before Cortner is about to sever Doris ' head ( . . to spark the scene , Cortner tapes Jan's mouth shut because she won't shut her yap ! ) . . it's a given that the monster would eventually free itself from the cage containing it .
Return to Cabin by the Lake	Preposterous sequel stretches credibility to a great degree as diabolical sociopath Stanley Kaldwell returns this time infiltrating the movie production of the novel he wrote for the garden drownings , assuming the identity of a second unit director he murdered . Film pokes gleeful fun at Hollywood , with a tongue-in-cheek script taking shots at tyrannical directors who sleep with their actresses ( . . looking for a way up the ladder ) and dislike anyone challenging them for complete spotlight . Brian Krause , who I thought was dreadful , overacting to the point where the satire felt incredibly forced , portrays the loud , temperamental director who doesn't like the fact that his second unit director and screenplay writer , Alison ( . . played by Dahlia Salem ) seem to be taking over the production . Andrew Moxham is Paul Parsons , who is the brother of a victim from the first film . The film's dark humor this time takes the idea of a serial killer actually operating as director of a movie set and exploits it for all it's worth . Nelson again ably slides back into his psycho role without any difficulty , with Stanley as clever as ever , using his brains to commandeer a film production , killing whoever he has to in order to maintain full control of his work , letting no one stand in his way . . that is until Alison realizes who Stanley really is . Alison is the type of ambitious writer who wants to capture the essence of her subject . . what motivated Stanley to kill , why would he do such a thing , and what led such a man down this dark path ? The humor of Alison actually working with that very man is also part of the satire at the heart of this dark comedy thriller . Of course , you get the inevitable showdown between Alison and Stanley , with a really ridiculous , unbelievable conclusion regarding the killer's fate ( . . quite a hard pill to swallow ) . Unlike the first film , which was photographed with sophisticated polish , director Po-Chih Leong uses unnecessary techniques which are not needed ( . . such as shooting an all kinds of weird angles , slow-motion in a sepia color , and several instances which are captured on video ) and rather annoy instead of impress . This sequel , to me , just wasn't on target as much as the original , with a lot of the humor less effective and more obvious .
Mutant	Toxic chemicals in the water ( dumped there by employees at a plant titled , New Era ) turn locals in the little town of Goodland into zombies . " City boys " Josh ( Wings Hauser ) & Mike ( Lee Montgomery ) are traveling on vacation when they come across some rowdy locals of Goodland who drive them off into a massive ditch . When Mike is attacked by something that drags him underneath his bed at a boarding house ran by a mysterious old lady ( Mary Nell Santacroce ) , Josh is left wondering where his brother has vanished to . The creepy lady tells him Mike wasn't in his room so Josh sets out to find him . The town has become derelict as Josh searches for his brother when he meets a school teacher , Holly ( beautiful Jody Medford ) tending to her sick uncle's tavern . They will soon become allies in a battle against zombies whose skin is a ghastly , ghostly white with yellow goo replacing red blood in their bodies . . if the zombies touch you , a steam becomes present and the acidic grasp kills . Alcoholic Sheriff Will Stewart ( Bo Hopkins ) , who is reeling from the accidental shooting of a child when he once a big city cop , is quite bewildered at what is happening to his town . He'll have to join forces , albeit reluctantly , with Josh to stop the carnage of the zombie outbreak . Can Will convince outstand law enforcement of the horror that has overwhelmed his little town ? Can the outbreak itself be silenced or is the threat to the entire country a possibility ? Average zombie flick doesn't have much originality . The closing final twenty minutes ratchets up the suspense as poor Josh and Holly become besieged by the monsters they once knew as regular people . There's a harrowing school sequence where Holly loses a young student she is trying to protect to the toxic little monsters as they invade a restroom . The film expects us to believe Josh & Holly could escape an army of those things as the screenplay allows them too much leeway , illogically , apart from them . Take a scene in an abandoned gas station where they are absolutely surrounded , yet the toxic monsters , a crap-load of them , don't simply attack when there's absolutely nowhere to run . Time and time again , the screenplay allows Josh to escape certain doom . The plot is just too unrealistic . And , how the zombies mutate ( from drinking toxic water ) after a lengthly illness seems rather far-fetched and silly . Jennifer Warren portrays Dr . Myra Tate who is a former squeeze of Will's and the town's female doctor whose assistant changes into a mutant attacking her .
Bloody Murder 2	Camp counselors , preparing for the closing of the year shortly after the kids have gone , are picked off one by one by the supposed Placid Pines boogeyman , Trevor Moorehouse . Moorehouse is the mythic killer talked about in scary campfire stories , and is the one felt by many to be behind a slaughter of a group from five years back . Tracy ( Katy Woodruff , showing off her incredible body in tight clothing ) lost her brother Jason to the killer ( . . or , at least in her nightmares ) and now must face him herself since it's clear that she is to be singled out as the chief heroine of this flick . Her love interest is Mike ( Kelly Gunning ) who might just be the killer , or is at least one suspect the plot offers us while another might very well be the group's boss , Rick ( Arthur Benjamin ) . The killer wears a white mask and does his nasty work with the usual tools such as a machete ( in the film's most inspired kill , a drifter on his way to college gets his leg cut off and thrown to the side ) , an old-fashioned stone , and a butcher knife . Most of the violence occurs to each victim when they find themselves alone often looking for another ( yawn ) . Is this killer really Trevor ? Or , is there a killer one of them . . ala Ten Little Indians ? Almost a direct model of the Friday THE 13TH franchise for the exception of the mystery involving who the killer is . The red herring is an insult . . a complete , unabashed rip from Friday THE 13TH . The stylish direction on a low budget can not compensate for the uninspired story-line which just doesn't freshen stale material remade in countless rip-offs over and over again . It does have Tiffany Shepis ( becoming a cult icon for horror fans for she doesn't mind showing her terrific body in all it's glory ) , who portrays horny Angela , who loses one beau and immediately hops onto Tracy's man . The film doesn't really add anything new in the bloodshed-department , either . It does have a following , and I guess I've seen worse . Still , this is nothing more than a slasher retread .
Slasher take on " Rope "	What if you had the genius of Hitchcock's ROPE and took a giant crap on it . . this foul-mouth , modern updating on the perfect murder ( s ) has this psycho named Nick ( Rick Otto , looking like a young Ethan Hawke , without the talent , merely a cocky obnoxious a$$hole ) whose holding a going-away party for his pal , Jimmy ( Lucas Babin ) who is ( un ) surprisingly missing as their friends gather together to drink and smoke weed ( . . often through this very unusual bong ) wondering where the man-of-honor is . Quietly , Nick murders each one , through various methods when the others as a group are away , developing his perfect plan in place . The professor , obsessed with the art of crime and death , Hal ( Glenn Quinn ) is who inspired him to attempt such a feat . Despite Nick's use of damaging weapons , the director cleverly avoids showing any grisly violence . The film really plays with the wickedness of the situation as various people attempt to leave the party , dying at Nick's hand when he gets them alone . " R . S . V . P " is almost completely set in Nick's uncle's pad , except for the opening sequences setting up the rest of the film ( . . a murder investigation leading into a class , taught by Hal , and the beer drinking toast between Nick and Jimmy ) . Brandi Andres portrays Jim's girlfriend , Nick's ex , who the screenplay sets up as the final girl . Jason Mewes pretty much plays his Jay character from " Clerks " as a wise-cracking druggie , care-free and the life of the party . He easily steals his scenes if you can appreciate his brand of comedy . Despite director Mark Anthony Galluzzo's ambitions , this is really just another run-of-the-mill slasher where you realize that the killer will eventually make that one mistake , despite somehow amazingly succeeding in carrying out a parade of murders without getting caught thanks to a screenplay that allows him to , which will lead to his downfall . Veterans character actors Jonathan Banks and Lynch icon Grace Zabriskie portray Walter and Mary Franklin , Jimmy's uncle & aunt . I treasured their time on screen , because they bring a sense of relief that you can appreciate , especially once they " exit " the film and we're back stuck with the hard-partying brood . The film is full of sequences involving discussions on death and those whose lives revolved around murder . . . along with plenty of sex jokes and Mewes tongue wagging at the sights of tight female asses in jeans . Slasher fans might enjoy some of the tongue-in-cheek murders such as what Nick does to an uninvited guest , a neighbor from next door who interrupts the well-developed plan .
Mirrors	Major spoilers perhaps present . - - A night watchman ( Keifer Sutherland ) , once a detective who accidentally murdered an NYC cop while undercover , is taking an obscene number of drugs to kick his lingering alcohol problem stemming from the unfortunate crisis which removed him from the force . His duty is to periodically check throughout the damaged ruins of a once lavish mall overcome by fire due to a supposed nut-case who set it afire hoping to destroy the mirrors which occupied the entire establishment . What this watchman , Ben Carson , never imagined is that the " lunatic ravings " of a man , who claimed that the mirrors were responsible for the murders of his family , would actually be true ! Soon the mirrors target their intentions towards Ben and his immediate family , estranged wife , Amy ( Paula Patton ) , son and daughter Michael & Daisy ( Cameron Boyce & Erica Gluck ) , and particularly bartender sis , Angela ( Amy Smart ) . Like those plagued by the mirrors before him , such as the film's opening victim , the night watchman he replaced , Gary Lewis ( Josh Cole ) , Ben will face a harrowing crisis . . stopping whatever evil lies behind the mirrors hoping to uncover the secret so that he can save his family from harm . When his own attempts at destroying the mirrors fail , Ben discovers that the evil force wishes for him to find " Esseker " , and so his pursuit begins . There are some things I enjoyed in the theater from Aja's latest dud to hit theaters unwelcome ( . . why is Fox releasing this film in August instead of October , where a much greater opening would've at least came ? ) . The Mayflower mall at night is really a spooky place . . . and a perfect " haunted house " where mirrors and horrifying cries of victims are used to supreme effect as Ben and his flashlight comb the darkness for discoveries . The idea of finding yourself completely vulnerable to the demonic forces that can kill using reflecting mirrors , and foretelling just how little room for escape there is because " mirrors are everywhere " . Two gruesome deaths are presented unflinchingly . . a victim's throat is sliced with the wound opening up in ghastly fashion thanks to his evil reflection ( . . not by his own hand which makes the kill even more outrageous ) & a victim whose face is ripped apart from her mouth ( . . ouch ! ) . There are creepy scenes where a reflection remains in it's stance even as a person moves away from the mirror ( . . nice visual effects for these sequences ) . But , the film's final 30 minutes or so as Ben discovers that a mental hospital was once underneath the Mayflower for psychiatric patients by a doctor using a peculiar technique with mirrors ( . . to free the evils plaguing those burdened with such psychological traumas as schizophrenia ) , and that a particular patient , perhaps possessed with demonic forces , was released from there , Aja's film treads familiar territory . And , the final climax between a certain nun discovered who might hold the key to his family being saved , as they make their way to a secret room , walled up by brick due to the Mayflower mall , and Ben's family finding themselves in a supernatural battle with the evil working through the mirrors , really tests our threshold for accepting such contrived and ludicrous situations . The screenplay does whatever is humanly possible to save Ben's family even though we know that if the evil behind the mirrors really were allowed to , they would've killed them all . And , when a certain nun agrees to help Ben , and is overcome by evil , it's the same old cop versus demonically possessed human except with explosions and toppling stone and pipes . And , as one realizes that Aja just can never resist , there's a twist at the end concerning Ben's fate which is a yawner . Aja really needs to get out of this Hollywood studio system that is raping him of the skills he might possess . And , could someone PLEASE save Amy Smart from such dreck . Man , Sutherland gives everything he has to this role and I applaud him for his efforts .
Tooth & Nail	A small community of young adults ( . . and a mute kid with roller skates ) whose leader is a professor ( Robert Carradine ) , living within the confines of a massive hospital in a major city after civilization has fallen apart due to the total absence of gas-fuel , fall prey to an ominous group of barbaric cannibals who collect a victim a night for their feast , led by the sound of a horn . This all starts when three from the group find a fallen young woman , Neon ( Rachel Miner , of the previous year's " 8 films to die for " feature , PENNY DREADFUL ) who claims that the cannibals are called Rovers and slaughtered her whole family . Soon , the group fall one by one to these madmen , as their leader is the first to die , leaving them to fend for themselves with little hope of survival . Through this horrifying ordeal , one must strengthen the others as a leader or else they all perish . Actually , for a good portion of the film , it's quite intense and suspenseful because there seems like such little hope for these kids , without a head once he's removed ( . . the kind of leader who was quite smart with goal of starting over , competent in his abilities , whose weakness was trust which leaves him vulnerable ) against such amoral brutes with a nasty visage and even nastier weaponry . . they resemble extras from the second Mad Max film , THE ROAD WARRIOR . Vinnie Jones is a memorable heavy , with his evil smile , bulging eyes & whistling scythe as he spins it around ready for blood shed . Michael Madsen , who at first appears to be the leader of this group , has a minor role as the cannibal " Jackal " who whistles towards his quarry before using a two-sided ax to do his damage . Rider Strong ( . . who also appears in 2007's " 8 films to die for " entry BORDERLAND ) has a strong role as the aggressive Ford , the kind of character who thinks mostly of saving his own skin . He voices his opinion loudly often antagonizing instead of helping to solve their terrible situation . Michael Kelly ( . . as Viper , who leaves the group , tired of being bossed around by Carradine's professor . and is an awfully good shot with a crossbow ) , who many might know from the DAWN OF THE DEAD remake as the irritating mall security guard whose attitude towards the survivors was quite unkind , has a heroic role towards the end as the kind of tough character who everyone else quietly respected , despite his rather negative reactions to what the community was trying to accomplish . I'm not sure why Carradine ( . . who most identify from REVENGE OF THE NERDS ) isn't used in horror more . I think he's a welcome presence , and I sure hated seeing him exit this so early . The one thing this film direly needed was an adult presence . The film has some ferocious attacks on the kids , which are slickly handled using the darkness of night ( . . and a camera which moves the right way to avoid seeing the initial stabs into flesh ) , to avoid real graphic displays of carnage . I think the best thing going for the film is the cold , dank darkness of the hospital setting , even creepier at night . The post-apocalyptic premise is touched on here and there ( . . mostly through dialogue ) but the overall theme comes straight from HILLS HAVE EYES . But , I found the whole " wolf in sheep's clothing " twist absolutely ridiculous , and once we find out who is guiding this cannibal group , I couldn't take the film seriously anymore . And , Nicole DuPort's character Dakota , a soft-spoken , rather weak member of the group who was sleeping with the professor , putting her complete faith and life in his future plans , metamorphosing into a bloodthirsty savage with warrior paint , nearly had me laughing my ass off . And , to be honest , this whole method of executing the victims one at a time , using this specific time at night to hunt , had my eyes rolling . If you want to eat people , just f'n do it .
Mausoleum	I feel that even the supporters of Michael Dugan's " Mausoleum " would agree that this is purely an effects movie using the old possession theme as a method to do so . Bobbie Bresee's a troubled wife , Susan Farrell , whose businessman husband , Oliver ( Marjoe Gortner , who doesn't have a prayer , stuck with a dense dope of a husband whose wife is clearly in need of serious help and is always hesitant to do what's appropriate for her welfare and safety ) is always working , away trying to close money-making deals while she's left to contend with a demonic possession handed down to her cursed family . It seems that a demonic spirit calls young Susan ( . . visiting her mother's grave ) , who had lost her mother and is struggling to accept it , to a creepy mausoleum with a crypt in the center ( . . with crawling rats on top ) . The crypt contains the spirit and it is set free by Susan , the result being her possession . The film focuses on Susan , as an adult , slowly taken over by the spirit as it targets unfortunates who come near her during the day . Susan's psychiatrist , Dr . Simon Andrews ( Norman Burton ) , will witness the evil spirit after putting her under hypnosis , and reluctantly vow to put an end to it so that she can be saved . John Carl Buechler's monster designs are given the star treatment in this movie and some fare better than others . I think many of the latex make-up designs on Bresee range from effective to rather unconvincing . But , I cut him some slack since this was one of his first movies and he would improve soon after with his own directorial debut of Troll . There are some icky scenes such as Susan's poor Aunt Cora ( Laura Hippe ) , while levitated in the air , has her chest split apart where we see her rib . And another suffers a horrifying fate when his chest is torn open by little beasties protruding from Susan's chest when she's in demonic form . One victim , for no reason he deserves , is merely delivering a plant for the recently murdered gardener and is invited into Susan's house , her demonic spirit causing the side of his face to bleed and break open . Maurice Sherbanee is the grubby voyeuristic gardener , Ben , who suffers for his desire to get randy with the missus . One man is burned alive in his car ( . . which soon explodes ) just for causing Susan some annoyance at a bar ! The clincher is an employee at an art store on the second floor of a mall who informs Susan she could not purchase an already sold painting , getting levitated in the air and dropped to his death . A constant is Susan's eyes glowing green ( . . actually , I found this rather effective , even if primitive by today's standards ) before the evil spirit murders someone . Besting the mediocrity of most of John Carl Buechler's special effects are Bresee's exposed breasts ; she often invites males for potential pleasure by showing off her body in lingerie and sexy gowns . I think director Dugan was ambitious and attempts to sell his story of possession , but the budgetary constraints are simply too much to overcome . The levitations are particularly corny and will likely cause giggles . When you're creatures look like rubber designs , it's hard to find them scary .
He Knows You're Alone	A psychopath ( Tom Rolfing who many might think resembles the murderer in " Slumber Party Massacre " ) likes to hunt down brides-to-be and toy with them before his attempt to slay them . This mad desire to terrorize and destroy derives from being a jilted lover whose lady left him for Detective Len Gamble ( Lewis Arlt ) . He murdered her , his first true kill , and I guess the blood lust drove him to continue this path of bloodshed . Gamble has been tracking down the murderer for so long it has become a developed obsession . . that has drove him to the brink . Amy Jensen ( the very likable Caitlin O'Heaney ) is this madman's next chosen target and we watch as he kills her friends while following her around . Amy is engaged to be wed and her future hubby is off on a bachelor weekend with some friends . Meanwhile , a past love-interest , Marvin ( the very charming and witty Don Scardino ) is making moves on Amy so that he can " re-win " her heart . Marvin works at the morgue which provides him with many jokes to put on display . It's clear Amy's not quite sure fiancé Phil is the man she wishes to tie the knot with and it's obvious she has a quietly building love brewing for Marvin . Amy begins spotting the psycho Ray outside her kitchen window , at a carnival , and even during a ride through the House of Horrors . No one believes her ( sigh ) when Amy tells others of the man following her . Friends Joyce ( Patsy Pease ) and Nancy ( Elizabeth Kemp ) are set-targets . Joyce likes to fool around with her married professor ( character actor James Rebhorn ) and meets Ray at her teacher's home when waiting for him to return from the basement regarding why the lights go out . Nancy is awaiting Amy's return from taking her sister to a party when Ray comes at her unannounced as she is listening to music through earphones , eyes closed , smoking pot . It'll all come to a head when Ray chases Amy through her house , on top of her car as Amy is driving carelessly in a state of panic , and finally at the morgue where Marvin works . Meanwhile , Gamble discovers who Ray's next victim would be after discovering a torn piece of wedding dress cloth where the psycho murdered Amy's tailor . Gamble will find Amy's home , a beheaded corpse , and the location of the morgue when he phones the local police department . So you know that Gamble will finally face Ray , the man that killed his fiancé in cold blood while the maniac chases Amy throughout the lower section of the morgue through lots of dark halls and quiet , darkly lit rooms . Gore-less slasher flick has a polished production and great cast ( . . including a young Tom Hanks as a charming Psych major who starts a relationship with victim Nancy ) . But , it's rather lacking in the thrills-department and doesn't strand too far from the formula . Resembles " Halloween " rather than " Friday the 13th " and fails to deliver because of a rather clumsy conclusion . Also missing is a lack of tension . . the killer just isn't that imposing .
Poltergeist II-The Other Side	Having revisited POLTERGEIST just recently , I was startled watching this sequel in just how far it deteriorates in overall quality from one film to the next . Native American mysticism and a crazed cult leader spirit desiring to capture Carol Anne are injected into the story of the sequel where we discover that the Freelings were living above a cavern containing the skeletal remains of a group led by Reverend Kane ( Julian Beck ) proclaiming the end of time was near . . seeing that he was wrong , Kane doesn't allow them to leave . Kane and the restless spirits of his cult wish to have Carol Anne back after tasting what life was like with her presence , not ready to go into the light . Kane is now a demon , pure evil , and the Freelings need assistance from a Shaman in order to defeat him . The Freelings ' powerful bond of love will ultimately determine their outcome against Kane , The Beast . The special effects sequences almost border on parody , not at all scary , but more unintentionally hilarious , such as when Robbie's ( Oliver Robins ) braces go amok or when Steve ( Craig T Nelson ) swallows a " possessed " worm in a Tequilla bottle , with Kane attempting to use him to harm his family , regurgitating it ! This worm starts to grow back into Kane's humanly form ! It's quite gross and would perfectly fit in a goofier monster flick , but the POLTERGEIST franchise was supposed to be a more sophisticated horror enterprise , and the remaining sequels just mercilessly ravage what made the first film so good . I couldn't help but wonder what JoBeth Williams and Craig T Nelson felt while making this sequel , an obvious decline in all areas from the first film , from the rather embarrassing plot to the dialogue they are forced to endure . The sequences where the family must go into the other side to stop Kane once and for all just buries the legacy this franchise might've had , but perhaps there shouldn't have been another film anyway . There wasn't lightning in the bottle twice . Heather O'Rourke is still adorable as Carol Anne , Zelda Rubinstein , in a glorifified supporting role , stops by to help the Freelings the best she can ( . . having delved into the history of what took place in the cavernous dwelling under their house ) , and Sampson as the Indian shaman is a charming , welcome presence who wishes to bestow wisdom to the family often just confusing poor Steve whose life has fallen on hard times thanks to the spirits which won't leave Carol Anne alone . You have lots of special effects as Kane's supernatural power surfaces when Steve allowed him into the house ( . . such as an electrical wire and running chainsaw that go berserk ) and icky creatures designed by HR Geiger . Geraldine Fitzgerald has a small , but pivitol role as Diane's mother who informs her and Carol Anne that they are all clairvoyant . . she serves as a type of protection against Kane . You can just sense that this sequel should've never taken place , merely a cash-in to repeat the success of the far superior original . Kane ( . . Julian Beck , whose cancer really brings an extra dimension to his character ) is quite a memorable menace and this perhaps saves the film from complete crapdom . All the skeletons that reach out to attack ( . . including a nightmare dragging Diane underground ) are effective .
Clawed : The Legend of Sasquatch	Underwhelming , rather gore-less creature feature with no surprises concerning a Sasquatch ( Taku he ) running loose on Echo Mountain , attacking those illegally hunting . Miles O'Keefe is the true heavy of this flick as poacher Ed , out to get the Bigfoot and an Indian Ranger Eagleheart ( Nathaniel Arcand ) who actually saved his ass . Ed loses some pals to the angry Sasquatch , inlisting others in town to go back into Echo Mtn . to get those he deems responsible . The local media consider the poacher attacks as merely caused by an endangered grizzly . Richard ( Dylan Purcell ) is a smart high school kid who understands nature and wild-life regarding their habits and behavior but has been having trouble passing tests in class . He's asked by his disgruntled professor to join up with jock Jay ( Brandon Henschel ) who needs an to graduate the class . . and high school . . to develop an assignment on endangered species . Jay will coerce Richard to spend a weekend on Echo Mountain with his cousin Jenny ( Chelsea Hobbs ) , who has a crush on him , and sweetheart Shea ( Casey LaBow ) hoping to find a grizzly recorded on camcorder therefore achieving that elusive grade he needs to pass class , hopefully impressing his teacher in the process . Sheriff Drake Kassel ( Jack Conley ) attempts to keep order with a mayor breathing down his neck to find that bear which killed those poachers so that locals will quit worrying about it . . that , and the mayor doesn't wish for some killer bear to ruin tourist season . Into Echo Mountain with the dreaded Sasquatch shown from time to time spying on potential victims behind bushes and hanging leafy branches and uttering guttural growls when enraged . " Clawed . . " is practically ready-made for the Sci-fi channel in that most of the violence occurs off-screen and even when we see the aftermath of the monster's attacks , rarely are they that gruesome or stomach-churning ( . . one hunter's holding his recently removed guts , another's face was torn into ) . There's a light amount of profanity and a peek-a-boo shot of LaBow's nicely developed breasts . The kids aren't that obnoxious ( . . well , except for Jay who likes to play practical jokes on his peers and hurl lame insults at nerdy Richard ) , and O'Keeffe as Ed , hides his eyes under a cap most of the time , speaking his dialogue under a bearded scowl . The Sasquatch isn't the least bit scary , and looks like a costume . Nothing that memorable here . You'll probably forget about it soon after it's over . . " Clawed . . " will hide quietly in the ever-growing number of Bigfoot / Sasquatch flicks that have increased in size over the years . Even the location itself can not enhance the rather dull experience .
Slashed Dreams	College students , Jenny ( Kathrine Baumann ) and Robert ( Peter Hooten ) decide to drive up to a certain mountainous spot where their school chum , Michael ( Robert Englund , in one his first movie roles ) , went to live in nature away from the civilized world . A love blossoming between them , Jenny and Robert , through a rigorous journey to find it , come across Michael's humble abode and rest for awhile . While skinny-dipping in the river nearby , they are met by a couple of nutty backwoods hoodlums , Levon ( James Keach , Mr . Jane Seymore ; " Moving Violations " and " Wildcats " ) and Danker ( David Pritchard ) who later proceed to attack them into the night . Jenny is sexually molested and slapped around a bit while Robert watched helplessly with a knife to his throat before being knocked unconscious . Emotionally devastated by her attack , Michael finally arrives with Robert agonizing and full of rage . This will eventually lead to the eventual confrontation between the boys and Robert as Michael attempts to console Jenny , whose having a hard time coping with her mistreatment . Insufferably lame , incredibly corny backwoods thriller ( . . absent the thrills ) has college kids , removed from the comfort of home , thrust into a traumatizing situation regarding menacing backwoods weirdos . The film's supposed key rape sequence is rather tame and doesn't really feature a lot of sexual violence towards the victim , and it happens relatively quickly . The director pulls his punches and the the proceeding scenes afterward also lack any real bite . The villains arrive rather late and aren't even given much time on screen , their threat unable to really nourish in our minds . Viewers like me wanting to see an early performance by Robert Englund will also be truly disappointed as he doesn't arrive into the film until it's almost over , as Michael , his role is of comforting friend , trying to snap Jenny from her emotional turmoil . Thankfully for horror fans , Englund would find his niche as a menacing killer ( . . often a colorful fiend of some sort ) , not some gentle soul comforting victims , but , instead , causing the conflicts which terrorize innocents . Keach and Pritchard could've been memorable villains if they'd been given more time on screen , but they remain in the background because this film merely uses them sparingly as a dramatic device . The film is more of a drama about love and the trials facing someone corrupted , not the Deliverance type of terror tale this should've been . The premise shows lots of potential , but much of the film's running time focuses on our couple coming together thanks to a break up regarding Jenny and popular college boyfriend Marshall ( Ric Carrott ) , their travel to Michael's finding his hideaway , and falling for each other . . nearly 40 minutes or so in , one wonders if this is a thriller at all . The director spends ample time displaying the picturesque setting of the mountainous wilderness with Robert and Jenny having a great time in the process . When the " thriller elements " come into the film , they are given little precious time , leaving those of us , seeking something more worthwhile , wanting . I wouldn't say this is a terrible movie , just not the one marketed to those who sit down to actually watch a thriller . Even the brawl at the end between Robert and scar-faced Levon , which should at least make an impact , leaves much to be desired . The film's music tested my threshold but I made it through somehow . This film deserves a different title than the one it currently has . . .
Nurse Sherri	The film opens with a cult leader attempting to resurrect a dead member with his followers chanting for his rebirth as the sun strikes upon them in the desert . Reanhauer ( Bill Roy ) believes wholeheartedly in his power , and gets so worked up that he collapses with what appeared to be a heart attack . Unable to keep him alive , all those involved , doctors and nurses , are sentenced for attack with Reanhauer's demonic spirit invading the curvaceous body of nurse Sherri ( . . big-chested Jill Jacobson ) targeting each one using her as a tool of vengeance . Forced against her will , with no memory of inflicting such harm , Sherri's host body murders selected victims . Fortunately , Sherri's fellow co-worker , nurse Tara ( Marilyn Joi ) begins a rather blossoming romance with a blinded patient , Marcus Washington ( Prentiss Moulden ) , once a star football player , whose mother was a practitioner of voodoo . Through Marcus ' knowledge , passed down from mom , Tara finds out about possession and how to possibly save Sherri before she murders everyone unknowingly . Meanwhile , Sherri's lover , Dr . Peter Desmond ( Geoffrey Land ) worries about her present condition and welfare . Well , this was my first Al Adamson film and I must agree with his detractors that , just from this film alone , it seems he holds them together with paper clips and Elmer's glue . The animation with which we see the spirit take control of Sherri is beyond awful and rather laughable . A little soft-core nonsense as filler , some demonic possession thrown in the mix ( Sherri actually speaks in another voice when she's possessed ) , with naughty nurse behavior ( . . the three nurses focused on in the film all are quite sexually active and free-spirited ) and a little bit violence / gore . The film is essentially shot in tiny rooms with dull dialogue from a rather mundane cast . The sexual situations aren't that hard-core and Al often shoots them without revealing all that much . The film looks embarrassingly cheap and there's an absence of thrills , although the chilling score ( . . which sounds like something from Dark Shadows ) does help a little bit . Jacobson and Mary Kay Pass ( . . as nurse Beth who seems to be a nymphomaniac if she'll even screw a nutty patient , always complaining of illnesses he really doesn't have , with enough chest hair to declare him a Neanderthal ) aren't bad looking , and Adamson's story-line , although frail , is somewhat coherent ( . . it seems he rarely directs films which are ) . Overall , the movie looks like it cost 5 bucks and Adamson just can not overcome the budgetary restrictions ( . . or , in my opinion , create an unpleasant enough atmosphere due to a sometimes plodding narrative and tedious scenes which do little for the story ) . John F Goff has the role of the hospital's psychiatrist who wants to commit Sherri , not believing the idea that she was possessed ; he constantly bickers with Peter over her . I watched the unrated " lost " version which I guess is the real version to watch of Nurse Sherri .
Santa kills again	The perfect murder is foiled when a wife ( played by Mary Ellen Trainor , once the wife to director Robert Zemeckis , who helmed this episode ) , who murders her husband with a poker , has the misfortune of receiving a visitor as she is about to move the body outside . . an escaped insane madman dressed in a Santa Claus suit ( played by a deviously hideous Larry Drake ) . She fends for her life while trying to find a way of hiding her husband's corpse . She decides to use an ax , once she downs the Santa killer who misses several chances to chop off the woman's head , to frame the killer for her husband's murder . Santa killer locks her in a closet and pursues the woman's daughter as she tries desperate to free herself to save the child . This episode of TALES FROM THE CRYPT just recycles tired material involving the old " Santa kills " theme while also adding the oft-used ( add nauseum ) woman - murders - her - husband - for - a - man - she's - been - cheating - with routine . It's essentially Trainor trying to find a way to avoid being caught with a dead body she kills while also keeping a safe distance from a maniac . There's nothing refreshing or new about this plot which pretty much goes through the motions . Not one of the show's highlights .
The Terror Within	A plague has pretty much removed mankind off the map for the exception of underground bases throughout the US . There are two at least we know of . . Mojave Desert base , the one where our low-budget sci-fi horror flick is set , and the Rocky Mountain base where our base communicates with from time to time . It seems mutated " gargoyles " have spurned from the plague / virus that killed off civilization and are trying to break the stronghold ( a minor steel door " hidden " inside an old metal shack ) of the Mojave underground base . The film opens with hero David ( Andrew David ) and Sue ( Starr Andreeff ) , secret lovers , searching for possible survivors and running into a pregnant woman ( . . after finding a dead family with their stomach's ripped open ) who herself is fleeing a gargoyle . At first , we see through the eyes of the monster after her . David and Sue , through the permission of base commander Hal ( George Kennedy , really slumming it . . he must've really needed the cash ) , bring this female , named Karen ( Yvonne Saa ) , inside the the installation paying dire consequences . . she is carrying a monster fetus growing at an alarming rate . In a scene VERY reminiscent to ALIEN , the gargoyle fetus , as Dr . Linda ( Terri Treas ) attempts to abort it , explodes forth from Karen's womb and escapes into the air duct . The rest of the film shows our small crew trying to find the monster , now fully grown within 45 minutes ( . . now that's fast ! ) , on the four levels of the base as it picks them off one by one , slashing their throats with it's sharp clawed hands . The characters of Andre ( John Lafayette ) and Neil ( Tommy Hinkley ) are modeled after Parker ( Yaphet Kotto ) and Brett ( Harry Dean Stanton ) without much success . Bright spot is Starr Andreeff as Stevens ' beautiful love-interest who may possibly become a victim of the rampaging gargoyle . . in the plot , the gargoyles rape and impregnate other human females so that their race may breed and grow ; Sue , when attempting to assist her hurt lover , is captured and victimized by the rubber fiend . An unconvincing rubber monster suit wore by a tall stuntman , a plot which unashamedly borrows elements from another popular film ( s ) , cheap sets patch-worked together , and underwritten characters . . living the B-movie experience . " The Terror Within " does move at a quickened pace and the cast , at least , seem inspired keeping a straight face . The rubber monster is corny and inspires giggles instead of fear . I do feel this is the kind of film for bad alien movie connoisseurs only . The gore is pretty good . . the way the monster tears at it's victims . There are chase scenes in air-ducts also very reminiscent of ALIEN / ALIENS . Go into this expecting an unoriginal monster sci-fi actioner and you might find it entertaining . But , if the whole point of the film is for the viewer to bite their nails at this horrifying monster popping up out of nowhere , then it fails miserably . Because the rubber monster in this film sure doesn't elicit the same effectiveness as the creatures in ALIEN .
From Within	A " suicidal " curse has been unleashed on a bible belt Southern town of Grovetown due to the murder of a practicing witch who was accused of killing a local in a nearby river . The suicide of the witch's son at the beginning of the film , specifying a chant from the Grimoire , invokes the curse causing it to spread from one victim to another after each individual is forced to kill them self by the conjured evil ( . . the evil is a reflection of them , their fate shown right before the victim dies ) . Aidan ( Thomas Dekker ) , is the remaining family member of the witch , her son , until his cousin , Sadie ( Margo Harshman ) arrives . Lindsay ( Elizabeth Rice ) , is a pretty , kind teenager who offers an olive branch to Aidan when he's attacked by the local minister's vocal son , Dylan ( Kelly Blatz ) . Lindsay and Dylan are an item , but this relationship deteriorates over time due to their differences towards Aidan . . to Lindsay , he's a suffering victim whose mother's murder was covered up as an accidental burning , while Dylan sees him as a weapon of the devil who must be put an end to for the safety of his Christian flock . When Lindsay herself receives the curse , she asks Aidan for help while Dylan sets out , with help by local believers , Roy ( Adam Goldberg ) and Paul ( David Ariniello ) , to purge their town of the evil that exists within . As typical of films like these , Christians ( . . and their faith ) is presented as backwards , ignorant , antagonistic , overwhelming , intolerant , and overly aggressive , even to the point of resorting to cruelty and violence ( . . obviously those involved in the making of this film presented this as a symbolic reminder of the " Burning Times " ) The witches , however , are presented as innocent victims , suffering indignity and wrath for choosing to refrain from the religion of those around them , in turn , victimized for whatever horrors might take place , just for what they believe in . A murder ( . . by the local minister , no less , covering up a homosexual tryst with the victim ) begets another . . the witch receives the blame for the crime committed in her backyard and is executed for it . We witness how Christianity is a harmful threat , riddled with corruption , and those that oppose the religion , are set up for potential danger . . it's a presentation that is often brought to the screen this way which is a shame , because not all Christians are such loud , chest-thumping tyrants willing to inflict such damage towards unbelievers . The film's supernatural threat resembles those often seen in the Asian revenge ghost genre , with the setting of a backwater town full of Christian bigots the relative difference . Some recognizable faces pop up such as Bruce Willis and Demi Moore's child , Rumer , as an early victim , Jared Harris as her father , and a completely unrecognizable Adam Goldberg as a vulgar , often imprisoned , representative of the trailer park community , who Dylan uses as an enforcer ( . . of , course ! ) to settle " conflicts of faith " . Laura Allen stars as Lindsay's alcoholic white trash step-mother Trish and Brittany Robertson portrays her school pal , Claire . While the threat of the curse is recognized , the evil Christians , led by the domineering , confrontational Dylan , are presented as the ultimate weapon of destruction . Through the materializing friendship between Lindsay and Aidan , we see a developing uprising against her for " consorting with evil . " Blatant manipulative writing such as this rather irks me because it often displays such a general disregard for those who believe in something the filmmakers clearly do not , and this provides them with an opportunity to demonize them . . a pulpit to use Christianity as a horrifying threat to the world that must be stopped , and only can through witchcraft . Not particularly violent , we watch as terrified victims are confronted by their frightening mirror images , soon perishing when there's nowhere left to run .
The Dunwich Horror	Sandra Dee , out of all people , portrays the endangered protagonist , a college student seduced by the hypnotic ( . . key word ) charms of warlock Dean Stockwell who wishes to to open the gateway for unleashing " the old ones " from another dimension and needs the Necronomicon , in possession of Professor Ed Begley who tours campuses lecturing on the book's content and origins . He wishes to use Dee as a sacrifice to the demon gods on the cliff-side ruins of an ancient alter . Sam Jaffe hams it up as the loony grandfather of Stockwell and Lloyd Bochner is the village doctor Begley confides in to stop Stockwell from what he plans to do regarding the gods which await re-entry into our world and to Dee , sexually ! I found the film , at times quite atmospheric and moody ( . . mainly the first 45 minutes ) , but the ending is sh ! T . Loved the score by Les Baxter , although it seems , at times , to resemble the background music of a Scooby Doo episode . My favorite shot has a camera looking out from a burial plot after the death of a specific character as Stockwell attempts to perform a ritualistic ceremony . The film's night sequences at the end as a band of angry villagers , following behind Begley and Bochner , are attacked by a creature ( that looses itself from a locked room in Jaffe and Stockwell's home ) , within the woods drove me nuts . . you can't see a damn thing unless the director lets loose those color schemes which operate loudly as the monster's " sight " when it confronts possible victims . And , the face off between Begley and Stockwell as Gidget lays on the sacrificial alter in orgiastic ( . . under an induced hypnotic state , although one might use that as a description of Dee's performance ) bliss is laughable . I loved the opening animated credits sequence . Considering this is an AIP production , I was disappointed . At times moody and interesting , other times painstakingly dull .
Drive-in Massacre	A psychopath is slicing the heads off of victims in cars with a sword at a local drive-in and it's up to Detectives Larry and Mike ( Bruce Kimball and Steve Vincent ) to find out who it is . The drive-in theater was once a carnival and many of those who worked in it are employed . It could very well be the incredibly cranky , ornery , and all-around rude theater manager , Austin Johnson ( Newton Naushaus ) whose foul attitude stinks something rotten ; once the barker , he has been left to take care of the entire business while his former employer sold the farm and ran off to Hawaii or some place . Another suspect is the " half-wit " janitor , Germy ( Douglas Gudbye ) who is an admitted former sword swallower , but seems too mild-mannered and simple-minded to be a killer . The main suspect is Orville ( Norman Sherlock ) , a creepy peeping tom , spotted by Germy hanging around cars , spying on certain couples making out . The detectives attempt woefully to solve the case but their methods are a bit suspect ( . . why would you associate yourself with Germy , a possible suspect , no matter how nice and hospitable he might be ? ) . . I mean two victims are killed in cars not feet from where they were staking out ! The major problem established by a host of other users is the languid pace of the entire film . Some interrogation sequences are stretched too long and we witness the uncomfortable cast languishing with rather dire material . I did find the foul character of Johnson rather amusing in how he describes everyone he comes in contact with . . never a kind word for anyone , he's quite the misanthrope . Johnson is the kind of character you yearn to see get stabbed in the throat with a sword . I also enjoyed the opening beheading . . but director Seagall doesn't quite match this with the subsequent killings ( . . one victim's head falls off and a couple is skewered by the dreaded sword while hugging ) . There's a bizarre red herring set-up featuring the great Buck Flower chasing after a female victim ( . . actually played by his real daughter Verkina ! ) inside a warehouse with a machete ( . . he's considered a suspect , but anyone in their right mind knows that the film will ultimately end at the drive-in ) . The truly horrible climax at the end punctuates a rather ineptly made film . . attempting to leave open the killer's identity , it only has you scratching your head . A plausible climax determining who between two obvious suspects might in fact be the real killer would've at least provided a satisfying conclusion to a rather poorly conceived horror film . The really oddball sequence where Larry and Mike are questioning Orville in his home ( . . with nude posters of models pinned all over his living room walls ) really has to be seen to be believed . . seeing Orville squirming and wallowing in misery over his sexual appetites ( . . he even admits out loud to " beating his meat " while at the drive-in , completely overwhelmed in embarrassment ! ) while the detectives appear quite appalled . A film like Drive-in Massacre only proved that in the 70's almost anyone could make a movie .
The Forest	A truly disturbed , cannibalistic psychopath , John ( Gary Kent , under the pseudonym Michael Brody ) who lives in a cave , stalks campers who make the unfortunate mistake of backpacking in his wilderness . Steve ( Dean Russell ) and his buddy Charlie ( John Batis ) get into a playful argument with their wives , Sharon ( Tomi Barrett , the late real-life wife of Gary Kent ) ) & Teddi ( Ann Wilkinson ) over surviving in the woods camping by themselves . To prove a point , the gals decide to head for the wilderness out of Los Angeles for a camping trip disturbing their partners to the point that they soon follow afterward . Falling prey to John , Teddi is soon killed as Sharon runs for her life as the men arrive late to the wilderness due to their truck's overheating . Afraid , tired , and paranoid , Sharon receives some very unusual assistance . . John's ghost children ! That's right , John's children remain in the wilderness , ghostly apparitions which spy on those who exist in the woods , taking a special liking to Sharon , helping guide her to safety and her friends . Meanwhile , Steve and Charlie soon find shelter from a down pour and the darkness of night in the very cave where John lives . Cooking over a burning fire , the meat simmering is actually from Charlie's wife , Teddi ! Unknowingly Charlie eats from the meat when offered by John who finds the outsiders inside his dwelling place ! Anyway , soon , worried about their wives , Steve and Charlie set out to find them as morning breaks . Meanwhile , John goes a hunting , with Charlie , Steve , and Sharon in a fight for survival . When Steve suffers a compound fracture stumbling between two massive rocks over a flowing river , he will be handicapped only increasing such an already nightmare scenario , with Sharon following her ghostly young friends to potential safety . . they even , at one point , plead with their father to not kill her . Charlie , unfortunately , doesn't have such friends . Director Donald Jones ( . . who also wrote it and went broke funding the film ) smartly shoots the film in such a breathtaking , gorgeous location in the Sequoia National Park , in California , where those gargantuan trees tower to great heights , and I basically watch backwoods slashers for this very purpose . For some strange reason , I didn't particularly find Jones ' direction of the setting very atmospheric . . the dread was missing , although there are some rather disturbing attacks by John using his knife ( . . shot in a clever way , Jones ' camera suggests more than what is actually on screen , yet , somehow , still achieves that gasp at what John is doing to victims ) . Within such a picturesque landscape , to see innocents preyed upon by a maniac , that kind of increases the terror . City folk attempting to spend a nice few days in a different place , to smell the clean , fresh air , enjoy the sights of a lovely view , only to find themselves stalked by a creepy predator with a very intimidating knife . Providing the back-story to why John is the monster he is , Jones allows us to witness his memory flashback in discovering his wife's adultery and reacting accordingly ( . . she is also a ghost in the wilderness looking for her children , wishing to punish them for " being naughty " ) killing both her and the lover in bed ( . . a refrigerator repairman ) . The children , sad and depressed committed suicide and now " haunt " the wilderness , still interacting with their pa or whoever they so choose . I realize such a novelty as ghost children in a backwoods slasher is unique and appreciated by some , but I found the idea rather hokey and too silly to take serious . They do help our heroine escape a few potentially dangerous situations , but it was awfully hard for me to keep from giggling uncontrollably . The music I found hideously 80's and the performances aren't mind-blowing . I mean I could react to the situation they were in , because it is indeed quite terrifying to find yourselves in an unfamiliar and hostile territory being hunted by someone who knows the area so well . I think the film is similar in many ways to DON'T GO INTO THE WOODS . . ALONE ! , except that THE FOREST has the aforementioned ghost children ( . . their voices echo when talking to Sharon , their father , or each other ) . Gary Kent looks like a filthy George Lucas , with tattered clothes , and humanity lost . As I mentioned above , the violence isn't as grisly as what is suggested because director Jones is able to effectively cut away from a great deal of knife penetration , yet the way he stages the set pieces leave you rather unsettled ( . . such as Teddi's murder , the violence mostly silhouetted on the surface of a nearby huge stone formation , her pleas for John to stop and , once stabbed several times , attempts to crawl away from her predator only to be finished off ; a hanging corpse John is skinning ) . I've seen better and worse of this type of slasher film , it's rather mediocre , at best , with some effectively shot scenery . I don't really think it's particularly memorable , for the exception of the ghost children .
Beneath Still Waters	A warlock , Mordecai Salas ( Patrick Gordon ) buried , with his chained flock inside a chamber within a devil-worshiping church , under water thanks to a mayor who was able to sink the village of Marienbad with developing deals promising a brighter future for the landscape . 40 years later , after the mayor's death , Mordecai threatens a grand return . The mayor's granddaughter , Clara ( Charlotte Salt ) is the one Mordecai has his eyes on , while also infecting the townspeople nearby with a type of mental sickness , and others with a black sludge-like substance derived from the muddy soil of the water covering Marienbad . Mordecai needs Clara's submission while also awaiting the collapse of the poorly structured dam , built hastily 40 years prior , giving way to a massive crack running down it . Standing in Mordecai's way are Clara's mother , Teresa ( Raquel Meroño ) , a would-be reporter returning home after a stint in London , and a recently arrived photo-journalist , Dan Quarry ( Michael McKell ) who is haunted by the death of his son . Dan is on assignment covering a story on Marienbad's history and Teresa is looking for a hot story . Both will find much more than they bargained for . Well , I explained the synopsis to the best of my ability , but director Brian Yuzna often abandons story logic in favor of bizarre gore and supernatural violence . Unrestrained , Yuzna doesn't seem obligated to tell a cohesive narrative instead taking Mordecai and allowing him to use his dark powers to torment and destroy through mind control while we see the black sludge turning citizens into creepy blob monsters . There's a jam-packed climax which includes the bridge showing signs of crumbling , the earth trembling , a festival commemorating the 40th anniversary of the dam's building which turns into a crazed orgy of sexual deviancy and Dan , quite a skilled scuba-diver , who finds the chamber where Mordecai and his followers ' monstrous remains are awakened ( . . while also holding a book of black magic spells Mordecai used to summon his dark powers ) under the sea . I think a history lesson told to Teresa and Dan by a survivor from the past , Luis ( Manuel Manquiña ) who saw his childhood pal Teo murdered after releasing Mordecai from his roped hands , helps the viewer out somewhat , but Yuzna's been around long enough that he ought to be able to use such an interesting premise ( . . an underwater village housing an evil presence which rises to terrorize ) and make a better film than what we wind up getting on screen . And , I can not understand why Yuzna just won't make a Spanish horror film using the language of the cast . Why try to make a foreign cast , in a foreign setting , speak a language they are not accustomed to ? There's enough gory insanity to perhaps please some horror fans ( an infected policemen chops off his limbs , one poor soul is " sludged " , one victim gets his face ripped apart from the mouth ) , but the film could've been a sleeper and instead comes away a sad disappointment .
The Prowler	A psychopath in battle fatigues kills a couple during a certain dance in 1945 after returning from war . There's this certain letter sent to a person who is reading from Rosemary in regards to her dumping him . Perhaps this is a tell-tale sign of who the killer is and his motivation for bloodshed . It doesn't make much sense , but oh well . In 1980 , the dance-hall will re-open and the mysterious killer laces his boots , zips his coat and makes sure those leather gloves are on nice and tight . The prowler is preparing for his massacre . Pam and sub-sheriff Mark ( Vicky Dawson & Christopher Goutman ) must find out where the prowler is before many people perish . The sheriff ( Farley Granger , in the film maybe five minutes tops ) is " taking a vacation " and puts Mark in charge while he is gone . Lawrence Tierney is Major Chatham whose daughter was the one pitch-forked at the opening of the film in 1945 . Chatham has been able to keep the dance hall closed , but by 1980 , he is wheelchair ridden and unable to do anything about the re-opening . Tierney is pretty much in cameo-form only as he grabs Pam by the shirt-sleeve when she is trying to escape the prowler who is closing in ( why he is trying to slow her down is never explained ) . Pam gets away and calls on Mark to find out why Chatham is doing around that certain place anyway . When mark seeks Chatham out he is nowhere to be found and we never see him again . We do not know what happened to him or anything else . He just up and vanishes in thin air . The film's highlight is far from the idiotic plot and it's dead-as-lead pacing which operates in fits and starts . It drags a bit and some attempted humor ( like when Mark calls this desk clerk , who is massive and lazy , looking for the sheriff ) falls flat . There are characters who are left hanging in the plot as if sucked in by this illogic-plot black hole never to be touched again ( like a drunk friend sleeping off a sick-spell , or this couple making love in the basement ) . . it's as if they were meant to be a part of the film but were scratched out at the last minute . The director tries various ways to build suspense and does when the story stays on Pam being frightened by whatever lies in the shadows . Mark is in the film to be her love interest , but does little to service the plot otherwise except carrying a flashlight around to at least attempt to be searching for the certain individual responsible for possible deaths . The prowler visits the home of Chatham and we get an idea that this place is important to him and explains to us that he harbors a desire to be around this place . Perhaps there's a reason he kills people who decide to venture outside the dance-hall . . it would've been nice to know why , but I guess little details like that are merely annoyances the screenplay writer couldn't afford to get in the way of the killing spree . The film's true strength is the gore . Tom Savini's work here is solid as a woman gets her throat slashed and it looks real . The deaths are all shockingly graphic such as when the prowler thrusts his trusty pitchfork into the torso of a naked girl in the shower or when he lunges his bayonet in the skull of the naked girl's boyfriend . One woman gets the bayonet inserted into her throat . The exploding head by a shotgun gets the grand prize for best moment of the film , but these are the film's only extravagances because the story of the prowler and his reasons for methodical slaughter are just not handled with the same inspiration as Savini puts towards his gruesome effects .
Silent Night , Deadly Night III	Pretty blind Laura ( Samantha Scully playing her cold and distant making it especially hard to sympathize with her plight ) is psychically linked to comatose serial killer Ricky ( Bill Moseley , completely devoid of emotion . . pretty much a walking robot who seems to explode through doors without even cutting himself and takes very slow steps ) thanks to the experiments of Dr . Newbury ( Richard Beymer ) who was able to reconstruct the man's brain placing a glass dome on his head ( . . this is to ensure that nothing touches the brain as it is exposed ) . These experiments is to generate thoughts and images from Ricky's fractured , emotionally damaged mind that might assist him in his goal to free guilty minds through " evil thought cleansing " . But , the experiment goes awry when Laura's tapping into deep wounding past nightmares awakens Ricky who will pursue her , killing anyone who comes in his path . The color red ( or anything representing the Santa Claus killer who took his parents ' lives ) triggers the kill mechanism in Ricky's demented mental framework . Laura is going to Granny's for the holidays with brother Chris ( Eric DaRe ) and his girlfriend Jerri ( Laura Harring ) . Through their psychic link , Ricky can see where they are heading , somehow getting there before they can killing Granny . Without their knowledge of Ricky being at Granny's house , Laura will use uncomfortable feelings ( she can sense something's wrong ) to understand that something is not quite right . . it only increases when Granny is nowhere to be found . Lt Connely ( Robert Culp , a much welcome presence to the proceedings ) will need the help of Dr . Newbury to find and stop Ricky before his rampage leaves a lot of dead bodies . . and is Laura's only hope . Far-fetched premise and incredibly slow killer hinder the peculiar , weird atmosphere of the horror flick . Definitely unlike the previous two films , this is not the slightest bit gory . Blood splatter as violence to others occurs off-screen is about as gross as it gets . It also features a heroine with a potty-mouth and icy demeanor who you have a hard time rooting for . And , with such a robotic , monotonously slow psycho , it's mighty hard getting scares out of the hunting of victims . His amazing power is completely laughable as well . . I mean he receives a shot-gun blast that forcefully throws him across the floor , yet he's able to get up and attack brother Chris who is quite bigger than Ricky .
Crazy Eights	Childhood friends come together for a dead pal's funeral , abiding by his wishes to open a specific box together which contains a map inside leading to a chest containing the skeletal remains of a little girl , and items each person had at that point in their lives ( slingshot , paint brushes , musical notes , etc ) . Trying to find their way out of the area onto a road leading back to their lives away from the past , they seem to be driving in circles . Lawyer Brent ( Frank Whaley , who has made portraying the @ sshole character in movies an art-form ) sees a girl , opting to follow her , hoping to get directions off the path and on the right road . Instead they find a condemned institution , with circumstances trapping them within thanks to possible supernatural forces . Attempting to find their way out , any exit at all seems lost to them , with doors locked tight and windows heavily protected . Slowly unraveling are each character as they remain locked inside this place . Dina Meyer is a professor , Jennifer . George Newbern is the trustworthy and wise padre , a pillar of strength the group begins to lean on . Traci Lords is a singer who is finding it hard to hold together . Dan DeLuca is Wayne , whose broken leg when starting down the steps to the cellar is the catalyst for the group's being trapped inside as they all converge to assist him with the door closing them in . Whaley is the foul-mouthed , moody executor of the will . Gabrielle Anwar is the petite and deeply troubled pottery sculptor with harsh nightmares that have scarred her worse than any of the others , although everyone has been plagued with unpleasant dreams surfacing perhaps buried memories . There's little exposition which might've been written this way on purpose because despite what we see in the early going , their past in the hospital , tested like guinea pigs ( . . perhaps they were autism patients since it's brought up when Jennifer is looking through files surprisingly in mint condition despite 20 years ) is an ambiguous mystery . We know by what they slowly uncover , when the memories emerge , as separated members are killed , that 8 of them escaped from this hospital with one girl , Karen ( . . the one whose skeletal remains were discovered ) , dying of suffocation because she was hidden in the chest as they fled . Leaving her behind and forgetting to rescue her damns them all . As Karen was locked in the chest to rot , the ones responsible now face a similar situation . Mentioned in the movie as well is the fact that Karen's vengeful spirit was released thanks to the group's dead pal , because through the opening of the trunk , her demise and memory became anew . As long as she was absent , their guilt could remain the same , but , through her release , they're besieged by their part in Karen's death . That's the way I saw it , even though I could be wrong . Whatever the case , it appears that each member , when isolated , fall prey to Karen's ghost , in ripped , musty rags and rotted corpse . The film , to me , felt rushed and heavily cut ( . . it kind of feels like one of those film's put through the ringer on the cutting room floor ) with an ending that left me rather flummoxed and confused . There are moments of stupid human behavior . . one questions why these characters would even bother with the obviously abandoned hospital ( . . I mean seriously , do you think a little girl would be living within the walls of this place ? ) or split apart when possible danger is around every corner . I find it hard to believe that , as a unit , they couldn't free themselves somehow from the rickety building . The violence , for the most part , is off-screen . Even when victims are discovered , there's no real focus on their damaged bodies ( . . sure a severed hand is shown , but it doesn't really freak out even the casual horror fan with a rather weak stomach for such things ) . I think the film wishes to explore the trauma of what happens to grown adults effected by a childhood they've buried away , like the corpse of Karen . Perhaps , in unlocking Karen's memory , the events experienced in the hospital resurfaced which led to their downfall . I feel " Crazy Eights " suffers from being too ambiguous , the story of the group too sloppily delivered , leaving us rather confused at to what we just witnessed . To be honest , too , that , despite the aspects mentioned , " Crazy Eights " is still a slasher flick where characters drop out of the story one-by-one with a girl's ghost taking the place of a psychopath with black gloves .
Chained heat	Hunk of trash starring unfortunate Blair stuck in a prison with slimy Vernon as Wardon . Stella Stevens portrays a captain of the joint who wishes to have Vernon's job . The working and living conditions are not exactly the greatest in the world not to mention Vernon has many of the prisoners work as sex kittens for special favors . Blair actually gets some cred along the way and convinces the other girls to revolt against the system . The film is chock full of unpleasantness and actually fits right in with the typical " women-in-prison " exploitive fare . It doesn't offer anything new and has loads of violence , not to mention several nasty rapes ( one to Blair ) . The hedonism is laid thick but this is certainly gaged at a crowd who enjoys that sort of thing . The film has some really putrid acting and that is perhaps a pleasure . This has a grimy picture quality and that may only add to it's appeal for it looks like it was made for 5 bucks . Overall , this film rests in quite a few trash fans ' hearts for it is a definitive example of a low quality shocker .
Gacy	Mark Holton effectively portrays notorious 70's serial killer John Wayne Gacy in this cheap portrait of his life . We get an understanding that treatment from his dad in a sense spawned the monster he'd become . He's seen in the early goings of this biography as a husband in a rather benign marriage with daughters who look completely miserable . He's an obvious mama's boy and Mrs . Gacy is often seen watching programs on the television with her son as they enjoy time together with Kara Gacy ( Joleen Lutz ) often rolling her eyes in bemusement . Soon Kara discovers male nudie mags in his tool box and peculiar-enough , the jeans of young men in his dresser drawers . Soon Kara and the kids are gone and John takes to the streets , suckering young males in various ways to his house before sodomizing and murdering them , burying their bodies in a crawlspace under his home . A running " joke " is how everyone becomes so sickeningly overcome by the smell emanating from his house's crawlspace . Gacy hires young males to work for him , and we get an idea of how others can see his homosexuality . . it's often used as a source of ridicule when talked about by those who can read between the lines . The film doesn't elaborate on the obvious sadomasochistic pleasures Gacy had with chosen unfortunate victims , but we see glimpses of severe mistreatment to several males by handcuffing them using a rope twisting a stick into their throats , gagging them with a sock . We Gacy hit an employee over the head with a hammer , later bribing him to remain quiet . We see Gacy pick up a male promising weed and money , only to commit atrocities towards him ( . . not shown in the film , but subtly hinted at ) . We see how the stench from his crawlspace was a constant reminder of his unforeseen activities . We get an idea of how the image of clowns was of such importance in his life as the camera points out pictures among other artifacts . We do see him in " clown-face " as well . The film always makes it a point to point out the kind of mean-spirited , profane , and slippery human being he really was , and director Clive Saunders unveils to us who he really was behind the masquerade others were fooled by . And , we see how he is defeated by his obsessions for teenage males , both sexually and sadistically . The man we are presented with is a heathen with few qualities , quite unlike the character who duped a community . Saunders and David Birke do the right thing by proclaiming this as " based " on true events , embellishing a bit so that the particular audience interested in this sicko could get an understanding of who he really was , not perceived to be . There is a garden party where important political figure claims he's the " embodiment of the American Dream " , but we rarely see the Gacy figure which impressed a great number of people . He holds out paying his workers , and we see where the money often goes to . . drink and drugs . Once his marriage to his second wife ends , Gacy's activities increase , with his desire for Jimmy ( Oren Skoog ) taking center stage as he offers a free room to him cheap . This sets in motion what would ultimately damn him . . through an attempt to murder Jimmy ( who was planning to leave for the West Coast ) and not paying a disgruntled friend he owed cash to , his true menace would soon be discovered . The film is shot mostly with a steadicam and often up close , I guess so that the setting within the 70's wouldn't be so unrealistic . I think the filmmakers were more concerned with the character of Gacy and his activities than how purely authentic Chicago of that period looks . You can go on IMDb's trivia portion and discover just what mistakes the director made regarding the the goofs of 70's Chicago and how this film doesn't accurately convey the city . Through small clips , we get a small glimpse into his past before Chicago . . the monster that was in Iowa before he took his exploits to Chicago . I say watch this for Holton's performance as Gacy , because I think he brings out the person who this psychopath really was . He has the right look for the role and has that certain disturbing quality about him that Gacy needs for this film . Covers a lot of ground in a short amount of time , and perhaps the budget just wasn't quite large enough to really provide a stronger narrative of one of America's most infamous serial killers . . . using , say , Spike Lee's Summer of Sam ( . . which does cover a period of life in NYC during the murderer's grip over the city ) as an example . The film does spend ample time building the sinister atmosphere of that crawlspace with it's maggots and roaches , sun beaming light through the smallish windows .
Steel Trap	A New Years Party on the top of a plush abandoned building . A group of spoiled success types ( . . rock singer , newspaper columnist , television exec , celebrity cook , entertainment lawyer , high-maintenance slut ) find themselves trapped in the isolated wings of the abandoned building after following a riddle to a properly prepared party by a psycho . The psycho haunts the rooms , hidden behind his prey who wander aimlessly trying to survive as he captures them one by one when certain individuals make the mistake of getting separated . Booby traps await equipped with riddles . A list containing the names of the group given an invite are labeled with specific titles ( Kathy-loser , Nicole-heartless , Adam-pig , etc ) and when each victim is dispatched a red X is marked through them . The killer's weapon of choice is a hook . But , other methods of execution include used an ax splitting the forehead , end of a knife stabbing a hole in the neck , a sliced throat , heart removed from a chest with it beating in the killer's hand ( . . not elaborated in grisly detail , the director uses sounds , only displaying the beating heart ) , the back of a victim's head crushed repeatedly into the floor during a scuffle , and a vicious attack with a meat tenderizer . The gore-murders lack bite and slasher fans who watch this genre passionately will find them merely adequte . This is a rather tedious slasher with a lot of the film showing this group trying to find an exit while bickering with each other . The characters like to insult each other constantly , fighting often over superficial stuff . . their antics are at times playful , other instances nasty . Regardless , the killer couldn't plunge the hook into their gullets fast enough for me . . but , alas , we spend a great deal of time longer with these sleazy egomaniacs which is unfortunate . There's of course a twist ( . . does the killer have a partner in crime ? ) , but " Steel Trap " is little more than a tired Saw retread set in a building that lacks atmosphere , no matter how often the lights blink on and off . The killer should be creepy , but he's merely a walking kill-device whose motives for committing these acts is embarrassingly uninspired . Some slasher fans might get a kick out of who's really behind this mind trap , as the film closes with a warped comic tone mimicking cooking shows . The riddles used in the film are corny instead of witty , leading the characters in a maze of doors and rooms with the killer knowing exactly where to strike almost at all times .
Friday the 13th-The New Beginning	" Come on Roy . . get your hands dirty . " MAJOR SPOILERS present . A psychopath has taken the disguise of dead notorious serial killer Jason Voorhees and is murdering anyone associated even remotely with a viciously destroyed orphan named Joey . The setting is Pinehurst Mental Institute in a backwoods locale near a small town which serves as a final beacon of hope for releasing patients back into society . Tommy Jarvis ( John Shepard ) , now grown , is still suffering nightmarish visions of Jason , hockey-mask on his face , most often a bloody weapon in his hand . Practically mute and quite emotionally damaged , Tommy keeps mostly to himself while his psychologists , Matt ( Richard Young ) and Pam ( Melanie Kinnaman ) , hope to snap him out of the problems plaguing him . A very unstable patient , Vic ( Mark Venturini ) , who has no reason to be holding an ax in his hand , suffers a psychotic break when a plump annoyance , Joey ( Dominick Brascia ) with a penchant for getting under the skin of those he is around , pushes him over the edge resulting in a grisly hack-job . Almost immediately afterward , anyone nearby Pinehurst is killed in various ways by a maniac who surprises them . The film continues to monitor Tommy and his visions of Jason offering the possibility of himself being the murderer . Anyone who antagonizes him are beaten to a pulp because Tommy doesn't respond to well to bullies who push him . This sequel is infamous for taking the franchise in a new direction , moving away from Voorhees allowing someone else to wipe out a massive number of victims using any number of weapons . An ax , flare ( ! ) , pike , hatchet , and machete are all put to good use stabbing a variety of mentally disturbed patients . Director Danny Steinmann likes to establish a look of surprise on victims ' faces before the moment of death . The evidence is clear that Steinmann had to cut many scenes , specifically during many of the murders . Leave it to the MPAA to spoil the entertainment of slasher fans desiring blood-shed . The film suffers from an endless amount of obnoxious and poorly developed characters , some just thrown into the film to die . A heavy dose of tits are paraded for out viewing pleasure . While Debi Sue Voorhees has a legion of slobbering males celebrating her hefty-size chest , I was particularly fond of red-head Juliette Cummins ' perky rack . Anyways , the movie itself doesn't stray too far from formula despite the fact that Jason himself isn't actually the killer responsible ( . . although , Steinmann makes sure his presence is always felt ) . . victims are set up as lambs to the slaughter . Several victims who are murdered by the psycho aren't shown on screen at all , while most of the slayings aren't elaborated that much . Sure a weapon slams into a body , but Steinmann veers away , his camera honing on the response of those being butchered . This film really does look like it was a victim of serious scissors at work . I often wondered what kind of film this would be intact . Would it in fact rival those great Savini gore-fests ? We may never know . The pretty Kinnaman and Shavar Ross , as a black kid who lives at the institute because his granddad is the cook , are the obvious innocents who run for their lives at the end as the psycho aims to add to them to his death list . Miguel A . Núñez Jr . has a small role as Reggie's jerry-curled bro , Demon , who gets it in the john of all places . Corey Feldman has a very minor cameo opening the film in a dream sequence spying on two kids disturbing Jason's grave , getting killed , with the hockey-masked slasher coming towards him . I thought Shepard , who had very few lines , was very effective as the quiet , troubled , and distressed Tommy Jarvis , displaying the proper amounts of anguish and sadness needed for the character . It's a performance that this film doesn't deserve . This sequel has developed quite a cult following over the years because of Steinmann's decision to go change the identity of the killer , and the overall sleaziness of the film . Crude profanity and rampant vulgarity have earned the mom and son duo of Ethel ( Carol Locatell ) and Junior ( Ron Sloan ) notoriety . The idea that a paramedic was the one responsible for such remarkable feats as killing so many people with such skill and surviving many attacks at the end infuriates a great many Friday fans .
Black Tickets	Eloping couple ( rebelling their parents ' control ) suffer through a series of nightmarish mishaps when their vehicle breaks down near Springwood . Rick ( Brad Pitt , pre-stardom and overexerting himself . . quite a head full of hair ) really wants he and Miranda ( Kerry Brennan ) to make it on their own without the guiding hand of their overbearing parents who wish to control their lives and careers . But , soon his whole world becomes one nightmare feeding into another with various surreal encounters that ensue . In the second portion of the episode , Miranda , contemplating what life would be like through pregnancy and childbirth ( as it pertains to her career and marriage ) , induces a series of nightmarish consequences that would result if in fact she found out she did have a bun in the oven . One of the weaker episodes I've seen doesn't really have many moments that stand out and bite you . The first part of the episode where Pitt goes through various scrapes such as being hit by a van , getting pistol whipped by an elderly man who ( along with elderly wife ) rob him blind , being shot in the leg by Cupid's arrow ( literally ! ) , arrested by police for no apparent reason causing the cops to crash their car , etc . The second one regarding Brennan's constant crisis involving the nightmarish ideas of motherhood rather falls flat and doesn't really have a rightful place in a series called Freddy's Nightmares . Seriously , an episode about an 18 year old's fear of what can occur regarding her being a mother is tame stuff for Lifetime Television for Women or something . . not a show hosted by Freddy Kreuger . Bill Moseley , of " The Devil's Rejects " , House of 1000 Corpses ' , and " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre Part 2 " fame turns up in this episode as a tow truck driver .
Spontaneous Combustion	Bizarre Tobe Hooper exercise regarding an unfortunate young man ( Brad Dourif ) with the ability to set people on fire . This ability stems from parents who partook in atomic experiments in the 50's . They die of Spontaneous Human Combustion and it seems that what Sam is beginning to suffer from derives by these pills his girlfriend , Lisa ( Cynthia Bain ) gives him to take for rough migraines . In actuality , Lisa was told to manipulate Sam into taking the pills by Lew Orlander ( William Prince ) , pretty much the young man's father who raised him from a child . Lew has benevolent plans . . he sees Sam as the first " Atomic Man " , a pure killing machine in human form . Sam never wanted this and will do whatever it takes to silence those responsible for his condition . As the film goes , Sam's blood is slowly growing toxic , green in color instead of red . It seems that water and other substances which often put out fire react right the opposite when Sam's uncontrollable outbursts of flame ignite . Come to find out , Lisa has Sam's condition whose parents also dies from SHC . Dr . Marsh ( Jon Cypher ) , someone who Sam has known for quite some time as his physician , is to insert toxic green fluid into their bodies , I'm guessing to increase their levels of flame . Nina ( Melinda Dillon , sporting an accent that fades in and out ) was Sam's parents ' friend and associate on the experiments in the 50's who tries to talk things over with him regarding what is happening . And , Rachel ( Dey Young ) is Sam's ex-wife who may be working against her former husband with Lew and Marsh to harm him and Lisa . Quite a strange little horror flick , filled with some pretty awful flame-effects . Dourif tries to bring a tragic element and intensity to his character whose plight we continue to watch as his body slowly becomes toxic waste with fire often igniting from his orifices . There's this large hole in his arm that spits out flame like a volcano and a massive burn spot on his hand which increases in size over time . Best scene is probably when director John Landis , who portrays a rude electrical engineer trying to inform Sam to hang up because the radio program he's calling has sounded off for the night , becomes a victim of SHC . The flick never quite works because it's so wildly uneven with an abrupt , ridiculous finale where Sam offers to free Lisa of her fire by taking it from her .
Buried Alive	Yet another independent horror flick ( . . based on a series , I have just discovered ) modeled after the likes of SAW & THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT has old high school friends , once party to ridiculing a kid named Tommy , attacked by a young man with a crow bar , his face masked , with them awakening to find themselves each trapped within a coffin rigged with little clues leading to why they are in their present situation . The film unequivocally paints a portrait towards Tommy , so it's obvious he's not the person responsible , but during the development of the plot , another candidate arises , an auto mechanic whose relations with two key characters adds dimension to the proceedings . The film isn't all that violent , and spends a great deal of time showing the scared victims scrambling for a way out and answers as to why they are in this predicament . Clippings from past recordings also play a heavy role in the developing plot as well . A lot of the time Brit Morgan ( Mel ) talks directly to the camera musing to her web blog about her perilous situation . VERY limited budget shows and the plight of the characters might provide unintentional chuckles thanks to their kooky environs and rather lame death sequences . An annoyance for me personally were the jumps and jerks of the camera screen as if something were wrong with the equipment or some sort of tape malfunction . I guess this was an artistic decision to show how the whole operation was put together in a raw sort of way by someone with limited experience in kidnapping and torturing folks , creating with the materials available to him . Tommy ( Augusto Aguilar ) is a smallish , quiet and timid fellow , who is considered creepy by his peers maybe because he wears black , has long hair and walks with his face often to the ground . Rick ( Bram Hoover ) is the attractive , wealthy and obnoxious bully , known for dating multiple girls , who mistreats Tommy . Tommy is in love with Rick's girlfriend , Becca ( Greyson Chadwick , Dance of the Dead ) and attempts to express his feelings . Travis ( Jeff Blum ) is the film's main cameraman , often following the occurrences surrounding Tommy and his mistreatment at the hands of Rick and others , such as Curtis ( JR May ) , Sage ( Nikki McKenzie ) & Wylie ( Natalie Wachen ) . The film's constant is the killer's various cameras recording the trapped victims , inside their homemade coffins , dying in constructed ways . Wylie is trapped in a coffin with pipes that send water . Rick's coffin is rigged with electrical cords . Curtis needs a specific pill and food or else he will go into shock with help on the opposite side of a glass window ( . . the kicker for this is that a mound of earth awaits such a decision ) . Meanwhile , Sage's " girlfriend " , Melanie ( Brit Morgan ) and brother Travis ( . . the cameraman who was friends with Rick and the others , often even associating with Tommy ; when he wasn't supporting those who ridiculed him by taping the shenanigans ) are following text messages sent to her by the supposed mastermind behind the coffins and secret networking feeding both pursuer and kidnapped . This film often retreats to various cam-corder recordings leading up to the situation at hand with a determined , and rather manic , Mel pursuing any possible information her snooping can provide with Travis a nervous , reluctant tag-along who wishes she would calm herself instead of working into a frenzy . And , the possible danger that might await her seems to be a guiding reasoning behind Travis ' pleas for her to back off the pursuit , particularly when she focuses her intent of auto mechanic Hayden ( John Charles Meyer ) . Hayden's possible guilt grows as she finds out certain things about him throughout her nosing into his personal affairs . Everything , however , revolves around Becca . She's trapped within a box containing pink bubblewrap and is treated with better conditions than her fellow friends / prisoners . And , certain revelations regarding Becca come to light as the film continues . The mastermind behind the whole operation shouldn't surprise many people .
Dark Town	Suburbia is inflicted with vampirism once a slumlord ( . . who is bitten by vampires when he finds them lodging in one of his buildings ) poisons his family with tainted blood ( while also biting his younger daughter ) . A chain reaction of new vampires ignites when those unaware , such as Rakeem ( Delpano Wils ) , his sister Tisha ( Kobina Wright ) and his other friends who show up at the slumlord's house to cause a ruckus due to the death of a young child thanks to a fire . That fire was indeed in the slumlord's building and Rakeem wants retribution , but instead finds himself in a pretty scary situation . . the slumlord's family are out to get their blood . Jen ( Janet Martin ) seems to be the only member bitten who can control the evil raging . . at least enough to assist Rakeem in his goal to kill as many vampires as he can . But , the main goal is killing the slumlord who seems to be in control of the carnage that has emerged . We get a glimpse of how bad the vampire plague has spread through the scurrying shadows that often pass the houses outside . . there seems to be no hope in Rakeem and Jen's cause to end the vampire disease that's spreading quickly and endlessly . Gory micro-budget flick from director Desi Scarpone suffers from unoriginality . He really brings on the vampire feeding and never holds back on the bloodletting . When he focuses on the violence , it's quite effective . It's the other problems that surface such as a plot that really has nowhere to go . It's basically an endless supply of vampire attacks and one-liners from those infected who praise being inflicted with their disease for they say it has changed them for the better . The black characters represented here are mostly gangster stereotypes or those very nervy about being in a suburban white neighborhood . There is an obvious array of profanity and irrational behavior as if they can't think for themselves and are clueless as to how to get out of their situation . Rakeem is really the only fully developed character of the bunch , but Wils doesn't have the kind of talent to bring life to him . The film , interesting enough , mostly has females doing the biting and such . That alone makes this an interesting little watch regarding vampire mania . But , it follows the basic vampire formula and the single location of one of two suburban homes really stifles the ambition of where Scarone wishes to take his film .
Scarecrow reviews the mess that is " Johnny "	Or , perhaps , I'll just try and keep my words minimum regarding this sci-fi film set as the internet age was forming and morphing into the monster it is today . Keanu Reeves has the look of a cool Johnny , but his acting chops stayed at home . He represents the cold , greedy slime that inhibits the business world today . Johnny is a courier , who subjects a portion of his brain ( which housed his childhood memories ) to holding secretive implanted documents between global and underground organizations . The implants in Johnny's latest assignment came from several frightened geeks in Beijing , which holds the important cure for a disease which has spread all around the world called NAS ( some type of nerve disease which gives people the " black shakes " ) . He has to get these files out of his brain before these overload and make his head explode ( or something to that extent , he has massive migranes and head / memory trauma throughout the rest of the film once he implants this cure in his brain ) . A key to unlocking the implant's specific codes are three specific pictures taken from television . . this comes in handy . Beat Takashi plays an overlord of the Yakuza ( who is deeply wounded from the loss of his daughter ) who desires to have that code and orders his right hand man Dennis Akayama ( who wields a mean laser rope which slices heads and body parts . . not to mention steel , clean apart ) to get Johnny's head . You'll see Dennis constantly carrying around a cryogenic container for Johnny's head . Johnny almost loses his head to Dennis when , Mnemonic's client Udo Kier betrays him . The film's tension derives from an unlikable hero ( they call it " anti-hero " ) who must keep his head . Soon the writer provides Johnny with an appropriate ally in Dina Meyer ( who is stunning to the eyes and also suffering from the NAS virus ) . He also has several run ins with Ice-T ( called J-Bone in this film ) who is the leader of an underground force ( who is fighting against the corporate Pharmakom . . the company who are holding the cure hostage , keeping the public from knowing about it so they can continue to profit off the sick ) called the Loteks . Also rocker Henry Rollins gets to portray a doctor ( ! ) who works both to heal those sick with NAS and also assist in removing implanted memory from the brains of couriers . Dolph Lundren laughably plays a deranged minister who likes to stick his victims to the wall in the shape of Christ's crucifixion . He is working for Takashi to find Johnny's head also and eliminates anyone who stands in his way . The film looks reminiscent of " Blade Runner " in how the landscape of Newark appears ( not to mention Beijing ) , soaked in blackened shadows and splashes of neon . The characters also look like they came right out of Ridley Scott's " Blade Runner " as well . Make-up and less than polished attire clothes many on the streets Johnny has to work to get the blasted info out of his brain . So the film meanders all over as Johnny tries desperately to save his own skin , while falling head over heels with the very attractive Meyer . Many people die thanks to Johnny's implanted cure and the film loves to bask the viewer in heavy loads of violence and unpleasant people of the future . It's a bleak world we see in Longo's " Johnny Mnemonic . " Still , the film will pull many in because it ( and the very good visual effects we see when Johnny goes into the computer's mainframe to explore ways of getting himself out of jams and finding out ways to pull the implanted info from his brain ) is incredible to look at with some decent action sequences . But , I felt it's pretty rotten overall with a silly resolution in how Johnny is able to remove that implanted memory , how it seems that every criminal in the film meets Johnny in the same place and still survive , and the character Lundgren plays is so ridiculous you kind of snicker at his vile hijinks .
Boys	A young prep school teen ( Lukas Haas , quite good ) gets involved with a mysterious young woman ( Winona Ryder , who doesn't register or emote . . not one of her better performances ) who has a secret she is hiding . During the film snippets of a past acquaintance ( Skeet Ulrich ) may answer that very secret . Chris Cooper has a thankless , clichéd role as profane , short-fused father of Haas . Jessica Harper has the thankless role as Haas ' mother , the typical hush-hush-wife afraid of her hot-tempered husband . John C Reilly also has a minor role as a kindly officer trying to locate Ryder over the whereabouts of baseball star Ulrich . The oh-so-big mystery isn't anything to write home about and Ryder is merely a confused dame . The supposed fireworks between Haas and Ryder is non-existent & the film is really unfocused . We get a lot of story on Haas ' life in a school for rich annoying kids and with little chemistry between the leads ( not to mention a plot which doesn't provide us much in why either would prefer to have such a relationship ) , there is very little to get excited about . I'd say see the film for Haas ' performance , because the rest of this mediocre effort isn't worth your time .
Slash	A young boy , playing in his papa's barn , witnesses his grandfather Jethro's secret operation . . extracting human blood from victims he wheels in on a gurney to supply that special ingredient which is said to help the crops multiply ( . . a form of voodoo adopted by superstitious farmers desperate for successful crops ) . When grandpa wishes to scold the child , a lantern turns over setting fire to the hay within the barn . The boy escapes but Jethro is not so lucky . . engulfed in flames , we figure his fate is sealed . We later find that a couple driving to a costume party , nearly hitting a cow in the road , bursting through a fence into a field , fall prey to a psycho , donning the disguise of a scarecrow , wielding a scythe . Later , we discover that the child has fully grown into the lead singer of a rock band called , appropriately enough , Slash . Mac ( James O'Shea ) , after performing a gig , receives word from " paw " that his aunt had passed from farmhand , Billy Bob ( Nick Boraine ) . Taken from his father's farm by his mother , Mac decides to attend his aunt's funeral , and thus reawakening the painful memory he had buried regarding Jethro and that traumatic day in the barn . Mac's father , Jeremiah ( Steve Railsback ) , is proud to have his son home , despite the ordeal that prompted his return . Mac's band come with him , their tour bus pulling into Jeremiah's farm presenting quite a contrast , to say the least . But , Mac finds that he enjoys spending time here despite his band's reservations towards such a rural setting . Particularly token black character , Jesse ( Jocelyn Broderick ) , who certainly feels out of place , representing your typical thuggish stereotype , even carrying a gun on his person . When the scarecrow killer targets his posse , Mac will have to decide which is his true family , pops or the band . In a major development , the tour bus has been tampered with the injector pump damaged by someone , obviously the killer . It seems that Jeremiah's harvest just might bring forth plentiful crops . . I'm such a fan of Steve Railsback that I'll just about watch any type of dire entertainment he participates in . Slash is a very tame slasher movie with typically obnoxious characters , the geeky band members & their roadies . Railsback has a little fun with his redneck farmer role , another stereotype very similar to his ED Gein portrayal . As he's entering old age , Railsback sounds a lot like Walter Brennan . I enjoyed how the director shoots him and Railsback understands just how to deliver his corny hick dialogue with just the right amount of aplomb . Nick Boraine amazingly injects a nice amount of innocence and amiability to his stereotypical role of dirty-teethed , filthy farmhand Billy Bob , often the object of Jesse's ridicule . The film really plays off the theme of clashing worlds . . the " fish out of water " division between the urban and rural . The killer mostly commits his murderous deeds off-screen with director Neal Sundström pulling his camera back probably due to lack of funds . An ax is also used on victims . My favorite kill-scene would be when the killer chases after the remaining members of the band , not yet murdered , with a crop machine " threshing " one victim , with the remains " fertilizing " the field ! No nudity although a female groupie , who travels with the band , does have sex with the guitarist ( . . it , just like the murders , is filmed in a rather tame manner ) . I suggest watching this slasher for Railsback , who really provides most of the entertainment . The film presents three likely possibilities of who the killer might be . . Billy Bob , Mac , and , of course , Jeremiah . Although you might be minorly surprised at who it is , you won't be blown to smithereens when his identity is uncovered .
Python	The town of Ruby and it's surrounding country-side are terrorized by a giant python created by the typical secret government organization called Biogene which was released after a plane carrying it crash-lands . Dr . Anton Rudolph ( Robert Englund , who gets all the theatrical dialogue ) , who had a part in creating this massive reptile through variations of serpents , informs Agent-in-charge Bart Parker ( Casper Van Dien , far removed from " Starship Troopers " or " Sleepy Hollow " ) that it's practically unkillable and very fast with a nasty venomous acid-spit you wouldn't believe . Pro-biker John ( Frayne Rosanoff ) and deputy Greg ( William Zabka , known for playing blonde haired bullying punks in the 80's such as in " Karate Kid " & " Back to School " ) who have angst over a chick named Kristin ( Dana Barron , one of many variations of Griswald daughter Audrey in " National Lampoon's Vacation " ) must join forces to stop the python . Could easily play on Sci-fi channel with it's low quality computer effects of the monstrous python . The python really is never convincing which makes the film play rather cheesy instead at all scary . The flick benefits from a cast of recognizable faces . Star Trek The Next Generation's Wil Wheaton plays a real-estate agent wannabe sporting a pink hair-do , Jenny McCarthy stops by to play a wealthy widow sexpot , Sean Whalen is a Barney Fife deputy , and Gary Grubbs ( my favorite of the cast who I enjoyed every moment he was on-screen ) as Sheriff Griffin Wade .
Bleed	A killer , wearing a plastic white mask and black overcoat , is killing the friends of Hollywood producer Shawn Banning ( Danny Wolske ) who inherited his position when someone sliced open his former employer from crotch to chest . Perhaps the psychopath is newly hired Maddy ( Dabbie Rochon ) , an attractive , raven haired beauty with a troubled family past , plagued with nightmares . Shawn and his friends play a practical joke on Maddy , concerning a supposed Murder Club they started where each member randomly selected a victim to kill . When Maddy accidentally murders a woman in a parking garage because of a dent put into her car by this person , she finds that Shawn's pals were jerking her chain . But , Shawn and his comrades are concerned about Maddy's admittance towards committing the murder and contemplate turning her into the proper authorities . Deciding to wait on a definite decision , each member fall prey to the white-masked psycho with Maddy a suspect considering the fact that she already has killed before . Or , is someone else behind these murders ? Low budget slasher , executive produced by Charles Band , with gore murders that fail to convince . Plenty of tits on display and Allen Nabors goofy character Chris might entertain those with low expectations . The murders include a stomach being opened with intestines showing , a neck sliced , an electrical cord thrown into a pool frying a female victim who had all day to escape , an ax buried into the back of a male victim , and , to top it all , a couple are strangled by a rope during their sexual climax ( . . for added effect , the killer uses the breaker bar of a socket wrench as extra leverage to twist the rope as tight as possible snapping their necks ) . There are enough plot holes to drive a truck through , such as why Maddy has nightmares of murders she didn't commit , how she could murder someone so violently ( . . with blood all over her ) winding up waking in her bed without leaving something at the scene of the crime that would easily implicate her , and how Shawn could go so long , allowing her to continue working at the company despite what she told regarding the murder she committed , and a continual desire to join the supposed club that doesn't exist . What bothered me the most was the film's desire for having us somehow sympathizing with this female protagonist who wanted to join a club after killing someone , later proclaiming it to be an accident . The film builds Maddy as the potential psycho throughout because of her past . Her family disowned her for an abortion . She has black-outs and always appropriately winds up at the scenes of crimes after the fact . In a lot of slashers , the one who seems the most likely killer is often the red herring , but this film goes out of it's way to point the finger at Maddy . When the twist occurs , we're left rooting for Maddy , yet we know she's not right in the head . It's a tough sell caring for this chick . She does look great in a man's Army shirt , though . And , Rochon isn't afraid to let her puppies breathe , either . Low budget horror fans will get a kick out of seeing cult favorite Brinke Stevens as a religious fanatical mother who preaches against what Maddy did , calling her a murderer as beloved Troma producer Lloyd Kaufman is the aloof father who can not get in a word edge-wise to protect the daughter he truly cares about . Cult siren Julie Strain has a minor cameo , showing her tits ( of course ) as the opening murdered male's girlfriend getting her head crushed by a hammer . Oh , and check out the office for which Shawn works , you'll see a lot of Full Moon posters and art-work spread throughout the walls .
Bloodbath at the House of Death	Mediocre spoof of Horror and sci-fi features Vincent Price in a minor role as a Satanic Warlock who gathers up his town of worshipers to disrupt an obnoxious group of paranormal researchers visiting a supposed haunted house where a series of bloody murders took place . At times Monty Python-ish parodying prevails . . if only the gags and one-liners were as funny as the filmmakers wanted them to be . They try really hard , but I have to say I laboured through it instead of enjoying the film from start to finish . Bizarre gore murders such as a man being pulled into a toilet , a woman's throat being attacked by a monster which emerges from the mold on a colleague's arm , a victim stabbed by a teddy bear ( ! ) , a female victim getting " raped " ( . . blissfully , in this case , unlike THE ENTITY ) by a ghost , and one woman getting beheaded by a sword ( . . it glows like a Star Wars light saber , an obvious poke at the George Lucas flicks ) . There's a poke at Carrie where a punished girl ( . . she kissed her boyfriend ) causes her deeply fanatically religious mom's beheading . A lot of paranormal activity where objects fly across rooms and break , along with blood coming out faucets and walls . Dopplegangers from hell killing off their human counterparts in the Headstone Manor is quite an unusual touch , I must admit . The film is a good-natured spoof , but I found the humor itself rather lacking in quality . I'm sure this film , though , will have a fervent following if it were to get a DVD release . Perhaps there's a reason why it hasn't , though . I guess the film's best gore gag would be a badly orchestrated surgical procedure where our lead paranormal scientist loses his monocle inside the body of a patient as his aids laugh hysterically . I'm sure Vincent Price fans will have a good time seeing him swear , gleefully theatrical , parodying his image . I wish there was more of him and less of everybody else . I admit , I was incredibly excited ( . . maybe , TOO excited ) when I found a rare VHS copy of this at a local rental store going out of business , so a degree of disappointment was too be expected . The cast take great pride lampooning the British kind of stage acting , quite animated in their expressions , really letting it hang out unrestrained , but I didn't particularly find very much really gut-bustingly funny . . maybe , I'm not part of that crowd targeted . There are lots of sex jokes and gags , even some homosexual humor . I think the film's biggest misstep is not featuring Price as the central character , even though Kenny Everett has some shining moments . The ET gag with Pamela Stephenson's body being sexually ravaged by the ghost who molested her the first time , her silhouette flying across the image of the moon is certainly a strange moment towards the end . The version I watched suffered from poor picture quality and sound so I would perhaps respond better to a remastered edition .
Evil Eye	Confusing , incoherent mess about a wealthy swinging Italian hunk whose having weird nightmares involving a naked Satanic cult . It seems this cult has a command over him , forcing him to murder several folks who were responsible for killing relatives for inheritance or property . The Italian Lothario is Peter Crane ( Jorge Rivero ) , the kind of handsome stud who wears his shirt collars open revealing his hairy muscular chest causing the female populace to swoon . After Crane strangles his victims , he awakens as if they were unpleasant nightmares , but it's enough for him to visit a psychiatrist , Dr . Stone ( Richard Conte ) regarding them . Soon Stone's assistant Sarah ( Pilar Velázquez ) and Crane become lovers , with her life in potential danger . The film shows the sex-heavy atmosphere of this period in Italy as a collection of men and women join together at either Crane's sprawling luxuriously posh mansion or his decadent party pal Robert's ( Luis La Torre ) sizable abode , getting wasted , kissing , swimming , making out , removing their clothes , and just whatever unpredictable lurid activities that come to mind , embracing sin and immorality , basking in excess . Some familiar faces pop up such as Eduardo Fajardo as Crane's corrupt butler , Walter and Luciano Pigozzi as a victim who kindly offers to help repair Crane's mysteriously immobile vehicle which went kaput while driving on the road . Director Mario Siciliano seems to have control of the film , until the supernatural phenomena increases with objects moving on their own and a detective ( Anthony Steffen ) , whose wife places a charm to ward off evil in his pocket , begins hearing strange noises as he pursues the killer . Gorgeous women in the film such as leggy Daniela Giordano as Crane's mistreated sex kitten Tanya , and Pilar Velázquez , who could shrink my head anytime she wants . Amusing is the fact that Crane can seduce any female he so chooses as they just fall head-over-heels . Before Crane murders his victims , director Siciliano moves the camera into his menacing eyes , hands clinching tight , objects turning towards the target , the women slow to realize ( . . and seem frozen as he draws near ) that they are to be strangled . . all this accompanied by a pulse-pounding score that steadily builds as the killer approaches the victim , reaching it's zenith when the hands grasp the woman's ( . . or man's ) throat . A certain victim's death , after he had murdered an accomplace who feared for her safety , is a laugher . . after puking a frog from his bloody , puss-ozing mouth , a shot gun falls from a shelf shooting him in the temple . Specters with white faces also visit Crane and the detective pursuing him . A REALLY bonkers scene shows Sarah the victim of a train accident , while also displaying her and Crane going over a cliff while driving haphazardly . . random sequences like this leave one scratching their heads wondering what the hell Siciliano was attempting to accomplish . MAJOR SPOILER : The ending , when Crane and Sarah get away at her cabin in the mountains , is particularly a groaner as Siciliano just lets everything go berserk as they are bombarded by demonic supernatural terror with the irksome " it's all a dream " conclusion dropped right in our lap . It's a shame when a film leads you down such a bizarre path , hurling crazy events that make little sense at you , only to take the easy route by claiming it's all a dream .
Zombies	Professional author , Tom Harris ( William Joyce ) , quite the ladies ' man , is commissioned by his aggravatingly persistent editor , Duncan Fairchild ( Dan Stapleton ) , to write a piece on an island supposedly containing voodoo and zombies . When there , he falls in love with the lovely , radiant Jeannie ( Heather Hewitt ) , the daughter of Dr . Biladeau ( Robert Stanton ) who is working with associate Charles Bentley ( Walter Coy ) in creating a cure for " the world's deadliest disease " . Harris soon discovers that the island is indeed populated with tribal villagers who practice voodoo ( . . their dances around a campfire are showcased three different types for long periods ) and zombies with glop faces and bulb eyeballs . Harris soon realizes that the villagers plan to sacrifice Jeannie , and that the zombies are actually created scientifically as a result of the experimental procedures through a snake-venom procedure on island innocents by the doctors seeking a cure that seems out of reach . Also in danger are Harris ' editor Duncan and his nagging , grating wife Coral ( Betty Hyatt Linton , whose voice at high screech were like nails down a chalkboard for me ) along for the adventure . Harris and company will not be getting off the island easily as the villagers and their zombies ( . . those turned into these ghouls are actually humans without the possession of choice or will , robots used as objects of destruction ) are in hot pursuit . Someone , however , is secretly calling the shots , treated as a demi-god wearing tribal gear and paint on his face and head so that he's unrecognizable , speaking orders to his voodoo lieutenant who then sends the zombies on the attack , to either harm or capture . Poverty-row at every respect , from the cast to the make-up effects . Harris is quite a symbol of machismo , shirt unbuttoned , exposing his chest , always punching somebody out that threatens him . The sets of the laboratory is completely naked of the usual machinery one is accustomed to ( . . even Ed Wood's " Bride of the Monster " had more mad-scientist props than this film has ) and the island setting is barely used to any effect ( . . the film's centers on the voodoo parties and the place of refuge and relaxation for Harris and company ; until their lives are endangered , that is ) . The zombies do get a chance to kill a few folks , but not in the ways fans are expecting ( . . this was before Romero would shock the world with zombies eating the flesh of the living ) . There's a weak beheading and a plane is blown to smithereens by a zombie carrying dynamite walking right into a spinning propeller . Harris is a tall , handsome actor with a certain stature who had the look of male heroes at this time . Flirting with the girls in bikinis at the opening , we get an idea of how male heroes were starting to emerge thanks to Sean Connery . " I Eat Your Skin " isn't a proper title , so I just refer to it as it was initially intended , " Zombies . " It's too bad that the zombies in this picture lack in the scary or creepy department ( . . we actually see , through the use of dissolve , how a human changes into these things ) . Perhaps it's Del Tenney's failure at producing an atmosphere that generates such a result regarding the zombies seeming less eerie or chilling . My copy of the film suffered from poor quality , but seeing that this movie had such little entertainment value to offer ( . . it seems to bring enjoyment to the hearts of fans of camp ) I wasn't that disappointed .
Saturn 3	A robotic monster , built by renegade Captain Benson ( Harvey Keitel , as robotic as the monster in the film ) from Earth , make life hell for Adam ( Kirk Douglas ) & Alex ( Farrah Fawcett ) . Benson ( with a device implanted in the back of his neck that " mind melds " with the gargantuan machine . . this part of the plot is by far the most silliest concept that never gets a full explanation ) is in lust with the lovely Alex and the robot picks up on that and itself becomes infatuated and obsessed with her . Soon Adam finds himself in quite the predicament because Benson considers the Major an obsolete old timer in the way of his plans to supply the Earth with the food sources from Saturn's moon necessary for that planet's survival . Anyway , the film soon consists of the robot attacking or chasing everyone , including Benson ( who was playing with fire to begin with for he hadn't quite read up on what to do if the machine needs to be silenced when enraged ) with Adam needing to figure out how to stop the blasted thing . Ambitious , but cold , dull & life-less . It's derivative of many sci-fi pictures , particularly Kubrick's 2001 , but doesn't have good enough special effects or space-ship interiors ( or exteriors for that matter ) to compete with other far more entertaining , mind-blowing fare . It hurts that the film is completely miscast with Douglas , good as always , but does not belong in this genre . He's always great at playing heroic types , but inside this very uninspired plot Douglas has very little to accomplish . Fawcett is a stunning beauty , but she's merely a pretty mannequin because she is completely wooden . Keitel should've fired his agent for even reading the script for he is sleepwalking something fierce here . And , the most sad statement of all . . Stanley Donen , of all people , directed this rehash . Pretty sad , really . And the idea of having a lust-sick robot on the rampage as your main plot is pretty laughable . We , at least , briefly see Fawcett's amazing rack . . she is quite the lovely creature .
Lake Dead	Typical , threadbare backwoods slasher crap , which proves that the well seems all dried up , has a group of young adults being murdered one by one by a lunatic matriarch's incestial offspring mutant twins and her equally nutty sheriff son . Mama Lake ( Pat McNeely , under a thick southern accent , all demented smiles ) wishes to continue the family line and uses the death of her husband , by a shot gun blast to the head directed by their son Chuck ( James C Burns ) , the sheriff , to lure granddaughters Brielle ( Kelsey Crane ) and Kelly ( Kelsey Wedeen ) with the idea of a possible hotel inheritance . Along with her sensitive boyfriend Ben ( Jim Devoti ) , his college chum Bill ( Alex Quinn ) , Bill's gal Amy ( Vanessa Viola ) and Kelly's pal Tanya ( the yummy Malea Richardon , all too willing to shed her shirt ) , the group head onto the backwoods Lake hotel and estate against the advice of drunken father John Lake's ( Dan Woods ) advice . Soon , Mama's mutant offspring begin killing the Lake sister's peeps , and find that the plan in place is for them to bare Chuck's seed and keep the family tradition continued . Nothing original here folks , kids running for their lives in the woods as two mutant monsters , straight out of " Hills Have Eyes " or " Wrong Turn " , chase them down , mutilating them . Most of the violence is off-screen , and you know who will survive and die . This slasher does nothing to separate itself from the countless number that have came out since the 80's heyday . If anything , " Lake Dead " is far minor to even the tamest entries of the 80's . Stuff like " He Knows Your Alone " or " Graduation Day " are just as hard . I mean you do get Richardson removing her shirt and seducing Bill , before getting a pickax lunged into her skull sticking her to a tree . But , the make-up for the faces of the mutant , silent , skulking killers are cheap and unconvincing , especially when one of them gets bashed in the head with the butt of a shot gun . I gave it a 4 because I felt the camera work was polished enough , and the film moves along well , but if you are looking for slasher fireworks , look elsewhere .
Rest Stop	There's something going on in this film directed by X-Files scribe John Shiban that has eluded me . You get that feeling as the film moves that everything is not what it seems , yet I feel the movie fails at giving you enough to go on to truly care afterward . It's about perception . There are characters the heroine Nicole ( Jaimie Alexander ) meets in the film that she talks to that up and vanish . This might seem like a spoiler , but it's something that really only inherits a wee bit of focus on the filmmakers ' part . They seem to be poking fun at us as we watch curious at whether we should trust what Nicole is seeing or not . It never gets a proper answer and I for one was a bit clueless at the point . There comes a time in a film when ambiguity can just be frustrating because the viewer is led on a wild goose chase that ends at a dead end with little explanation at what we just saw . . it ultimately feels like an exhausting exercise instead of a thrilling psycho-drama . Now there's nothing wrong with ambiguity itself , but give us something to latch onto or you will evade us . That's how I felt as I watched " Rest Stop . " This film is supposedly about a young woman named Nicole who decides to run off to California with lover Jesse ( Joey Mendicino ) to make it big in Hollywood . They make what is supposed to be a slight detour at a rest stop so that Nicole can pee , but it descends into terror for her when she finds that her Jesse is completely missing . Someone in a crusty , dusty yellow truck is a nut job who seems to be causing a lot of trouble to Nicole and we soon realize that he is behind Jesse's disappearance when things start to occur , signs provided to her if you will , she will have to find a way out of a very difficult situation . Nicole is far from any existing town and with limited resources to defend herself against a maniac who provides her with some strong evidence of how evil he can be . That's the easy part . When a female character comes into play , the film makes a really bizarre leap from logic as we are not sure where she ever came from , how she got there , and more importantly where she goes once Nicole tries to break her free from her supposed prison in the restroom's utilities ' cabinet . She meets another , a Police officer in the area ( Joey Lawrence ) , who might seem like her savior , but when he too is a victim of the truck driver startling things occur again that questions if he was ever actually even there to begin with . The truck driver commits torturous acts to Nicole ( like holing her up in the restroom and as she tries to untie a wire that the killer has wrapped around the door lock , she receives a nasty bite from him ) . He then sets fire to the restroom leaving her without a lasting place of refuge from the beast . It's the timing of the truck driver's attacks that has me listless . Perhaps he just likes tormenting her , but he appropriately appears in certain situations where Nicole has time to flee or prepare . It doesn't make much sense , his motives , which propel the film into an illogical idea . Why does he make himself so obvious ? Why does he allow her to prepare ? It seems , I'm going out on a limb here , that he likes having his quarry believe they can find a way of escape only to stomp that hope out when he comes up with his next grisly attack . Yet , why does Shiban decide to play with the viewer by having Nicole experience odd meetings with people that don't exist ? What is Shiban and the writing team trying to say ? And , to cap off the film's unhinged weirdness is a family in a RV . They play a small part in the scheme of things as religious bigots themselves , but the film doesn't do enough for the viewer to explain why they should be in this film at all .
Firewall	Computer Bank Security man Harrison Ford is stuck in an unfortunate decision as his company is about to merge with another whose boss is Robert Patrick . That unfortunate situation is a group of thuggish criminals whose leader is Paul Bettany who holds Ford's family ( including wife Virginia Madsen ) hostage forcing him to encrypt moneys from his bank's wealthiest clients into a Caymen account or else suffer the consequences . Ford will have to find a way to match wits with Bettany and this film shows the cat and mouse game that ensues . Pedestrian , by-the-numbers thriller is about a predictable as they come following right in line with the same types of thrillers Hollywood churns out add nauseum . The cast doesn't have a chance to freshen not-very-ripe material . The uninspired story which tries hard to be slick , but comes off as improbable asking us to believe that Ford could be able to successfully do what he does . Madsen tries to bring life to the typical mother role she's saddled with and Ford tries to muster of his old mojo , but this film is just too ordinary . Bettany just passes time as his talent is squandered on a second-rate villain . Disappointing , unfullfilling thriller .
Repo ! The Genetic Opera	An alt-rock score , a hellish nightmarish world right out of The Crow , colorful , hideous characters who sing , comic interludes expressing past incidents which tell us why the story has culminated to the point we're witnessing , and the grisly operations of a repossessor of organs working for a futuristic tyrannical businessman who practically runs the goth city where the events take place . Paul Sorvino is an obvious choice for the role of Rotti Largo , an intense , contemptible , ruthless corporate giant whose face is perfectly etched with anger and disgust , rotten to the core and dying of a cancer progressively getting worse ( . . his duo of gun toting female guards shoot the doctor for bringing him the news , just a sign of how the state of life is in this depressing future ) . Anthony Head is his diabolical repo man , Nathan , who seeks out those who have signed a contract with Rotti for an organ they needed to live . . if these people fail to pay for their repaired organ , it'll be collected ( . . when Nathan viciously removes the organ , surgically , we can see the bar code ! ) Rotti took advantage of a terrible plight sweeping across the country , organ failures , and offered those afflicted hope , with a price . Nathan is held accountable for a past tragedy , caused by Rotti who was enraged at him for stealing away his bride , Marni . Using a poisonous drug , Rotti had it placed in the vial containing a formula Nathan was working on for his pregnant Marni who fell ill . Nathan , using the infected formula , instead causes the illness to worsen , needing to surgically remove their daughter , Shilo ( Alexa Vega ) before certain death . Caught by police for his actions in saving Shilo , Nathan must work for Rotti as a way of paying off his debt for saving him from prison . Rotti , ashamed of his horrible offspring , Amber Sweet ( Paris Hilton ) , Luigi Largo ( Bill Moseley ) , and Pavi ( Nivek Ogre ) wishes to leave his successful corporation , Geneco , to someone else . He sees this as an opportunity to get the ultimate revenge against Nathan who he hates with an overwhelming passion , for taking Marni away , by targeting a 17 year old Shilo , who has been isolated from the outside world , yearning to experience what life is like away from the prison of her apartment . Nathan has Shilo taking pills for a supposed blood disease , but , unknown to her , it's actually a poison ( . . he wishes for her to remain distant from a world he wants to shield her from ) and Rotti will take advantage of this situation so that he can turn daughter against father . And , Rotti has plans to leave his corporation to Shilo , for she is the only one he sees fit for such an enterprize . By drawing Shilo into the outside world promising her a cure for the blood disease , Rotti can successfully trap Nathan . Also , part of the plot has " Blind Mag " ( Sarah Brightman ) , a friend of Marni's , whose eyes were transplanted thanks to Geneco thanks in part of a contract she signed in blood , wishes to leave her singing career and have freedom from Rotti . Mag will meet Shilo with a domino effect transpiring . . it's only a matter of time before Shilo will discover the truth about her father's practices and the real reason behind the death of her mother . I think this is indeed a cult item , the songs will work for a certain crowd , as well as the grotesque costume designs , and the industrialized look of the world , fallen to ruin , degradation , and decadence . The alt-metal music which accompanies the songs will also work for that target cult audience . It's extremely graphic with some unsettling surgical organ removals . I personally found the music and singers horrid ( . . but that's because I'm not exactly a fan of musicals , especially with a cast who can not sing ) and the characters overbearing . This future , though , is not supposed to be a pleasant world , so the characters and what they have to sing about reflect this devastated society . Full of surgical freaks ( . . like Hilton's Amber ) , junkies ( . . addicted to a hypo-injected drug lifted from corpses called Zydrate ) , and hedonists . Moseley has his usual psychopath , Luigi , with an uncontrollable temperament , often stabbing folks who just so happen to cross him at the wrong time . Vegas has the central role , a pivotal part that inadvertently controls the inevitable confrontation between Nathan and Rotti . The character of Pavi ( . . and to a certain extent , Amber ) reminded me of Eyes Without a Face , with his face covered by a skin mask . . I kind of wondered if this was a homage of sorts . Hilton was expertly cast as a self-absorbed drug-addicted tramp who is obsessed with surgery , and with designs of being a star that takes the place of the beloved Mag . Director Darren Lynn Bousman shoots with soft focus photography , and the bleak world looks lifted right from a computer screen . Vega has an innocence and vulnerability that works for the part of an angel lost in a nightmare where fiends and miscreants lurk around every corner . The make-up effects are quite effective , particularly during those notorious organ removal sequences ( . . and a marvelous reveal of Amber's ruined visage ) .
Piranha II : The Spawning	Police Chief Steve Kimbrough ( Lance Henriksen ) has a problem on his hands . . killer piranha fish can fly ( ! ) and they are quite hungry for the tourists that populate his island . His ex wife Anne ( Tricia O'Neil , who is actually quite good ) is a scuba instructor who loses one of her students when he decides , against warning , to search an old wreckage which housed the piranha . When dead bodies start to increase , Anne tries to warn Hotel Manager Raoul ( Ted Richart , who is basically representing the clichéd manager who doesn't respond well to warnings from his staff or police about possible harm to unknowing tourists for business purposes ) to no avail . She also begins an affair with Tyler Sherman ( Steve Marachuk ) who she finds out is a bio-chemist and one of those scientists responsible for creating the damn things eating people . Another horrifying element is that Anne and Steve's son , Chris ( Ricky Paull Golden ) is out there assisting a wealthy man's boat ride . Goofy sequel shows first-time director James Cameron ( who would , three years later , get it right with his awesome sci-fi action masterpiece , " The Terminator " ) was a bit green on how to create any sense of realism in this silly premise trying to make silly jokes work and his characters quirky . The film does have gore as these piranha behave like bats flying for the jugular ripping throats to shreds of victims . The sequence where tourists get slaughtered in one giant wallop of an attack is inspired and bloody . The film just can not escape it's ultra-silly idea . There ' s one scene that had me rolling in the floor at it's absurdity : a clean-up lady in a morgue catches a piranha in her throat as he plunges at her from the torso of a dead victim !
Night of the Scarecrow	Warlock's spirit , trapped within a scarecrow as his burnt bones lie in a tomb buried deep within the ground of his cornfield home , rises when the erected slab imprisoning his casket is disturbed as bolts of lightning emerge awakening his lifeforce . . that's the best I can explain it , folks . It seems that the community founded by the Goodmans needed magical assistance if their unfertile land and people starving were ever gonna yield any satisfying results . . in comes the Warlock to fulfill their needs , with his magic book of spells as a tool to help the community thrive and land fertile . When the magician began causing such rampant sin and perversion as his granted freedom gave way to lascivious appetites , those religious townpeople , who haven't succumb to the lusts of the flesh decide to hang him on a wooden cross in the middle of a cornfield , later burning his bones & burying them in a tomb . A scarecrow was erected , as was the slab , over the burial plot of the warlock , reminding the generations of Goodmans of the deeds they committed years ago . Anyway , we are now in the present and the recently awakened warlock uses his scarecrow body to kill various Goodmans ( . . and others in his path ) looking to retrieve his magical book of spells and reunite with his bones so that he can return to fleshly form even more powerful than he is as a walking man of string . Claire Goodman ( Elizabeth Barondes ) is set up as you female heroine and lover Dillon ( John Mese ) , who works for her pops , Mayor William Goodman ( Gary Lockwood , FAR removed from 2001 , that's for sure ) is the male hero who must stop the killer scarecrow before he is able to become all-powerful . Supernatural slasher milks the scarecrow idea for all it's worth . One scene has the scarecrow planting a seed within the lusty daughter of Priest Uncle Thaddeus ( Bruce Glover , appropriately hammy as a corrupt priest who reads lingerie magazines while alone in his church ) as it explodes wooden branches from her skin . Another has the scarecrow sowing Uncle Thaddeus ' mouth shut . Oh , and you especially like the scene where the scarecrow causes one poor soul to grow straw from his facial orifices , fingers and torso . One scene has the scarecrow blowing straw into a cop's face like little nails that stab the guy in the face . Lots of WTF ? death sequences that cause one to giggle . . Some recognizable faces include Dirk Blocker as drunken Uncle George who gets shredded by his tractor , Stephen Root as sheriff Uncle Frank who receives straw " needles " into his face , Martine Beswick as Uncle Thaddeus ' wife Barbara ( she likes to sew , so this ought to hint at how she'll likely perish ) , and John Hawkes as Danny , the nuisance who unearthed the warlock to begin with . Director Jeff Burr tries to inject some style into the incredibly asinine premise , but to enjoy this you'll have to accept the film on it's terms . Judging by the film's user rating , few have . .
Joy Ride 2 : Dead Ahead	Two sisters and their boyfriends are being terrorized on desert roads by psychopathic trucker Rusty Nails . Melissa ( Nicki Aycox ; Dead Birds ) and fiancé Bobby ( Nick Zano ) are to be married , traveling with sis , Kayla ( Laura Jordan ) to Vegas for a bachelorette / bachelor party . Kayla stops off to pick up a Myspace date , Nik ( Kyle Schmid ) , to the dismay of Melissa and Bobby . . he's dressed with a leather jacket , rings in his lower lip , and tattoos ( . . a funny scene dispels Nik's disguise , proving that he's not exactly the Goth he's portraying ) . Melissa and Bobby find Nik's immature behavior intolerable ( . . he's your basic clown , rude and crude , not knowing how to shut his yap ) , but they , against their better judgment , take a detour off the highway believing it would get them to Vegas quicker . The station wagon ( . . the sisters ' grandmother's car ) gives up the ghost as they hit a dirt road , and on foot they find a seemingly abandoned farm house and barn . Inside the barn is a practically new muscle car , and the gang reluctantly take it to get on their way to Vegas . It just so happens that the muscle car is Rusty Nails ' and he reacts less than positively to their taking it . Kidnapping Bobby , RN plays a series of mind games with Melissa , Kayla , and Nik . . for Bobby's return , RN demands certain requests . Attempts at trickery fail and RN will cause them a world of pain along the way . This sequel ratchets up the violence considerably as Rusty Nails is proved to be one sadistic bastard . First he demands Kayla's middle finger as a bargaining chip for Bobby ( . . she flipped him off and he simply wants what's his ) . When Kayla and Melissa's idea of snipping the finger from a female corpse in the morgue , RN acts accordingly ( . . a finger for a finger ) The second challenge ( . . Nik , walking into a crowd of partying truckers in drag to score some Crystal Meth ) is disrupted when Nik attempts to escape . Kidnapping Nik , RN takes the boys to his home , forcing them into a game of " torture craps " with the roll of the dice choosing what level of pain would happen on a specific location on the body . Soon RN causes Melissa and Kayla to crash that sweet ride , and has a collision in store for them as they lie upside down and vulnerable . A showdown will commence between Melissa and RN with Bobby's fate hanging in the balance . Unlike the first film which retains Rusty Nails ' mystique , JOY RIDE 2 practically strips him of any mystery whatsoever . He's merely a brute who likes to brutalize and antagonize . I think the original film's appeal was the voice across the CB radio ( . . the ominous voice provided by Ted Levine ) which was of vital importance . . no face , just the sound of a voice calling for Candycane . It wasn't the physical body of the trucker , but his creepy voice's serious tone and the diesel he drives . He becomes just a cold-blooded thug with an ax to grind ( . . while he has a right to be angry for some kids taking his ride , but there are less evil ways of handling such matters ) . The film is riddled with the typical clichés . The bad idea of taking a detour when you know you should ALWAYS stay on the highway . The cell phone that doesn't work . How Rusty Nails is always one step ahead of the gang , knowing their every move . The final girl who attacks her predator with a shovel , pummeling him once or twice before throwing the weapon to the side to see about her boyfriend , instead of making damn sure he was incapacitated , or , better yet , dead . The finale might remind many of DUEL , except JOY RIDE 2 has a preposterous closing which defies simple logic .
Buried Alive	The ole " sins of the father " is mined once again in another vengeful spirit story as troubled college student Zane ( Terence Jay ) is hard up to find his great grandfather's buried gold and was recently put on probation for not paying as much attention to studies as he was clowning around and partying . He has the dweeby Phil ( Germaine De Leon ) studying up on Zane's past , letting him tag along for being such a loyal friend ( . . well , Phil also helped him in making better grades , using the kid's brains to get ahead ) . Zane's cousin is Rene ( Leah Rachel ) , head of a sorority who will accompany him with two pledges , Laura ( Erin Reese ; looking like a young Charisma Carpenter ) & Julie ( Lindsey Scott ) , and boyfriend Danny ( Steve Sandvoss ) . They head off to Zane's father's home for different reasons . Zane to find the location of the gold , manipulating Rene into thinking that the trip was so that she could mistreat her two potential sisters . A thorn in Zane's side is his father's grounds keeper , Lester ( Tobin Bell , given star treatment ) , a foul , dirty lout who lives all alone , secretly discovering the spot in the sub-cellar where some gold was buried . Lester constantly warns Zane about being out when night falls because of the dangers of the dark . Lester is a perverted rascal who often makes sneering remarks and gestures to the girls , while also playing a series of scare-pranks on them . A Native American girl was murdered by her husband , Zane's great-grandfather ( . . who remarried , which birthed the new family line that would lead to Zane and Rene ) , buried alive presumably where the gold was hidden . Her spirit seeks revenge on all those whose blood derived from the murdering bastard who left her to die a slow and agonizing death . Equipped with an ax and the ability to pop wherever she so wishes , and a very hostile attitude , the ghoul will take no prisoners . . all are fair game . There's this amulet worn around Rene's neck which works as protection from death . . it's symbol will assist in keeping one character safe from harm . One victim is sliced in half ( . . right down the middle ) while another's face slides right from the head . . the ax chop happens so fast in fact that you don't ( . . or can barely ) see the blade . The film spends an amount of time with the characters as they get acquainted with their temporary environment , with Rene , basically a bitch always ordering her girls around ( . . I absolutely loathe this whole process , running candidates through a series of trials just to join some stupid institution ) or jealous of Julie who has caught the attention of Zane . . an angle established at the beginning points out this incestuous desire present between Zane and Rene ( . . Rene simmers with disgust when Zane and Julie flirt ) . I will admit that I could care less what happened to Zane , Danny ( . . your basic garden variety handsome jock , a WB pretty boy Rene keeps as a trophy ) , or especially Rene . Rene never gains our sympathy as she insists on ridiculing and tormenting her pledges , especially Julie , who is playful , naive , and bubbly ( . . not to mention positively yummy in a playboy bunny kind of way ) . Laura is the sultry brunette , with silky smooth skin and dynamic figure . She has a thing for religious symbols of various beliefs ( . . like a Celtic and Chinese symbols tattooed on parts of her body ) and is well studied in the practices of other countries ' cultures . Bell is basically a creep , nasty and crude . . but the best thing about this supernatural slasher , for at least he has presence . Despite a grim conclusion for certain characters , I was rather satisfied . . not sure that was supposed to be the appropriate reaction .
Final Examination	Part slasher , but mostly a detective thriller with some rather tame soft-core sex , from director Fred Olen Ray ( . . under the pseudonym Ed Raymond ) regarding a serial killer hunting down models who were all part of a Sorority 5 years ago when a girl supposedly committed suicide driving off a curb near a bridge . The " suicide " , which for a while seems unrelated to the rest of the film , is linked to the murders as transfered LA detective Shane Newman ( Brent Huff ) and his Hawaii partner Julie Seska ( Kari Wuhrer ) seek the find who is behind the homicides at a posh resort . Could the culprit be Derek Simmons ( Winton Nicholson ) , the millionaire publisher of Cavalier magazine for which these girls were invited to the Hawaii resort for a shoot ? Could it be mysterious photographer Taylor Cameron ( Debbie Rochon ) who is to shoot the girls ? While on the case , Shane has altercations with the resort's manager , Miss Pratt ( Kathy Cullis ) who wants them to investigate quietly without announcing a serial killer on the loose possibly hurting tourism . To insure this , Pratt enlists Sam's superior to threaten his job is if he doesn't cooperate . Meanwhile , we also follow the exploits of the girls , Kristen Neal ( Amy Lindsey ) , Megan ( Belinda Gavin ) , and Amanda ( Kalau Iwaoka ) who become nervous about being targets . The first victim's boyfriend , Charlie ( Michael Lloyd ) , who found his girlfriend murdered in a jacuzzi after leaving to fetch some water , might just know a possible clue that could help the detectives . . which could put him in danger as well . The film alternates between Hawaii and Los Angeles , as Sam gets some much needed assistance from his former co-workers back home who themselves discover some interesting evidence regarding the suicide victim , Rachel Kincaid ( Jen Nikolaisen ) , a pregnancy , and a college Professor in hot water , Andrews ( Robert Donavan ) . The slasher element is rather uninspired as the attacks are very uneventful ( . . a strangulation , a drowning , the aftermath of a stabbing ) , but Olen Ray does what he can with developing the detective crime drama portion of the script . The actors deal with some pretty dire dialogue and rather irksome attempts at humor ( . . a lot of exchanges between the detectives , for instance , whose attempts at wit fall flat ) , but the location is stunning and cinematography sophisticated and polished . There are two lengthly car chases that are well executed and exciting , but this kind of film doesn't really need them . Plenty of tits , but the sex is photographed to avoid explicit details . Kari Wuhrer is a pleasant sight , and is featured in a sizzling fantasy sequence swimming and exiting a pool in a bikini as Sam dreams about her , moving uncomfortably in his bed . But , she is given standard , tired cop lingo and the role is the average detective looking for clues . She certainly deserves better . I didn't think Huff was that bad , given the usual detective role always in trouble with his superiors who demand for him to follow the rules and operate in a controlled manner . Olen Ray vet , Jay Richardson has an amusing cameo as Sam's LA superior , Hugh Janus ( . . say it a few times and you'll get the joke ) . The film has multiple endings as characters under aliases are discovered , correlating with Rachel , the victim in the opening of the movie . Rochon , unestablished in great length at first , does get to come into her own towards the end with a memorable , if cheesy / corny , confrontation with Sam at the end . The resort is simply an ideal , breathtaking place to shoot such a murder mystery , but I sure wish the slasher aspects would've been more inspired .
Terror-Creatures from the Grave	An attorney , Albert Kovac ( Walter Brandi ) visits a villa , reporting to go over a will for a wealthy occult professor , Geoffrey Hauff , who had reportedly died , accidentally falling down steps . His death was recorded by five people , and each one whose name was written down on the report are dying in unusual ways . Albert's vehicle suffered a damaged engine thanks to an owl ( ! ) and he remains at the behest of Geoffrey lovely daughter , Corinne ( Mirella Maravidi ) , who is worried for her life . The Hauff villa was erected where a hospital housing those diseased with the black plague , their severed hands ( . . a punishment for purposely spreading their disease to others ) in a trophy case within the hall containing pictures and various artifacts found by Geoffrey as he conducted his research into the morbid history of the area . There are graves nearby the villa which hold those who died in the hospital , and it was said that Geoffrey was attempting to contact the dead , hoping to bring their spirits from their eternal slumber . Along with Corinne is her step-mother , Cleo ( Barbara Steele ) once a potential actress , who gave up the stage to marry Geoffrey . There's obviously more to the story for why would those specific men who reported Geoffrey's death be the ones dying ? The fifth witness's name is anonymous and he could hold the answer as to why those he was with that night are winding up dead . Unremarkable Gothic horror flick from Massimo Pupillo , who didn't take credit for it ( . . I can't say I blame him ) , using a disconcerting score to keep the viewer on edge even though nothing happens for great lengths . The copy I watched ( Terror Creatures from the Grave ) was ravaged by time , the quality of both the film itself and the audio track have seen better days . I kept hoping that the creatures of the title might make an appearance so that I could at least appreciate something for sitting through this tedious ordeal , but even at the end , we see none of those who rose from their caskets ( . . Tombs of the Blind Dead did this soooooo much better ) and I felt cheated . Steele has a rather thankless role as the wife with secrets , who knows more about that night when her husband died than she's letting on . . I think pretty much anyone watching can figure she's not exactly an innocent . There are some icky make-up grue such as the effects of the plague on a victim's face who assists his master in releasing the spirits of those damned , the effects of a face damaged by the trampling of a distressed horse , and the guts sticking out from the stomach of a victim who impales himself on a sword . Brandi is about as bland as the presentation of the film . Alfredo Rizzo is the local village doctor , Nemek who works with Kovac in determining what is killing the men . Recognizable Italian character actor , Luciano Pigozzi has a very small ( . . but important ) role as Kurt , Geoffrey's loyal and trusted servant who talks to no one . Tilde Till is the very nervous and superstitious maid who trembles while working in the villa . Check this out only if you're a Barbara Steele completest , because the movie itself never rises above a mediocre , shambling exercise that lumbers along at a languid pace challenging you to stay awake . This could sure use a restoration , but I'm not certain it'd be worth it .
Blood Dolls	Rather mediocre fare from the much maligned independent producer / director Charles Band who probably tooled whatever resources were available just to fund the project . Had a very strange quality about it with the shrunken-headed millionaire , Virgil Travis ( Jack Maturin , always carrying a scowl ) his muscle and enforcer in clown-face , Mr . Mascaro ( William Paul Burns ) a disgruntled dwarf assistant , Hylas ( . . the great Phil Fondacaro ) and the imprisoned girl rock band who were sent shock waves if they didn't play their instruments and belt out a selected tune at their master's command . The blood dolls are merely a modern take on the popular dolls made famous in The Puppetmaster . I didn't really care for them , at all . . they are basically designed after modern urban street characters like a scummy pimp and muscle-freak with multiple piercings . We watch as Virgil punishes the two experts under his employ who failed to solve his financial woes , through a drill to the chest with the other shrunken into a doll ! I liked the addition of the true villainous being Moira Yulin ( Debra Mayer , seen mostly in lingerie or in a dominatrix outfit torturing her husband , who remains a subservient little puppy always obeying her , often receiving punishment if he angered her with his idiocy ) who works behind the scenes using her inept husband , Harrison Yulin ( Warren Draper ) to gain power and money , her skill and cunning matching favorably against the pint-headed millionaire with revenge on his mind for being swindled by the three conspirators ( . . one her husband , told through an earpiece what he must say and do as she communicates from a different room ) who worked together to bilk him of billions . Virgil uses his killer dolls , and Mascaro himself , to get bloody revenge against those that wronged him ( . . including Nicholas Worth , from the notorious slasher Don't Answer the Phone , as a pampered millionaire , whose mansion serves as a meeting place to talk with his alliances , including the underused Jodie Fisher as Mercy Shaw ) . I really enjoyed Burn's character the most , a morose , cold , pillar of strength , whose monotone , very serious voice never rose even as he watches his master's questionable acts towards others in violent ways . In fact Mascaro , a very faithful servant , was willing to do whatever it took to please his master . He's just such an unusual character . . Band has the whole film played straight which gives the film an even odder quality . Dabra Mayer , whose resume proves that she's a sport often starring in horror schlock , is quite yummy in her scenes whipping and abusing Draper's wimpy husband . While I agree it doesn't touch Band's older films like Trancers , Subspecies , or The Puppetmaster , I'd have to admit that Blood Dolls ranks as one of his better endeavors , although it feels like the movie was made without a polished script , featuring themes the producer / director depends on entirely ( . . his resume shows that psychotic dolls are perhaps his favorite thematic element in killing folks ) for any success . Not as gory as it should've been and the two endings were unnecessary ( . . either one would've been okay , but to feature two in the movie makes little sense ) .
The Condemned	American Variation on Battle Royale except in this film those put on the island , squared off against each other , with bomb locks around their ankles , are adults ( . . mostly those with a criminal past awaiting Death Row ) . Stone Cold Steve Austin is a black ops federal special forces agent , Jack Conrad , who was infiltrating a drug cartel when he was caught and imprisoned in a Central American jail , bought and placed into the death tournament on a reality internet game . Vinnie Jones is a psychotic former special ops guy himself , McStarley , his was for the British government . The collar bombs have a trigger device that will go off if another competitor presses the button . Those handpicked to compete represent various countries , and only one can survive with the prize being their freedom . The corrupt mastermind behind the whole operation is Breckel ( Robert Mammone ) , who looks like a self-absorbed Harvard grad with an insatiable desire to exploit a selected few to reap millions from those craving real violence . . he wishes to " put on a good show " by manipulating his audience establishing heroes , villains , and the weak victims who are unable to outlast the stronger , more savage foes . We watch as the " condemned " fight for survival , trying to outwit each other , as weapons are parachuted to McStarley , and his temporary Japanese partner Saiga ( Masa Yamaguchi ) purposely by Breckel so that they can gain an advantage as a strategy to make his show more thought-provoking and gripping . What Breckel doesn't expect is how intelligent , resourceful and cunning Conrad is , and how he'll set his sights on getting even with ones responsible for placing him in this difficult , dangerous situation . Breckel underestimates Conrad and an even bigger problem develops as his base camp operation is not too far from the action . Also a sub-plot is those searching for Conrad's whereabouts and attempting to pinpoint where Breckel's operation is located . Those expecting a bloody good time will be sorely disappointed as the frenetic camera work disrupts any kind of thrill the premise might produce . You see a blizzard of blows flash by as the high octane editing process and constantly moving camera remove any possibility of seeing two competitors exchanging real blows in a proper fashion . Stone Cold Steve Austin is a credible enough hero and Vinnie Jones is as unhinged a psycho as ever before , but they are undermined by sloppily staged action sequences which will likely give the intended audience a headache or the desperate craving for Dramamine by the time it's over . There's plenty of hand-to-hand combat sequences which could really hum if the director and cinematographer could keep their damn camera still long enough for us to enjoy it . Perhaps the filmmakers didn't have enough faith in their leads to provide realistic combat , but it's a shame that , burdened by the rather thin story-line , it can not deliver on what it's supposed to . Impressive setting with the jungle and dangerous rocks leading to rushing water as Breckel has cameras spread throughout capturing the action as it unfolds ( . . also having men camouflaged filming some action live on the scene ) . An ongoing story-line has Breckel dealing with the animosity of members of his staff who are finding it hard to deal with the violence that is transpiring . Within the screenplay is an indictment on reality television and the desire for viewing real , live bloodshed . Practically everyone's dead by the end of this film .
The Night Evelyn . .	Lord Alan Cunningham ( Antonio De Teffè ) is a nutjob { seen early on trying to escape an insane asylum } , with this castle slowly succumbing to ruin , likes to kill various hookers who resemble his deceased wife Evelyn , a woman who betrayed him for another man , with those red locks . This nutcase is quite wealthy and his bachelor status can be quite alluring . He , however , is overrun by his obsession with his late wife's memory ( specifically her adultery . . he saw her naked with the lover ) . While the memory of Evelyn is almost devouring his whole existence , Alan tries his best to find true love and believes he has with Gladys ( Marina Malfatti , who spends most of the film naked . . that's probably her lone attribute since she isn't a very good actress ) , who agrees to marry him after a very short courtship which should probably throw up flags right away { there's a key moment of dialogue where she knows exactly to the very amount what he is worth } . The only real person Alan can confide in is his doctor from the hospital , Dr . Richard Timberlane ( Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ) . There are other key characters in this film that revolve around Alan . Alan's cousin , George ( Rod Murdock ) , seems to be quite a good friend who often supplies him victims . . I mean dates , while holding onto hope of getting his lord's estate some day . Albert ( Roberto Maldera ) , Evelyn's brother , is a witness to Alan's slaughter and , instead of turning him into the police , squeezes him for cash . Aunt Agatha ( Joan C Davis ) , wheelchair bound , lives at the castle estate and is often seen snooping around behind cracked doors . We later find that she is having a love affair with Albert . All that is described above services the rest of the story which shows what appears to be the ghost of Evelyn haunting Alan , someone is killing off members of the cast family that revolve around Alan , and the body of Evelyn is indeed missing . The ultimate question is who is committing the crimes after Alan and Gladys are married , where is Evelyn's body , and will Alan go over the edge ? I have to be honest and say I just didn't really care much for this film . It's badly uneven and the pacing is all over the place . It looks great on the new DVD and the " rising from the grave sequence " is cool , but what really hurts the film in my mind is that the entire cast is unlikable . You really have a hard time caring for Alan because he is a psychotic who is skating on thin ice in regards to holding his sanity . He can be quite volatile . Who commits the crime really isn't that great a surprise for after several key characters are murdered off , there aren't but a choice few who could be doing it . What happens to Alan doesn't really make your throat gulp because you can make the argument he's just getting what he deserves . Those behind the whole scheme of the film in regards to Alan , as I pointed out before , aren't that shocking because if you are just slightly aware of certain circumstances ( . . or advantages they'd have ) that would benefit them with the collapse of Alan's sanity , then everything just comes off less than stellar . I thought the editing was choppy and unexciting , but the acting from the entire cast is really below par . Some stylistics help and there is a sniff of Gothic atmosphere in the graveyard sequences to help it some .
The Scarecrow gives Freddy's death a mini-review	Unfortunately , my past love for this film has since vanquished after a rather unsatisfying viewing today . I think the director tries too hard at making this an all out comedy that the essence of what made Freddy Krueger so thrilling is silent . There's never a scene where one feels any kind of chilling effect from Freddy . He never appears ominous and that really hurts because even in the series ' worst effort { " The Dream Child " ) , he has some creepy moments . But , in this film , he comes off as an evil clown and the film floats around Wes Craven's rules of how Freddy operates in the nightmare world and how the victims are effected on the outside despite being asleep . The idea of implementing Nintendo gaming from Freddy and his flying on a broomstick like the Wicked Witch of The West really seems yearning for some desperate laughs . The violence is still gory , but less effective . None of the kills in this film even come close to the intense death scenes in " A Nightmare on Elm Street " or even " The Dream Master . " It's actually almost a laboring attempt from me just to have to watch it for it's like watching a once great series die a long , hard death . Even the weak 3-D gimmick ruins Freddy's supposed exit from horrordom . So the film simply fails on most accounts except for the director showing us Freddy's past . That one aspect , and unfolding the mystery of who Freddy's after , is worthy of noting . It's a sad thing because I have fond memories of watching this film . Perhaps it made for that certain age where you just can more easily accept mediocrity . . and a wise cracking villain doing whatever he wants in a nightmare state .
Frightmare	Conrad Radzoff ( Ferdy Mayne ) , a hammy cult icon , dies from a heart ailment ( not before disposing of an ungrateful assistant and TV commercial director , both of whom disrespected him with showers of insults ) . His body is removed from his mausoleum by some film students ( they wish to " invite him to dinner " . . they are quite big fans ) . What these kids ( . . including a young Jeffrey Combs ) don't expect is that Radzoff will be resurrected by a medium to wreak havoc on those who removed him from his place of rest . The list of violent acts include Radzoff pulling one guy's tongue out , setting a woman on fire , elevating a casket which crushes a woman's face , decapitates one fellow , and cremates another guy alive in a coffin . A really weird soundtrack and pesky fog wraps around Radzoff's ghoulish activities . Silly hokum from Troma is limited by a very , very low budget and slowwwwww pace . The film feels a lot longer than it is . The film isn't really that gory and we can hardly see much violence because the film is often too damn dark . At times , Radzoff is an ominous presence , yet at other times he just looks real silly .
The New Blood : Friday the 13th VI	An emotionally fragile young woman , Tina ( Lar Park Lincoln ) , whose dangerous telekinetic powers led to the murder of her abusive father as a child , returns to Crystal Lake years later at the scene where that incident took place thanks to her demanding psychologist , Dr . Crews ( a delightfully slimy Terry Kiser , easily the most interesting character , and better than average performance , of the film ) who secretly plans to exploit her abilities when she's able to control them . In anger at the difficult situation she's facing , she releases a " telekinetic shockwave " which unleashes Jason Voorhees from the bouldered chain holding him captive underwater . Across from her cabin is a birthday celebration being held by a group of young adults who will unknowingly fall one by one to the hockey-masked psycho ready to pick up where he left off many years ago . If director John Carl Buechler had been able to deliver to franchise fans the version he made , this would be mentioned in the same breath as bloody slasher faves , " Maniac " & " The Prowler " ( . . even " The Prowler " director Joseph Zito's Friday film is allowed bloody rites ) . Having seen the deleted gore scenes , you can not help but feel slighted by those involved with censoring ( . . more like butchering ) this sequel . It's a shame because the deleted footage is in rather bad shape , having been buried in Paramount's vault unprotected for many years without much care it seems . There are some really inspired gory bits such as Jason forming his hands into a vice crushing one poor soul's skull like a walnut as blood squirts from the orifices of his face , one victim receiving a chopping ax to the face opening a gaping crevice with gushing blood , one man getting Jason's arm ran completely through him , and another penetrated through the stomach with a spinning saw blade . As is , the slasher film is mostly Jason killing victims off-screen , wiping away the make-up grue completed by the special effects company . What ultimately hurts this film is that the cast of victims attending a supposed birthday party ( . . and a few scattered victims elsewhere Jason runs into ) aren't very interesting at all , merely the same repeated clichés you expect in a sixth sequel to a franchise whose best days seem long past . If you don't have , at the very least , the gory bits inserted into the final product , what's the point of sitting through this umpteenth sequel ? This type of slasher product is specifically designed for Friday fans and gorehounds . . if this film isn't allowed to cater to those it's designed for , what is the point of releasing this film at all ? Anyway , the film's bread and butter has to be the special effects showcase at the end as Tina faces off with Jason . . for once , Jason is provided a worthy adversary who can oppose him . I think this is the only success of true note for Buechler , except some effective camera shots of Jason around cabins , in the woods , and following him as he closes in on those who are about to meet their maker . I do think Hodder is the best representation of Jason , and his make-up job ( both his rotting body and shredded outfit and facial work ) is great . The house explosion at the end is well executed as well . The rating I give the film is for the finished product forced against the director's wishes onto the viewer .
They	One of those " there's something hidden in the dark " kind of horror flicks ( . . like BOOGEYMAN ; 2005 ) , certainly not a choice for those with Nyctophobia . The film never fully spells out what " they " are so we must accept that the " night terrors " that plague our traumatized victims suffering sleep deprivation , are creatures from another type of world / dimension returning to collect those " marked " as children . Director Robert Harmon ( THE HITCHER ; 1986 ) never gives us an entire look of the creature . . just a silhouette of something in the distance moving around , barely recognizable , but just visible enough to allow you an idea that it is present and dangerous . Harmon establishes that what you do not see can be far more scary , or at least that seems to be his goal . . whether it works or not depends on the viewer , if you are gripped by what has beset the poor young adults . The film primarily focuses on Julia Lund ( Laura Regan ; MY LITTLE EYE ) , a psyche major , working on her thesis , whose phobia of the dark ( . . night terrors ) are reawakened after a friend from childhood blows his brains out right in front of her . Soon , Laura meets others who have similar problems with " those who hide in the dark " , Sam ( Ethan Embry ) & Terry ( Dagmara Dominczyk ) . We watch as this trio succumb to those hunting them because you can only run so long from the dark . Ambiguous and extremely grim conclusion left me rather torn . . in a way , I applaud not always letting our lead off the hook in a daring decision by the filmmakers , yet I would've liked to have understood why the creatures ever returned the kids to start with . And , if they were afraid of the light , how could they cause power to go off ? And , what's the reason behind waiting until the characters reached 25 ? The level of uncertainty in the psychology of the creatures themselves makes so little sense , I'm kind of bewildered at what causes them to act the way they do . Maybe , that's beside the point altogether . . it's not about why they come after these characters it's about their pursuit period . Most will overlook the details , focus on the monsters themselves , and watch in horror as the characters attempt futilely to escape to no avail . Marc Blucas is Paul , Julia's paramedic boyfriend who worries about her worsening mental state . Jay Brazeau is Julia's old psychiatrist , Dr . Booth , attempting to help her snap out of what he considers an emotional crisis due to her friend's suicide , and how she couldn't rescue him from such a decision . Another one of those flicks boasting credits featuring Wes Craven's name ( . . which was a hot commodity at the time ) .
The Scarecrow reviews " Bloody Pom Poms "	Getting it out right now , this film is completely lame . . and basks in it's absurdity . The film follows the same line of many " Friday The 13th " type of psychos picking off scantily clad teens , but it just wallows gleefully in it's cheesiness the film is hard not to enjoy a little bit . You have the prototypical heavy kid who is ripe for exploiting himself { aren't fat people supposed to always be the butt of jokes in the Anti-PC 80's ? } with getting his butt stuck in a window as he is flashing people ( I couldn't help it . . I giggled uncontrollably ) , dresses as a woman while spying on chicks showing their tits , and gets his stomach ripped open with guts splattering out . Betsy Russell plays a young teen with hideously , tiresomely goofy nightmares whose boyfriend is Leif Garrett { in the " how far my life has sunk " role often welcomed by once " prominent " stars } . Lucinda Dickey plays Betsy's " pal " and Lorie Griffen { the babe in " Teen Wolf " who is the stuck up snob we all know and love } plays a goofy , but lovable ditz . The film embellishes silly characterizations , but has an " I don't care " attitude that one might admire . There are some violent deaths , but most of the gore is shown not seen in the actual moment . It is not a good film , but it could probably fill the craving for a cheesy 80's horror item if one is looking for it .
The Gate 2	A rather obscure ( . . and , more than likely , remain obscure ) sequel to the entertaining 80's offering , The Gate , brings two of the components that made the first a success . . Louis Tripp returns as troubled and lonely nerd Terrence and the director pulling strings once again , Tibor Takács . This film takes a different direction than the first for instead of keeping it in a central location , the house possessed , this film follows Terrence and the problems that exist when he decides to go fooling around with the demonic gateway again . This time three obnoxious teenagers , Liz ( Pamela Segall ) , John ( James Villemaire ) , and Moe ( Simon Reynolds ) , butt in on Terrence as he is attempting to open the gateway in the remains of his former neighbor friend's house . Terrence , in his carefully studied research , finds that you can call forth a demon and get wishes granted with proper persuasion . So John , the clichéd bully and his stooge , Moe wish to push around Terrence and mock his even trying to do such a thing as conjuring demons . But , through the insistence of believer Liz , John and Moe humor Terrence to a degree and partake in his little ceremony . This ceremony yields the result of a demon ( one of those little demons that like to bite . . we seen many of them in the first film ) who is instantly shot by John because he is in this film to simply cause conflict and aggravation . He's a butt-head and Moe is here to be his lackey to run into trouble with . Obviously , Liz will warm to Terrence because he is the supposed hero of the picture , though to be honest he's a wee bit creepy in his Satanic garb and " demon-speak " . He actually admits to Liz that he only wishes to conjure the demon so that his job-less , drunk father could get his pilot job back . Each of the four teens get wishes when they threat the demon ( . . who is able to come back to life when Terrence keeps him in a jar of liquid ) . They find that their wishes , though , have serious drawbacks via " Monkey's Paw . " This film , as directed by Takács is not as thrilling as the original because it takes us deep within the whole demonic angle which often descends into foolishness , especially when wishes are granted then taken away . The whole mythology of the gateway as it pertains to Terrence and his cohorts can really get confusing as we hear how everything works and see it . John and Moe try to kidnap the demon to get wishes granted and find that their bodies have become the way out of hell for the " Unholy trinity " who need Terrence as the third gateway and Liz as the sacrifice . The ending has them in another dimension with Terrence about to slay poor Liz who begs for him to fight the force taking him over . It's a weird film , and for that alone this might be interesting for those searching for something different . I guess those who like the first film might try to check it out , but may be disappointed to find it takes a whole different approach . The scares and creepy atmosphere is not present , but the film is so unusual and weird , The gate 2 might just be your kind of diversion from the norm of today's horror film .
Blood Hook	Cheap no-budget slasher with a rather absurd premise . . the ever increasing sound of cicadas who react strongly to rock music ( ! ) cause a local fisherman ( . . whose metal plate in his skull , a surgical procedure made after getting shot in the head during the Korean war , causes such harsh vibrations that he responds violently ) to go berserk casting his line towards unfortunate victims in his general area , the massive float and numerous hooks embedded in the flesh jerking them towards him . He chops the victims up and uses their meat for feeding his minnows ! It seems that this grisly process helps him lure in more quality fish ! A small group of teenager friends enter this fishing village as a tournament is about to begin . As we witness in the opening , Peter van Cleese ( Mark Jacobs ) returns to the place where he watched his father fall into the river never to be found , the loud cicadas skrieking due to the music playing on a tape player . Peter has remained troubled due to this incident and is unwelcome by his father's grounds-keeper , Wayne Duerst ( Paul Drake ) , a very bitter and rude old man who holds a hostility for how his lost friend mysteriously vanished . Wayne's rather unbalanced son , Evelyn ( . . the blubbery Bill Lowrie , with some truly awful dialogue he must endure , trying to express a very disturbed , volatile , and ugly creation of the Vietnam war in an over-the-top and outrageous manner ) hangs around the place , causing the city kids some unneeded aggravation . We also follow a family of four , who enter the fishing community on vacation with father and mother Roger & Shiela Swain ( Don Cosgrove & Bonnie Lee ) falling prey to the homicidal fisherman , Leroy Leudke ( Don Winters ) . . Irving and Ruth-Ann ( Greg Nienas and Julie Vortanz ) are left worried about their parents whereabouts as the local sheriff ( Paul Heckman ) , burdened with little manpower , must begin an investigation in such a prosperous time for his community . Of importance to the advancing plot , Irving uses a metal detector given to him by a more mentally balanced Leudke , to discover certain truths which will indicate the fisherman of his sinister deeds . In a minor sub-plot , Peter's pal , Finner ( Christopher Whiting ) and a local gal , Bev D ( Sandy Meuwissen ) have a blossoming romance that is disrupted rather quickly when it's discovered that her husband is Evelyn ! As Peter pursues the one responsible for attacks on his friends , he'll need some help from Wayne in order to do so . The gore is at a minimum , with most victims , from a large distance , getting hooked by Leudke ( . . always out of frame ) either swimming , on a boat or float , even on ground . It's hard to take these attacks seriously as the victims are strong enough to outlast Leudke who must reel them in like a fish . . it's just too ridiculous ( . . particularly Peter's girlfriend , Ann ( Lisa Todd ) who is a good distance away when the master fisherman snags her ) , and illogical to expect any one with such capacity to pull a victim into the water , reel them in despite resistance , bound them , carry them all the way back to his dock , and subdue them . We often see victims struggling with the hooks , attempting to free themselves as Leudke yanks and jerks . Peter's friends are extremely obnoxious , very vulgar and rude , acknowledging that visitors from the city deserve to die and horribly as they enter the uncharted territory of a rural fishing village . This is even painted with the suburban family whose patriarch is a big city hot shot , deeming himself the expert fisherman because he could afford the very best materials needed for the sport , with the perfectly annoying , nagging wife . The locals are a collection of colorful oddballs , as expected when depicted in the backwoods regions of rural America . One effects sequence is terribly executed and laughable , when Leudke nabs a victim , he jabs a rod into his neck , through his lower jaw so that he can pull a hook out his mouth . . the cast of the actor's complete face looks exactly that with little authenticity . The cheap budget shows all the way through . The premise is original , but too nonsensical for it's own good . . how could even an expert fisherman as Leudke be able to accurately hook victims from such a distance away ? Still , it's rare to see a slasher film set in a fishing community using the tools of the trade so at least it has that going for it . Director Jim Mallon is best known for his duties as executive producer for Mystery Science Theater 3000 . This film was released by Team Troma , but doesn't carry it's usual trademarks , except for the low budget , weirdo characters , bad acting , and strange plot .
Carnage	Andy Milligan schlockfest concerning newlyweds and their pals terrorized by the restless spirit of a murdered bride who wishes for those who occupy her humble abode to leave . This very disturbed ghost bride causes objects of all sorts to move , harm , and kill those who are in , or around , the home for which her husband blew her brains out before turning the gun on himself . Whether it be the newly hired maid or a pair of burglars who just so happen to pick the wrong house to attempt to rob , the bride will frighten and destroy you with whatever weapon might be at her disposal . Michael Chiodo and Leslie Den Dooven are the newlywed couple , The Hendersons , who fail to leave despite the weird goings-on ( . . such as a phonograph which plays the melody of " Here Comes the Bride . . " over and over or home appliances and tea cups continuously moved around when their backs are turned ) and this decision to stay , including a housewarming which leads to a friend slipping on a rug moved by the apparition with broken glass landing into her skin , opening a very bloody wound , and another pal taking a bath when a radio is thrown into the water electrocuting him , will yield repercussions . Like The Amityville Horror , The Hendersons , against obvious signs that something supernatural is present , remain while most of us would get a clue and head out of Dodge . Will The Hendersons be able to survive inside this haunted house or leave while the going's good ? Following the footsteps of Ed Wood , Al Adamson , and Hershell Gordon Lewis , Andy Milligan lends his support to the bad movie movement , writing , photographing and directing ( . . maybe he even catered for all we know ) this flat , snail-paced , poorly performed disaster with hokey gore and poltergeist effects . A supposedly decapitated hand literally falls out of a shirt sleeve . You can tell that strings are pulling the objects which are supposed to move by themselves . The terror scenes which feature the ghost bride ( . . whose eyes are completely white , featuring blood on her wedding gown ) popping up to freak out her victims are embarrassingly corny ( . . particularly the attack on the maid ) . As a horror film , this doesn't work at all , but as a comedy , unintentional or not ( . . I had a feeling , Milligan features quite a bit of intentional comedic haunt bits throughout , in particular the pranks the bride pulls on The Hendersons , hiding a notepad or hanging up a phone when a person was on the opposite line ; even the scene where the bathing victim is electrocuted , he's singing to polka music from the very radio which ultimately kills him ! ) it often entertains . Milligan's cast resemble amateur actors who probably made appearances in a local theater or were friends of his . The practical effects often feature poor make-up , where the wounds are , with squirting blood . The film features amusing dialogue between characters conversing about trivial matters . There are conversations between a secondary character and her psychiatrist mom ( . . about a deteriorating marriage , and upcoming pregnancy ) which has little to do with the major storyline . . . the relationship problems between Walter ( John Garrit ) and Susan ( Deeann Veeder ) which they share with moms takes up large portions of the film , probably servicing the film as filler , before they accept the dreaded housewarming invite from The Hendersons . I did particularly enjoy the banter between Carol's father and his meddlesome maid , Martha , who calls to her attention that the house might be haunted , with pops telling her to quit talking such nonsense . . how aggrevated they are with each other . The film does feature melodrama which brings a rather surreal awkwardness when the graphic violence occurs . . it was as if Milligan was attempting to make two films , and neither is very good ! The characters featured in this film reminded me of those kooky relatives you love but often wish to avoid . The editing during the supernatural attacks will probably either induce groaning , pity , or laughter . Possibly features the worst decapitation ever produced and the flying hatchet which targets a priest ( . . not to mention the whole sequence where the spirits of Ann and Mark Webb cause a maelstrom with intent to harm the priest ) will elicit certain chuckles . The scene where another robber is stuck in the throat with a pitchfork , containing a horribly executed " guts removal " will also tickle the funny bone of many . The ending , where the Webbs wish for The Hendersons to remain , provoking a possible " reinactment " of their demise , doesn't really make a hell of a lot of sense .
Monkey Shines : An Experiment in Fear	A recent quadriplegic named Allan ( Jason Beghe ) , and former track star , finds it hard coping with life having been confined to a wheelchair . His friend Geoffrey ( John Pankow ) is conducting experiments on a certain monkey named Ella which is through a hypodermic filled with a serum that derives from trimmings of frozen human brains in liquefied form . The experiments are about continuing the evolution of primate life into carrying more human characteristics . As Geoff tells his boss , Dr . Burbage ( great character actor Stephen Root of OFFICE SPACE fame ) Ella was already highly intelligent even before the experiments started , but something much more sinister develops when she becomes Allan's animal aide . Ella grows quite attached to Allan and vice versa , but something between them occurs that defies rational explanation . . they are psychologically linked somehow meaning that when Ella goes out into the night , Allan sees through her eyes . It doesn't stop there . . Allan feels what Ella feels and others around him see his behavioral changes which are unlike him such as outbursts of anger and profanity . Allan tries telling others about his link with Ella , but you can understand why they might be worried about his state of mind . But , soon Ella's aggressive nature turns violent and death to others that pose a threat either physically or emotionally ( such as a girlfriend who leaves him after his accident for the doctor who performed an operation on his spine ) occur . Melanie ( Kate McNeil ) is a specialist in the training of monkeys in how they assist those in need of an aide . She is the one that was coerced by Geoff into training Ella to help Allan . Allan and Melanie , as the film continues , fall in love . Melanie will pose a direct threat to Ella as the monkey can not stand others coming between her and Allan . Dorothy ( Joyce Van Patten ) is Allan's mother , a woman who wishes to help Allan but is more bothersome and intrusive than she realizes . Christine Forrest , the director George Romero's wife , portrays Maryanne , a belligerent nurse who complains all the time in regards to how bothersome Allan and his monkey are towards making her life miserable . Maryanne has a parrot which flies into Allan's unprotected face too often and will suffer for it . The longer the film continues , the more it induces eye-rolling . . the premise is so outrageous and preposterous , it's hard not to chuckle . It is one of George's most Hollywood-ish films often allowing contrivances so that Allan will escape dangerous situations when Ella goes on violent . The whole " link " between man and primate thanks to an experimental concoction by Geoff is never fully explained satisfactorily leaving a gaping plot hole that is a wart to what the film is trying to accomplish . It's one thing to let a monkey get away with what Ella does , but another to ask us to believe that Allan feels and sees what she does . Thankfully Kate McNeil is a delightful , welcome presence in the film bringing some class to a rather mundane Romero effort . Disappointing film can not really build suspense because of the stupid story-line . If I wasn't such an Admirer of George's work , my rating would be lower .
feardotcom	Detective Mike Reilly ( Stephen Dorff ) , with assistance from Department of Helth inspector Terry Huston ( Natascha McElhone ) seek the truth behind a series of strange deaths where victims have horrifying facial expressions of fear , mouths opened wide , dry blood trickled from their eyes . These victims fell prey to a creepy website , " feardotcom " where a homicidal rejected medical surgeon , Alistair Pratt ( Stephen Rea ) commits grisly torturous acts to female victims until they beg to die . It seems that once a person logs on to this site ( . . and is willing to play ) , in 48 hours each one dies under horrifying circumstances , often through suicide because the hallucinogenic fears they see are too much to deal with . Pratt is a serial killer Reilly has been unable to capture , with the mad doctor sending him letters as a way to tease the detective . It seems that victims are falling under the supernatural spell of the first Pratt surgical casualty , Jeannine ( Gesine Cukrowski ) whose restless vengeful spirit lives within the Internet wires for which her death was publicized . She wants her body and Pratt found before her soul can rest . . both Reilly and Terry will take part in her game so that this can happen . I loved the way this film looks and the dread and unsettling nature that exists . But , the preposterous premise and lack of chemistry between Dorff and McElhone left me rather underwhelmed and frustrated . The visual work , through the technical collaboration of director William Malone and cinematographer Christian Sebatldt , is stunning . They create quite the nightmarish landscape . . this world we inhabit , particularly at night , is both beautifully conceived ( . . using light , with fluid camera-work , and highlighting the murky world of a city with a moral plight ) yet unpleasant and disturbing . The hallucinations of those who enter the gates of feardotcom often are quite ominous and skin-crawling ( . . such as roaches or apparitions which visit our heroes looking for the killer ) . Rea's cold and uncaring psychopath , seen constantly tormenting a recently kidnapped and bound female victim , is quite a chilling interpretation and his hellish environs certainly only add to the evil of his character . Dorff and his police station is modeled after those noirish types from the 30's . He's hard-boiled and laconic , but maybe a wee bit too young and unimposing for a leader of a force seeking murderers . McElhone is maybe just too beautiful for us to accept her as a blue-collar lonely-heart with a crummy Health inspector job . I say see this movie for it's " Hellraiser without the Cenobites " look and feel and expect a rather far-fetched premise . The film is extremely dark with minor moments of humor injected sparingly thanks to Terry . Malone may need work as a story-teller , but his visual eye can produce some striking images and set-pieces .
Population 436	An employee for the census bureau discovers something quite sinister underneath the homey , folksy atmosphere of Rockwell Falls which has a community of people all speaking as one collective unit with smiles wide . We see that anyone who might oppose the town's ways , however , are considered " feverish " and must be cured by Dr . Greaver ( David Ames ) . The bureau man is Steve ( Jeremy Sisto ) and along the way he befriends Deputy Bobby ( Fred Durst , not bad ) who is quite sure that the lovely Courtney ( Charlotte Sullivan ) will marry him . But , Courtney secretly wishes to leave Rockwell Falls and begins a romance with Steve that can prove critical to their survival as the very religious town keeps all eyes on the " visitor " . Many of the townsfolk already include Steve as one of their citizens and soon he'll discover one of Doc Greaver's " patients " is a normal girl named Amanda ( Reva Timbers ) whose father dies tragically at the opening of the film because he wished to leave Rockwell Falls . The township believe that anyone who remains in Rockwell Falls overnight will never leave because God wouldn't allow it . Somehow , Steve will have to find a way out of this madhouse also trying to play hero by saving Amanda & Courtney as well . Plays best as an extended Twilight Zone episode . . certainly has that vibe . I think it has a problem of what it wants to be , though . It seems to play for a while as a paranoia thriller where people who go within a town have a hard time escaping . Then if anyone who attempts to go against the town's principles , will face being lobotomized by Greaver as being sick . Yet , there's a twist that offers a supernatural aspect regarding Steve being able to escape that just didn't wash with me . But , that twist merely backs up a claim by the crazed citizens of Doc Greaver's " paradise . " Disturbing and at times effectively creepy with a good performance from Sisto as the unfortunate Steve .
I Am Legend	A plague sweeps across the world and renders civilization a mass of dead and infected savages ( . . named Darkseekers who only hunt at night with an inability to withstand sunlight it seems ) , a survivor , Doctor Robert Neville ( Will Smith ) seeks a cure , working effortlessly in his lab , slowly losing hope of ever achieving such a feat . He also often hunts the Darkseekers at night , setting traps to capture live specimens so that he can attempt to cure them . During the struggle to find a cure , Neville's resolve and courage begin to dwindle , and his need for human interaction are proving to become his undoing . Rather simply and predictably told , with CGI creatures which look like characters from a video game , it's Smith's riveting performance that keeps this rather weak interpretation afloat . Some action / thriller elements are delivered somewhat well as Neville finds himself in life-threatening situations with the Darkseekers . Alice Braga and Charlie Tahan are Anna and Ethan , mother and son survivors who enter Neville's life towards the middle of the film as he , in desperation and despair , almost kills himself by driving straight into an army of Darkseekers . Smith is able to convey a sense of loss and a desperate need for companionship with the film expressing a quiet , devastated New York City . Smith's work opposite his pet companion , Samantha , are really effective and his scene with a department store mannequin echo The Twilight Zone episode , Is There Anybody Out There ? But , you've seen this all before and the film really doesn't set itself apart from other films which focused on the same type of Matheson story . Still Smith does what is required of him and the film benefits from such a performance even if the special effects are not up to par .
The Other Hell	The mysterious deaths of nuns is investigated by the Catholic Church sending a new breed of priest in Father Valerio ( Carlo De Mejo ) , hoping to find a killer in the convent . Valerio believes that the idea of a supernatural evil force lurking in the convent ran by Mother Vincenza ( Franca Stoppi ) is pure rubbish , instead seeking a demented psychopath amongst them , committing murders . What Valerio doesn't realize is that Vincenza is in league with Satan , having cavorted with the lord of darkness , hiding their female spawn in the attic of the convent . The nuns under Vincenza's watch have been driven to fear , with many of them overcome by demonic possession . . any opposing threats , such as the elder Father Inardo ( Andrea Aureli ) who tries to use the rites of exorcism in cleansing the nunnery of it's evil , are destroyed . Vincenza will do whatever it takes to keep anyone from taking her daughter away . In other words , Valerio has a spiritual and physical battle on his hands . Bruno Mattei mentioned in an interview for the DVD release of " The Other Hell " that this flick was remastered from an obscure 16 mm print , having been a flop during it's initial release and abandoned . I guess , even though it's such a bizarre demonic horror nunsploit that often lacks in coherency opting to blindside the viewer with unhinged behavior and gory violence , that we should be somewhat thankful that this film can be seen at all . I can sure say it wasn't boring . Franca Stoppi sure lets it all hang out as the evil Mother Superior , wielding a knife at the end ready to viciously stab anyone that got in her way . There's this witches ' den with a burning cauldron , coffins containing murdered nuns , a slab for " wicked nuns who committed sinful atrocities " where we actually see one dead corpse get her innards plucked , laboratory tubes and flasks bubbling with liquid , etc . There's this cool tunnel leading to the den containing rows of skulls , kind of a " cryptic " form of art . We actually see a possessed nun tormented by blood-oozing stigmatic attack . The priest , Father Inardo is set on fire in his attempts to exorcise the nunnery . We see Franco Garofalo's grounds-keeper / animal wrangler / cook Boris ' hand covered in maggots and bitten by a dog . . he's later attacked in the throat by an unleashed dog . We see an actual rooster beheaded for later din-din . Vincenza and Satan's spawn lives in a small room where dolls and mannequins hang from the neck . We see a previous Mother Superior actually attempting to boil Vincenza's infant daughter in a pot on a stove ( . . and for goofy effect , which might have many chuckling with glee , Vincenza's infant , clearly a doll , telepathically murders the Mother Superior ) . Plenty of audacious moments on display certainly to entertain those craving the twisted delights Mattei and writer Claudio Fragasso churn out in doses . I guess this is probably Mattei's best film . . quite an outrageous concoction of surreal and horrific images . I think it , if anything , will entertain those that are not offended by the blasphemous material . The Goblin score , used from Buio Omega , somehow actually works in this film .
Poultrygeist : Night of the Chicken Dead	Director Lloyd Kaufman returns with another no-holds-barred gore-fest , completely tongue-in-cheek , with plenty of offensive jokes and gags to ridicule nearly every kind of religion and race . Wherever you stand , this film likely pokes fun at you . Parts musical ( ! ) with characters bursting into song at certain points during the plot ( . . or what plot there is ) . A chicken restaurant is built on an ancient Indian burial ground , but this is used merely as an excuse to enact some of the most sickening acts of violence you could ever hope for , even seeing humans transforming into sadistic cannibalistic beaked birds . The film centers around nerd Arbie ( Jason Yachanin ) who is irate at his girlfriend's new position as both a lesbian and vegetarian , whose latest lay is an activist against that chicken restaurant on the burial ground . Arbie takes a job at the place in revenge , but agonizes over her leaving him for another , the choice being a woman even infuriates him more . Wendy doesn't know her lover's true motivations , which have a lot to do with the franchise their protesting . The chicken become " infected " by eggs carrying " evil spirits " ( . . more like a type of green goo , often seen in Troma films ) and when customers eat the food they hideously deform into birds with an appetite for human flesh . We are privy to the siege on the restaurant , Arbie's fellow co-workers falling prey to the infection , and his attempts to protect Wendy as zombie chicken humans attempt to rip apart anyone human . As always , Kaufman finds every kind of way to shock and disgust , through grotesque gore-murders and parodying political and religious people in equal measure . I think his main target are both vegetarians and meat-eaters , many often killed in hideous methods imaginable . As you'd expect , the cast know what kind of movie they're in and perform in that fashion . Kate Graham goes all out as Arbie's love , Wendy , but , to me , Allyson Sereboff was frighteningly skinny as her lesbian lover Micki . Robin Watkins , as corrupt businessman General Lee Roy , grins wide and sends up the hick image with gusto , wearing white and deceiving his customers , knowing that his product has been corrupted by something poisonous and dangerous to humans . There's an orgy of violence and sex in one lengthy sequence where the customers who ate polluted chicken either turn into bird-zombies or those human casualties who are torn into for consumption . Kaufman has lots of grotesque mutations springing from the human bodies reaction to turning into birds . There were times where I thought I was gonna hurl . One victim sprouts " egg-breasts " hatching chicks ! A person's face is pulled off . A broom is stabbed completely through a bird-zombie's crotch . A victim is pushed into a slicer with blood and flesh ( . . and a leg ) spraying all over the restaurant kitchen . A victim's face is forced into a slicer . I could go on and on . Zombie fans craving flesh eating will be satisfied . In other words , if you are a gorehound , then this flick will give you plenty to cheer about . I could do without the musical numbers and many of the jokes and gags fall flat , but it often made me cringe , and I did find the overall film amusing . Jihad or Catholic Priest , gay or straight , black or white , everyone is skewered , Troma fans should be in heaven . Kaufman has a funny supporting part as Arbie in a few decades , reminding him that this is not the career one should strive for . To describe the film's tastelessness , an employee at the restaurant , screws a dead chicken , before it was to be prepared for cooking , with it possessed and growing into a monster on his crotch !
Lost Boys : The Tribe	Parentless young adult siblings , " ex-communicated " surfer Chris ( Tad Hilgenbrink , who resembles a younger James Marsden ) and his 17 year old ' lil sis , Nicole ( Autumn Reeser ) move to lousy Luna Bay where a group of vampires , led by their leader , Shane ( Angus Sutherland , definitely not his half-brother Kiefer ) hunt for fresh victims at night . Shane was once a popular , well-recognized surfer who decided that vampirism was his new avenue in life , and he immediately takes a shine to Nicole ( . . of course ) . Seduced by the charming , brooding , and polite Shane , Nicole , believing it to be liquor , actually drinks his blood from a flask with terrifying consequences . Discovering the hard way that vampires are in fact very real ( . . a truly sizzling babe , who comes onto him strong , attempts to take a bite , getting " antlered " in the process ) , Chris is almost torn apart by Nicole until a certain " vampire hunter " , Edgar Frog ( Corey Feldman , stealing every scene he's in , and a welcome returning presence to the sequel ) rescues him through a knock on the head with a surf board . Chris finds out from Edgar that she can be saved ( . . she's only " half-vampire " ) if he stakes Shane , the one responsible for her condition , before she feeds . Not an easy task because , having true feelings for him , Nicole follows his call to her , embracing the dark side . . can Chris save her ? Edgar informs Chris that he will have to gain access into the group , discover their lair ( . . which is shielded from sunlight , " a cold , dank place with a smell of decay and rot " , as Edgar so eloquently describes ) and put an end to Shane or Nicole will be forever lost . In doing this , comes danger . . Chris will have to drink from Shane's blood in order to infiltrate their " tribe " . Only together , can Chris and Edgar defeat the " forces of evil " . The initial novelty of this particular movie ( . . twenty years after the fact ) was seeing the two Coreys returning . A whole generation ( . . mine actually , the thirty-somethings ) grew up with the first film and the idea of a returning sequel kind of built an enthusiasm . Then came the film itself , with little ( . . and that means VERY little ) of Haim , and a nice little supporting turn for Feldman , who " frogs " his voice to sound as he did as a kid . Director PJ Pesce ( . . a sequels director , of such films as Sniper 3 and From Dusk Till Dawn 3 ) even allows Edgar to repeat some lines almost identically to what he said as a kid regarding where his knowledge came from ( . . comic books ) and the tools of the trade in defeating them . We do learn that Edgar's brother fell prey to a vampire , hinted at during conversations with Chris . . and the vampire responsible we are notified about during the middle of end credits . Unlike the first film , aimed at a much younger audience , this sequel is aimed at the older crowd , with buckets of bloody gore and plenty of tits ( . . and even a bit of sex such as Chris ' little love-making session with the aforementioned vampire babe in Shane's shower ) . We see the graphic reactions vampires suffer when staked through the heart ( . . and one head is exploded when a wooden stake goes right through it ) and the feeding frenzy by a campfire on naughty girls , loosened by liquor , is particularly grisly . The film is really predictable and the climactic battle between Chris and Shane , for which Nicole inevitably gets involved , doesn't hold a candle to the final showdown between Kiefer and Patric of the original . And , why must an enigmatic vampire leader , with rock-star looks , have to adopt to his entourage such an obnoxious group ? This actually is closer in spirit to the original , though . But , the original had such a collection of familiar faces ( Dianne Wiest , Barnard Hughes , Edward Herrmann , Jami Gertz ) that are sorely missed and this sequel is rather soulless , for the exception of Feldman's presence . I think this film delivers the goods the original couldn't capitalize on in regards to the blood-shed and nudity , but there's a sense of fun that seems missing . It's so hard to duplicate the success of a much beloved vampire film which has become an endearing part of many's youth . Haim's less-than-glamorous cameo will cause die hard fans of the original a lot of grief , who were hoping for perhaps a lot more of him , in a supporting role with some worth . As it stands , it seems like his scene was shot just so that he could be in the movie ( . . if you call his scene being " in the movie " ) . While it was kind of cute having a Sutherland returning to this film , Angus just doesn't have a prayer escaping the massive shadow Kiefer left behind . Gabrielle Rose replaces Wiest as Jillian , thankfully for only a small portion of screen time . Tom Savini has a nifty cameo as a vampire whose condo and beach are " comandeered " by Shane and his goons ( . . the carnage really opens the movie with a bang ) .
Dark Corners	" I think that's what hell is . . It's having your sins pulled out from the dark corners of your soul and served up to you in this endless loop of torture . " This is a dialogue scene which answers the huge question you might be asking yourselves as the film continues . . what the hell is going on with the dame ( s ) . You have two Thora Birchs . . one in a shiny green suburban happy setting ( despite the background noise of news speaking of a Night Stalker killing local women ) and the other is a garbage metallic nightmarish world quite relative ( or and extension ) to David Lynch's Eraserhead where the colors bleed steel and grime . The shiny beautiful Birch is Karen , trying desperately to have children with her wonderful husband David ( Christien Anholt ) whose kooky , witty pal Elaine ( Joanna Hole ) refers her to a " hypnotherapist " Dr . Woodleigh ( Toby Stephens , the bond villain from " Die Another Day " ) who might can assist her in ridding herself of the nightmares she keeps continuously having . Those nightmares consist of a black-headed Birch named Susan who keeps getting attacked by someone dressed in a hood with a demonic face . Susan's world is full of unsavory , creepy characters who look like scary hobos with devious intent always staring and jeering her . For a while , it seems that Susan's world is just a nightmare of Karen's but as the film progresses it begins seeping into reality with both worlds slowly merging . But , as in the case of many of these psychological twisty thrillers , everything is not what it seems . In both planes , the supposed reality of Karen and nightmare fantasy of Susan , their female pals die at the hand of a hooded serial killer . It begins to seem as if she has some primary link with the murderer and murders themselves . Certain items in the nightmarish realm of Susan may open up answers to the curious riddles in the plot . . who is doing the killing and what is exactly real and fantasy ? In the vein ( or a direct rip-off of ) of the fright fest looping nightmarish film " Salvage " , DARK CORNERS follows the same premise and has the same basic finish . The killer of the film is reliving his / her sins and we watch it unfold with Karen as the protagonist . Is what we are watching ever real to begin with or just events unfolding for someone else to relive endlessly for infinity as punishment ? This kind of demented head-scratcher will have quite a few viewers gunning for the eject button because it's a tale of mind-toying where we are part of this long unorthodox nightmare where nothing is what it seems . I felt it resembles " Salvage " a bit too much so that feeling of deja vu was quite apparent throughout , especially in the film's denouement revealing explanation as to why everything is so warped and oddball . The difference between this and " Salvage " is the caliber of actress in Thora Birch and the production values . But , " Salvage " is a nightmare that loops far more than DARK CORNERS which tackles one event over the film's duration using the nightmare as a means of describing the perplexity of the one who is behind the murders .
The Wild Angels	Indie Corman flick about how the lives of a group of Hell's Angels , particularly leader Blues ( Peter Fonda ) , change when one of their own ( Bruce Dern ) is harmed after stealing a police officer's bike . More of a curio regarding neo-nazi riders living by their own rules and partying non-stop , but I kind of felt there's not a lot here except that . This is obviously made for a certain crowd who probably worship it , but I felt it was just dated and silly . It does kind of get disturbing how reckless they live and that mantra of doing things their own way while thumbing nose at " The Man " was probably certainly embraced at that time when the world was changing because of Vietnam . Their behavior is questionable , but I found their chosen symbol of the Third Reich more artistic dressing than representing Hitler and his evil path . Has an interesting cast such as Nancy Sinatra as Mike , Blues ' love interest and Diane Ladd as Gaysh , the lover of Loser , the one badly wounded . More for those who love seeing a group of rowdy roughies getting wasted , dancing gleefully to silly beach pop tunes , and living it up in depravity .
House of the Dead	An adulterer , Talmudge ( John Ericson ) attempting to find his hotel , instead is left by his taxi driver in the rain nearby a mortuary , it's mortician offering him refuge from the storm . While inside , our mortician relates the fates of four customers to him and we are all witnesses to what happened to them . Low budget anthology , perhaps too cheap to really be that effective . Most of the tales presented lack strong story-telling and end way too abruptly . Clearly modeled after the Amicus chillers . I have no idea why this was called " Alien Zone . " The first and second tales really leave much to be desired . A school teacher who hates children ( ! ) finds herself besieged within her very home by those very ones she so despises . The kids ( . . at first wearing clown masks , evoking Michael Myers from Halloween , later carrying the appearance of possible vampiric ghouls ) as they close in on their prey , cornering her as the camera distorts the frame , colors out of control , is quite thrilling , even if what leads up to it isn't . The second tale consists of a psychotic photographer who records women he kills on a movie camera . The fourth tale , which doesn't make a hell of a lot of sense , displays an office employee being subjected to torture within a building complex , rooms with trap doors and walls of spikes . The wraparound story between the mortician and Talmudge won't fool anybody . Talmudge , at the beginning , is shown in bed with an unhappily married woman and inside the mortuary , he follows the mortician as he opens the coffin lids exposing the victims of the tales we watch to him ( . . their bodies are not shown to the viewer , but Talmudge's facial mannerisms express enough through perplexity and disgust to lend us a helping hand in how they look ) . The third , and in my opinion easily far-and-away the best , is what I call , The Case of the Duelling Detectives featuring Scotland Yard's finest detective , Inspector McDowal ( Bernard Fox ) tagging along with New York's finest Private Investigator , Malcolm Toliver ( Charles Aidman ) as he pursues the identity of a specific criminal who is threatening to kill someone he knows with only a note consisting of letters cut from magazine articles as the means for solving the mystery . The two actors , Fox and Aidman , turn in delightful performances as foes , quite the egomaniacs often sparring intellectually with each other , who hurl gentlemanly insults at each other regarding which detective indeed is the very best of his profession and the result of the mystery ( . . although I'm sure many will know the answer ) is most appropriate considering their vanity .
Stupid Teenagers Must Die !	Microbudget , tongue-in-cheek , horror homage to the 80's slasher / demon possession sub-genres has a group of friends messing around with a Ouija board inside the house of a notorious killer who slaughtered his entire family before committing suicide . They conjure his dark spirit which inhabits various individuals in an endless spree of violence , certain characters dying in the exact same method as the family members did . Two geeky horror fans have created plastic amulets which actually work at warding off spirits which will , at the very least , give those who are still alive , a fighting chance . Shot on video often with color drained , this film looks like a no-budget operation . Three people , and one major financier , put this flick together , shooting in a singular location on Long Beach , California . Once named " Blood & Guts " , a film director Jeff Smith , Writer Curtis Andersen , and producer Sara Parrell all sought funding for , before a pal , Wayne Watson ( . . playing an intruding police officer at the very end ) forked over the much needed dough , " Stupid Teenagers Must Die " is really a goofy slasher outing with 80's references galore and " costumes " representing wardrobe worn by many influenced from Michael Jackson and Madonna . While the cast give it their all , each inheriting a specific stereotype ( . . although the token black character , who mostly died in 80's slashers , portrayed by Jovan Meredith , is the heroic leader ) , the movie has a hard time escaping the shortcomings of a budget stretched very thin . The gore isn't really that effective , with most death sequences splattering syrupy blood all over the place , with characters often entering rooms with victims already massacred , their intestines visible ( . . an " intestine gag " has one of the " theatrical nerds " walking in on a crime scene where guts are hanging like chandeliers ) . Constant profanity , attractive women baring their impressive chests , and a lighthearted approach perhaps will work for the affectionate slasher fans who embrace the genre-s excesses . The use of video for this film and merely acceptable sound display the limitations the crew faced . A forgiving audience might look over such things , but most will look elsewhere for their slasher entertainment .
Art of the Devil	Twisted Thai witchcraft flick with an emphasis on using evil to seek revenge and to gain riches . Jittima ( . . the alluring beauty , Supakson Chaimongkoi ) is a lover scorned , a pregnant victim who seduced a wealthy architect , Pratan ( Tin Settachoke ) who threw money at her to keep her away from his family ( . . that , while also arranging for her to be ravaged by his business chums ) . With the help of a secretly practicing witchdoctor , Jittima uses black magic to systematically eliminate Pratan's entire family . When she is hit by a car ( . . while spellbound at the site of Pratan's family , together as ghostly apparitions looking at her ) , Jittima loses her child , becoming even more volatile than ever before . Adding extra sting to her torment , another family ( . . whose mother's children were Pratan's ) receives Pratan's luxurious estate and inheritance , with Jittima orchestrating a plan to besiege them , using the dark arts to gain access to the fortune she feels is rightfully hers . By capturing ( . . literally ) the heart of Ruj ( Isara Ochakul ) , Jittima will infiltrate the family , marrying him and progressively use witchcraft to destroy them with her eyes on the prize she's so longed for . The film focuses on this family's teenage daughter , Nan ( Arisa Wills ) and the effects on her watching each member falling prey to supernatural forces beyond her control . This is the emotional arch of the film , a family worsening at the hands of a pathological , cold-blooded female with a deadly agenda , gaining trust by those she is in fact exterminating . Interesting enough , the witchdoctor is just as guilty for he willingly participates in performing the rituals which cause such destruction , whose spells cause really horrific acts to innocent people ( . . many of the acts cause hallucinatory effects which force victims to see created horrors , resulting in certain death ) . There's no doubt that Jittima ( . . known as Boom to the family she's annihilating ) is pure evil and to watch so closely her own handiwork , the architect of destruction she is , is really what makes the film so chilling . The violence that ensues can get quite disturbing such as the sight of an army of eels smothering Nan's brother Neng ( Nirut Sutchart ) , Ruj's vomiting razor blades , Nan's mom constantly coughing up blood , her insides hemorrhaging , or reporter , Danai ( Somchai Satuthum ) , a threat to the entire concocted scheme , suffering a piece of broken glass crawling underneath his skin , having to slice his body in order to get it out . . you see the effects of just how dangerous black magic can be . I think it's the way Jittima carries them out , like a Black Widow slowly poisoning her husbands with arsenic , a cold and calculating series of attacks , that provides the film's most unpleasant tone . The inhumanity of it all , and the whole fact that no one suspects her ( . . the cynicism of this kind of power , seen earlier when Nan was forced by a friend , a true believer , into visiting a spiritualist , is established ) is what drives the story , culminating in a showdown between Nan and Jittima , with Danai , a believer in the forces of good and evil , lending a helping hand , trying to uncover the one responsible for causing the black magic . One unnecessary decision , which mars the film , is the bouncing back and forth , to past and present , as Jittima discusses her reasons for what has transpired to a bound and distraught Nan . With more focus on linear story-telling , this could've been less aggravating . Still , the film shows the genesis of the monster that would become Boom until the very confusing climax when Jittima makes a very odd decision regarding her own fate , in turn shattering all that she has strived for . Another really bizarre sub-plot has this mysterious ghost girl hanging around Nan's kid brother . . this ghost child is connected with Jittima , and it's quite a revelation , to say the least .
Splinter	A type of predatory organism , which feeds on animal life , traps a couple and a criminal-on-the-lam in an abandoned gas station . Simple as that , a creature feature , shot digital , with a camera that doesn't give the viewer a break from it's constant movement . A couple , Seth ( Paulo Constanzo ) , a bio student nearly finished with college , and his resourceful girlfriend , Polly ( Jill Wagner ) , on a camping trip , are besieged by a criminal , Dennis ( Shea Whigham ) and his druggie girlfriend , Lacey ( Rachel Kerbs ) , forced against their will to drive to wherever they so choose . Stopping off at a gas station for some fuel and coolant for the steaming radiator , Lacey discovers the gas station attendant's body , ravaged by an unknown organism which has torn apart his flesh and is breaking his bones , in the restroom . While Dennis and Polly are inside attempting to get customer service , with Seth outside getting gas , Lacey is attacked and killed by the creature . The other three hole up in the gas station awaiting some form of help while also determining a course for survival . The trio soon discover that even if limbs break apart from the creature , they themselves can act alone , always seeking warm flesh and blood to coagulate with . Another key plot point , Dennis is " infected " by the organism , while changing a tire after Polly run over a dog which had been taken over , thanks to a splinter that came from the creature . For some reason , the creature sends off an unsettling ticking sound and splinters grow from whatever the organism infects . I think the main reason , other than to provide the action scenes with a more immediate , gritty feel , director Toby Wilkins shoots steadicam is to hide how unrealistic the creature really is . So the frenzied camera movement when the creature works its way towards victims masks the monster suit a gymnast is wearing . We get a chance to see how the body reacts to infection through the terror within Dennis , his attempts to cease the breaking of his fingers and arm as it moves through his cells . A nasty decapitation soon follows and the film shows both an arm and hand chasing after our heroes . The villainy of Dennis doesn't last very long due to the cast's unfortunate circumstances , and Wilkins allows him to gain humanity through various ways as the plot plays out . The opening attack on the gas station attendant really sets the stage for how Wilkins will display the creature's savage methods , not allowing us to see very much due to an obvious lack of budget . Each culminating attack works the same such as when Lacy is run over or a cop is ripped in half . I enjoyed the chemistry of Costanzo and Wagner as a very unusual couple , Seth , a nerd , and Polly , an outdoorsy-type , independently-minded woman , their love for each other evident in how they are able to remain so true to each other as the crisis continues . Whigham is given a role where he's justifiably rewarded sympathy for his sins through his heroic actions later in the film , not without suffering and paying a price . Kerbs doesn't last too long , her Lacey basically paranoid and unstable due to major drug use . Established is Dennis ' mission to get to Mexico where a supposed stash is awaits , with a desired goal to get Lacey clean . Sufficed to say , that goal isn't reached . Nothing fans of creature features haven't seen in the past except Wilkins doesn't depend on CGI for his monster .
Bride of Re-Animator	Insane sequel to Stuart Gordon's RE-ANIMATOR is directed by Brian Yuzna who shelled out the cash needed to make the original . He stays close to the tone of Gordon's film while weaving a whole new nutty story , obviously and blatantly paying homage to BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN . In this film Dr . Herbert West ( Jeffrey Combs ) & Dan Cain ( Bruce Abbott ) return from the civil war of a Latin country experimenting of dead soldiers trying to perfect the power of his reagent serum for reanimating dead tissue and organs . West has decided that merely bringing the dead back to life isn't as fulfilling as creating a whole human being using variously deposited body parts from freshly dead corpses . The two doctors have returned somehow ( I couldn't understand how they were able to get their jobs back because neither finished school . . or perhaps they did , but when could they if they were in a foreign country ? Plot holes galore . . oh , well ) to the Miskatonik Hospital with Dan simply wishing to do his job . But , Herbert is at his old tricks again splicing various parts together just seeing if his future plans were possible ( his coolest creation is the " crawling eye " assembled with several fingers and an eyeball ) . When a patient Dan is close to dies , Herbert wishes to use her head ( the beauty of her face and her brain ) while also using Meg's heart ( we know Meg , played by Barbara Crampton from the first film , is the lost love of Dan's life ) to leverage his colleague into assisting him . What Herbert doesn't know is that a doctor at the hospital , Dr . Graves ( Mel Stewart ) , has found some of his reagent and is reviving animals ( such as the bat which breaks free flying at his face in attack-mode ) . When mere animals doesn't satisfy him , Graves revives the dead head of Doctor Hill ( David Gale , sparingly used in this sequel ) and all hell breaks loose . An inspector , Lt . Leslie Chapham ( Claude Earl Jones ) is constantly snooping around West and Cain seeking to find a false move to implicate them . His reasoning for doing this . . Herbert experimented with the reagent on his wife for whom he had possibly beaten to death ! Also , Francesca ( Fabiana Udenio ) , a colleague in the warring country West and Cain escaped , shows up starting a relationship with Dan . Again , a woman has become a major thorn in the working relationship of Herbert and Dan which will lead to a maddening conclusion when re-animated dead , led by Hill , whose head now has bat wings ( ! ) will lead an assault on their basement laboratory ( located in their home which was once an old morgue ) . This sequel , while quite inferior to the first film , has enough wild gags going for it to hold interest . Sadly , it abandons the characters for the exception of Combs who has a field day with this crazy loon . The Bride's sequences are quite grotesque and macabre to say the least . I felt that Gale is quite underused in this flick . . not quite the villain he was in the first film , only getting to impact Herbert's life at the end . Also disappointing is Abbott's Dan Cain who seems less a fixture in this film as he was in the first . Sure , themes within the story impact the character , but Abbott just doesn't seem as inspired or his character as strong as in Gordon's film . Hurting this flick is the lack of freshness the previous film had . There's still plenty of gore for the ones who crave it and has enough wackiness to probably at least gather a modicum of interest from fans of the first film . Perhaps easily forgettable , this flick still has it's moments and deserves at least a moment of the gorehound's time .
Brotherhood of Blood	Roesch & Scheerer's Brotherhood of Blood is quite a claustrophobic little vampire film , mostly taking place within the congested confines of rooms within a warehouse as vampire Pashek ( Sid Haig ) fears his powerful brother Vlad Kossei ( . . for whom he burnt alive many years ago for this vampire's blood-thirst was so intense he wiped out villages in short order ) has been resurrected by an artist perhaps having found his remains in a church in Transylvania . Being held captive is the artist's brother , Tom ( William Snow ) by Pashek's follower Fork ( Wes Ramsey ) and his vampire minions as they prepare for Vlad Kossei's arrival . A small vampire hunting unit , led by Keaton ( Jason Connery ) and Carrie ( Victoria Pratt , another in the long line of female bad-asses , with a very athletic figure , often grimacing , dead-serious demeanor , with no fear at all as danger presents itself ) find themselves almost nearly wiped out by Vlad Kossei it appears . Pashek mentions to Carrie , herself kidnapped by the vampire brood , that if Kossei is able to see his family line successfully killed off by another , the mighty vampire will become all powerful and invulnerable . Cult star Ken Foree has a lucrative role as vampire Stanis who is tortured by Keaton and Carrie in acknowledging who Kossei is and what he's up to . Very low budget , and given some extra mythology , but overall still follows many of the same vampire customs ( . . vampire bite turns you into one of them , sunlight burns their flesh when introduced , they crave human blood for survival ) . Pashek admits that vampires and humans came together in unison to stop Vlad Kossei and that this would be the only way to stop him once again . Kossei's resurrection came thanks to his skull's fangs cutting a certain human's hand . The violence is often cleverly disguised by specific movements and set-ups of the camera with blood scattering throughout ( . . and the sound effect of flesh ripping ) , although there is a pretty nasty fanged tooth removed from Foree's mouth as hunters Carrie and Keaton have him bound to a table , starving him of blood , wishing to gather information as to who could wipe out their entire unit . I found the confinements of the action in small , singular locations rather tiring . . the film is very dialogue driven , with Haig given ample screen time devoted to telling us about his people's history , specifically about Kossei and his reign of terror . Pratt , as I mentioned before , is a tough broad who is often on the winning side in battles with her enemies . Her character and vampire Fork had a relationship before he was turned into an undead bloodsucker . Pretty neat twist . . many will probably see it coming , while others might find it quite a surprise .
The Scarecrow reviews " 2001 Maniacs "	A group of typically sex-crazed obnoxious northerners take a wrong turn on their way to Daytona Beach and wind up ( thanks to some detour sign ) in Pleasant Valley where they are greeted rather warmly ( albeit a bit sinister ) by the southern town folk . Then they all begin being slaughtered by these people as they get revenge for having perished during the Civil War . Robert Englund is indeed a hoot as the head of this southern clan as they butcher and maim these kids ( one dies from acid , another gets pulled apart by horses ) . If one wonders how to take this film seriously at all should've taken a look at the cover of the box which features a crazed Englund donning a confederate themed eye patch . The film is one long gory comedy as we either are turned off at the excessive violence or giggle at the silliness of it . It's certainly geared for those who are willing to let go and just watch not taking anything really that serious . It has written all over it . . " This is only a movie . " A film like this will have a built-in fan base for it delivers on the gore and hokey humor ( specifically covering every hick joke known to man except the fart gags ) . If you are easily offended or can not bend a little in the implausibility of it all . . stay away .
Welcome to Spring Break	" Welcome to Spring Break . . the annual migration of the idiot . " A maniac in a biker suit and helmet is randomly murdering college kids visiting Manatee Beach on their Spring Break . Questioning whether or not the murders are being committed by a recently executed biker gang member , Diablo , the mayor ( Fred Buck ) wishes to cover them up and hopes that corrupt cop Strycher ( John Saxon , playing a mean , brutish thug with an ugly backstory that surfaces for the viewer when our protagonists search his trailer ) and Doctor Willet ( Tarantino regular Michael Parks ) can keep the crimes hush-hush . But , as the death toll mounts with most of the murders committed with the use of electricity , this task will become nearly impossible to prevent . The film follows a depressed college quarterback , Skip ( Nicolas De Toth ) , who threw an interception which cost his football team the National Championship , searching for his murdered wide-receiver pal and joining forces with bartender Gail ( Sarah Buxton ) whose sister was supposedly murdered by Diablo ( . . she was there when he was fried in the electric chair , which is why many of the future victims are executed with the use of such methods as shocking bolts burning flesh ) . As a team , who are falling in love , they will seek out who killed his friend , discovering that perhaps her sister was not murdered by Diablo , but by somebody else . Making their search difficult is Strycher who wishes to keep his corruption hidden , threatening to kill Skip if he doesn't leave the county . Meanwhile Reverend Bates ( . . deep-voiced Lance LeGault , always looking angelic and sincere ) continues without fail to convince his daughter , who has been partying with the visiting " sinners " , to return to church and joining him in prayer for her " lost soul . " Bates was also there at the execution reading Diablo's last rites , and offers the idea aloud that he may've returned from the grave to seek revenge against those responsible for framing him for a murder he didn't commit . With Diablo's body missing from his grave , Strycher will make the lives of an unruly biker gang , The Demons ( . . for whom Diablo was leader ) , miserable , believing they are maybe responsible for the removal . But , the bikers have a special plan for him . Skip also has run-ins with the bikers for his dead comrade had a series of altercations with them . Umberto Lenzi's slasher flick features the excess of the 80's . Big hair . Loud rock music . Wet T-shirt contests . Bikini-clad babes . Horny males seeking sex . Over-the-top murders including several young women dying horribly from electrocution ( . . the effects which are rubber masks being burned , leave anything to be desired ) . A very attractive tourist prostituting out of her hotel room using a series of disguises ( . . mostly a student of some sort needing cash so that she can help the poor and needy ) as a peeping tom ( . . the manager of the hotel ) watches from a carved hole in a supply closet . At first , you might ponder why the leather-clad psycho , if it were Diablo , would murder such unrelated victims , many of them just in the wrong place at the wrong time . But , like in a lot of these slashers , the unlikely candidate is the one responsible . It would make sense that the one responsible could commit such acts if motivated enough . Lenzi never wavers when it comes to showing the beach party atmosphere of kids enjoying their perverse thrills . The acting in this film will make your eyes and ears bleed , but Saxon almost rescues this with his evil cop routine , always a threat and causing friction with our protagonists and about everyone else in the story . The violence rarely is logical and the methods of electrocution ( . . using cut wires ) are embarrassingly lame and ridiculous . There's even one murder using rising flame from a furnace which is simply laughable , but also effective when we see a burnt skull after the fire goes down . There's moments where Lenzi wishes to inject humor with a practical joker always pulling " death stunts " whose fate is an ironic twist . And , we spend moments with a thief who successfully lifts wallets from female beach babes who trust him . This kind of film will be embraced by those who have a love and appreciation for bad direction , script , acting , and gore-effects . And , I think those who have a love for those times of 80's excess as college kids live it up on the beach , will enjoy this as well . Others , beware !
The Breed	Brothers John ( Oliver Hudson ) and Matt ( Eric Lively ) bring their college pals Nicki ( Michelle Rodriguez ) , Sara ( Taryn Manning ) & Noah ( Hill Harper ) to their Uncle's cabin hidden away in a far off island where a group of highly intelligent , dangerously ferocious , and very hungry killer canines ( perhaps the proponent of a " seeing-eye dog training " facility shut down after a supposed rabies outbreak which may've been a masking for some sort of genetically enhanced killer dog compound ) await them . The group just want to have some spirited fun away from the doldrums of daily life but soon find they'll have to fend for their very lives as the monstrous nasty mutts lay siege upon them hoping for a major feast on human flesh . Cat-n-mouse game between humans and animals where survival for our heroes means getting away from the predators and off the island . Poor Hill Harper as Noah is the token black guy with no supposed love-interest which predictably prescribes his grim fate right off the bat . Oliver Hudson makes quite a good heroic presence as he shoots his bow and arrow like a marksman ( except for one time where he attempts to put an arrow through a mutt gunning for Nicki's leg and actually hits her ! ) . When Sara is bit , she begins acting strangely and can seemingly sense when they are coming and how they feel . The plot provides an interesting triangle back-story between the brothers and Nicki . Irresponsible bad-boy John used to date Nicki , but was not one to commit to anything while Matt was the boy-genius who concentrated on his schooling and getting ahead as a veterinarian . Nicki chose to love Matt with some tension between the brothers presenting itself . Sara secretly carried a torch for John , but the point where he opens the doors for something to blossom the whole " dog ordeal " springs up ruining the whole possible idea of a romance . But , all the drama will matter a little less when considering blood-thirsty dogs wish to tear your throat out . Lots of thumping sound-jumps to move the audience ( or as it's labeled " jump-scares " ) and near-deaths to certain characters who make it out of situations where they should've been ripped to shreds .
Razorback	A man ( Gregory Harrison ) , shaken from the disappearance of his pregnant reporter / animal activist wife , enters the garbage-strewn , desolate , uncompromising Outback to find her , running into intimidating , troublesome kangaroo poachers ( typical undesirables that often populate Russell Mulcahy's films ) and a gigantic killer boar . The Outback town of Gamulla looks like the type of barren wasteland devastated by nuclear war in apocalyptic films and is photographed as quite menacing while at the same time stunning . While the film is indeed quite ugly , chock full of rotted dead trees , sand holes that have the shape of moon craters , and dust that is thick enough to cut a knife through , there are some amazingly shot sequences at night using light , shadow & cold breath . My favorite sequence has a lost Harrison , abandoned by the two poachers responsible for leaving his wife at the mercy of the giant razorback , trying to find a haven as the Outback becomes a surreal hellish nightmare where giant cracks open upon the ground and dead skeletal animals rise from the earth . In the stunning opening scene , hunter Jake Cullen ( Bill Kerr ) watches as the razorback burrows through his home snatching his grandson as the moon light spirals through a windmill nearby . David Argue & Chris Haywood portray the grungy , unclean Baker brothers who run a meat plant cutting pigs and kangaroos who wish for their secret illegal practices of catching animals to remain under wraps . Arkie Whiteley portrays Sarah , a young woman who researches the growth and well being of boars in the Outback where she lives by tagging them , keeping up with their movements by a computer tracking device ; she strikes up a friendship with Harrison's Carl . Jake's mission in life is to kill the razorback which ate his grandson . The climax takes place in the Pet Pak facility where the Baker brothers cut their meat for storage .
Sl8n8 ( Slaughter Night )	In 1857 , child murderer Andries Martiens ( . . who was a practitioner of black magic using the heads as a means for traveling to hell and back so that he could retrieve information from his evil parents on where his inheritance was ) was sent into a mine as a fireman to explode methane . His demise ( . . the myth of his death from the duty of the fireman may or not be the truth ; if you survive the explosion of methane , wearing a suit which protects you from flame , then you are set free ) brings notoriety to the mine in present day where a guide , once a worker , takes visitors on an excursion 200 feet underground on a tour , explaining the duties and dangers of this line of work . Five Dutch teens + a counselor and two of his troubled youths take the tour into the mine . Kris ( Victorio Koblenko ) was having an argument with her father over her future when a truck crashes into their car , ending in an explosion which kills him right before her eyes . The mine tour , where Martiens legend lives and breathes giving the guide a spook story to tell , is in the vicinity of where Kris needed to retrieve a manuscript her father was working on regarding the notorious killer . . this is where she finds a Ouija board , the manuscript , and a music box of Martiens ( . . which may have something to it Martiens would've been interested in getting back ) . On an audio tape , played through a cassette player where her father was putting together a background of Martiens , we learn of why the killer needed 8 heads , and was willing to kill peasant children in order to do this . When the grounds keeper locks the gate leaving the tour forgetting about the last group of the day , they find that the lift which brought them underground isn't operational . Finding an access elsewhere to pursue help , the guide informs the group to stay put . Gathering around the Ouija board , the group summon Martiens evil spirit with all hell breaking loose as he can move from human host to human host seeking 8 heads so that he can exit hell . Once a devastating avalanche collapses the guide's exit , he's attacked by Susan , one of Mark's ( the counselor ) kids leaving the group to not only fend for themselves , but stuck with having to find another way out . Maybe , Kris can summon her father's spirit the same as Martiens for answers . . Dutch supernatural slasher with those possessed by the killer's spirit resembling those victims from " Night of the Demons " . . pale skin , discolored eyes , and snarling shark-like teeth . The setting is just perfect for a slasher , though . . inside an abandoned , labyrinthine coal mine , with the lights flickering , where , as the tour guide said while showing the gang around , that if you get lost , you get dead . When violence erupts and the possessed person attacks , the directors ' ( Frank van Geloven & Edwin Visser ) camera is frenzied , shaking all over the place , I guess trying to capture the frenetic nature such situations might produce . The cataleptic state of their camera during these attack scenes as our victims run for their lives ( . . or try to defend themselves ) might alienate many viewers . The cast of characters might be Dutch , but that's where it ends . . this kind of cast could star in any Friday the 13th movie , and we'd not know the difference except that they speak their native language . Kris is given development because , as you know slasher fans following this genre for ages , she's the " final girl " who is appropriately established , as is the counselor ( . . cleverly saved from death numerous times ) . The film goes out of it's way to keep those two alive at the end while others are mincemeat . One poor possessed soul gets half her head taken off by a spate which separates it from the rest of her body , flesh is ripped away from one fellow's limbs before getting his throat sliced just as he's about to hit pay-dirt from the mine , one gets her head blown apart by a shot gun blast after dying from a spear plunged through her , etc . I think slasher fans , if they can look past the bonkers premise and stupid characters , might enjoy this one . That is if they can handle the spastic camera work . .
Kicking and Screaming	Okay Will Ferrell vehicle has the comedian portraying Phil Weston , a vitamins salesman whose whole life has been reduced to low expectations , trying to compete with a father who seems to have succeeded at everything while he has always failed . The only way it seems he'll ever feel good about himself is if he beats Daddy Weston ( Robert Duvall , coasting on his charisma ) where he's best at . . the soccer field . Daddy Weston is THE soccer coach in their little league ( THE GLADIATORS ) and Ferrell's Phil desperately wants to beat his father in the finals to properly say he's the best . We see how Phil is a failure in getting a team going until he partners up with his father's arch-nemesis . . Mike Ditka ! If you are a fan of Ferrell comedies , this will be sure to please . But , this genre has been milked to death and then some and the final result leaves no one surprised . It is funny seeing what Phil becomes as he starts to see success , telling his kids to snap clavicles and smash collar-bones as if this were jail-football . But , the film has the " like father like son " angle as Phil leaves his son on the the bench the very same way Daddy Weston did him .
Martyrs	I'm pretty sure a film like MARTYRS is sure to polarize a large majority who finds the actions of this secret society desiring to know without doubt that there's an afterlife to an extent that a chosen victim will serve as a martyr to prove so , rather appalling and disturbing . I have read many find the ending ( . . what the martyr " sees " and the actions of the mastermind behind the project who is told " the answer " so sought after ) rather disappointing , certainly there's a negative vibe I have derived from what ultimately transpires , but I found it so sick and daring that all I could do was laugh . Quite an odd reaction after watching some poor girl tortured for 30 long minutes , just so that elderly wealthy types could learn of the truth behind what lies " on the other side " , but I just couldn't help but bury my face in my hands and laugh . The film is just brutal almost from start to finish without little time to breathe or sigh , just violence heaped upon violence . Director Pascal Laugier ( House of Voices ) establishes right from the get-go that the film would feature victims abused , and the results of such horrors . Mylène Jampanoï , in an astonishing , heartbreaking performance is Lucie , a young woman who massacres an entire family with a shot gun . At first , you believe she's bonkers , but we soon realize that the parents killed weren't whom they appear . . far , far worse . But , Lucie hallucinates , believing that a mistreated victim she didn't rescue as a child after escaping from a place of torture is always coming for her . Along with Lucie is her friend from an orphanage , Anna ( Morjana Alaoui , also delivered a terrific , haunting performance ) who witnesses the aftermath of the slaughter , attempting to clean up the mess , while mortified at such a grisly crime scene . Later , though , after Lucie makes a tragic decision due to a complete psychological breakdown , Anna discovers a secret area hidden , containing a torture chamber with a chained and badly ravaged victim , bound by shackles , her eyes covered by a steel plate hammered into her skull ! Anna removes the poor woman from the prison . attempting to help her . But , the woman finds a large knife , tearing away at her wrist until shot through the forehead . This is when Anna meets those responsible for what has traumatized her friend Lucie . An organization , ran by a woman referred to as Mademoiselle ( Catherine Bégin ) , wishes to uncover the age-old mystery desired down through the ages by those with religious doubt . . is there an afterlife and is there a way at discovering such a truth . Using an unwilling participant as their martyr , Anna could be their link to the truth . So she's brutalized for the remainder of the movie , nearly practically dead when she does experience something ( . . we are led to believe ) . . could she provide an answer they so desperately covet ? I warn those who take the leap and rent this film because it's incredibly violent . Lucie blows crater-sized holes into the bodies of an entire family obviously leaving you breathless before the thing she sees even enters the picture . That created being is scary as hell and you can understand why poor Lucie is so tormented . Then , you are shown a horrifying discovery and witness a person whose been kept in the dark , her skin cut throughout the body , knees practically broken , little sanity left remaining . Then , after all that , you have to sit through what these cretins do to Anna . Each chapter goes one step further . The one who got away . The one almost dead . And , Anna , the one they may finally have to provide the answer they seek . This is NOT for the faint of heart . What ultimately happens to Anna left me rather unnerved , I must admit , and the experience we witness through " her eyes " couldn't impact me because I was so shaken by the damage she had suffered . I can't say I was entertained by this one , and , truth be told , I felt very little after it was over . To be honest , I was glad once it was over because I just grew tired of seeing Anna pummeled and left to rot before the final despicable act was completed towards her person .
She-Wolf of London	Phyllis Allenby ( June Lockhart , oh how young she is ! ) believes she has her family's supposed curse of lycanthropy when a series of murders occurs in a London park near her mansion estate , where the victims ' throats are mangled . Evidence found at her bedside after she awakens in the morning point towards possible guilt ( . . muddy shoes , wet robe , bloody hands ) but her " aunt " Martha Winthrop ( Sara Haden ) sternly refuses to allow Phyllis to tell anyone . Phyllis ' gentleman caller , Barry Lanfield ( Don Porter ) begins to worry about her when Martha insists she's too ill and uneasy to see him . Meanwhile , Scotland Yard police are searching the park at night for a possible wolf or deranged person prowling for a fresh victim . A sub-plot has Martha's beautiful daughter Carol ( Jan Wiley ) , forbidden by her mother to see a poor artist Dwight Severn ( Martin Kosleck ) , meeting him at night in the very park where possible danger could be waiting . . or could she actually be the wolf-woman killing innocents ? Or , could the curse actually be true regarding Phyllis ' being a she-wolf ? After SY Detective Latham ( Lloyd Corrigan ) is murdered by a woman ( . . whose face is hidden , and growling as he screams ) in the park as the police are combing for any possible prowler , the man hunt will certainly be motivated more than ever before . The film shows Phyllis slowly growing mad with fear and anxiety regarding the possibility of committing those grisly acts in the park and Barry searching for who might be the real culprit . I'll get this out before ranting . . the film has wonderful sets . The park and Allensby mansion are superb set-pieces and director Jean Yarbrough's camera-work and lighting is expertly brought to the screen . Even the acting is decent enough . If this mystery thriller had been retitled and repackaged as a stand-alone film released through Universal completely untied to " The Wolf Man " series , it'd probably come across less a disappointment . But , when you have a title like " She-Wolf of London " and a make-up genius , an extraordinary artist , Jack Pierce , who could've given the audience a female werewolf prowling London park ( how cool would THAT have been ! ) then you can't possibly expect us to not be let down ! How frustrating . . I mean , not even a female werewolf in Phyllis ' nightmares , with how often speaks about them haunting her every night . There's a great tragic romance to be damned that'd been perfectly realized here . . imagine if Phyllis actually was cursed with the malady of lycanthropy with the upcoming marriage to her beloved Barry . Imagine Phyllis ( . . or anyone else for that matter ) turning into a female werewolf in her bed , breaking through her bedroom window , with sharp , snarling teeth and fur pouncing on poor helpless victims . That'd been something to see . Yet , sigh , we get a red herring in a mystery where the murders are committed by a garden tool by someone pretending to be somebody she isn't . So much potential wasted . This film isn't a bad one , but when you have an opportunity to create a she-wolf and Pierce on your payroll then take advantage for chrissake !
Revamped	You'd think with a cast full of B-movie names that populate " Revamped " it'd be a bit better than this vampire horror comedy turns out . Not as many yuks yuks or surprises , and the low budget hurts it when the action occurs . Many great names go rather underused , probably because director-star Jeff Rector couldn't pay them enough . Below-par special effects might either charm the pants off-you ( . . this goes for the acting as well ) or cause intense groaning . It's not without moments , though . A wealthy businessman , Richard ( Jeff Rector ) finds out his wife's cheating , and calls a " vampire hotline " so that he could be turned . That vampiress who does so comes in the package of still-sexy Tane McClure as Lilith . Lilith and Richard develop feelings for each other and their sparks will be rekindled five years later , after his cremated ashes spill on the blood of undertakers ( . . one of them being Lurch , Carel Struycken ) assassinated by a couple of Satanists . Richard does get revenge on his wife and her lover ( played by Kato Kaelin , haha ) and soon finds refuge with underground vampires hiding from a human task force led by the disgruntled Jake Hardcastle ( a bulky Sam J Jones , of Flash Gordon fame ) whose face was scarred by an attack from his wife and daughter , turned vampires he'd have to eliminate . Besides the human task force , Richard and his underground people must also contend with a vampire cult , led by Vladimus ( the rat-like Billy Drago , with only a few scenes , but just as theatrical and menacing . . a most welcome presence , no matter how under-utilized ) and his muscle Kahn ( Deron McBee ) . Richard finds his allegiances complicated when he finds that Lilith is sided with Vladimus , and the human side which remains longs to support his underground pals . He'll find an unlikely alliance with two cops , Detectives Reeger ( Martin Cove , of The Karate Kid fame ) and Peters ( former male porn star Paul Michael Robinson , playing gleefully against type as a virginal Mormon ) . Richard has an underground friend named Mary ( Alana Curry , looking quite yummy in a tight shirt and jeans ) who just so happens to be Reeger's " thought-to-be-dead " daughter . Lilith is torn in her support for stopping Vladimus and his undead gang from participating in a ceremony called the " Black Dawn " , reading from a book of the dead during a certain full eclipse , needing a virgin to sacrifice . . that virgin they desire is Mary . Lilith will join forces with Richard , but has a major problem . . her sister , Lexa ( Christa Campbell , some more eye candy ) is an avid supporter of Vladimus and his plans for a " vampire Armageddon . " The violence is never too brutal and oftentimes many of the murders occur off camera probably due to lack of funding . Director Jeff Rector tries to combat his financial woes by injecting silly humor , poking fun at the vampire genre through his tongue-in-cheek screenplay feeding the characters with dialogue that will either work or not work considering your mood entering this particular film . There were times I chuckled , and Rector's limitations didn't bother me as much as they might others ( . . it does have a rather low IMDb rating , so I'm guessing most found it an awful watch ) . Some other actors who stop by for a moment or two include Fred Williamson as Reeger and Peters ' superior Captain Michaels , Reggie Bannister ( Phantasm ) as a shady goth bar type who helps run a snuff film ring in his bar basement , Dennis Haskins ( Principal Belding of Saved by the Bell ) as a Satanist and Anne Lockhart , of all people , as all-smiles underground " half-breed " Celeste .
The Scarecrow reviews " Bloodline "	From what I understand , this was supposed to be a series of films dealing with the bloodline of a toymaker named L'Merchant who unknowingly created the dreaded puzzlebox for which is a gateway to hell where Pinhead comes from amongst other minions . If that had been the case , perhaps things would have turned out better . Instead we have three different timelines of L'Merchant placed in a 90 minute movie and I feel you can see lots of things left out . The whole film feels uneven and I never could shake the idea that post-production killed an interesting premise . The first timeline shows Phillip L'Merchant creating the puzzlebox for demented magician Duc de L'Isle ( Mickey Cottrell ) and his pupil Jacques ( Adam Scott ) who wish to summon a demon for their pleasure and servitude . Angelique ( Valentina Vargas ) is a prostitute who is selected for such a purpose and once she is killed , her soul is resurrected but this time it's in demonic form . I'm guessing Jacques and Angelique decided they didn't need L'Isle because when Phillip wishes to destroy the puzzlebox he finds the magician almost dead and badly beaten . He is attacked by Jacques when Angelique gets his attention and almost dead when he informs his wife to flee with their unborn child . This first story is badly underdeveloped and that might be due to cutting it into a 90 minute film . This story suffers , but the second film had much potential . This time , the setting is modern day New York and John Merchant has become quite a famous artiste extraordinaire . His design for a high-rise has a sculpted puzzlebox artform . Angelique wishes to dump Jacques and kills him when he breaks some sort of demonic rule or code ( this doesn't get proper explanation ) . She awakens Pinhead from his puzzlebox layer thanks to a doorman who thinks he's about to get the greatest lay of his life . Instead Angelique suckers him into opening the gateway and releasing Pinhead and his demon dog upon the earth . Pinhead stays within a hidden room in the highrise for he desires for Merchant to open a much larger puzzlebox from a design in the building ( this whole angle makes little sense and has some sort of connectional link with a computer ) . John's wife is played by Kim Myers of " A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 " fame and looks great if I might say so . Anyway , John's son is used by Pinhead as bait to open the large puzzlebox gateway in the high-rise . While this scheme is being concocted , Pinhead has a little fun with twin security guards having them " crushed " together . Unfortunate for Pinhead , John's wife has courage and opens the smaller puzzlebox while the inventor programs his computer to overload the larger design model to explode . The smaller puzzlebox pulls Pinhead and Angelique back inside ( along with the demon dog . . Myers fought them all bravely ) , but not before our star demon of pain killed John via beheading by chain . In the third story , Dr . Paul Merchant ( who also serves as narrator to a group of soldiers assigned for some reason to bring him back to Earth ) has designed an elaborate space station and brought Pinhead , Angelique , the demon dog , and the twins ( now some sort of conjoined monster ) out from within their small puzzlebox . The soldiers assigned to bring Paul back to Earth search the spacestation and become victims of pain thanks to Pinhead and his posse . For some reason , Paul is considered a threat to Earth so the soldiers check throughout to see why he is in space . Paul has told them why he has created this vessel and his goals to finally put an end to Pinhead forever , but this final act feels severely cut and one might wonder where Angelique and the twin monsters vanish to after they kill some soldiers . Pinhead has no idea that Paul has designed the spacestation as a uniquely created puzzlebox in the design of L'Merchant to destroy him . This whole film seems like one crudely pieced together exercise . It's incredibly nice to look at and Pinhead has much more screen time than in the next few films that will be made . He gets supplied plenty of eloquent phrases describing the pain he shall cause . He declares to some victims . . " I . . am . . pain ! " I particularly like the final sequence when he realizes he has been defeated and finishes the film with his final word . . " Amen . " The film really seems to have much potential if it had been a series of films as perhaps planned by Kevin Yagher . There so many problems with the story of Pinhead and Angelique I don't know where to begin . Does Yagher abandon the third film's ending . How come the puzzlebox is in this pillar of the building and how does she know it is there ( in modern day New York ) ? How does she even know about Pinhead and vice versa ? Perhaps much back story is missing because of bad editing . What has been left on the cutting room floor ? That perhaps in the ultimate question . Too much of meat is missing and all we have in this film is leftovers . It isn't all bad for like I said above . . we do get to see the ominous Pinhead much more , but the what ifs of what a trilogy of stronger , more beefed up stories containing Pinhead & Angelique does have me ponder what might've been .
The Mummy's Curse	" The devil's on the loose and he's dancing with the mummy ! " The mummified one-armed strangler returns as Kharis ( Lon Chaney Jr ) once again seeks his mate , Princess Ananka ( the beautiful Virginia Christine , who rises from the earth in the film's best sequence ) who is reincarnated and listless . Somehow , both Kharis and Ananka find themselves in the bayou of Louisiana after having went into a swamp in New England . . how this possibly could occur is never established . It's been 25 years , and the village folk . . the whole superstitious lot . . are scared senseless of the myth of a bandaged killer and his princess bride . Museum curator James Halsey ( Dennis Moore ) and his assistant Ilzor Zandab ( Peter Coe ) are searching for the remains of Kharis and Ananka for their new museum which drives Pat Walsh ( Addison Richards ) crazy . You see Pat is the foreman behind a great excavation project draining the swamp so that citizens can have a much safer environment to live ( . . and of course opening the door for future businesses to enter in ) , but the workers are worried sick about being killed by the mummy . It doesn't help matters when one of the workers is found with a knife in his back . Later we find that Ilzor is the new High Priest of Arkham , yet another " middle man " who commands his servant lackey Ragheb ( Martin Kosleck ) to feed Tana leave stew to Kharis so that he can find and nab Ananka wherever she may be . A body count escalates as anyone who tries to protect a bewildered Ananka ( suffering a case of amnesia , not knowing exactly who she is ) suffers the suffocating grasp of Kharis . But , what Ilzor doesn't know is that Ragheb will , of course , betray him desiring to take Pat's niece Betty ( Kay Harding ) , a secretary for her uncle who falls in love with Halsey . Where the Egyptian crypts for Kharis and Ananka reside in the ruins of a monastery , where the climax takes place as Ragheb will face those he betrayed . . Ilzor and Kharis as the mummy finally captures Ananka . Will Ragheb be able to control the mummy for himself ? Will Ragheb hurt Betty ? Will Kharis finally return with his bride to Egypt with Ilzor where they belong ? The film has atmosphere to burn and excellent use of shadow as we see the image of the mummy draw near ( also , the film uses the sound of Kharis ' dragging foot to full effect ) , but has a lackluster premise that is essentially Kharis killing people in an alarming rate at a slow speed searching for Ananka , who seems to faint a hell of a lot . Peter Coe as Ilzor is yet another dull block-of-wood in a series of wooden villains who command Kharis to kill . Kosleck is a smallish fiend who isn't that imposing . Christine is fine as the unfortunate princess who has a hard time understanding the horrors swirling around her . But , the film's bread-and-butter is Ananka's rising from the earth burying her . . it's an eerie scene , perfectly chilling , that the film as a whole couldn't accomplish . The curtain closes on a poor , run-of-the-mill , uninspired series .
The Blood Beast Terror	Peter Cushing stars as Inspector Quennell , a detective trying to uncover who it is murdering folks in his jurisdiction . Scales are left at the crime scene and the victims all suffered nasty lacerations where teeth had been gnawing , draining their blood , eating their flesh . Robert Flemyng is a mad genius , an expert in entomology and a geneticist who has somehow created a giant Deaths-head moth , who masks itself as a beautiful woman , Clare ( Wanda Ventham ) , pretending to be his daughter , luring young men with her feminine wiles before returning to insect form and attacking them . While I didn't feel it was as horrible as many feel it is ( . . including Cushing , from what I've read ) , this creature feature doesn't even try to thrill the viewer with any surprises , instead director Sewel and writer Peter Bryan fashion this after many a monster movie . You have the detective searching for the causes behind grisly ( . . though , unseen ) murders . We see the mastermind behind how the monster was created . We see how the unmasked monster operates . We see how the mastermind's own creation causes enough problems with her feeding habits that he must hit the road with the detective in steady pursuit soon making the startling discovery that a giant killer moth is doing in innocent men . Creature turns on creator . Creature's weakness for blood / flesh does her in eventually . Of course , this film provides Cushing's inspector with a cute daughter , Meg ( Vanessa Howard ) , who will find herself in possible danger . Her potential boyfriend , William ( David Griffin ) , a bug catcher will also face certain peril due to his killing a deaths-head moth for his collection . The film features lovely countryside setting with beautiful flowers of a variety of colors and shows how vindictive and cunning Clare is at spotting males , and maneuvering them away from the eyes of possible witnesses . This is no world-beater , but it's an adequate time-waster . I've seen much worse , but Cushing doesn't look very comfortable or inspired in this role , which is a very rare case in such a storied career . Roy Hudd , as a mortician , is a hoot always eating ( . . and offering snacks to Inspector Quennell and Sergeant Allan , played by Glynn Edwards when they are reviewing the bodies of victims ) and grinning wide , cracking wise and often irritating his guests . The killer moth is basically a bug costumed stunt-person .
Halloween : Season of the Witch	A rambling unhealthy old man , clutching a specific Halloween mask , stumbles into a Northern California hospital claiming that a toy factory is " going to kill us all . " This declaration remains buried in the mind of doc on call that night , Dr . Dan Challis ( Tom Atkins , in his first starring role ) who is certainly bothered when a mysterious man , in a business suit , enters the hospital killing the old patient by snapping his cranium before dousing himself with gasoline setting his body on fire , exploding the car in the parking lot . The dead old man's daughter , Ellie ( . . the sexy small-framed Stacey Nelkin ) wishes to know why her father was killed in such a vicious . . and suspicious . . manner and convinces Challis to pursue the truth behind his claims of malicious intent regarding the mask in his possession . Tracing his previous steps indicate the old man was in Santa Mira , hometown to the Silver Shamrock toy factory whose chairman , Conal Cochran ( Dan O'Herlihy , in a chilling performance , portraying him in a sly , all-smiles manner , unveiling his sinister side as the movie continues ) is the major name in the Halloween mask business . Challis and Ellie find that Santa Mira is quite a silent , guarded place , where the citizens keep to themselves and the streets remain mostly quiet . Cameras are everywhere and a curfew keeps the townsfolk in doors at a certain part at night . They will soon find that Cochran is running a corrupt operation where the manufactured children masks being shipped to stores all across American contain a gadget ( . . carrying the Silver Shamrock logo ) holding tiny particles from a stolen statue of Stonehenge which unleash bugs and snakes killing those kids who watch a specific commercial which houses a signal while wearing them over their heads . Will Challis and Ellie stop Cochran's plan or will all the children who tune in be wiped out as a part of an ancient Celtic form of sacrifice ? I'll be the first to admit that this film had me biting my nails to the quick . That pulse-pounding score from Carpenter & Howard really does the trick , the electronic beat moves the viewer along with a sense of urgency and builds dread for those who face potential danger . Writer-director Tommy Wallace benefits from his association with Carpenter and Debra Hill because Dean Cundy provides fabulous cinematography which gives this rather okay effort a stunning visual polish masking certain problems . Also , having Atkins as a very capable leading man doesn't hurt as well . This film was a real chance for Wallace and Atkins to show what they were made of . The flaws of the story are enormous , but the film's initial premise is indeed terrifying . . the idea that a mask can cause insects and snakes to destroy your child while wearing it really gives you a reason to root for Atkins . Atkins gives you the kind of reactions anyone might have when facing such a bizarre crisis as the truths he uncovers . The whole Stonehenge part , how such creatures can come from a gadget on a mask , how these gadgets can wipe out Cochran's multitude of mandroids yet a certain one somehow survives ( . . this ( wo ) mandriod must've been a better model ) , why Cochran wouldn't just kill Challis right away instead of toying with him like a villain would James Bond , the logistical time-frame problems of kids in different time-zones . . all these screenplay problems open up crater-size flaws which aggrevate . Yet , the spooky Santa Mira town really is quite an interesting backdrop which echoes Carpenter's " Escape from New York " as mandroids stationed throughout appear on the far side of the screen or from the shadows . This film has an unpleasant tone of menace regarding how the mandroids kill innocents who might so happen to compromise Cochran's operation ( . . such as how a forensics scientist is drilled through the skull , how one hobo's head is pulled from his neck ) . The climax , which does allow Challis a chance to strike back against his captors , has a rather grim end which might leave you sad or horrified . The mandroids , when damaged , resemble the android who is destroyed in " Alien " .
Trucks	Various characters are trapped at a diner / tourist trap / gas station as semis & other commercial trucks operate on their own circling while " communicating " to each other via horn honking . Father and son , Ray ( Timothy Busfield ) and Logan ( Brendan Fletcher ) operate the desert spot with pal / cook George ( Victor Cowie ) . Hope ( Brenda Bakke , quite low-key , but offers a cool-headed chick ) is a former RN who returned to the small desert town of Lunar after a rocky marriage that ended badly . Military man Thad ( Roman Podhora ) brought along his estranged daughter Abby ( Amy Stewart ) , who reluctantly came along with her father at his ordered request as tourists seeking escape to Lunar while tagging along also is 50-year-old hippie Jack ( Jay Brazeau ) . Meanwhile two truckers , Bob ( Aidan Devine ) and Pete ( Rick Skene ) resist the notion that their trucks will remain with out the drivers who occupy the vehicle seats . These truckers prove quite a problem for Ray as the situation escalates . A visiting couple , car salesman Brad ( Jonathan Barrett ) and displeased wife June ( Sharon Bajer ) are also in Lunar as tourists . One by one , the group fall victim to the homicidal trucks . . cool heads will have to prevail if they have any chance of survival . Is there any hope for this group ? The film provides possibilities for why the trucks are acting in such a fashion . A chemical spill . Area 51 is nearby . There was a comet shower . Hippie Jack offers lots of conspiracy theories and crazy notions . . he offers the idea that the comet shower may've possibly bombarded the atmosphere with alien particles that have the radioactive power to guide mechanized machinery . Military man Thad informs Ray quietly that , while he was working as a helicopter man for the Air Force at Area 51 , a scientific organization was running titled Project : Phoenix where high-powered telescopes sent out signals toward the stars calling out to alien life in space . Perhaps , the unfortunate events occurring is their way of answering ? A different take on Stephen King's short story . Unlike King's only directed film , the zany " Maximum Overdrive " , " Trucks " is told straight , serious in tone , tamer , and saner . " Trucks " isn't as bloodthirsty or outrageous as " Maximum Overdrive . " But , " Trucks " hurts by a lack of budget and it's television confines limit what you can convey on screen . The trucks , like In King's film , do communicate and desire Ray to fill them with gasoline . " Trucks " has a neat little twist that does out duel King's version . This film probably has stronger , more likable characters , but the cast isn't as cool or interesting as King's film contains . " Trucks " really doesn't leave a lasting impression , either . Still not too bad , with some effective scenes .
Last House on the Beach	Franco Prosperi directs yet another exploitation flick inspired by Craven's notorious Last House on the Left , this time a trio of bank robbing hoods ( led by Ray Lovelock , Let Sleeping Corpses Lie ) besiege a group of Catholic teenage students and their Nun supervisor , setting off a reign of terror over the course of three nightmarish days . Sister Christina ( Florinda Bolkan , Don't Torture a Duckling ) tries without fail to rescue her girls from constant harm , sexual molestation and degradation , even suffering depraved persecution herself . The three hoodlums , pretty-boy Aldo ( Lovelock ) and his unhinged co-horts Walter ( Flavio Andeini ) and Nino ( Stefano Cedrati ) , often resort to diabolical acts mistreating the girls , and Christina , making extra efforts to humiliate and frighten their weaker prey . The girls watch as Christina's clothes are ripped away by Walter , forced to put on her nun outfit for their amusement . One of the girls , chosen by Walter as a victim of constant abuse , is held down as Nino penetrates her from behind , with their sole purpose being to " pop her cherry . " It's even shot in slow motion for extra impact as Aldo holds Christina in a position where she's forced to watch without the ability to turn away . When one of the girls is almost raped by Nino , she stabs him in the leg with a comb , later caught after almost escaping by Aldo , and penetrated with a large sharpened stick by the very one who almost sexually molested her . Aldo spends a great deal of time setting himself up as an innocent among two depraved monsters , but he's even worse than they , with his true self really awakening at the end when the girls revolt out of outrage for their captors ' behavior . Thankfully , director Prosperi doesn't actually elaborate the evil actions of the cretins in vivid detail , finding ways to shoot around the explicit acts such as the vaginal violence which leads to the victim's death , or the maid who is bashed across the head by an iron when Walter becomes enraged for no reason whatsoever . The film works off the idea that we will be impacted by who the chosen victims are , teenage girls and their nun . The hoods are your typical scumbags , relishing their activities watching the victims squirm in fear , taking full advantage of them . They are cowards with big weapons who cause harm to those who supposedly pose no threat which always builds up the violent climax where the innocents develop a primal nature , getting even with the ones who caused them such harm . Nothing really special about this umpteenth Italian terror film except the fabulous location on a fine piece of property overlooking a beach with a typically fine performance from Bolkan who plays it completely subtle , using her eyes as a means for communicating with the viewer and has this strength which is credible and admirable . We understand why she snaps ( . . although , it's not a theatrical snap , but a very quiet one , where she contemplates her actions and can not overcome her hostility after the horrifying murder of one of her girls , who almost got away ) , and that also relates back to Craven's infamous film where a very mature and sensitive person can become overpowered with the urge to kill , if pushed to the breaking point .
Dahmer	Interesting if a bit frustrating biopic looking into snippets of Dahmer , the serial killer who murdered homosexuals he desired and craved . The story-telling isn't straightforward and the filmmakers decide to intersperse flashbacks / thoughts within Dahmer's night talk with a potential victim , Rodney ( Artel Kayàru ) . Jeremy Renner was stunning in the lead and I could picture the late Dahmer in these situations thanks in part to a believable performance . I feel through interviews that he delivered his words to those he met in a rather distant cold manner as portrayed here . The film , through Renner , really seems to pointedly state that he was indeed guilty at the things he had done . You often see Dahmer in this film staring endlessly at the possibilities presented him , always puffing on cigarettes and questioning those he finds compatible sexually by challenging their ways of living . Though , the film shows many truths spoke of in biographical shows based on the notorious killer , it doesn't seem to really go anywhere . . which is probably intended . This is a probing , or better still , a peek into a lonely person's life and how it seems that killing those he cares deeply for brings the only true feelings he can express .
Mountaintop Motel Massacre	Evelyn ( Anna Chappell ) is let out of the asylum and takes up running a lodging of terribly run-down buildings while her daughter is playing satanism in her room . In a disorienting frenzy of trashing the witchcraftian objects and dolls in her daughter's room , Evelyn accidentally kills her with a sickle . The daughter , however , was spouting some sort of demonic gibberish just prior to be diced . This segues into the slasher part of the film where various passersby ( including the alcoholic preacher , played by Bill Thurman , who carried Evelyn's funeral services ) unknowingly stop off for lodging at the chain of shacks while a storm of nasty rain blasts down . Why anyone would pay for a building this run-down is beyond me . . heck , Evelyn should be paying them just for their courage to carry out such a venture . Evelyn , hearing the haunting echoes of her daughter's commanding voice , begins traveling through an underground tunnel which lies under the shacks occupied by the guests . There is a secret door located in each bathroom so that Evelyn can slip in and slash throats using the sickle that murdered her daughter . Before any of the killing started , she tormented them with snakes ( one bites the face of the man of a honeymooning couple ) , rats ( crawling all over the preacher ) , and roaches ( enjoying a little free time on the face and body of journeyman carpenter Crewshaw , played by Major Brock ) . You have advertising executive , Al ( Will Mitchel ) pretending to be a music exec for Columbia records so he can get laid , while the two girls just need a ride and place to stay for which he so humbly provides . This is one of those weirdo $5 backwoods slashers where the filmmakers probably gathered together friends and neighbors to work cheap on the flick . The acting exposes their lack of talent . The film looks like it was filmed in the cheapest locale in Louisiana which actually adds to the film , I felt , instead of diminishing it . The director has a talent for lighting in ways through darkness and this provides some effective scenes at night . . especially when you enter the cavernous tunnels below the shacks . Anna Chappell is effectively shot by the camera in off-angle ways presenting her as quite the creepy , bizarre character that she is . The gore is non-effective and laughable at best . Some effective moments can not compensate , however , for an hour of nearly nothing happening . . the pacing drags at a snail's pace . I felt the supernatural aspect fell flat as well . As a slasher , it works as a C-movie of interest to those head-over-heels for micro-budget , " how-low-can-you-go " brand of film-making .
Jason Takes Manhattan : Friday the 13th VIII	The hockey-masked zombie slayer Jason Voorhees ( Kate Hodder , in probably my favorite interpretation of the character ) rises from his watery grave of Crystal Lake boarding a cruise ship headed for New York City , adding quite a few more fresh victims to his already impressive resume . An electrical hose is damaged by a teen couple's yacht anchor awakening Jason from his slumber thanks to a charge that refreshes his corpse . After finishing them off and snatching a brand new hockey mask the male on the yacht had appropriately enough on board , he secretly hitches a ride on the cruise ship Lazarus ( appropriate title for a cruise harboring a killer who understands the meaning of returning to life ) with a graduate class of obnoxious teens to slaughter in various ways ( . . not to mention the ship's captain and assistant ) . A good portion of the film consists of Jason killing people on the cruise because director Rob Hedden had to back paddle when he was informed that budget costs limited his work in New York City . Hedden does what he can with Vancouver to at least convince us those nasty alleys are smoking Manhattan streets with druggie undesirables as perfect fodder for Jason to destroy . Even if you think his methods corny , Hedden at least attempts to return a human face to Jason with the added sub-plot regarding the heroine Rennie ( Jensen Daggett ) reliving a terrifying childhood memory of nearly drowning thanks to Jason , the boy pulling her under after Uncle Charles ( Peter Mark Richman , who is perfectly cast as the overly protective biology teacher on the trip always scolding everyone and barking orders to his students . He's quite an intolerable character ) pushes her in trying to teach her how to swim . On the cruise ship , Rennie faces reminders of Jason , whether it be the child banging on a port hole begging for help as water fills his lungs , or the shivering child appearing as an apparition in her room . This sub-text feels inspired . . at the very least , Hedden tries to inject life into a tired franchise fresh out . I think it's when he feels obligated to retreat at times to the slasher formula with rather uninspired kills ( such as the first female victim who doesn't even swat the harpoon spear Jason is slowly closing into her torso , or the hot high school bitch Tamara who gets stabbed , off screen , by a shard of glass from a mirror Jason shatters ) than Hedden often fails . And , I know many have a problem with the closing sequence inside the sewer , but I admired Hedden's effort to end the series once and for all in a unique way . . as the toxic waste flushes through the sewer , it , in a sense , removes the evil infirmities where we realize that truthfully within this sadistic monster is a frightened child now able to die in peace . There's an element of fun here if you're not too dependent on logic , or aren't too disappointed in the fact that the film doesn't cash the check as it proclaims on the poster and title . But , there's an energy behind the camera-work ( love how they zoom in on Jason , particularly on the subway and in Times Square ) and some good humorous bits such as when Jason finds a hockey sign ( the way the camera frames Jason in front of it is a treat for horror fans of the series ) , when a group of wannabe gangsters retreat from their plan to mess Jason up for destroying their jukebox when he reveals his face to them , or the inspired diner scene where Rennie and boyfriend Sean ( Scott Reeves ) ask for help because a " maniac is after them " , with the waitress ' response being , " Welcome to New York . " My favorite kill would probably be the way Jason murders a rock chick with her guitar . And , that kill with the steaming sauna rock . . OUCH !
The Incredible Melting Man	To me , there's no doubt that director William Sach's homage to 50's era sci-fi / horror is above all an effects movie . Being a fan of melting effects , Rick Baker produces splendidly grotesque slime dripping from an astronaut's radioactively deteriorating body , a victim of an unexplained phenomena after looking at the sun through the rings of Saturn in his space shuttle . I did ponder how the shuttle returned to earth like a lot of other folks because re-orbit is just as difficult as leaving our planet into space . That bit of detail was unimportant to Sachs because he didn't have the funding available anyway to explain it . Sachs was equipped with some serious talent in this film even if his screenplay is rather terrible . The cast is disposable , especially lead DeBenning as Dr . Ted Nelson , the head doc of a clinic for which the " infected " astronaut , Steve West ( Alex Rebar ; who is given glorious credit by the movie as the title star ) was able to retreat from with relative ease ( . . a portly nurse sees the horrible monster that he is , drops her bottles of blood , and runs in horror , as the film goes slow-motion with her breaking through the glass exit door before being caught ) . Nelson is in charge to find Steve , and soon is aided by General Michael Perry ( Myron Healy ) who works at NASA and was a colleague of the astronaut . Also soon joining the search is Sheriff Neil Blake ( Michael Alldredge ) , a bit miffed about the violent carnage occurring in his town , wanting answers and the killer . Nelson has a pregnant wife , Judy ( Ann Sweeny ) whose had a series of miscarriages , perhaps added to the plot as a means to provide character development . . it's a given that her life could be in danger as Steve indeed shows up outside her house , eventually attacking a victim near it . The film is basically a series of attacks , with Sachs setting up situations where characters are introduced , some are victims , others find the bodies . The sequence with Judy's elderly mother and her husband , stopping off their trip to steal some oranges from a grove , becoming lunch for Steve , is an example of kooky characterization . . I believe Sachs simply came up with scenarios like this to compliment the slime and goo dripping from the melting man . Along with his skin melting away , Steve is also a flesh-eater and we get sequences where crime scenes expose his nasty eating habits . . oh , the reason why he's a cannibal is that Steve needs the cells from humans to survive . The funniest scene in the film has a couple returning home discovering Steve personally . Film director Jonathan Demme enters his home to investigate who has broken in , never to return , as Janus Blythe provides a shocking look of terror ( . . we never see what exactly happened to Demme ) as she barricades herself in the kitchen , eventually chopping Steve's arm off with a cleaver . . the hilarious part is a long take of Blythe cowering in a corner going hysterical , such a meaningless protracted scene that adds little to the film . Sachs had a wonderful cinematographer working for him in Willy Curtis , who should've went on to a more thriving career , utilizing the setting of San Fernando , California quite well ( . . a particular shot of a lumbering Steve , from a distance , the backdrop of an amber sky while the sun was on it's way to setting is quite impressive ) . The power plant finale as Nelson and Blake corner Steve is a marvel of ineptitude to behold . Nelson is simply not a hero of any real measure , making some incredibly insanely moronic choices . . his decision to throw away a gun handed to him by Blake , his constant interference of stopping Steve at opportune times when it was clear that this was a dying creature who couldn't be helped , and his feckless inability to find him despite the area for which he was rampaging ( . . not to mention , Nelson's casual , non-aggressive , approach , with an unprecedented lack of urgency , to finding Steve , despite knowing that it was destroying innocent victims ) . DeBenning brings very little to his role , quite vapid . I think the obvious reasons for the film's series of problems is the limited budget Sachs had to work with ; had he been equipped with more funding , perhaps the crater-size holes wouldn't have been as jarring . I guess it all depends on what you are looking for . . Baker's superb make-up work or the plot and characters which are abysmal . You could say Baker's work has the same effect as the characters and plot . . both are repulsive .
Dark Floors	I'm not familiar with the monster metal band Lordi , but I do like their costumes and make-up , used well in this nightmarish Finnish horror movie which left me rather baffled most of the time . Sarah ( Skye Bennett ) is an autistic girl whose worried father , Ben ( Noah Huntley ) wishes to find her proper help . The hospital have been futilely attempting various methods to cure her , but it seems that Sarah remains in her present condition never to change . Equipped with a crayon and sketchbook , Sarah creates hellish portraits which explain a lot about what will soon take place . Ben decides to take his girl out of the hospital to seek other help while her nurse , Emily ( Dominique McElligott ) attempts to change his mind . They enter an elevator along with a disgruntled visitor , Jon ( William Hope ) , hospital security guard , Rick ( Leon Herbert ) , and nutty , unkempt patient Tobias ( Ronald Pickup ) . Tobias nearly dies after the elevator mysteriously stops , with Emily resuscitating him . When the elevator door opens the floor seems completely empty prompting them to investigate . What they'll soon discover are unthinkable ghouls and demons patrolling the hospital , floor to floor with fewer places to run and hide , as individuals fall prey to the supernatural stalkers . Tobias slips information to the group that Sarah might be the catalyst for the dangers they face and Jon , desperately wanting to get out of the hospital by any means necessary , will wait for a chance to serve her up to the ghastly apparitions . The film follows the transpiring events as they unfold , how time seems to have stopped , how the further the group searches out the hospital it appears more in disrepair , with bloody corpses lying about , the corridors darker and more threatening . I don't know much about the stage act performed by the group Lordi , but I guess their fans will understand this film's premise more than the typical horror fan . I guess the nightmarish realm those of the movie find themselves is like a hellish limbo with the creatures merely present to terrorize them . I'm not sure if these beings are soul-seekers or what , but it seems Sarah is their desired target . . and she , along with Tobias , know what the other members of the group do not know . Perhaps , like Silent Hill , those who can not accept death ( . . I kind of believe they're all dead and until they can face this , they'll never escape this place they find themselves in ) remain trapped in a never-ending set of circumstances . Perhaps the main demon Lordi and his minions wish for them never to leave , which is why they pursue these people to begin with , enjoying the terror they inflict . Tobias , an obvious vagrant that society could give a rat's ass about , understands their present state and desires to die ( . . he wasn't happy with Emily who saved his life from certain death ) . At any rate , I'm not sure of what I watched , because the film presents a series of bizarre sequences where these humans run for their lives as the ghouls chase after them . The slowly decaying hospital setting is appropriately spooky and Lordi & company make for some creepy predators , but the almost incomprehensible plot challenges the viewer's patience ( . . or it did mine ) . For those who can get a grasp of this material , hats off to you .
The Return of the Vampire	You could call this a collection of ideas derived from the Universal brand , even . The film has Bela Lugosi ( still dominating the screen with his quiet menace ) as Armand Tesla , a very reminiscent clone to Dracula in nearly every way except name . He has a werewolf assistant named Andreas ( Matt Willis ) whose Full Moon Curse is controlled by the vampire . The location is London during WW2 and Tesla's greatest adversary is Lady Jane Ainsley ( Frieda Inescort ) and , Sir Frederick Fleet ( Miles Mander ) is one in the making , though he has a hard time believing in vampires despite all the chaos that surrounds him . With his werewolf assistant lending a hand , not to mention his powerful way of hypnotizing the control of young Nicki ( Nina Foch ) , Tesla will be quite a difficult vampire to kill . What could be considered the film's major weakness is that Jane actually put a spike through Tesla's heart , yet this didn't turn his body into dust as so often happens in the vampire pictures . But , perhaps Columbia Pictures wanted to mix things up a bit . . why make their film operate exactly by the rules set by Universal monster films about vampires ? The spike , in this film , remains stuck there only holding Tesla at bay as war ravages the countryside . 23 years later , a Nazi attack disrupts the burial plots of cemetery lots and Tesla's body shows the spike sticking from his heart . When two gravediggers pull out the spike , he awakens from his slumber to seek revenge on a much older Ainsley . . the fact that later Tesla takes the identity of Dr . Hugo Bruckner and Lady Jane can not even recognize who he is after having plunged a spike in his heart is a major story flaw , but it has been quite a long time so I'm sure his face doesn't necessarily come back from the shadows of the subconscious immediately . Purists might balk at the idea of desecrating a vampire surviving a thrust to the heart by a pointed object , but it's something that might leave your mind if you get into this little horror picture . I didn't mind the decision to stray away from the norm , though . Interesting concept regarding how vampire Tesla can actually command his male servant Andreas ( Matt Willis ) to turn into a werewolf . . a werewolf who remains in a suit throughout the movie , known in circles to tickle funny-bones . I do applaud Columbia Pictures for their noble effort in at least attempting to capture the spirit of Universal . And , whether his name is Tesla or Dracula , it was fun seeing Lugosi once again donning the cape . Director Landers does handle the fog-lit cemetery rather successfully . I read that Lugosi was paid merely a small sum to portray this vampire . I thought the setting of England , under attack by the Nazis with all the bomb and gunfire wreckage , to be an interesting place for Tesla the vampire to roam . The film is beautifully shot . . it's clear Columbia forked out some cash in order for their vampire film to achieve that polished look that the viewer is used to seeing in Universal's horror product . The camera throttles the viewer with his deeply evil eyes as they force victims to do as he wishes .
The Final Sacrifice	" He who walks behind the rows will show us the way ! " So says Micah in this unintentionally hilarious follow-up to the cult classic from the 80's . Keeping a straight-face , this unnecessary sequel { . . followed by many more unnecessary sequels } follows " ragman " John Garrett ( Terrence Knox ) who is on assignment in reporting about what exactly occurred in Gatlin when the town children offed their parents . The film has the clichéd story element of the strife between father and son as traveling with John is his son David ( Paul Scherrer ) . John was once a reporter for Newsweek and now is doing a job for a third-rate gossip mag . The film provides David with a love interest in Lacey ( Christie Clark ) who wishes to escape Americana for New York . Rosalind Allen is wasted as Angela Casual , simply a love interest for John and a set-up sacrificial lamb for the blown-out finale . In another unintentionally hilarious sub-plot , the film provides the demonic corn field with a native American folklore element as John gets support in understanding what the hell is going on through Frank Redbear ( Ned Romero ) , an anthropology professor who explains to him that it is quite possible the Earth is rising up against man for destroying it . One thing I pondered ( . . why should I give this film very much room for thought ? ) was how another town of people would ever take in a group of children who just butchered their parents ? Seriously , would you ? Somehow , I didn't think so . How Michah " transforms " into the leader of the child cult has to be seen in all it's riotous glory . He is " disassembled " molecularly ( . . I'm not kidding ) and reformed by the demonic force in the field . Micah will instruct the children ( . . much like Jacob did in the first film ) to do the work that needs to be done as many will perish for the fields of the harvest moon . Listen to the death list . . ( a ) a news guy gets a corn stalk thrusted through his throat ( b ) one lady gets crushed underneath her house { " What a world ! What a world ! " } ( c ) one man hemorrhages blood from the orifices of his face { nasty bit of business this is } ( d ) one doctor is repeatedly stabbed with syringes { . . the kids finish the job with a nice touch by placing a sucker in his mouth } ( e ) an elderly woman in a wheelchair is sent through the window of a bingo parlor , & ( f ) a town meeting goes up in flames . There's a little sub-plot concerning poisoned corn which might have a hallucinatory effect on children and cause many innocents simply breathing it to die and how certain well-noted citizens of Hemmingford might corruptly be turning their heads so that the town will flourish economically . Will John and Frank be able to stop the evil which awaits in the corn ? Do they bark up the wrong tree and discover that certain members in town want them out of the way . Will Micah complete the cycle of violence and sacrificial offerings so that this beast that awaits can rule the earth ? Does anyone really , really care ? If you bask in the joy of pure rotten cinema { . . as I admittedly did } , then COTC2 : The Final Sacrifice is perfect entertainment . The ending with Redbear only puts a stamp on how the filmmakers wished for us to take it seriously , but I just giggled with amusement .
Reincarnation of Isabelle	A witch , Isabella , was turned into a vampire by Count Dracula , removed from her bed with the bloodsucker , bound to a wooden cross , and a stake plunged into her chest . Her spirit is dormant and the village folk in the castle , gathered together to celebrate Lauren's forthcoming marriage , resemble the people who attended Isabella's crucifixion . The reincarnated spirits begin to thrive once again in certain members of the males within the castle and they are dedicated to bringing Isabella back , their Satanic costumes and ritualistic tools / devices within a surreal worship chamber , her dead body , hole opened where the stake was stabbed , awaiting resurrection . Lauren is to be the door through her reentering our world . Will her fiancé , a non-believer , find a way to help Lauren , or will she be a chosen vessel for evil to be reborn ? Will any viewer even care ? Zany Satanic thriller from director Renato Polselli shifts through different eras , when Isabella was crucified as hecklers and those that care for her look on , in modern time as new people inhabit the castle still housing dark powers , and the worship chamber with followers enacting torturous , barbaric routines for their Isabella . Certain characters stand out in the modern plot . Christa Barrymore is Christa , a believer who is chosen as a way of luring her virgin sisters to their supposed doom , as possible sacrificial victims for Isabella . Mickey Hargitay and Rita Calderoni return from Polsetti's Delirium , to star as Jack Nelson & Lauren , stepfather and stepdaughter . Hargitay , I think , also portrays Dracula in the past , watching in horror as the village men stake his beloved Isabella on a wooden cross in the chest . Calderoni portrays the witch Isabella , and lookalike target Lauren who is chosen to be her gateway from the dead . I attempted , without ceasing , to make sense of the film as the director toys with time and narrative structure , with all types of wacky theatrics ( Stefania Fassio's bonkers Stephy is a bonafide buffoon played to the hilt , aggravating all those around her , always seeking attention ) and visual flourishes ( . . like how he shoots faces from all angles and shrouded in psychedelic colors ) . As you might know , there are ample opportunities for the director to expose breasts , especially the delicious Calderoni who was quite a gorgeous woman to ogle over . The film highlights the " virgins " targeted as potential victims for Isabella , ravaged by Satan's disciples at the end as they are taken to the worship chamber . One , Christa , is almost buried alive in a harrowing sequence as those who attended her funeral had left , her chance of escape left to the mercy of a demented facially scarred servant who is often singled out by the director hiding in corners with a gleeful look on his face willing to cause harm to anyone if allowed . My favorite scene would have to be when Christa is being fondled forcefully from behind by an unknown assailant as he grabs her breasts , his free hand feeling down her body , as she slowly succumbs to an awakening sexual desire ( . . the camera shoots down her chest as the hand grabs and caresses ) . While not as violent as it could've been , this sure is a lurid shocker . A rather alarming sex scene between Stephy , her female girlfriend , and a grotesque " twitching " loon is sure to leave a lasting impression . . either as a way to repulse or excite depending on your taste . There is an explanation at the very end as to what is going on , but I'm sure many will even grow more frustrated and confused . Raul Lovecchio , as a grim-faced occultist , owns a portion of the newly ocupied castle , warning others of the evil that presently resides within the place , and has all the answers as to what is truly going on .
Scanner Cop	A former neurosurgeon named Glock ( great heavy Richard Lynch ) was put away thanks to cop Harrigan ( Richard Grove ) . Through manipulating a doctor at a psycho ward , Glock escapes , taking up with a " fortune-teller " named Zena ( Hilary Shepard ) . He seeks revenge for Harrigan's putting him away ( Glock was conducting " brain experiments " on a group of followers ) and , through a series of brainwashing tactics , has civilians killing cops they thinks are various evil concoctions based on their worst fears . Years prior to this , Harrigan was working a beat where a father was going through madness thanks to his overwhelming scanner attacks . . this mental throbbing which work as excessive migraines ( we see these mini-heads bulge from the poor guy's forehead ) as multiple voices from anyone in the general area chime in only adding to his misery . The father hadn't taken medication for his illness for days and his son Sam can only watch in horror as he almost kills not only Harrigan but throws another policeman through a wall . In an unfortunate turn of events , Sam's father is killed because of his attempts at killing those policemen . Without a home , Sam is raised by Harrigan . Sam ( Daniel Quinn ) , now an adult rookie cop , will have to help Harrigan ( now a Commander of the police force ) stop Glock by temporarily stopping the routine of medication which kept the scanner abilities dormant and quiet . As Sam remains off of them , his mind is slowly coming apart . . he must find Glock & Zena before a repeated case of what happened to his father occurs to him . Darlanne Fluegel ( TO LIVE AND DIE IN LA ) stars as Dr . Joan Alden , someone who will work closely on the case as the voice of reason who tries to keep Sam focused while assisting the police . If things get hairy or appear out of hand regarding Sam and his scanning , she'll try to be a guiding hand in him not taking things too far . Not a bad film , but nothing all that special or memorable . I can't say I didn't enjoy it , but I wasn't that overwhelmed , either . Quinn is actually quite good in the lead and Lynch is at his usual slimy best . There are some okay make-up effects showing how scanning another's mind can lead to the exposing of brain hemorrhage is one keeps the meld on too long . There's a head-explosion which is almost expected in the series . The interesting little gimmick added to the film has Lynch's baddie plated with metal on one side of his brain making it hard for Sam to scan him .
The Gathering	Christina Ricci stars as an American , Cassie , who is hit by a car belonging to the wife of a art restorer ( . . . and investigator ) , Simon Kirkman ( Stephen Dillane ) who is currently working on a top-secret project regarding the restoration of a first century church buried under earth . This church , Simon discovers , was built by Joseph of Arimathea and features the faces of a gathering of on lookers who came to the crucifixion to simply watch out of idle curiosity . It is believed that the gathering were condemned ( . . by God ? ) to wander the centuries , forced to watch the same kind of horrifying acts of violence to victims as they had during Christ's crucifixion . Something in the town of Ashby Wake is going to happen and Cassie , who can not remember much about her past , has terrible premonitions regarding certain citizens suffering brutal fates . Cassie has taken to Simon's quiet son , Michael ( Harry Forrester ) , almost mute thanks to the death of his beloved mother , and , after seeing a premonition of his own demise , sets out to stop the future act with the best of her ability . A rather imposing local mechanic , Argyle ( Peter McNamara ) , Cassie discovers , was molested by his priest and certain drunken citizens as a child , and she believes he will be behind something seriously sinister , hoping to stop him before he carries it out . She meets a likable chap who lives nearby ( . . he tells her ) named Dan ( Ioan Gruffudd ) and Cassie opens up to him about her troubling premonitions and he seems supportive , but is he really an avenger for her cause ? And , how come Cassie escaped being seriously hurt after the car hit her to begin with ? Can she save Michael and stop Argyle ? To be honest I found the premise totally silly and couldn't take it seriously . But , it is a well-made thriller that builds over time , filling in the blanks , using Ricci as our guide , along with the priest ( Simon Russell Beale ) who makes some startling discoveries regarding familiar faces which show up during several various places " to watch " horrifying deaths calculated by a supreme being who forces the gathering to forever wander in time . The film , for a while , has two alternating stories , the restoration of Joseph's church and Cassie's attempts to stop a potential disaster , with them intersecting when the faces of the gathering become better known . But , for a long period of time , director Brian Gilbert and writer Anthony Horowitz maintain a heavy level of ambiguity , providing clues using premonitions , ominous faces , past memories detailing a disturbing truth which fuels the violent rampage at the end , and a heroine with several mysteries of her own which slowly unravel as the disturbing event draws near . The themes of fate and redemption are explored and Ricci's Cassie , through her amnesia , can perhaps change an event that's set to happen , unlike the gatherers who merely await in the background to watch it all unfold . It's quite an odd concept I found rather hard to swallow , but I'm pretty sure many will find it to be thought-provoking and intriguing . Like BLESS THE CHILD , not one of Christina Ricci's better known films , but might be entertaining for fans of spiritual thrillers .
The Devil Bat	The town of Heathville's local doctor ( Bela Lugosi ) who is quite mad , unleashes a bat raised in secret laboratory to strike selected victims with a special after shave he had created . What makes Lugosi's doctor more sinister is that he's beloved by Heathville's citizenship . What pushes Lugosi's demented state of anger is the firm for which has made a lot of money off of him , though this element in the story is truthfully unconvincing and merely an escape-goat for the setting up of bat-murders . He feels rejected by those who have profited from his genius . A newspaper reporter and his photographer come to Heathville on assignment to find answers to the mystery of the bat for a special story in their rag . The key to the doctor's downfall is inevitably what draws the bat to it's victims . Ultra-low budget does perhaps limit this film and the story is just too bizarre to take at all serious , but there's a degree of joy in this film that makes it an entertaining watch . Lugosi's career didn't quite flourish like his contemporaries , and the evidence is right here in this low-grade B-film . The swooping bat and it's screeching cry as it dives for it's neck-feast is a hoot and Lugosi , bless his soul , gives what he can to a meaningless film with only it's hokey quality to advance it's recommendation . Definitely for lovers of junk-cinema .
The 4	The supposed bread and butter of this film's premise as promised is the Fantastic Four doing battle with Doom . That occurs for like ten minutes at the tail end of the movie . What we get are a modicum of visual effects that are moderately successful . Lots of cars get thrown around in this movie , that's for sure . The synopsis , or what there is of it , consists of five people going into space ( it's that easy when you are wealthy like Julian McMahon to just up and go to space when you feel like it ) to find cures and stuff for disease . They encounter some sort of life force entity which gives each of them powers beyond what mortal man can possibly imagine . Ioan Gruffudd is Reed Richards , the nerdy shy scientist whose job at NASA sent him into bankruptcy with pal Michael Chiklis as Ben Grimm . . always watching his friend's back through all the heartache . Jessica Alba is Sue Storm , Reed's ex who still carries a torch for him . She has been working under the millionaire Victor Von Doom ( what a name , huh ? ) , played by Julian in all his menacing glory . Julian is indeed the only real thing this film has going for it with the exception of the harrowing bridge sequence caused by a man who planned to jump off of said bridge . To close out the group is Chris Evans as Johnny Storm , a cocky , self-assured pretty boy who is to pilot the ship to space . I'm surprised he had enough brains to pilot his car on Earth much less some ship into space . Anyway , after the crew encounters the anomaly in space , Reed's limbs become tender and he can now stretch them for miles and miles , Sue can make her entire body invisible , Johhny can turn his body into a flying fireball , and poor Ben forms into this huge rock creature . Victor's body is slowly growing into steel while also carrying a unique ability to shift electrical current with his hands . Victor , who loses money from his company for his funding the space fiasco , lets lose on his boss who tells him he's finished , and once he sees that Sue , who he has a thing for , is still in love with Reed , DOOM will soon come upon The 4 . The film opens sappy story lines like the whole love angle between Reed and Sue , Thing's unbearable hardship with how he looks , and sister trying to stop fire torch brother from enjoying his unique abilities . Reed is trying desperately to solve the riddle behind how to change everyone back to their original normal form , but brick walls seem to always stand in front of him . Meanwhile , Doom likes his increasing power and will tool his resources to try and unleash a flurry of rage against those who sent him into financial ruin .
What can The Scarecrow say ?	The film , as reviewed already by many on this site , is a bit short . It gets on with it leaving little room for us to see built story . A hobo falls from a little child's tricycle and his head smashes the solid floor so hard his blood flows for ages , not to mention something magic about his blood " creates " four demonic dolls from thin air and little bolts of lightning . They are the same demonic dolls beleaguered cop Tracy Coggins battled in a previous film { labeled " Demonic Toys " } . . a clown with a snake's tail , a baby doll with a potty mouth , an action figure with a twisted sense of rage on his face , and one of those toy robots with lasers that blast out little light rays of red . Coggins realizes that these toys are simply too small for her to reach within the toy factory ducts so she enlists the aide of alien cop from Artorous Tim Thomerson { from the film " Dollman " } and miniature nurse hottie Melissa Behr { from " Bad Channels " } to stop them once and for all . Scoggins is in this film maybe ten minutes , but is quite good in her way too limited time . Thomerson is the true reason to watch this film for he gets to blast dolls with his gun that blows things to smithereens and quip phrases like " Pop goes the weasel " . Behr is here for the eye candy . The film lets us into all three crossover stories to this film's point . It's filler for a total absence of story and saves a lot of money , also . Still , it seems that everyone is having fun , but one can really see the budgetary constraints on the filmmakers when it comes to visual effects . The dolls have some large shots against Thomerson and Behr which don't match well with single takes of the dolls from afar . The film's length also shows proper lack of funding . It's clear Full Moon has always been limited somewhat by lack of budget , but always seem to provide casts with spunk . The film has a perverted sense of humor and if one likes this type of junk might really enjoy it despite how really silly it all is .
Poseidon	The cruise ship Poseidon is hit by a nasty rogue tidal wave which capsizes it . While many perish in the turning of the ship , there are a few designated characters , arranged properly by the screenplay since we are introduced to each just before the wave hits , who head for the top ( bottom ; propellers offer an exit if they are cut off ) while others , who stay at Captain Bradford's ( Andre Braugher ) request , are sealed off by bulkhead doors . We automatically know who made the right decision but I never could understand why so many didn't follow suit instead of trusting the unknowable . . especially with the idea of being sealed off by steel doors . Anyway we automatically know who the two heroes are at the beginning , because we've seen so many of these Hollywood adventure / disaster flicks it isn't that hard to realize . Kurt Russel portrays the former mayor of New York and firefighter ( how appropriate , eh ? ) whose daughter Emmy Rossum is secretly engaged to Mike Vogel . Richard Dreyfuss portrays a homosexual deeply wounded by a lover's recent betrayal . Jacinda Barrett is a mother whose son Jimmy Bennett is in constant peril . You have Josh Lucas , a card shark who takes money from chosen victims at cruise-ship poker tables , but is a commanding leader who understands any ship pretty well because of pretty much living on them for some time . Mía Maestro is a woman who snuck on the ship and plans to join her young brother in the States . This motley band of characters will strive , through constant danger such as fallen debris and blasts of water , to make it to the destination of the propellers , but often , as is expected in disaster / survivalist films , they will face many set-backs . The tidal wave slamming into the Poseidon is the film's major impact . It succeeds as Cameron's TITANIC did at make your jaw drop , but that is the film's main high-light . Russell and Lucas do what they can with their limited characters . Dreyfuss has seen better days and is given little to do but survive . The chicks of the picture , Rossum , Barrett & Maestro come off better because they are given a bit more to work with . . but even they are saddled with basic melodramatic clichés that have been drilled to the audience in these types of film for ages . The film simply dispenses with the usual 30 minutes of building up story so that we can get to know them a bit , leaving us mainly with snippets of dialogue as entrances into their lives at the moment they begin their fateful voyage . Other than the disaster and survival elements in the story , there just isn't much to the film . It really doesn't add anything really fresh to the genre and , sadly , is rather forgettable . Good cast , though .
The Return	Joanna ( Sarah Michelle Gellar ) has remained out of the state of Texas for some time , while still working mostly on the road winning clients for a business she works for . As a child , she had a mental breakdown . She kept seeing mysterious images while cutting herself apparently because of the horrors of what was there presented to her . At a carnival , we get a look inside what Joanna as a child sees . . a male figure , shrouded in darkness , who calls out for his " Sunshine . " Joanna takes a chance re-entering Texas , while infuriating a co-worker who wanted to win over the same company ( Adam Scott ) . She immediately experiences weird occurrences such as her radio's insistence in playing the Patsy Cline tune , " Sweet Dreams " . Later she experiences a trip into a bar she has never seen the inside of in a little dust stop called La Salle . She also sees the face of a woman named Annie ( Erinn Allison ) in the mirror reflecting back at her . Meeting Terry Stahl ( Peter O'Brien ) in a bar , Joanna remembers him from her dream . Her co-worker has followed Joanna to La Salle still fighting mad about losing the job to her . Trying to rape her in her hotel room , Terry comes to Joanna's rescue . They strike up a quiet friendship and she realizes he has lost a wife . . the very woman whose face she saw in the mirror . As time continues , Joanna sees past memories of Annie , as her murder unravels who that mystery man is that haunts her visions . My question after giving this flick some thought was why would Joanna continue to remain in this state if she was okay outside of it . Is curiosity in such a foreboding place worth the torment that is constant . I felt that despite all the mystery surrounding the man Joanna is constantly running from ( the man who seems so real because of the fear Annie experienced that night ) , the film ends with rather a whimper than a bang . I dunno . The way the film explains how Joanna inherits the ability to see through Annie's eyes that night she was chased and killed didn't quite go over well with me . But , I felt the filmmakers and cast tried hard to create a unique experience even if the film fails .
Nightflyers	Michael D'Brannin ( John Standing ) has a great vision and that is to find a certain form of alien life / intelligence but needs a space vessel to seek it out . The ship he's able to find is captained supposedly by a mysterious man named Royd ( Michael Praed ) who won't reveal himself in person to the crew . Miranda ( Catherine Mary Stewart who I thought was just fine ) is a head-strong woman who is D'Brannin's confident , a person who believes in him and his life's goal & desire . The rest of the crew are not as assured of this mission , but go along with the ride anyway . They are mostly made up of tech-heads who wish to understand Royd more and try various ways to get more information about him . Then there's a woebegone Class-10 telepath Jon ( the always watchable , flashy , flamboyant Michael Des Barres ripping to shreds every scene he's in ) who believes he's found an evil presence on board the ship , at it's very core . This " seething malignant presence " hates the crew , Jon informs them in shouting tirades as he has " linked " with the very evil itself . Royd has found a person to confide in with Miranda , obviously a woman he's also attracted to . He finds her doing gymnastics ( perhaps one of the few times the film really pursues character development by placing a past to a person ) and is intrigued by her and the things Miranda has to say . Royd informs her that he is in fact a clone , created by a woman he calls " Mother " who died before the chamber birthing him completed it's cycle . Royd wishes to leave his ship and realizes that his immunity system is so weak he'll probably die leaving the ship , but his feeling of imprisonment makes his decision easier . His desire to do this makes the evil presence on the ship erupt as it's obvious who it is that is behind the violence that will take place . . Mother . Jon wishes to " take over " the ship and believes he can defeat the evil that is control at the present . . big mistake . He is instead controlled by Mother and forced to attempt the murder on the one she believes is responsible for putting thoughts of leaving in Royd's head . . Miranda . The rest of the crew are merely fodder for her death belt . From Jon we find out what is indeed behind the evil . . somehow the woman who created Royd transfered her consciousness and will into the ship's core meaning that it's her who controls the ship and it's computer . Somewhere on the ship lies her power and it must be destroyed or else everyone perishes . Yeah , it's rather mediocre , but I never found it to be as bad as everyone else posting user comments does . Now , this could be because I haven't read the book it's based on . I'll admit , there isn't much character development and the crew , for the most part , are merely here to serve as victims for the " Mother of evil " . Lisa Blount who portrays Audrey , the crew member who questions nearly everything , especially the trustworthiness of Royd , is feisty enough , but a bit grating at the same time . James Avery ( as Darryl , the cook who gets his fingers taken off in a kitchen explosion during one of Mother's emotional outbursts and then later re-applied during a surgery scene ) tries hard in the role of token black guy who serves as emotional center to the nervous crew members who do not trust Royd or the other goings-on on board this alien ship . Glenn Withrow is Keelor , the nerd who understands the engineering side of things and has a scene where he finds the massive schematics of the computer showing us what they're up against . Hélène Udy is Lilly , the computer wiz mostly seen punching keys trying to get at what makes Royd ( . . and the ship ) tick . Annabel Brooks is Jon's telepathic lover , Eliza . There's one great sequence where someone possessed by Mother attempts to kill Miranda and during the struggle gets his arm sliced off & face broken apart by a renegade laser . Another poor soul is sucked out into space when , in another one of her emotional tirades , Mother opens the cargo bay doors . During that tirade , Royd is able , he thinks , to stop Mother , but not before the cargo bay is breached meaning it must be patched before the ship implodes . So you know that going outside the ship is very necessary . . is Mother really dead ? I thought some of the special effects sequences were just fine and the murkiness of the ship's interior isn't something I was bothered by . It could've been better , I assume , since many consider this an abomination to a good novel . Whoever made this probably didn't have the money or proper resources to make the kind of ambitious project that novel needed .
Mantis in Lace	Cheeky smut is perfect entertainment for sleaze aficionados . Photographed by Bogdanovich's frequent cinematographer László Kovács whose experiments with psychedelic colors during Lila's ( Susan Stewart ) drug trips are quite an experience . The film concerns the homicidal tendencies of a stripper triggered by LSD during Lila's sexual confrontations with men in a candle-lit abandoned warehouse for rent . Lila picks up various males for whom she encounters at the club she works , an unusual assortment of men , who have no idea what lies in store for them as they take part in passionate love-making as she succumbs to possible past incidents which re-awaken as the LSD overtakes her senses . After stabbing the men she beds with a screwdriver , Lila chops their bodies up with a cleaver disposing of the corpses in cardboard boxes in the warehouse , leaving them in vacant areas . The film shows two weary detectives pressed into solving the serial killings , this rash of homicides is growing in number and Lila shows no signs of stopping . The acting is obviously sub-par with this dime-store cast of unknown faces and the dialogue leaves anything to be desired . Stewart , in the lead as Lila , is quite beautiful ( . . often bearing her breasts during rather lackluster dance-routines ) yet rather vacuous . The film luridly shows the club crowd's enthusiastic reactions to the performance artists on stage as they bare their breasts for the public . . László Kovács camera gets in very close , his eye-lens peering provocatively as the strippers ' bodies move in various dance routines . This film made me feel like I was a paying customer . . that was how the director and his photographer often focus completely for long periods on the strippers and their routines . This will definitely be embraced by that crowd who adores trash and twisted premises like this film has . There's a soft-core sequence between the club owner that Lila works for and a potential client that seems to be in the film merely to satisfy an audience looking for a sex scene . I wouldn't call this a good film , but I certainly think it achieves what it sets out for . . giving a specific audience exactly what they crave . The abrupt ending leaves anything to be desired .
House of Blood	There's a cabin in the middle of the woods , far from modern civilization , inhabited by a group of unusual people who speak Old English and become demonically possessed savages with a craving for " anything with blood in it . " Poor Dr . Douglas Madsen ( Christopher Kriesa ) , traveling to pick up medical equipment , happens to come across a bus wreck carrying evil inmates who have eliminated the security assigned to keep them detained . Forced against his will , Doug will have to follow the four inmates into the woods as they head for the Canadian border only to find the cabin which occupies the strange folk who warn them repeatedly to flee before the turning occurs . What commences is a slaughter , but thanks to one of the group , a young lady named Alice ( Martina Ittenbach ) , Doug escapes . When he tries to explain to a detective ( Jürgen Prochnow ) what happened to him , he isn't believed and must face the idea of prison . He's the only one who came out alive with four missing inmates and dead security guards . . Doug seems to be in a bit of trouble . Well , prison might be better than what awaits him . Traveling in a bus with other inmates , they drive through a female traveler , out of her car to see about a deer she hit , causing an eerily similar wreck to the one that occurred at the start of the film . A feeling of deja vu for Doug and , as before , another group of inmates will force the doc to accompany them into the woods , with a goal of heading north . . just guess what happens . Forget the story-line , director Olaf Ittenbach's horror tale is mostly a German splatter-fest . . pure unadulterated gore movie , loaded with outrageous violence . I mean the religious freaks in this house turn back flips using the wall as a springboard for petesake ! I didn't know if they were supposed to be a relic from another time , or luchadores needing a wrestling ring . You get an arm amputation , eyeballs pried away from a victim's face as it's being ripped apart , heads exploding ( . . including one nifty scene where a demonically possessed savage's face forms back together from it's shredded remains ) from shot-gun explosions , a face being stabbed with a spate , lots of blood splatter from bullet riddled bodies ( . . it appears that A LOT of squibs were used in this movie ) , guts being pulled from bellies , etc . The Doc even gets to remove shrapenal from an inmate's nut-sack , for crying out loud . There's a nice attempt , straightly executed , at how fate , or a divine force , can guide certain people to a specific fate . The undesirables from prison who often find themselves supposedly heading north only to meet an ominous fog within the woods which leads them to this cabin housing God's chosen to feed on their flesh . I guess that was what this crazy movie was attempting to accomplish . I just laughed this aspect off and rather enjoyed the battles between inmates and demon-baddies . Simon Newby really lays it on thick as the first heavy , Arthur , spending his time on screen barking orders and threatening dire consequences towards anyone crossing him . Doug gets treated like dirt the entire running time of the film . First he's the constant source of bullying , given little chance to survive , only remaining so because of the assistance Arthur's brother , Spence ( Luca Maric ) needs with a torn arm with a bullet wedged causing an artery to bleed badly . Then later , Doug must deal with a quiet psychopath , Paul Anderson ( Dan van Husen ) , who likes to wax poetic , often quoting from books and writings from popular writers . I found van Husen amusing as Anderson , the kind of bloke who loves to hear himself talk and has a superiority complex . . he informs Doug that he'll remain alive as long as he pleases Anderson's intellect . You really can't give much thought to things that often matter in movies . . a decent storyline and acting . These departments in " House of Blood " are missing . I will say this . . Olaf Ittenbach has some style , but his attempts at messing with the chronology in the story-line ( . . going back and forth in time , often in the case of Doug , such as his interrogation scenes tied in with the second act and how events unfold in Doug's life and how the whole escape of the inmates came to be ) , I felt were unnecessary . The Old English will probably have many viewers trying to hold back giggles . Thee and thus , it becomes quite tiresome . And the opening actors who play the inmates Doug must deal with overact , often blurting profane lines with each other , often shouting , and always quite annoying . . . they're like rejects from an episode of HBO's OZ . They're a source of amusment as well as they really try hard to elicit evil by heightening their voices towards each other . Perhaps with half-decent material , Olaf might have potential .
The Return of Mr . S	Superman has been away for 5 years searching for any sign of life from his birth planet Krypton . While away , Lex Luthor was able to get out on appeal for Superman is not there in the court as the key witness to keep him behind bars . When he returns , Superman finds Lois dating another man , Richard , the assistant editor ( and general nice guy ) to Perry White of the Daily Planet . Lois also has a male child which brings to the viewer the possibility of a super-son . Lois claims the boy is Richard's . Superman takes up his crime-fighting ways and saving those in peril . Luther's partner in crime , Kitty Kowalski , helps him out on occasion , but mostly walks nearby his side tossing " witty " quips ( which seems to be one of her only purposes ; we must remember she is played by Parker Posey who has a knack for delivering witty puns ) . Luthor finds the location of where Superman received his father's guidance and instructions through the use of crystals . Luthor takes the crystals and soon finds Kryptonite buried within a rock housed in a museum . He then plans through the use of the crystals , whose power is unimaginable ( they literally can shut an entire city's power down while also growing crystal-shaped rock formations from the watery earth ) , to bury a large part of the United States under water for forming his own land for substantial gain . Will Superman be able to stop Luthor's diabolical plan while also having to save a city on the verge of collapse when the evil bald one sets just a few crystals in the ocean ? This film is a one hour forty five minute movie buried under a running time of two and a half hours . I was expecting fireworks , but said to myself once it was over , " That's it ? " Sure , there are some clever super-saving special effects in the film like how Superman rescues a crew of passengers on the verge of death landing them safely on a baseball diamond or how he is able to fly through clouds ( not to mention how a bullet simply smashes an unphased eyeball of Mr . S ) , but that big climactic wallop just really never comes . The film is more of an introduction to the characters and the casting choices , for the most part , are fine . I was quite surprised at how much Brandon reminded me of Chris Reeve . Even when he speaks , it seems like they have laid a voice-over of Reeve saying goodbye to Lois . I think Kate Bosworth makes a beautiful Lois and Spacey seems to relish his menace in the guise of Luthor . Poor Marsden ( sort of like his Cyclops in the X-Men franchise ) is the unfortunate come-between as Lois ' beau Richard . He is as good as good can be , but he isn't Superman and seems to be in this plot more for being a roadblock for the romance viewers expect from the new film . I found it laughable the way the screenplay finds ways to put Lois in peril and then showing Superman coming to her rescue right on cue . But , the most unfortunate thing is that the confrontation we wait two hours for is short-lived having their encounter brief until the next film . Really , to be brutally honest , the film's story isn't any more thrilling than a Smallville episode . We just have to watch the story develop over an exhausting two and a half hours instead of week to week . Still , despite the film not being that great , I do think now that they've made the characters clear to us , the franchise has opportunities to take off . I will certainly give a second film a chance . . I just hope they don't waste my time for an epic length next time .
Voices	For about 90 minutes , practically everyone around Ga-in ( Jin-seo Yun ) wants her dead . A classmate . A teacher . Her male fencing partner . Her mother . Perhaps even her best friend . But , the very one she wouldn't realize is exactly the person that wishes to kill her the most . A little boy sees his mother topple over with a knife in her back and we later discover that his father went apesh # t due to stress and poverty . This corresponds with Ga-in's family we later discover with the little boy seeking revenge for he blames them mostly for his father's eventual psychotic breakdown . The film also highlights a young man who seems to follow Ga-in around yet no one seems to acknowledge him but her . Ga-in's aunt presumably leaped off a balcony ( . . or was pushed by her fiancé ) and was eventually stabbed to death by her sister as she lie recuperating in a hospital bed . Ga-in later is sent by her father to an elderly man who tells her of a story concerning his decision to murder his wife out of rage towards her adultery . He feels his action , fueled by a voice over the phone who warned him of her adultery , has perhaps set off a chain of events where some sort of curse is running rampant hypnotizing folks into killing people they wish were dead . And , the young man who hangs around with Ga-in , like a little drooping , sad puppy with nowhere else to go , tells her to trust no one , not even herself . Eventually someone Ga-in loves so dear will unleash a fury on her family , her having no idea that he harbors such harsh feelings . There are a lot of hallucinatory scare effects designed to make the viewer jump concerning a monster which resembles red raw hamburger meat in the shape of a man always reaching out to grab Ga-in . She also sees this spooky young women , her face emerging from a pool of dripping blood , hovering over her bed , threatening that Ga-in would be next ( . . this happens after Ga-in's aunt stabs her sister in the hospital room ) . The film seems to establish that a sinister figure representing a symbolic form of harbored desire ( . . the desire one has against another , out of jealousy , mostly ) provides people with an option to violently rid themselves of their " adversary . " Ga-in stands in the way , so to speak , of certain people's happiness . The student who never benefits due to Ga-in's success as a fencer . The teammate who is one step below Ga-in in their sport , wanting her out of the way . The best friend jealous of her attaining the boyfriend she always wanted . The mother who doesn't feel appreciated . But , to be honest , I couldn't understand what happened at the end ( . . Ga-in's fate after a tragic murder of a relative ) regarding Ga-in . I thought I had a decent understanding of what the hell was going on , but , like a lot of these films , the filmmakers involved desperately needed to throw a wild twist at us . . the heroine can't get off that easy can she ? That's how I felt . . we watch this poor girl go through an absolute nightmare for 90 minutes and yet she must not escape . That's the mentality of horror films these days . Still , there's some great moments here and there , but this is quite a confusing experience one must endure in order to enjoy those instances of shock and awe .
The Majorettes	A psychopath wearing camouflage with a hunting knife as his weapon , commences in slaying female majorettes across the throat while bathing their bodies in water " purifying their sins " . A reluctant county detective is placed on the case with a sheriff who doesn't want his company . A nurse , whose son is the high school janitor and resident idiot with a vent opened up in his supply closet so he can spy on the majorettes removing their clothes in preparation for the showers ( . . while also taking snapshots of them , for his private collection ) , hopes to gain a great sum of money from her employer's will . . the employer is an invalid , pretty much a vegetable unable to speak due to a stroke that has left her practically a zombie in a wheelchair . The nurse informs the poor woman of her diabolical plans while injecting her with heavy doses of insulin . Meanwhile , a gang of drug-dealing hoodlums selling their dope to underage teens cause problems towards a high school quarterback and his friend ( . . she's the granddaughter of the invalid the nurse plans to kill , and also a victim-to-be set up for execution due to what she'd receive in the will at the age of 18 ) which culminates in two tragic shoot-outs leaving quite a many dead . The nurse , thanks to her voyeur son's taking photos of a victim as she's being mutilated by the killer , blackmails the serial killer , wanting him / her to execute her employer's granddaughter to keep their silence . While I give a lot of love to the " Russo camp " for keeping it real by investing the film with local folks , this film is burdened by the cast's inabilities to adjust to acting in front of the camera . The screenplay is uneasy as the film moves from one scenario to another , with nearly everyone winding up dead . Though , everything ties together somehow , the glue is running and so is the audience for the eject button . I did think the twist regarding the identity of the killer was nifty and the final scene I thought worked really well . The slasher portion of the film I felt was rather clumsily staged and dragged out a bit too long removing the power these are supposed to bring when we are being led through a building murder sequence where the killer is about to strike his prey . The attacks are rather uninspired and typical of the genre . I feel the convoluted uneven story will leave many slasher fans frustrated and the killer's identity is revealed a bit too soon . The shootout belongs in another film ( . . although , I did enjoy both shootouts I must admit ) and feels tacked on . . although , the first shootout spoils the nurse's initial plans and shockingly some important characters wind up dead a lot sooner than one would expect . There's some nudity , particularly in the majorettes ' locker room . As far as the attacks , most of the violence , except a few throat slicings , is off-screen . Kevin Kindlin , the quarterback who wages war with the nasty bikers , would later return as the lead " vampire " in Russo's flick , " Dark Craving . "
Maximum Overdrive	The MORON MOVIE , if there ever was one , I have no right whatsoever defending it . It's a hunk of pure garbage , but I just couldn't stop laughing at it . I think this was completely made as a tongue-in-cheek comedy not as some sort of horror flick to be taken at all seriously . Most consider Stephen King , as director and writer , the equivalent of Ed Wood with this flick and it's insane premise about trucks and other various machinery running amok killing human beings once a mysterious comet surrounds the Earth . The film's main setting is a truck stop where a collection of workers , truckers , and other passersby are trapped inside the Dixie Boy while diesels circle awaiting some sort of command which later comes when a military jeep , equipped with a machine gun , makes it's way on the scene . The machine gun also serves as the jeep's eyes ! Emilio Estevez is " Bubba " , an ex-con having to work overtime without getting paid extra thanks to Pat Hingle's sonofabitch boss at the Dixie Boy , Hendershot . Laura Harrington is a drifter heading to her family in Florida named Brett who falls for Bubba . Connie and Curtis ( Yeardly Smith and John Short ) are newlyweds who almost get crashed by a renegade diesel and find their way to the Dixie Boy . Ellen McElduff is waitress Wanda June , who never quite recovers her sanity with a mechanical knife attacks her . Holter Graham is the young kid , Deke whose dad was murdered by one of the trucks at Dixie Boy . The film is full of ridiculous gags such as a bible salesman who gets hit by a truck so hard , the camera pans back revealing his shoes . . he was hit so hard the truck knocked him out of his shoes ! You have a plane running on it's own as " Ride of the Valkyries " plays ! You have a homicidal coke machine spitting out full cans which smash in the skull of the coach of a little league baseball team while other tykes get hammered as well . One poor kid , trying to escape on his bike , gets squashed by a steamroller , for crying out loud ! The most memorable scene to me is when young Deke rodes his bike down a neighborhood where we witness the carnage of the machine attacks as bodies lay strewn all over the place with heads hanging out of windows , laying dead by their hammocks , legs sticking out of bushes , etc . Hell , there's even a dead dog with a toy mechanical car wedged in it's mouth ! Somehow , Bubba will have to lead those capable enough to survive out of this difficult situation . . perhaps a sewer tunnel system might be an option at their disposal . It's all played for shock value , nothing more or less . What's even more hilarious is when the trucks desire for the remaining survivors left to feed them gas ! The damn jeep uses Morse code to communicate with them for petesake ! Check your brains at the door for this one ! Just see how King explains what might've actually caused the rampage . . it's quite absurd really .
The Last Horror Film	New York taxi driver , with aspirations in directing a big horror film , Vinny Durand ( Joe Spinell ) is obsessed with female horror icon Jana Bates ( Caroline Munro ) and follows her to Cannes Film Festival willing to go to any lengths necessary to see the actress star in his picture . The film paints him an oddball right from the start as we see Durand masturbating in a darkened theater to the scene of a horror flick featuring a naked woman frying from an electrical wire in her hot tub . . this ought to let the viewer know from the get-go what they're in for . The film is mostly set in Cannes and director David Winters shoots exact streets , movie posters , and people on locations trying to capture that spirit of movie-making as the film transpires with sweaty Durand , quite bonkers as he endlessly fantasizes of being a star director appearing before crowds of adoring fans applauding at a movie premiere dressed in fancy black suit and cape ( . . this is a gas ! ) . Soon those associated with Jana Bates who turn Durand down , when he approaches them with his great desire and script for her , wind up murdered in various ways ( sliced throat , ax to the back , knife-stabbing , and gun-shots to the back of the skull ) . Is Durand the man responsible for these crimes ? My favorite scene has poor , frightened-out-of-her-wits Munro running from crazed Spinell from her bathroom , through her hotel , and into the Cannes streets in nothing but a towel ! Love those scenes between Spinell and his mom ( ESPECIALLY the final one ! ) . Those expecting the graphic blood-letting of Spinell and Munro's previous " Maniac " will probably be disappointed with this film . I don't think the film is very good , ( quite sloppy actually ) , but Spinell delivers enough lunacy in his wacko to entertain those horror fans looking for it .
Creepshow III	Anthology horror with no direct link to the first two . It contains five tales all tied together in one way or another . You'll notice that Professor Dayton ( Emmett McGuire ) and his toys often play a heavy role in the outcome of certain characters in the film . The first has a father's new remote control creating a living nightmare for daughter Alice ( Stephanie Pettee ) . It seems that when her father presses the button , Alice is sent to an alternate parallel reality where her family is either black or Hispanic . . not to mention the fact that Alice is suffering through these severe skin mutations which increase every time her alternate father pushes a button on the remote . The second has lonely , alcoholic security officer Jerry ( AJ Bowen ) receiving a strange transmission from a radio he bought off a hobo street peddler nearby where he lives . . a sexy female voice , who sees his every move and begins controlling his life ! This voice will guide him into some hairy situations particularly murder ! The third regards Rachael ( Camille Lacey ) , the " Call-Girl Killer " , notorious for her series of knife murders to supposed male clients . Rachael believes she's about to collect another frat boy victim for her growing resume , but little does she know that Victor ( Ryan Carty ) isn't quite who he appears to be . . Jovial Professor Dayton ( you remember Dayton turning someone into a rabbit early on ) , a quantum engineer who often retreats reclusively to his lab working on " THE experiment " , is getting married and invites two former students he often played practical jokes on to meet his new fiancé . They believe she is his new experiment , a robotic bride and partake in " dismantling " her . But , she might not be what they were expecting . . Rude Dr . Farwell ( Kris Allen ) , a foul , crude , pill-popping jerk serving off a sentence by doing free clinical work , is haunted by the spirit of a bum he gave a poisoned hot dog to ( . . which was actually meant for him ) ! He delivers bad news to patients with as little care as possible . Example , he informs a father that his daughter has a cancerous inoperable tumor ( with her hearing it for the first time in horror ) and tells him he might ought to take her to the senior prom one year early ! Now , this anthology isn't noteworthy or that well produced , but isn't , in my honest opinion , nearly as awful as many have said . Is it that great ? No , not really . But , I've seen much , much worse . And , at least some of the tales have amusing bits . I honestly believed the directors did what they could with limited means in order to provide Creepshow fans some cheesy enjoyment . I chuckled quite a bit , especially at how many of the characters made mistakes they lived to regret . Some stories I really found amusing , like the one with the two students and their Professor's wife or the one where humans receive orders from a radio . At least , these are somewhat original instead of plagiarized ideas blatantly ripped from others .
The Mutilator	And , does this psycho mutilate ! Really sick slasher regarding a madman who suffered a state of psychosis after finding his wife dead from an accidental shooting when his son was cleaning one of his shot guns ( . . she was in the process of topping the icing of his birthday cake ) . Deflated at the thought of spending another boring vacation around their college , Ed Jr . ( Matt Mitler ) receives word from his disgruntled pop ( . . the psycho of the film's title ) that his beach front condo needs a serious clean-up . Their relationship seriously strained , Ed Jr . wishes not to return to the condo , but his college friends coerce him into it ( . . in a prophetic declaration , Ed Jr mentions he has a bad feeling about it and couldn't be more accurate ) . What none of them realize is that Ed's father has disturbing plans in store for the entire group and exacts a murderous rampage to take place the very night they arrive . Feeble excuse to set off a violent graphic killing spree , writer-director Buddy Cooper arranges for Ed to murder his mother , giving his father a fragile reason to execute innocent people . The young cast is a spirited bunch making their college characters likable and light-hearted , thinking they are the only ones on the whole beach for miles , not knowing that Ed's own father is hiding in a room within the garage , metal spikes designated for each victim's head as a type of trophy . Ed's father hunts game just for sport and there's even a photo of a man he run over with a boat for chrissake ! The maniac uses an assortment of weapons to destroy his son's friends . He drowns a victim in a nearby pool before later attacking her boyfriend with a chainsaw , devastating his chest , ripping away chunks of flesh . A local cop working his beat is stabbed in the face before being beheaded by the killer's battle ax ! The killer slams a pitchfork into a victim's throat , sticking him to a door , later ramming a fishing gaff into his girlfriend's vagina , decapitating her with same the bloody battle ax that had been used on the cop ! Not to be denied , the psychopath even attacks his own son with the battle ax after binding Ed's hands and feet ( . . before attacking the group we are privy to his homicidal fantasies regarding the violent harm he'd like to afflict on Ed as a child ! ) . Don't worry , though , because this bastard doesn't walk away unscathed . . that I promise you . MAJOR SPOILER . . this film is very derivative of the genre films that came before it in that it features a psychopath who seems to have a threshold and tolerance for physical pain . He is able to endure a vicious stabbing from a knife directly into the chest , a vehicle's cigarette lighter driven deep into his hand burning away flesh , and is also cut in half after Ed's virginal sweetheart ( . . who is the only one of the group that actually inflicts real harm on this bastard ) drives him into a brick wall . And , this guy still is able to chop off a policeman's leg while his lower half lies right beside him ! This slasher will certainly appeal to those who love their gratuitous violence from a killer so vile he giggles after adding victims to his trophy room and as he lies in two parts on the ground , watching that poor police officer crying in pain as his wound gushes blood ! Not a lot of nudity except a pair of breasts . . this group is a decent and acceptable bunch , rather normal and less obnoxious . They certainly don't deserve the punishment Ed's father inflicts on them . The gore scenes might , though , have a less of an impact due to how they are enacted . Such as how the victims react to their predator when he harms them . And , the decapitation of the cop with blood squirting from the place where the head once was , is unintentionally hilarious . This film surely will repulse many and induce riotous laughter from others .
Raw Deal	A former FBI agent , Mark Kaminsky ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) is recruited by his mentor , Harry Shannon ( Darren McGavin ) to go undercover , infiltrating a dangerous crime syndicate in Chicago . The operation is unofficial , masterminded by Harry as retribution for his son's murder . . someone inside the FBI told Luigi where an informant was hiding in protected custody . One of Arnie's lesser 80's action vehicles , but still a showcase for violent mayhem . The finale is pretty much a machine gun massacre within a lavish meeting room for the mafioso in a heavily protected headquarters , where Arnie intrudes upon their gathering firing away . Lots of bodies are pulverized by bullets . And , you get a couple of exciting car chases with Arnold given a chance to pummel mobster goons ( . . he even gets to throw men through windows and tables ) . Competent cast includes the aforementioned McGavin as a FBI investigator who desires revenge against mob boss , Luigi Patrovita ( Sam Wanamaker ) and his lieutenant Paulo Rocca ( Paul Shenar ) , with Ed Lauter in support as a detective also assigned to take apart the gangster activity . While Wanamaker and Shenar make colorful heavies , it's Robert Davi , as Rocca's loyal , vigilant , and alert assassin , Max , who has the juicy , scene-stealing part . Steven Hill ( . . known mostly for his work on LAW AND ORDER ) has a field day in his role as an adversary of Luigi's , Martin Lamanski . Max , suspicious of agent Mark right from the start , calls on a sophisticated , glamorous high-class gambler , Monique ( Kathryn Harrold ) to keep an eye on him , with Joe Regalbuto , as district attorney Marvin Baxter , a perfectly weaselly crook actually aiding Luigi in secret . . Baxter is the one who cost Mark his FBI job & provided information for Luigi to find the informant and confiscated drugs / loot . A really nifty robbery is carried out , at the suggestion of Mark no less ( . . the attempt to forge his way into Luigi's trust ) , where Luigi's men successfully heist their coke and drug money , which had been seized by police . But , ultimately , this is an action thriller with Arnie , muscles bulging , carefully stockpiling his weapons and smoking his cigars before beating the crap out of people , or blowing scumbags to kingdom come .
The Hearse	Trish Van Devere stars as Jane , a troubled school teacher from San Francisco , trying to recover from a terrible divorce and her Aunt's death , who moves to a small town country home , which lives in infamy as the local boogey-house . The locals resist her , often even appearing hostile or stand-offish just because of the house she lives in . Her aunt was known as a " devil worshiper " , so Jane will not be given a fair shake by the citizens . Jane's arch-nemesis is Walter Pritchard ( . . an ornery Joseph Cotten ) , a bitter misanthrope who wanted the house she resides . He handles the deed and proper papers that Jane needs to sign if she wishes to remain in her aunt's house or sell it off . There are signs of her Aunt's presence in the house ( . . the music cues definitely inform us of this ) and she meets a handsome , yet mysterious young man , Tom ( David Gautraux ) for whom she begins a relationship . But , Jane is tormented by a hearse ( . . and it's sinister chauffeur ) which often tries to either run her of the road , or pull into the yard . Soon , the chauffeur begins invading Jane's house , threatening danger . Is Jane losing her sanity ? Or , is the chauffeur real ? All of Jane's problems began when she started to read her aunt's diary , which reveals her secret affair with a man , while engaged to another ; even mentioning that her lover worships Satan promising eternal life if she joins his cult ) . For about an hour or so , this is a nice little surprise . . a kind of haunted house creeper you might see on a chiller theater program . But , the ending descends into a demonic chase thriller with a rather disappointing close which lets Jane off a bit too easy . I think the one tormenting her is rather predictable for those who understand strange behavior and love unrequited . Donald Hotton portrays the local priest who challenges the demonic power which threatens Jane's life in the house . Med Flory is the unsubtle , flirtatious sheriff who provokes Jane with his sleazy smiles and aggressive attitude . Perry Lang is the affable Paul , the son of a hardware store owner who helps with the repairs of Jane's house , carrying a torch for her . It's a drag that the film builds up to such a rather flimsy close with Jane being chased by the menacing chauffeur wishing to capture her soul which leads to a lackluster conclusion . Might be a bit entertaining for haunted house fans , but even this group will find that " The Hearse " doesn't quite fulfill expectations . Might even be a bit dull for those expecting thrills and chills and only coming away with a pounding score that builds suspense gradually only to a whimper instead of a thrill . This could've been a real winner , instead it's an interesting failure , a curio perhaps worthy of pursuit for one viewing . Not particularly a film which stays with you either . For the exception of some profanity , this has the qualities of a decent made-for-television feature . Fans of Christopher McDonald might get a kick out of seeing him as a foul-mouthed , high-strung youth who questions whether Paul was getting laid with Jane . The house itself is an appropriately spooky enough place and the director sometimes uses P-O-V when the spirit ( . . or person ) invades Jane's home unannounced . The chauffeur has a memorable appearance stalking Jane in the house , while a nightmare sequence provides a creepy sense of dread as she is led into a church where her burial is being held . Ultimately , I think the film works best of it's fish-out-of-water theme where a " big city girl " is treated unceremoniously by the " rednecks " of a small town . . with Jane trying to cope with all those who wish for her to leave . I think , also , that her sanity being tested by the hearse-driving ghoul adds to the film's allure because the locals are provided with reasons for wishing Jane to leave . The major flaw of any film regarding haunted houses is why would Jane remain in such a hostile place with her life clearly in danger ?
Spellcaster	Hokey Charles Band production ( Empire pictures before starting Full Moon ) about various characters participating in a million dollar treasure hunt in a mysterious castle whose owner doesn't show his face . Dr . Diablo remains in his little lair often caressing his crystal ball casting spells on those characters who represent the loathsome types that normally die in horror films . The french snob / slut eaten by a lion chair ( ! ) , a aristocrat ( who likes wild game hunting ) who winds up a feast for some sort of leaping monstrous leopard , a crook who finds himself chasing after the check and falling to his doom , an American bitch who teases the males of the group who treats everyone rudely and winds up in the clutches of a demon on a painting ( ! ) , and so on . Our protagonists are Jackie & Tom ( Gail O'Grady & Harold Pruett ) , a sister and brother from Cleveland . If anyone will survive , they seem to be singled out . You have a VJ , Rex ( Richard Blade ) for a replica of MTV , who excitingly points out that this treasure hunt is sponsored by the rock star Cassandra Castle ( Bunt Bailey ) , an alcoholic wench who wishes she was elsewhere rather than in this castle with these people she deems inferior and annoying ( clearly , she's the annoyance , surprisingly Cassandra is normally the first to go in a horror flick like this , but is kept alive . . hmm . . ) . Good monster effects by John Carl Buechler's company redeem this otherwise silly waste of time . I think monster movie fans will like this best because the creatures present are quite well made . But , the premise isn't really taken advantage of to full effect . The castle is a perfect tool for a horror flick , but isn't ominous at all . . and when you can not utilize the castle as a horror set-piece , you're in trouble . Adam Ant appears briefly ( and effectively ) as Dr . Diablo , the mysterious proprietor of the castle who practices black magic . . or could very well be ole Beelzebub himself . Best sequence : An overeater literally turns into a pig !
Riding the Bullet	During Halloween night of 1969 , a college student Alan Parker ( Jonathan Jackson ) , a possible future artist obsessed with death , takes to the road on a surreal nightmarish odyssey hitchhiking to his home town in Maine to visit his mother in the hospital after she suffered a stroke . Along the way Alan experiences near-death encounters with troubled drivers such as a farmer ( Cliff Robertson ) whose suffering with prostrate problems and the loss of his wife appropriately to a stroke , a returning Vietnam soldier as a wannabe-hippie in disguise , and a Grim-Reaper like Ferryman , George Staub ( David Arquette , going way off the deep end , camping it up with all his might ) who gives him a difficult choice to make . Alan's father committed suicide , but his mother Jean ( Barbara Hershey ) had claimed it as a car accident for her son's sake . A memory that haunts Alan was his not riding a roller-coaster called The Bullet . Alan has a love-interest back at the university , Jessica ( Erika Christensen ) who has tried to shake him from this whole death obsession that has plagued their relationship . . he shuts himself off from others due to a troubled past where his boozing mother and missing father created a void for living . For most of the film's duration we follow Alan on desolate , wet , misty roads surrounded by forests as he encounters troubling , often hallucinatory images of his mother and past memories . Director Mich Garris likes to toy with the audience by showing something that occurs to Alan , only to show that it didn't really happen , but was merely conjured up by him . . it's as if Garris is showing a rash of possible situations created in the mind of a very tormented soul , snuffed out one by one as the ultimate obstacle awaits Alan , his meeting with the Grim Reaper . When Alan starts his journey , and we follow him , Garris doesn't allow the comfort of following the narrative without some sort of jarring jolt within the plot . . such as two hunters who chase after Alan , a rabid dog that eats a rabbit before getting hit by a diesel , or a crow eating dead possum on the side of the road asking him what the " youknowwhat " was he looking at before becoming mush into a car grill . I felt the film is ultimately about embracing what time you have on this earth and Alan has that chance , but will he sacrifice his mother for that opportunity ? The way Garris directs this film , often tossing wild ideas at the viewer such as a " guiding voice " , which looks exactly like Alan , often trying to tell him what to say , or the constant flashbacks of Alan as a child / teenager with his mother , might add fuel to growing haters of his work . He can not help himself in this film . . it's an odd duck for sure , this movie . I felt he was trying to toy with the idea of " is anything Alan actually sees real ? " and for most I guess Garris doesn't succeed . You be the judge . My favorite scene has the Grim Reaper coming to visit him as he lays in his bathtub contemplating suicide by a razor-blade , rooting for Alan to slice his wrists .
The Dark	A prehistoric carnivorous predatory creature ( which resembles a large-sized rodent of some kind , with a huge possum tail ) feasts on the buried dead of cemeteries , creating underground tunnels to travel . A leather-jacketed widowed scientist , Hunter Henderson ( Stephen McHattie ) is in pursuit of that creature , moving from graveyard to graveyard until he can find it . But , also on it's trail is an unstable , rather homicidal , discharged FBI agent , Paul Buckner ( Brion James , just recycling his old menace , but , as always , it works well for his character making him just as monstrous , if not more so , than the creature itself ) , after it for murdering his partner and especially monetary benefits for it's capture . . dead or alive , but preferably dead . The creature secretes a sludge that can regenerate the cells of flesh wounds . Along the way , Hunter encounters a nasty threesome of bikers who threatened the life of a diner waitress , Tracy ( Cynthia Belliveau ) , which ends in a minor shootout with a cook suffering the most of this unfortunate display of violence . With an APB out for them , Hunter and Tracy head on the road as they fall in love . In a nearby graveyard , cemetery groundskeepers portly Jake ( Dennis O'Conner ) and his young assistant Ed ( Jaimz Woolvett of " Unforgiven " fame ) encounter an entrance to the monster's tunnel hole and call in police deputies Gabe ( Christopher Bondy ) and lovely female partner Jesse ( a young , pre-Scream Neve Campbell ) . After Gabe is eaten because of his attempts to see what was inside the tunnel , Jake , Ed & Jesse meet up with Hunter and Tracy . . as a collective , the group will try to take the creature alive , under sedation from a special needle-gun Hunter has in his medical bag . But , Paul will certainly make that task especially difficult . The monster looks like something out of the Jim Henson monster factory . . the filmmakers try hard to shade it as much as possible . As I mentioned already , Brion James is the real villain causing much strife towards the others in his goal to kill and capture the monster . Stephen McHattie , a very recognizable face in television often portraying villains , is the laconic , brooding hero in this particular film . Might be interesting for those seeking out Neve's resume . . the stuff she was in before " Scream " and " Wild Things " . I think creature feature fans might get more out of this flick than most others . The characters aren't really developed overwhelmingly , just little glances into their lives through momentary lines of dialogue . . the filmmakers focus more on the monster , it's lair and those pursuing it .
Tokyo Gore Police	Ruka ( . . scrawny and sullen Eihi Shiina ) watched an assassin blow her father's head apart and bears this burden as an " engineer hunter " ( . . humans with hideous mutations genetically created ) working for a " privatized police faction " known as the Tokyo Police Corporation who destroy criminals on the spot , wearing heavy armour and equipped with state-of-the-art machine guns under the control of a Police chief ( Yukihide Benny ) whose vocal cords are severed and speaks through a special magnified intercom system attacked to his uniform . Ruka is on the prowl for the mastermind behind the engineers , a madman who actually injected himself with the genes of notorious serial killers , his method for being able to create this race he claims derived from the devil after attempting to kill himself . The Mastermind wishes to join forces with Ruka , both have something in common , concerning her father's murder and how the assassin relates to him . Ultimately , The Mastermind will inflict Ruka with a genetic mutation ( . . inserting a hunk of flesh , in the form of a key , duplicated from a sample found in the Mastermind's body after awakening from a coma which derived from his attempted suicidal leap from a building , leaving his face scarred ) that will turn her into the very thing she hunts , with complicated results . The Mastermind will also infiltrate the Tokyo Police Corporation , using one of their own men , after turning him into an engineer when he visited an underground freak show containing mutants . This sets off a chain events which will expose the corruption of an organization which was built , supposedly , to protect citizens , with Ruka forced into fighting against the very ones she's worked for her entire adult life . Outrageous , cartoonish , over-the-top , extremely graphic action-horror hybrid featuring every possible violent act that can happen to the human body . Body parts are ripped away or chopped from victim's bodies and blood sprays all over the place . Faces are stabbed and mutilated , even removed from the head . Hideously grotesque body mutations are a constant ( . . clearly Cronenberg's Videodrome has had a profound impact on the filmmakers ) such as a crocodile mouth forming from the arm or legs of humans effected by The Mastermind's mutations , chomping down on limbs and faces , jerking them from victims ' bodies . Faces are often deformed with icky make-up effects . Ruka uses a Kitana sword and many a victim are split apart with blood squirting , whether it be someone's head parted down the center or bodies cut in half and hacked to pieces . This kind of film is not for the squeamish , that's for sure . The mutations are liable to get under the skin of those who have a hard time dealing with fleshly deformities and abnormalities . I think the film goes a little overboard with it's excess of gore . . a woman is torn to shreds after the Tokyo police pull her apart using four separate vehicles , her hands and legs all pulled in individual directions . Multiple heads are severed and a kooky coroner has a missile launcher he uses to blast human arms ( . . they even give poor Ruka the finger ! ) ! One poor soul gets his penis bitten off with a large mutation growing in it's place shooting flesh-bullets at the police ! The film , as it continues , just gets more ridiculous , surreal and crazy . . it's hard to ever take serious even when the story unfolds a grim fact involving Ruka's father , an advocate against a privatized police force , and her boss , the man who raised her . Features commercial bits representing a hostile future embracing the violent nature of a culture spiraling out of control and the dark humor on display will not appeal to everyone , some would find it unpleasant and sick . But , this film is a no-holds-barred , go-for-broke type of entertainment that is audacious and repulsive in equal measure . Spirited camera-work , colorful visual style , and energy to spare , Yoshihiro Nishimura aims to please gorehounds with a penchant for ultra-violence . The visual effects are , at times , so bizarre , revolting , and shocking ( . . while also , at times , looking rather unconvincing as if it was the director's intent to make the violence seem unrealistic and cheesy ) that it elicits awe and surprise . Rarely does the director let you catch a breath , either , and there's hardly ever a moment where the film is civilized or humane . Enter at your own risk .
The Embalmer	More of a tourist trip through Venice than an effective psycho-thriller regarding a madman , in scuba diver gear , who selects pretty victims on the streets nearby canals , securing them from behind , pulling them into the water , dragging the drowned bodies into his submerged monastery , embalming the poor girls , preserving their beauty using a serum he has perfected . Andrea ( Luigi Martocci ) is a newspaper reporter who pursues the case , falling in love with a tourist , Maureen ( Maureen Brown ) who has brought along a class of schoolgirls , as he shows them around the city . Andrea believes the girls are being hunted down and kidnapped by a homicidal maniac , but his superiors aren't interested in his opinions , since there are few facts substantiating them . Soon , however , Andrea's feelings are confirmed as he uncovers the monastery , but will he be able to stop the killer who has targeted Maureen next ( . . she , through chance , discovers a secret passage to the monastery putting herself at risk ) ? What really sets THE EMBALMER back is the unfocused story-line with the director seeming little concerned for the pace , rather interested in Venice itself with great lengths displaying Andrea giving his new friends a tour of the city . The methods of the killer become repetitious and drab , him removing his monk robe , putting on his goggles , descending into the water , coming ashore , awaiting for his target victim behind a corner , cloaked in darkness , before seizing her , diving into the canals back to his lair . We see the killer , in a monk robe , working on his experimental serum , as the dead female's body lies on a slab , injecting it as he speaks with enthusiasm and admiration on his newest acquisition , as his trophy case of preserved corpses grows in number . The director sets up who the next victim will be in a snapshot of them during an ordinary day . There's potential for a good thriller here lost within a rather plodding approach , and a lack of skill at moving the story along . Certain characters are dwelled on for great lengths , but aren't that interesting . . and the hotel where Maureen's girls stay is definitely of great importance to the director since he spends a lot of time there . Venice is an ideal setting for a giallo thriller ( . . see THE BLOOD-STAINED SHADOW for instance ) , and the underwater monastery is particularly atmospheric ( . . the showcase of the entire film is at the end where we discover the robed skeletons of monks who died within the church ; and the killer has a really nifty skull mask he wears as he chases Maureen ) , but there's a way to shoot a thriller effectively without dulling the audience into a coma over mundane filler which grinds the pace to a halt . As an early form of the Italian giallo , I recommend it to buffs , but wouldn't call it a classic . I think if more focus had been given to the detective elements of the story than countless time on the alluring beauty of Venice and the entertainment that awaits you there , then this could've been far more memorable than it turns out .
Broken	Harrowing story of a woman's fight for survival , kidnapped and taken to a wilderness by this cold-blooded misogynist ( Eric Colvin ) who wishes to " break " her into servitude , obeying him while he has her chained to a tree to tend a garden that will feed them . The woman is Hope ( . . interesting name , isn't it ? ) , played effectively by Nadja Brand , run through the gamut of crisis , suffering physical ( . . the violence that results of being chosen by the devious jerk , including suffering when she attempts to escape ) and emotional ( . . not knowing what has happened to her daughter , and not being able to pry her whereabouts and well being from the lips of her attacker ) strife . The opening shows Hope's " initiation " , it's either death or life , she's the deciding factor as she must remove the stitches from a gash in her stomach containing a razor blade which will cut the rope around her neck ( . . she's tied to a tree ) that will hang her if not torn apart before the log under feet falls away . Her wounds treated by the sadist , Hope is then given commands by her captor to wash the pots and tend to a garden ( . . her life is threatened if the garden isn't kept in good condition ) , as she plans on ways to escape her situation . Soon another young woman is kidnapped , a wailing , screaming sort who is mortified of her current circumstances . Together , they are to keep the man happy or else , but neither will rest until they are free from captivity . While not as brutal as I was expecting , it is nonetheless quite difficult to watch at times . The opening act , as Hope frees herself from a hanging , by loosening the stitches , digging in her stomach for the razor blade to cut herself from the rope , is potent stuff . Then , after an attempted escape ( . . she slices his leg , just missing the tendon which would have left him a cripple ) , her leg is broken . . while this act isn't as gory , you can just feel the anguish of it all . Amazing enough , she tends to the leg the best way she can , while he was away kidnapping another . But , over all , this film is about adjusting to the demands of a captor who holds your very life in his hands , and the mind games that occur between the two as a result . Colvin is quite imposing and quietly intense . . when he snaps , human suffering is the cost for his rage . While , the film never quite gives us answers as to why this psycho does these things to innocent people , abduct them , put them through such turmoil , and force them into laboring for his benefit , I kind of figured it was to produce his own twisted form of a proper marriage , his control and their obedience . The final scene is just a bit too much , though , and seems to be put in the film to not let Hope off the leash . . I guess it could be a punishment for abandoning her duties and responsibilities as the master's slave , not recognizing that he is her only family . But , still , hadn't she been through enough ? Why treat her in such a fashion ? I'm not against grim conclusions , or for watered down and pat victories for the victims , but if you spend over 90 minutes watching a tortured soul put through such a series of trials , waiting for her time to break free , do we have to see her so abused at the point of bliss ?
Ed Gein-The Butcher of Plainfield	Inaccurately detailed account of the effect Ed Gein had on the lives of Plainfield , Wisconsin , following the burdened sheriff's department and , in particular , the new deputy whose life would change forever when the psycho kidnaps / brutalizes his mother . While Kane Hodder proves that he can be even more menacing without make-up as a serial killer , he doesn't look at all like the Ed Gein we have read about , and seen photographs of . Director Michael Feifer's camera always keeps the actors closed in tight , perhaps a sign that he didn't have enough budget to fortify a realistic county . I felt a bit claustrophobic with this style , hoping that we could see more of the rural trappings within where Gein moved freely , creeping locals who were seemingly unaware that he could be some serial killer kidnapping folks . But , the camera only gives you so much , so you are forced to look at the faces of the characters up close , so the cast had to be up for the challenge . Unlike other users who have commented rather badly about the cast , I never found any of the actors unconvincing . I agree that the film's direction geared more towards the deputy's relationship with the sheriff's daughter and his beloved unflappable mother , may be a mistake because the title is " Ed Gein " , not " Days of the Lives of Plainfield's Deputy out to find Ed Gein " . The screenplay and film's execution clearly set up the fact that deputy Bobby Mason's ( Shawn Hoffman ) mother and girlfriend would be targets of Gein . Priscilla Barnes easily has a handle on Bobby's mother , Vera , making her a concerned and proud parent of her boy . Adrienne Frantz is Erica , Bobby's girlfriend , a pretty little chick whose doomed to be the final girl , who is badly hurt in a car crash when her man drives haphazardly down a dirt road after finding out Vera went missing . The film shows brief glimpses into Ed's psyche , with his mother barking orders reaffirming to the viewer that his childhood was a difficult one that has warped this man . We also see Ed in his barn carrying out gruesome deeds on a trapped victim , a kind waitress who is tied to a table , kept sedated as he removes her limbs . He eventually creates a costume from her flesh . As an Ed Gein film , it doesn't hold up I'm afraid . Researching the back story , it seems the filmmakers took liberties to craft their own tale of a lurking psycho always seeking fresh victims . This interpretation , unlike two previous films ( " Deranged " & " Ed Gein " ) stays away from elaborating what drove Ed to commit his deeds , using only images of an angered mother and voices driving him over the edge into rage and sadness . Another major problem is that Ed Gein isn't supposed to look like a scary , hulking menace and Hodder's character would be the first suspect in an investigation for missing and dead people . And , I'm hard-pressed to believe the real Ed Gein could suffocate a caretaker with his arm , snap his neck after underpinning his head between two trees , before smashing his skull with a log . I think , though , that Hodder , judging from this film , could be utilized in slasher films without wearing heavy make-up , because he has a sinister presence that can be a real asset if you are wanting an effective psycho . Unlike other films on Ed Gein , which infuse bits of twisted black humor , this particular tale is completely dark . Ed Gein never seems anything but an imposing figure on the edge of snapping at a moment's notice .
Puppet Master	I revisited David Schmoeller's " Puppet Master " while it received cable play on AMC and must say it isn't quite as good as I remembered . Granted this version is cut for cable and commercials ( argh ! ! ) , but most of the film is from what I remember . Four psychics , including Paul Le Mat from " Strange Invaders " , come to a manor on a cliff near a shore where Andre Toulon , a famed puppet maker , was living and subsequently died . They also attend the funeral of a colleague ( Jimmie F Skaggs ) after an apparent suicide . One by one , they are being murdered by an array of creepy puppets , many of them equipped with various weaponry such as the one puppet with a drill that bores a hole in a woman's face , one female puppet likes to spit out blood-sucking leeches , one has not only a knife blade on one arm , but a hook on the other . The funniest puppet has this massive torso and hands , but very tiny head , not to mention a court jester puppet whose face spins three ways . The film is merely an excuse for people to be massacred by puppets with a little plot that deals with possible life after death . . something Neil Gallagher { the colleague who killed himself ) was studying from the late Andre Toulon's notes . The cast tries to rise above a very mediocre screenplay which is meant to simply obliterate people in various ways with minimal development given to the characters who perish . Some unique killings from the wooden psychos is pretty much the reason to see it . Though , I really do need to see the film without interruption from commercials or people's censoring .
Blood and Chocolate	" We're all lost souls , Vivian . At least we're lost together . " Vivian ( Agnes Bruckner ) watched her family being slain as she fled to werewolf leader , Gabriel ( Olivier Martinez ) who offers sanctuary to all werewolves in native Bucharest , Romania where werewolves have their own church . Vivian has reached the age of 19 and in this built werewolf law titled " Gabriel's Law " , every seven years he takes a mate and has made it quite clear he desires her . Complications arise when Vivien falls in love with a visiting Graphic novelist , Aiden ( Hugh Dancy ) who has a particular fascination with wolves . Vivien doesn't enjoy the fact she's a werewolf , yet is told explicitly not to mingle with the humans for their secrecy is always in danger . Rafe ( Bryan Dick ) is Gabriel's son , and always a thorn in Vivian's side for he reminds her constantly of who she is despite her resistance to their laws and way of life . Rafe resists the rules his father has set , while masquerading as being loyal , like when he murders a chick that turned him down at a dance party . Rafe notices the blossoming romance between Vivien and Aiden and makes sure to turn squealer to papa obviously to ruin her happiness while being allowed the chance to kill , if necessary , someone who threatens their way of life . . even though he's done that himself in killing the human . Gabriel tells his son to warn Aiden to leave the city or else . So , the plot thickens . Will Vivien choose the one she truly loves ( Aiden ) , or follow the law and mate with Gabriel ? Better yet , is Aiden's life in jeopardy against a foe he couldn't imagine was more real than any drawing on paper ? Will Vivien resist her clan risking separation from the group she's always considered family ? I guess you could call this a werewolf love story . The " loup-garous " , as they are called , sparkle with light before instantly turning into these beautiful wolves . There is no massive morphing into some grotesque beast . Gabriel might seem on paper to be a sort-of villain , but I saw him as a leader looking out for his people because humans , in general , kill what they don't understand . Gabriel tries to explain this to a hot-headed Rafe who wishes to hunt and return , in a sense , to the primal beings they are . Gabriel tells him that they are not numbered in the millions anymore and the overwhelming majority of human hunters would render them extinct if they didn't remain in hiding . Rafe considers this fear when it's really simple logic . Vivien is this young blossoming woman who wishes for love with whoever she chooses , not what her supposed family sets up for her . This conflict is what drives the film . That and a certain tragedy that occurs when Rafe decides to violently confront Aiden when he doesn't respond too well to the warnings toward leaving . It's not a horror film as much as a difficult love story between two different people , one human , the other only masking herself as human trying desperately to deny the beast within . Still , Aiden becomes a hunted human for he represents the constant threat against the werewolves with his unfortunate fateful battle with Rafe only adding fuel to the fire . Vivien's occupation in the film is a cook in a chocolate shop , hence the part within the title . This is also actually how Aiden is able to find her once they separate after their first meeting .
Eye See You	A serial killer who preys on cops , murders FBI chief investigator Malloy's ( Sly Stallone ) fiancé in cold blood . Malloy and other cops track the killer , donning a SWAT suit , into an abandoned warehouse , his lair , but he's found presumably hung from a rope having committed suicide . The case seems closed , but Malloy hasn't recovered from the loss of his beloved , now an alcoholic mess in need of a good detox . His partner Hendricks ( Charles S Dutton ) is able to successfully talk Malloy into entering a detox center located in an isolated military bunker now run by a former cop ( Kris Kristofferson ) known as Doc to the small group of patients who are gathered there . When patients start turning up dead , Malloy realizes that his nemesis , the serial killer who was thought to have hung himself , has emerged staging the murders as suicides . Malloy will have to determine who amongst the group is the killer , the one that has taken the identity of a cop , having swiped the files containing the information of all involved while also removing the medicine needed to detox the patients properly . Meanwhile , Henricks discovers the body of a cop , the victim murdered by the serial killer who has assumed his identity , and will attempt to reach the bunker to assist Malloy . Superb cast have little much to do in this rather routine , woefully average mystery thriller with a fine performance from Sly Stallone as the tormented hero who can not escape the failure of not saving his girl , her memory ever fresh in his mind all the time . Out of the cast , Robert Patrick shines brightest as a paranoid , confrontational hot-head always criticizing everyone , using their frailties as a method of ridicule . Dutton really anchors the film , despite a thankless role , bringing a dignity and strength to Hendricks , a true friend to Malloy who needed someone as life was spiraling from his grasp . Polly Walker is the center's doctor , Jenny , and Malloy's damsel-in-distress . Kristofferson is the stern voice of reason , but he's given little to do , sad to say , and doesn't last too long . Jeffrey Wright rewards us with another freakshow in Jaworski , a loose cannon barely held together . Tom Berenger is the mechanic Hank , and in normal circumstances could be the lead in a film such as this , but is handed barely anything at all to work with , doing what he can . Stephen Lang is yet another smart aleck a$$hole working as an obvious red herring for who the real killer is . Christopher Fulford is Slater , a patient who seems to be a willing ear for the wounded Malloy . Courtney B Vance drops by in a very small role as a religious cop , an obvious calm source of strength needed in such a somber place . . his role is very minor and beneath his great talents . Stallone has a great opportunity here to show his acting ability , and it's a solid part , earning sympathy , which includes the typical heroism he's accustomed to delivering . EYE SEE YOU should remind viewers of THE THING as Stallone must figure out who amongst the group is the killer disguised as a cop , along with the practically deserted wintry setting in a secluded environment of the bunker where he's able to roam free throughout as victims often are attacked from behind by the predator . Everything down to the conclusion where Stallone inevitably has his showdown with the killer is familiar and derivative , unfortunately . One of Stallone's lesser ( . . if not least known , along with SHADE & AVENGING ANGELO ) known films , but contains a stellar performance that deserves to be seen by his fans regardless . From the director of I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER . Most of the murders occur off camera as victims are found dead by others .
Seizure	Horror author Frid ( . . who portrayed Barnabas Collins on " Dark Shadows " ) invites friends to his mountain estate where they are threatened by three of his nightmare creations , come to life with a thirst for bloodshed . The three , led by the delicious Martine Beswick ( . . well cast ) as a " Queen of evil " , run these people through a series of head games , allowing them no chance of escape with only one afforded an opportunity to survive . First time director Oliver Stone shows all the signs of being a new filmmaker . While I like natural lighting , in many instances , " Seizure " has scenes which are richly atmospheric ( . . the use of red is often striking and candle-light can often produce a great sense of mood ) while other times ( . . especially outside in the woods ) you can't see a thing . The violence is of the off-screen variety . I found the scenes where the screenplay attempts to explain who these venomous fiends are rather overwrought . . I felt that if Stone and company had never given them exposition , it would've worked just as well . Beswick is why I'd recommend it for she is incredibly sexy , very seductive and quite dangerous . . a great combination for a supernatural villainous . Some effective camera-work and odd musical arrangements help this film somewhat , but the editing often abruptly moves from one scene to another . I think Stone would fare better 8 years later with " The Hand . " I must be painfully honest when I say ( . . and I got nothing but love for the dwarf population ) that Herve Villechaize , as the knife-wielding " Spider " , is about as scary as a Cabbage Patch Doll . He seems to be living it up as a nasty minion , in control of people's lives , foretelling how their fates are doomed and that praying to God was futile . Joseph Sirola is a hoot as millionaire blow-hard , Charlie Hughes , who thinks he can buy anyone with indie horror siren Mary Woronov ( . . looking fantastic ) playing his adulterous wife , who only married him for his money . Woronov has an amusing knife-fight with Frid's Edmund . Frid brings the pathos generated by his tortured vampire from " Dark Shadows " to the role of Edmund , a tormented artist who has given birth to the monsters of his creative genius . There are some great make-up sequences such as when Anne Meacham's Eunice Kahn , the type who invested her entire soul into her beautiful face , receiving a hideous mask provided by Spider , and Beswick's ghoulish face drawing towards Edmund , as her cape opens . Also Henry Judd Baker's Jackal , the third evil nightmare killer , an executioner , has a nasty scar on the side of his face that is rather unpleasant to gaze upon , although he's mostly hidden within the darkness of night . Another concern perhaps for this film is that the viewer has few to root for besides Edmund's wife and child , true victims of his demons . Roger De Koven's Serge Kahn is Edmund's confident , who believes that the supernatural killers are historical menaces from centuries ago .
Blood Feast	Popular notorious / infamous gore film from the Grandpappy himself , HGL , concerning a wild-eyed , gray-headed nut-case , Fuad Ramses ( Mal Arnold ) , a caterer for Petesake , who worships an Egyptian goddess , Ishtar , god of blood , for whom he keeps an idol of in a secret chamber inside his store where he cuts and cooks meat . Fuad hunts his prey through a list of female clientèle whose names are on a waiting list for a published novel of his concerning Egyptian mythology . He , in unhinged delight , surprises his victims , removing parts of their body often using a machete or cutting tool of some sort . He believes that once he has gathered all the parts needed that Ishtar will return to life . Fuad ultimately sets his sights on Suzette Fremont ( Connie Mason ) , whose mother desires for one of his elaborately staged catering services using an Egyptian setting . Suzette even attends classes on Egyptian folklore with boyfriend / cop Pete ( William Kerwin ) in tow . Pete , along with his boss , Frank ( Scott H Hall ) are trying to find any clues that can help them stop Fuad's murdering spree , often coming up with small bits of info from whoever can at least partially identify him , including a woman's whose face was carved to the bone , eyeballs removed , and another victim's emotionally ravaged boyfriend who briefly glimpsed Fuad before being cold-cocked . The film slowly but surely depicts Fuad's methods of attack on females and grisly displays of violence towards their bodies all in the name of Ishtar , the goddess he'd do anything for . AS expected , Blood Feast is technically crude on all levels . Pacing , editing , acting , camera-work , dialogue , and gore all presented unglamourously and flatly . HGL loves dragging his camera's eye across a bloody and ghastly mutilated female body . One scene has the camera gazing strongly at a woman's bashed-in skull with her brains spilled out ( . . before this HGL shows Fuad staring lustfully at bits of brain in his hands ) . The first female victim is the unfortunate victim of an eye and leg removal while naked and vulnerable in her bathtub . This was HGL's opening scene setting up just what his future gore films would be like . Lots of blood on display and the cast , especially Mason , are horrendous and dull performers . An audience embraces this film's cheap , amateurish and sick nature for HGL provides a certain type of entertainment geared towards a crowd looking for the exact opposite of skill and craft . Charm is a word thrown around in regards to HGL's films because of how they do not adhere to any kind of tasteful standard . Before there was TROMA and John Waters , there was HGL laying the groundwork for future generations in regards to bad taste and low-budget trash .
Singapore Sling	A private investigator , obsessed with a woman named Laura he was tracking , leads to the palatial estate and grounds of a very warped mother-daughter team of wackos who like to play out " make-believe " scenarios and murder hired chauffeurs . The film looks like a film noir , gorgeous B & W photography and plays like a depraved version of Otto Preminger's LAURA . PI falls in love with an image which gets him into a heap of trouble . Arriving at their door with a gun-shot wound , falling unconscious , he awakens finding himself bound to a bed , a victim of the crazies , at their mercy and becoming , for a while , a victim of vile torture . For instance , while the daughter pumps him full of juice , the mother is on top , riding him because , it seems , that the electric charge rises his member . She subsequently urinates on his face after reaching orgasmic delight . Anyway , the daughter takes her own ride , while " mommy " is asleep . She later self-induces vomit all over his face and the camera rarely moves showing the poor guy getting the liquid food-goo all over his face . It's really gross stuff . The film , though , is so well made , the acting by the women ( . . they're absolutely bonkers , but their unpredictable nature is so compelling and repulsive ) superb and wacky , and there's plenty of S & M for those who enjoy that sort of thing . I'd say this is meant for a particular crowd . I found the film equally parts amusing , stunning , sick , and icky . The film has the daughter and mother often talking to the camera which might easily annoy those who hate this cinematic technique , although these two are so positively nuts and say some the most darnedest things , I couldn't look away . They're very beautiful , especially the mother who has ways with using her eyes to express her sheer lunacy ( . . while the daughter twitches , talks off to herself , and makes funny expressions with her hands ) , so the acts they commit can become startling . There's actual fruit masturbation ( . . I kid you not ) , vaginal violence with a hunting knife proportioned in a place where the male member is normally located , and other forms of sexual unpleasantness ( . . or pleasantness if you are into the sort of things which take place ) . The filmmakers are so good at creating the noir look that they could've easily made films in the 40's or art films in the 60's . But , this film ups the ante with the stuff I mentioned , and a dinner table scene ( s ) where the women stuff their mouths with food , shortly after barfing it back out on their plates !
The Devil	Eve ( Roxane Mesquida ) , a hot little number , turns some young adults on to following her to her place of residence . Joseph ( Vincent Cassel , who is creepy and weird . . a marvelous departure from the norm ) is an grounds-keeper who might have sinister plans in store for the group . Following along with the boys is " camel rider " Ladj ( Ladj Ly ) , a bartender friend of theirs . The country manor is home to rooms of creepy dolls , a profession Eve's parents were partakers of . There's a mysterious pregnant woman Joseph often sneaks off to attend to . Joseph also has relatives nearby in the little town who are just as strange as he is . Strange movie never quite works . I was expecting Joseph to eventually go crazy because the signs , the moronic characters seem oblivious ( . . or , blind , for a better word ) to , are there in pockets of slight outbursts and moments of aggressive behavior . We also see oddball behavior ( and quite moments of creepiness ) from Eve as well . Olivier Bartélémy's nuisance Bart is a real annoyance as he often crybabies his way through one situation or another . It's hard to feel compassion towards characters who walk head-on into a most certain difficult situation because a couple of guys want to get into Eve's panties . Cassel is the whole show . . he's able to really freak you out . Incest plays a huge part in the overall unpleasantness of this film . I thought the camera-work was repugnant and self-indulgent . . there really was no need for attempted stylistics if you believe in your story strong enough . The ending where a certain character is hit by a car at full speed and yet survives without much damage sinks the film's attempt at realism . The title is another word of The Devil .
Phantoms	" It Wiped out the Mayans . . Are We Next ? " Doctor Jennifer Pailey ( Joanna Going ) coerces her sister ( Rose McGowen ) into leaving LA for a little while so they can bond in the sleepy town of Snowfield only to find the place deserted for the exception of dead bodies drained of blood and severed body parts . Soon they are joined by policemen , Sheriff Bryce ( Ben Affleck , who really isn't that bad , just a bit too young for the role ) and his deputies Stuart ( Liev Schrieber , who really makes his character come off an eccentric oddball ) & Steve ( Nicky Katt , wasted ) . Funny noises and blinking lights greet them along with some sort of bat creature and distorted voices . They can not leave for whatever has taken over this town drains power from vehicles and / or destroys the insides under the hoods . Bryce finds writing on a mirror ( from red lipstick ) calling for a Dr . Timothy Flyte ( Peter O'Toole ) and " Ancient Enemy . " They also find a mound of metal products such as wrist watches , buttons , and even a pacemaker . . we later learn from Flyte himself that the metal is " undigested remains " vomited by whatever is doing the dirty deed . Calling for help from outside sources such as the FBI , Bryce and the clan wait in the hopes that they'll be on their way as soon as possible . The FBI , along with a biological and chemical task force suited and helmeted for the search , call on Flyte to assist him . He wrote a series of articles claiming that civilizations ( such as the Mayans ) and large groups of people vanished because of a specific organism not quite known by mankind . He was " politely " excommunicated from the scientific community where he began to write for " World Wide News " a rag dedicated to phenomena and mysteries unsolved . . in other words , a rag whose voice veers towards the fantastic . It's soon understood that what has taken over the town is indeed a ancient organism which has lied dormant under ground that can feed on human and animal organisms absorbing everything about them including memories , thoughts , feelings of the host . . perhaps their very soul . When nearly the entire task force is wiped out and taken over by the organism , Flyte , Bryce and the sisters ( . . his deputies don't quite make it ) will have to somehow outsmart the thing or else perish . The organism has a massive ego claiming " god-like status " and this may be it's downfall . In essence , the thing is animal and therefore might have weaknesses that can be virally infected . I thought the opening thirty minutes which essentially makes the flick an old-fashioned type of " boo " flick is excellent . Director Chappelle really builds suspense as we ponder what happened to the people in this town . We also wonder what the small group of characters will find as they search for signs of life or a hidden killer . Peter O'Toole is a pleasure to watch as Flyte , a man who knows all the answers and has some funny zingers ( . . appropriately amusing considering the silly premise regarding the monster ) that follow the bizarre circumstances he's faced with . The film loses steam and credibility when it becomes a monster movie fashioned directly after the 1988 version of " The Blob " even having a sink scene where a suited scientist sticks his hand toward the drain . Schrieber just behaves strange from the get-go often having you wonder what exactly keeps such a character on a police force . . at least he does bring something unique to his character making him watchable . Going and McGowen are our female heroines we expect to see survive and Affleck is clearly the voice of reason in a situation of chaos . Good tentacle effects especially when a monstrous Schrieber comes hunting for the sisters . I just thought the final 45 minutes concerning the hilarious plot about the monster and how it consumes societies using them as hosts , with it's agenda for Flyte to write about it as a god to worship , hog-wash . The film simply slides in quality , in my opinion . . it's kind of disappointing because the build-up in the opening I felt was very effective and scary .
Scarecrows	A lot of my horror internet friends love this flick , but my first viewing of it just wasn't that great . I decided to give it a re-watch , and while I still feel it's not a very good film story-wise or logically coherent , I can see why many dig it . It comes down to it's off-beat atmospherics . The score by Terry Plumeri is penetrating enough to keep you on edge and the eerie shots of those scarecrows almost compensates for what this film lacks . I'll take up for this film when it comes to the darkened cinematography shot at night . There's a foreboding you always feel . . that is hard to accomplish with characters and a plot as stupid as this one . Para-military group heists a payroll office on a base , out-shoot military police , and commandeer a cargo plane piloted by a father and daughter . One in the group , Bert ( BJ Turner ) , uses a smoke bomb to distract the crew while he exits the plan with the stolen loot . He also leaves a grenade inside , but that is discarded before it can explode on board . Bert lands on a graveyard with scarecrows hanging overhead as if hovering doom above him . Bert discovers an unoccupied farmhouse with a photograph of three male hunters . Next to the photo was a rusty flyswatter , but when he turns momentarily , that is replaced by a vehicle key . Bert finds a truck and drives it to the place where the loot landed , but soon finds that his partners-in-crime are coming down after him . In a freakish discovery , Bert finds that the truck , which just goes dead , has no engine ! How did this truck even start-up ? ! Every once in a while the camera closes in on the photo of the three men , but one shot shows a crack form and that occurs right before the para-military commando group approach the farmhouse . This photo ( and the truck which seemingly runs on it's own ) may be hints at who is behind the supernatural violence that will occur later . The key scene which opens up the notorious scarecrow killers is when Bert is trying to pull his money into a safe position as the men gain ground on him . He is gutted by a scarecrow and we now are introduced to the ominous presence that will haunt those who wish to retrieve their money and make it safely to Mexico . Soon , however , each member of the military thieves will be picked off one by one by the killer scarecrows . There are lots of weird , only modestly , subtly explained supernatural occurrences . I mean what force is controlling all the bizarre happenings to begin with ? We are given little dialogue hints along the way such as when the group searches the farmhouse closely observing signs of Satan worship . There's this continual camera shot of a stuffed crow , and we notice how these scarecrows have some very unusual abilities . For instance , there's a scene where Bert , before he's killed , hears the voices of the men looking for him . But , they are nowhere in sight and we can only assume whatever evil force is at work can use persuasive means mentally . . tricks , I'm guessing , stemming from their devil worship . This is an illogical story point that doesn't get much elaboration . We have to fend for own on how anything occurs such as how Bert returns to the farmhouse a zombie filled with straw and cash , but able to attack and talk . That whole sequence is just bizarre and doesn't make a hell of a lot of sense . There's another scene where the very idiotic Curry ( Michael David Simms ) sees his pal Jack ( Richard Vidan ) gutted , but after hearing his voice accepts that he's still alive . . yep , just like that ( SNAP ) . This film is basically an exercise in seeing people getting murdered in grisly ways by scarecrows who at times hang on wooden crosses , at other times appear out of nowhere ready to slay . There's a scene later in the film where a very shaken Curry develops his own theory that they were already dead and that this was some sort of TWILIGHT ZONE trip . That existential nonsense shows , I think , the screenplay's inability to develop a cohesive plot for us to go by and , instead , is a passing of different ideas so that all this weird stuff can take place just for the sake of violence . Some gore is here and the scarecrows are quite well created . I just wish a story could've been better developed to match the eerie location work and the creepy atmosphere which really brings that ominous edge we horror fans enjoy so well .
A Shriek in the Night	A dummy falls from a balcony ( . . actually it's supposed to represent a man , but many will giggle a little at how unrealistic it is with the flailing arms as the body impacts with pavement ) and detectives consider it possible homicide . The man who fell to his doom , a Mr Harker , had a temporary secretary , Patricia Morgan ( Giner Rogers ) working in his apartment who in fact is a reporter infiltrating the man's privacy trying to uncover his ties to a gangster , Joe Martini ( Maurice Black ) . It's soon discovered by Inspector Russell ( Purnell Pratt ) that Harker was perhaps thrown off a balcony in his lover's room . The female lover was found strangled ( . . but we see a person's silhouette with a mask cutting off the gas , telling us that it's in fact a mystery assassin attempting to throw detectives off the scent ) and later her husband , Mr . Colby , police's number one suspect , is found dead , potentially of suicide . Patricia has the scoop , but her current ( . . well , sort of ) boyfriend , Ted Ford ( Lyle Talbot ) steals her story , having her believe that he's from her newspaper . Losing her job when the big story turns up on the front page , almost word for word the way she had intended , of Ted's newspaper , Patricia will coordinate a relationship with Russell , remaining in Harker's Penthouse sweet , attempting to discover any possible evidence that might provide a link to the killer's identity . Meanwhile , Ted tries to make nice , forging a team with Patricia to solve the mystery . A letter from the killer ( . . to Harker , found hidden in a small compartment in a dresser drawer ) is discovered by his always-hysterical housekeeper , Augusta ( Lillian Harmer , in a hideous performance , as the comedy relief but it's excruciatingly forced and over the top to a ridiculous degree ) which relates to an innocent cabbie sent to the chair for a murder of someone who was rivals with Harker . Acting suspiciously is the apartment's janitor , Peterson ( Harvey Clark ) who we see feeding a recording of a shrieking woman's voice into the ventilation to mask the sound of another killing . The janitor also has skeleton keys to every room and sneaks around like a mouse , not to mention that he listens on conversations made between Patricia and Ted . . why would he be so interested ? It's only a matter of time , despite Ted's efforts to keep her safe , until Patricia's life will be threatened as she gets too close to the truth . Okay little murder mystery designed as a star vehicle for the always charming and illuminating Ginger Rogers . She re-teams with Lyle Talbot ( . . they worked beautifully together in THE THIRTEENTH GUEST ) and they have great chemistry which certainly helps rise this above it's rather decent , but unremarkable , presentation . Pratt comes off a jackass as the detective , always insulting somebody , never listening to his partner , Wilfred ( Arthur Hoyt ) , for whom he considers an idiot . Actually , Wilfred , a very timid , meek , quiet little fellow , helps out a great deal when Russell gives him a chance to talk . Wilfred's bravery at the end resulting in a scuffle with the killer is a nice scene that allows him to be the hero as others are upstairs looking for clues . The plot is rather complex even though the killer's identity could be guessed relatively soon through obvious clues . . the finger in pointed in one direction early and never relinquishes it , so I think that's a failure in Albert Ray's work as director , not to produce effective red herrings that would keep us guessing . As a Ginger Rogers movie , I do think it succeeds , but that could be because I personally love her in practically everything . And , the unflappable , extremely likable Talbot lends great support . Some of the comedy bits with the housekeeper ( . . and another black stereotype , played by Louise Beavers , the maid frightened of morgues and dead people , is provided for African-Americans to cringe ) are really irritating , though . Those accustomed with cinema at this time can probably adjust to the dead air that often exists making scenes between characters seem like lengthly affairs .
A Return to Salem's Lot	Pretty freakin ' weird Cohen vampire film has anthropologist Joe ( Michael Moriarty ) and his foul-mouthed , smart aleck son Jeremy ( Ricky Addison Reed ) going to vampire-infested Salem's Lot to live in a badly aged home left to him by Aunt Clara . The vampires wish to turn Jeremy ( also secretly hoping for Joe to voluntarily turn as well ) and desire Joe to write a bible for them dispelling several myths that are merely untruths regarding their species . Joe doesn't know they want Jeremy to turn and needs to find some way of escaping the town , but has their drones ( humans who watch over their graves and tend to matters during the day ) to deal with . Soon , however , Joe receives help in Nazi hunter Van Meer ( THE Sam Fuller , who is an inspired bit of casting and carries the film on his back ) who will assist him in killing those blood suckers who have , for the longest , feasted on the cattle they raise only occasionally taking a passerby or two . As can occur in a film directed by Cohen , there's strange behavior and dialogue to spare . I never bought the motives of the vampires and thought they were pretty stupid allowing Joe and his boy to walk around free instead of turning them right away . The drones could've easily put them in prison to keep them from roaming freely making sure Joe wrote the bible or else . Another bizarre chain of events has Joe impregnating an old sweetheart from his youth . . she's a vampire ! How can this be ? I dunno , do you ? I can't say I think this film is good , but Sam provides some spark to the proceedings and it is entertaining to a point . The film isn't very balanced story-wise and the actions of the characters can be just plain stupid . It's odd enough to hold interest , but far from Cohen's best work .
The Scarecrow reviews " Creep "	" Creep " is so much an exercise that you can see the actors actually standing in position to be slaughtered . You see them stand in front of an appropriately placed spot with the death just waiting to happen . The predictability doesn't stop there . The killer is fashioned after the new breed of ugly man . The creep of the title seems to have been born disfigured . . but there's more disfigured than just his body . The film has Franka Potente as pretty much the typical running chick who doesn't seem to understand how to use a weapon on a monster when she has the open chances . There's one scene where she has a chance to hit Craig the creep with a crow bar but reluctantly misses . It's a clear open chance to eliminate a complete vile creature of pure evil and she misses reluctantly . The film follows Kate as she tries to find a way out of the stinking subway station while a maniac is chasing her . The victims of Craig the creep are a homeless couple ( Paul Tattray & Kelly Scott ) , George ( Vas Blackwood ) , Arthur ( Ken Campbell ) , & Guy ( Jeremy Sheffield ) . They all are the unfortunate victims of being in the wrong place at the wrong time and , in many ways , are killed thanks to Kate seems to be a magnet for others getting killed . She is almost raped by Guy and Craig kills him . Then the idiot gets Jimmy the homeless man to help her try and help Guy ! Jimmy asks her " Did he not try and rape you ! " Then poor Jimmy's girl , Mandie gets left alone and becomes a vicious victim of Craig's ( her murder isn't seen but one can clearly imagine it ) . Poor George just wants to get out , has Craig held down and beaten bloody , when Kate reluctantly won't hit the monster . So poor George winds up getting a blade penetrated through his skull . Everyone becomes an unfortunate victim , but the nitwit Kate somehow survives because of the written rule that the main heroine must be able to survive no matter how bumbling and stupid she it . The film has a grit and many moments that work thanks to the under dwellings of the subway station and the look of the creep is ghastly . We never know where he is lurking which adds greatly to the surprise factor . Still , it's at best average because of such a weak heroine who just makes foolish mistakes . When you have the creep down , kill it for pete's sake !
Talk About a Stranger	A child's pet dog dies of poisoning and young Robert ( Billy Gray ) points the finger at a mysterious neighbor named " Matlock " ( Kurt Kasznar ) who lives near where the mutt was found dead . Robert pursues the truth with passion and without restraint no matter the consequences his doggedness brings . . but is he correct on his presumption that Matlock committed the deed to start with ? Robert didn't see Matlock actually poison the dog , but a few near run-ins with the strange , quiet man who keeps to himself , separated from the little town merely only to drop in for supplies every now and then , motivates his blinded rage for finding the truth against him making up most of this little film . Robert's father ( George Murphy ) is an orange farmer and when Daddy doesn't charge Matlock for supposedly killing the dog , their relationship is strained . We watch as Robert , Jr . forces his hand around town asking local newspaper publisher William Wardlaw ( Lewis Stone ) to print the story of Matlock's poisoning the dog . While Wardlaw won't just publish a story based on theory , he does encourage Robert the truth by asking around and fishing for clues . So Robert does , but his anger for the loss of his pet pooch might cause the young lad to make rash decisions he might soon regret . Little film barely runs over an hour and has a simple story regarding the reasons for not storming blindly against someone without knowing all the facts just because the accused seems guilty of the crime presented . The boy is the perfect protagonist for his dangerous mission might not yield the results he built up in his little mind . . yet his pursuit often causes him to make irrational decisions which could cause multiple harm to others . And , I'm pretty sure many will point out that this whole dangerous mission is over " just a mutt " , but I think to a kid who grown to love it with all his heart , that this film is able to capture that . Still , when the result is shown , the child makes a decision out of hatred , and it could possibly affect the farmers trying to make a living with the frost threatening their crops , that the film comes full circle speaking it's peace ( the moral lesson this story had been planning to unleash ) about finger-pointing without knowing for sure if the one whose getting singled out is actually the culprit . I think this flick is much ado about nothing , but it does build up some tension considering the child's journey into possible ( this is the word I'm trying to emphasize ) shark-infested waters . Some fabulous photographic work by John Alton bringing a noirish look that actually heightens the suspense which might dazzle some viewers ( there is a cool sequence where little Robert is returning home from a California estate that might've pointed out Matlock as a murderer and appears on the verge of being run over just to watch the headlights split under the fog pointing out a young man on a motorcycle , or the scene where it , at first appears , that Robert is being pursued by Matlock in the orange grove ) , but the film , in my opinion , isn't that lasting . . you'll probably forget it shortly after you've watched it .
1990 : Bronx Warriors	The heiress of a major corporation ( . . called The Manhattan Corporation ) decides to flee to the trash heap of Bronx , getting caught in the middle of a gang war as a hired ruthless cop , Hammer ( Vic Morrow ) is charged to get her . This heiress , Ann ( . . the lovely Stefania Girolami , daughter of the director ) finds herself in the company of The Riders , whose leader Trash ( Mark Gregory ) keeps her safe . This endangers the group as Hammer will target them , attempting to pit The Riders against The Tigers , led by the formidable , highly regarded Ogre ( Fred Williamson ) . Other gangs patrol their own areas attacking those who enter their territory , such as The Scavengers ( . . who look like rejects from The Stone Age ) and The Zombies ( . . roller skating hoods with funny looking chest wear and white helmets ) . When Ann is kidnapped by the Zombies , Trash will gather two of volunteers in an attempt to ally his gang with Ogre's but must enter through other group's territory's in order to do so . Meanwhile we discover that within The Riders is a trader , Ice ( Joshua Sinclair ) who is working with Hammer and a diesel driving weapons supplier , Hot Dog ( Christopher Connelly ) who has been attempting to pit his gang against Ogre's so that chaos could ensue . The Bronx , no longer policed & left to rot and ruin , is a scar to the rest of the large city and seeing gangs warfare with each other doesn't bother those far from such violence . Hammer , born in Bronx , is a mercenary for hire who doesn't care about anyone and enjoys the role of killing people , particularly gang members . And , once Hammer discovers Ann's whereabouts , he gets Ice involved in negotiating her to Manhattan Corporation , but if Trash is able to join forces with Ogre , then such a plan will have complications . Obviously another Italian imitation of ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK & THE WARRIORS , director Enzo G . Castellari attempts to keep the action front and center despite the many problems weighing against it . . such as the absurd casting of Mark Gregory , without the look needed for the role of a tough leader of a motorcycle gang ( . . his uncomfortable walk and teenage face , not to mention his vacant delivery ) . The costumes and make-up for the gangs are modeled after THE WARRIORS , except in 1990 , they aren't as effective as they are laughable . The hideous , crude , vulgar dialogue spoken throughout the movie by all the characters is a laugh riot to behold . The action set-pieces themselves , however , are entertaining and thrilling . . lots of bodies being stabbed with plenty of hand to hand combat . Slick Vic the Hammer is a joy to watch , slippery in how he infiltrates the Bronx , blasting a couple with his shotgun . Williamson is allowed to kick some ass as Ogre , always cool , with a cigar , bright blue shirt and shiny jeans , with a cane that has a sword ( . . he gets to chop a head off with it ) as his weapon . Perhaps the show-stopping set-piece is Williamson in battle with gargantuan George Eastman ( . . as the pony-tailed leader of the Zombies ) to the death . Gregory never convinces as the hero , so it's up to Williamson to pick up the slack . . although , Gregory does have an effectively emotional moment where his Trash discovers a friend , damaged and dying after being attacked by the Scavengers . Betty Dessy is actually quite effective as Ogre's companion , Witch , a tall , long-haired blond who can wield a mean whip , with sharp steel claws ( . . applied to her fingers ) that buries into the torsos of enemies like blades . Hammer and a heavily armed task force plan to besiege Ogre's fortress with all manner of hell breaking loose ( . . including blow torches assaulting victim's faces and machine guns dropping running gang members ) . Before the film ends , nearly everyone is dead . The ruins of Rome serve the setting of a fallen Bronx quite well . The film is pure testosterone . See this for the action choreography , because 1990 : BRONX WARRIORS is a pure trash epic without a hint of originality .
Monster of London City	A serial killer , modeling his methods and look after Jack the Ripper , stalks prostitutes on the streets of 60's London , lurking the dark allies and street corners as the ever-present fog makes it's presence known . The killer surprises his prey , strangulating the girls into unconsciousness before mutilating them . There's a special vicious strike when he draws his cutting blade diving into the mod hookers before discarding them like garbage ( one girl he drives her car into a ditch while another he tosses her carcass into the river ) . Scotland Yard focus their attention on troubled actor Richard Sand ( Hansjörg Felmy ) , whose past yields a stint with drug addiction and at present is struggling with bad nerves . . he portrays Jack the Ripper in a stage production of the killer . Sir George ( Fritz Tillmann ) , an important member of Parliament , is hoping to pass a bill to remove / censor objectionable theatrical productions , often escapes , when his niece Ann ( Marianne Koch ) goes to bed , at night cautiously . . we see that his attire looks like what the copy-cat Ripper killer wears , perhaps a far-too-obvious red-herring . Ann is in love with Richard which annoys George who wishes to close the Ripper production down . Dr . Michael ( Dietmar Schönherr ) , a man in love with Ann having grown up with her after " his father died " , is good friends with Richard . All these melodramatic complications only add to poor Richard's troubles as he feels the investigation breathing down his neck and a desire to quit the Ripper character who is slowly wearing him out . The film also has Teddy ( Peer Schmidt ) and his assistant as this moronic sleuthing team hoping to catch the Ripper so they can become famous making a name for their amateur detective agency , but always come up short of that goal despite being so close . Ann suspects her Uncle after catching him whisking off one night and decides to conduct a little investigation of her own . The mystery , as explained by two other users , is not too hard to figure out which does take away from the overall appeal of this atmospherically made low-budget thriller . I loved how the director shoots the Ripper and his killing methods , not exactly displaying the cutting , but getting the grisly display over by showing how he conducts himself so thoroughly . Still , a good mystery should make the identity of the psycho a bit harder to figure out . . and , it isn't too hard in this flick's case . I think it's well crafted , but the screenplay is lacking . I like how the film feels authentic instead of stage-bound . . I think that adds to the mood of it . Even if the film may not actually take place in London , Berlin sure looks a lot like the British city and that's certainly a benefit as far as I'm concerned . Director Zbonek likes to shoot action from afar , even when the Ripper does his dirty business , lensing those desolate quiet streets where no one can help those unfortunate females needing assistance where there is none . But , stylish direction can only carry you so far and the story itself isn't anything to write home about . . even after we get an explanation of why the killer committed his heinous acts .
The Deaths of Ian Stone	Harvesters live among us , vampiric ghoulish predators that feed off our fear and pain , even killing so that they can receive that major high their addictions so desire . For some reason , Ian Stone ( Mike Vogel ) is sent through a variety of lives , a hockey player , office rat , taxi driver , junkie , and quadriplegic . Each life grows worse than the last as Ian is stalked by beings who can take the shape of humans , their true forms existing within a black mist , eyes blazing a ferocious red . Yet , Ian has a mysterious ally who informs him that he must protect Jenny ( Christina Cole ) , a pretty blond who seems to exist in every life as a potential love interest . Ian's main nemesis is Medea ( Jaime Murray , who looks quite sexy in tight black , and red , leather ) , a malevolent harvester who is wanting to know something he's supposedly hiding . . it has to do with an act against the harvesters and Ian is suffering life to life for whatever it is . Will Ian be able to protect Jenny from these creatures or give up the secret he has buried so deep within ? There is a legitimate reason why Ian doesn't truly die . This reason he's so sought after is becoming more and more clear from lifetime to lifetime . I will admit that I was a bit frustrated for a while due to how this film was unfolding . Moving from one life to the next , I think we're supposed to be bewildered because the viewer is confronting the same scenarios as Ian . The whole point , I felt , was that the viewer is to experience what Ian is . . it's an unfolding mystery as we learn why he's going through each situation , and how Jenny is a part of this , unlocking through each perilous battle ( . . and death ) . Unlike many , I thought the harvesters were rather neat creatures . . I guess you could describe them as smog-ish , they almost exist within a ominous cloud of smoke , with these angered faces and enraged eyes , charging at victims ( . . and , most importantly , Ian ) scaring folks , with their fear exiting from their mouths and feeding the predators . The premise will be undoubtedly silly to many , even cheesy perhaps . The scenes where Ian is locked into a neck harness as Medea and her co-horts torture him reminded me of " Jacob's Ladder " . When the harvesters often attack , their hand forms into a crustacean type of claw as they slice or stab victims . When they are actually stabbed ( . . by their own ) , we see the harvesters vaporize . The film itself looks great thanks to Stefano Morcaldo's polished professional cinematography . And , Elia Cmiral's music score gives the film an immediacy as Ian often runs for his life . The action scenes are given much more tension , also , thanks to Cmiral's work . I will say that the film's structure is liable to test many a viewer's patience , but I thought this worked as popcorn escapist fare . I do think director Dario Piana aspires to create much more than just escapist fare , but the complex nature of it all can be quite a nuisance . At best this is a play on the " cat with nine lives " theme with evil fear-sucking ghouls thrown in the mix .
Fury of the Wolfman	Mess of cobbled together ideas and scenes ( . . some scenes directly lifted another previous El Hombre Lobo film to pad this movie ) with corny background music , abysmal camera-work ( . . I read elsewhere that the director was drunk a lot during filming , and it shows ) , static direction ( . . with so many things tossed at the viewer , you'd think it wouldn't be as slow and uninvolving as it is ) , and full of soap opera-style melodramatics , yet overall I still found individual things from the film I enjoyed . Revered professor / scientist Waldemar Daninsky ( Paul Naschy ) is supposedly bitten by a werewolf in Tibet ( . . idea obviously lifted from Univeral's " Werewolf in London " ) while on an expedition , with the crew who accompanied him vanished . He finds that the pentagram mark on his chest might work as a sign of what ails him , and Daninsky goes to fellow scientist , Dr . Ilona Elmann ( Perla Cristal ) noted for her provocative experiments in the control of the human brain . Waldemar finds out through an unnamed source that his wife , Erika ( Pilar Zorrilla ) is having an affair with a man named Nevell ( Fabián Conde ) . What he doesn't know is that the couple are secretly plotting to kill him , tampering with the brakes causing his car to hit a tree . While not dead , Daninsky seeks the help of Ilona , who will exploit his unfortunate lycanthrope condition for her own mind control experiments . Unleashing the werewolf from his chains to terrorize innocents round abouts , Daninsky accidentally electrocutes himself on a fallen power line . Ilona will later dig up his undead corpse , forcing him to do her will , with assistant / student Karen ( the lovely Verónica Luján ) resisting her teacher's philosophies falling for the victimized Daninsky . Karen's boyfriend , reporter Williams ( Mark Stevens ) will join forces with detective Miller ( Miguel de la Riva ) to find out the one responsible for the rash of murders and werewolf attacks plaguing the community ( Ilona sends Daninsky , in werewolf form , to murder his wife and her lover ) . Ilona , with a reluctant Karen in tow , will continue their experiments in the notorious Dr . Wolfstein's castle , a place where many insane patients are held locked in chains , humans are harvested as plants ( ! ) , and possibly even the supposedly dead owner of the place himself walking amongst them . We will see that Ilona is a mastermind behind everything that has taken place and that her ability of hypnotic mind control is being used for criminal and immoral purposes . And , the secret of her birth rite is revealed . . Such a convoluted mess as the synopsis I wrote above does yield some things I found entertaining . The old-school werewolf look of Daninsky is still my favorite next to Pierce's Univeral creation . The attacks often feature gaping flesh wounds and are often bloody . I loved Perla Cristal in the role of mad scientist , even if the character's methods are a bit unorthodox and often just plain silly ( . . although , she's certainly insane , so perhaps despite being a scientific genius , Ilona is not operating within a full capacity ) . I especially enjoyed the scene where Ilona whips Daninsky , in werewolf form , seemingly relishing the opportunity to do so . . and having full command of what is taking place , demented as the situation is , Cristal displays the drunk power underneath brooding . Verónica Luján is simply the eye candy , as Daninsky's ally . There's a plot twist concerning Daninsky's condition and the affair which brought out the vicious werewolf attack on Erika and Nevell , which I found a bit out of the blue and bonkers , that just explains how out-of-control Naschy's screenplay is . Couple all this will excerpts of Daninsky's werewolf ( . . in a different colored shirt practically screaming at the viewer that this was from another movie ) spliced into " Fury of the Werewolf " and you have an unholy affair which produces uneven results .
Don't Answer the Phone	Psychologist Dr . Lindsay Gale ( Flo Gerrish ) who operates a free clinic for troubled women , also working as a radio personality for those with emotional baggage and drug abuse , realizes that a caller , going by the name of Ramon ( . . speaking in a ridiculous accent ) could be behind a series of strangulations towards women that is plaguing the police force who have exhausted themselves trying to catch him . That killer , Kirk Smith ( Nicholas Worth ) is actually a skilled photographer , but suffers from head aches and emotional trauma possibly stemming from his childhood , hinted at throughout as he pursues female victims in Hollywood . AS a lot of killers do , he's quite elusive , at first , but with each passing victim , Smith makes mistakes , leaving things ( . . like drug paraphernalia , and even his photographic equipment ) behind at the crime scenes . The film follows this nasty psychopath , and his methods for finding and killing women & the detectives , McCabe & Hatcher ( James Westmoreland & Ben Frank ) trying to catch him . The film also establishes Gale's role as a care-giver to those who need assistance with problems / weaknesses plaguing their everyday lives , with her kindness setting her up as a potential victim for Smith . I think the film's main asset is the tour-de-force performance of Worth as the mental case . He runs the gamut of emotions , crying at times , even quite pleasant when he approaches unfortunates who have no idea that they are to suffer the wrath of his mental trauma . Worth also has this bulky menacing figure which works well as an object of fear . Those poor women he chooses to strangle are frail in his monstrous hands . Smith often wears a stocking over his face which only adds to the ferocity of his attack scenes on women . . we can see the rage even present through the stocking . I felt the more impacting scenes display a seemingly trustworthy Smith , soft-spoken and smiling cheerful , being invited by models / hookers hoping to make a splash on magazines . . he uses his photographic strengths to take advantage of women , vulnerable to an attack they are not aware is escalating in Smith's mind . There's some tasteless humor put in the script , mostly for the detectives who find time to joke with each other . . it's kind of a release valve for the horrors they must face everyday . The film probes the seedy side of Hollywood , Smith's hunting ground . Alas , I watched the scissored version by Rhino which hacks away at the final product . There's at least 9 minutes I've not seen , so my rating is towards the cut version where even profanity is blanketed . You can clearly see how badly cut it is , blatantly obvious which annoys me to no end . There are even fade-outs right during a scene as if the censor police were making it quite clear as to their clipping methods . I realize a film like " Don't Answer the Phone ! " will not appeal to everyone , or even most people . But , the audience that does watch this kind of film , wish to see it in it's entirety . I think it's rape , to be honest , when you strip away scenes meant for a film , just so you can grab a wider audience . A wide audience isn't gonna rent this film anyway . The film's low budget provides a raw feel that bodes well for the type of characters , plot , & setting featured . Michael Castle portrays a coroner who likes to sickeningly crack jokes about his cases , and Chris Wallace has an amusing scene as a legit traveling psychic , booked by McCabe because he knows way too much about the case !
Private Lessons	Silly , sleazy nonsense about foreigner Sylvia Kristel blackmailed into seducing a teenage Eric Brown by scumbag chauffeur Howard Hesseman . She will lead the horse to water , despite his ridiculous resistance at first , and then fake her own death with Hesseman tricking Brown into paying him off for disposing the body . But , Kristel falls in love with the gullible kid and decides to hatch a plot to turn the tables on the despicable chauffeur . Brown's father is away on " business " . Taboo-shattering , icky , squirm-inducing wet-dream fantasy might be more believable today as women ( . . and men ) seem to stay on the headlines for sleeping with underage teens . I watched a specific R-rated version which does show plenty of Kristel . . enough to make your mouth water anyway . She's quite sexy , but the whole plot with her falling for nerdy Brown is just too hard to swallow .
Chupacabra : Dark Seas	A scientist , Dr . Peña ( Giancaro Esposito ) is able to succeed in capturing a seemingly uncatalogued creature ( . . costing the lives of many hired hunters in the process ) , and , in turn , able to successfully board it in the cargo hold of Captain Randolph's ( John Rhys-Davies ) cruise ship . A detective , Lance ( Dylan Neal ) is brought on board the ship to uncover a thief who was able to unlock a safe , removing cash within it . Through a very unfortunate decision made by the cargo workers who loaded the crate carrying the chupacabra creature ( . . a vicious , impressively fast , flesh-eating beast which resembles a giant bat , with an exoskeleton shielding it's body from bullets ) , it is released onto the ship and it's crew . Capt Randolph and Lance will find themselves , instead of focusing on a thief , in a whole heap of trouble as the chupacabra creature goes on a deadly rampage , attacking innocents in a violent fury , as the lives of an entire cruise are in perilous danger . Randolph , after his own men , despite the heavy arsenal at their disposal , are taken apart as the chupacabra beast moves from deck to deck , room to room , will have to call in the calvary , a commando unit sent in by a military base in close proximity . Commander Link ( Matthew R Anderson ) will not only take control of the cruise ship , but order Randolph and everyone aboard to vacate so that he and his men can kill the chupacabra . . but , Link has no idea what terror lies in wait for he and his men . Meanwhile , Dr . Peña will undermine Randolph and Lance as often as possible because of his obsession to not only keep the chupacabra alive , but to prove it's existence to his colleagues and peers who dismissed his theories about such a beast . Adding to their worries is the safety of Randolph's daughter , Jenny ( Chelan Simmons , a blonde , freckled cutie with a nice rack ) , an aerobics instructor who never seems to be able to escape from the ship , despite daddy's demands that she remain safe from harm . Passable Sci-fi channel monster movie , has enough carnage to keep it fun , despite it's derivative and predictable nature . Solid cast also keep it afloat . So often , as is the case with these movies , it borders on the routine . You have the three leads with an ability to survive while Randolph and Link's men are fodder for the beast who moves really fast and explodes out of nowhere , popping up from every corner , moving through ducts , and able to escape certain capture thanks to Dr . Peña . Despite a troop of soldiers , unable to remain alive very long when confronted by the beast , Jenny is able to kickbox the monster ! Veteran character actor , Rhys-Davies lends a great deal of class to the film , his character is recognized as a hero who saved Lance's outfit in Operation Desert Storm . . his camaraderie with Neal ( Lance ) is also a plus for the film . As you'd expect many of the victims make stupid mistakes ( . . like a wealthy widow rejecting curfew orders to walk her dog , the thief constantly returning for his dufflebag of stolen loot despite knowing what dangers are in store , a cruise cook walking blindly into terror after disobeying his friend's advice not to follow a mysterious / ominous sound ) and are lunch for the beast , while , as I mentioned before , others have no prayer of surviving because they are written specifically in the film to be torn limb from limb . The gore is often made through , startling enough , practical effects ( . . make-up displaying torn flesh , one poor fellow finding the lower half of his body gone , fondling visible intestines ) with limited uses of CGI . Often , director John Shepphird forgoes showing the nasty flesh-eating , as the chupacabra attacks it's prey , merely showing blood streaking across walls . Still , I think there's enough graphic violence to satisfy .
Wrong Turn 2 : Dead End	A reality survivalist game in the woods of Greenbrier Back Country , West Virginia brings in a group of clichés to be hunted down and slaughtered in this sick , gratuitously gory sequel releasing the inbred cannibal family to brutally slay with glee . Henry Rollins is the host as a Marine who goes Rambo when he's almost included on the menu escaping by the skin of his teeth . He gets a chance to blow a man to smithereens with a stick of dynamite , blow one cannibal away with a powerful shot-gun blast that sends that joker sky-rocketing , and even hits one inbred with an arrow shot with taped dynamite that ignites the bastard and his girlfriend / sister . Oh , but the family get in on the fun , too . When two contestants get caught on one of those rope traps that suspends you upside down in the air , they receive an arrow through the eyeball . Another contestant is sliced repeatedly in the back by a butcher knife that exposes her spine . One gets his head removed in bloody fashion and we later see it worked on by the family in preparation for supper . In a surprising change of pace , the film seems to build one female character as a slasher heroine ( she has all the goody-two-shoes traits that make her a sympathetic cliché ) only to see her get the axe . . literally . And , we must not forget the very opening kill , which sets up the brutal nature of the rest of this splatter-fest , as a female contestant gets her lower lip and chin-skin eaten away by one of the inbreds and then split right down the middle by another inbred with an axe . The character cliché list includes a skateboarder jokester , a very bitchy vegan , a female producer whose so in love with her executive producing boyfriend she'll join the team when the other contestant " opted out " ( the one who isn't present introduced a tattoo that offers a nice little gruesome joke for twisted effect ) , a black football star whose career was cut short due to injury , and a lesbian military officer . . all these contestants are sent into the woods to , unbeknownest to them , square off not in competition with each other but against a foe who understands this area a teeny bit better . Erica Leerhsen ( the wiccan in BLAIR WITCH 2 , and victim of Leatherface in the 1998 remake of Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE ) gets the lead , finally , in a horror film as a suicidal victim of a hard relationship and the new horror hottie right now , Crystal Lowe , as a slutty model who plans to help boost ratings by adding spice to the show . Ken Kirzinger ( Jason Voorhies of FREDDY VS JASON ) has the role of head mutant who swings a mean axe and is a dead aim with a cross-bow .
Specters	" Whether evoked , or not evoked . . evil will come . " During a routine archaeological study , a secret door is discovered leading to an undiscovered tomb . What lies within this tomb , a demon , if able to escape the tunnels , could threaten the lives of everyone above ground . It'll be up to Marcus ( John Pepper ) , a member under renowned archaeologist Professor Lasky ( Donald Pleasence ) to seal the tunnels and stop this powerful demon who has designs on his temperamental actress girlfriend , Alice ( Trine Michelsen ) . That's the best I can do to provide a reasonable synopsis for such a difficult film . It seems director Marcello Avallone and his co-writer Andrea Purgatori were more interested in flashy visuals than creating a decent story which we can follow . I kind of reacted to Specters the same way as Soavi's The Church . I think Avallone wishes to depart from following a narrative structure , freely using the premise of an evil resurrected from it's place of entrapment , to unload bizarre sequences such as the importance of wind which disrupts the characters and often leads to the presence of the monster somewhere within the proximity of those destined to perish . I was disappointed in the lack of gore , because there seems to be opportunities to show gruesome violence . I will admit that I think it's got some incredible atmosphere , especially the tunnels which lead to the demon's tomb , and the Roman catacombs . I'm not sure why the film was called Specters , though . I guess it sounded cool and those Italians , God bless them , love a catchy title . There were , to me , striking uses of light ( . . the dark silhouette of characters from afar in tunnel entrances as light shines from behind them , the demon opening it's arms after rising from under earth with light grandly presenting it to us , barely visible but still ominous enough , the great scene where the demon's green eyes blanket Lansky , his face full of fear at what he has just encountered ) , and a nifty tourist trip through the Roman catacombs . Didn't care for the Marcus character or his girlfriend , Alice ( . . although , she's hot in a man's shirt ) and too many scenes end abruptly just as they were on the verge of getting really good . I loved the first time Marcus follows the tunnel which eventually leads to the demon's tomb and that marvelous sequence where Lansky is engulfed in darkness , his flashlight pointing out statues in his dead employer's cavernous " tropy room " . There's a scene very reminiscent of Nightmare on Elm Street where Alice is sleeping , with the demons hands exploding from the mattress , pulling her into it ( . . many will consider this an outrage , I imagine ) . The main flaw , among many , that bothered me the most was the fact that Lasky informs Marcus to close the tunnels so that the demon can not escape , yet the beast attacks victims on the outside of the tomb . I think the feeble plot serves as an excuse for the demon to prey on those who were involved with it's discovery . Repercussions for those who are responsible for unearthing evil seems to be the point of emphasis , if there is one . The creature is flimsily established by the filmmakers with artifacts such as a dagger buried into a wall , pagan symbols , skeletal remains and a sarcophagus all tied to the demon terrorizing folks . The demon does rip the flesh of victims ' faces and there's this neat jump scare involving a destroyed corpse . Enter with caution because Specters is not an easy nut to crack . Oh , and Donald Pleasence fans will probably find his character and performance rather disappointing . There were times when the poor guy just agreed to work in anything and Specters certainly doesn't display Pleasence at his best . . he was sleepwalking all the way to the bank to pay his electric bill .
Terrorvision	A mutated creature ( terrifically icky thanks to the superb work by John Carl Buechler ) escapes to Planet Earth through a lightning bolt ( ? ! ) in space from it's planet Pluton before being exterminated . The bolt enters a badly assembled satellite dish thanks to father Gerrit Graham who is unsure how it is to be put together . Along with wife Mary Woronov ( very sexy in this flick ) , daughter Diane Franklin ( barely recognizable underneath her whole punk garb ) , son Chad Allen , Franklin's Metalhead boyfriend OD ( Jon Gries ) , & Grampa ( Bert Remsen ) , the family will have an uninvited monster with an unhinged appetite for their flesh . Exiting through their television screens , many of them become lunch as Franklin and Allen try to teach the monster human traits , but it's desire to eat may halt it from making any earthling companions . The acting is animated , to say the least ( hyperacting , I guess for lack of a better word ) and the plot is chaotic along with the effects of how the monster is able to take those it eats using their voices and faces to trick others suspecting anything fishy . The film wears it's stupidity as a badge of glory . . it never really wants us to take it for a grain of salt . Everyone involved just seems to have decided to have fun . It's a roller-coaster of access with lots of gooey melting effects . Woronov is a treat as always , but this is clearly Franklin's film as she just lets it all hang out in very unusual role for her . The film doesn't pretend to be anything more than a silly sci-fi horror picture with not a serious bone in it's body .
The Toolbox Murders	Sick puppy from director Dennis Donnelly concerning how the car wreck demise of a young woman named Kathy causes her father and cousin to commit unspeakable acts towards innocent human beings . The father , Vance ( Cameron Mitchell ) is a simply deranged owner of the apartment complex for which he murders a set of beautiful tenants who represent " sinners " needed ridding of so that the world could be a better place . Laurie ( Pamelyn Ferdin ) shares an apartment with her mother , Jo Ann ( Aneta Corsaut ) and brother , Joey ( Nicolas Beauvy ) and Vance kidnaps her , holding the poor girl captive in his suburban home , commissioning his nephew Kent ( Wesley Eure , of " Land of the Lost " fame ! ) to clean up his bloody messes ! The police are baffled at the murders wondering just how the killer could operate so freely in dispatching them , moving within their rooms with only one forced entry . Joey , motivated by his sister's disappearance , opts to work as an amateur sleuth as he sees that Detective Jamison ( Tim Donnelly ) and the police have little to go on . Thanks to Kent , who seems to know more than he lets on ( . . while also displaying strange behavior when Joey speaks about the acts of violence and his calm demeanor around the crime scenes of the victims ' rooms he's about to clean up ) , Joey suspects Vance once entering the sicko uncle's garage , finding the infamous toolbox , containing the devices used on those women during the nightly murder spree . But , Joey will not suspect someone else . . Kent's not exactly operating with a full deck , either ! We watch as frightened , and subdued , Laurie , tied to a bed frame , attempts futilely to coerce Vance into letting her go as he drifts into his own fantasies even believing she is his daughter incarnate . Kent , also , finds himself lost to the memories of Kathy , a kissing cousin with a history he is all too willing to share with good ole Uncle Vance , with shocking results . The film doesn't really create an air of mystery as to who committed the grisly , bloody murders at the beginning of the movie , and the reasons for doing so . The director opens inside the front seat showing gloved hands driving a car past the location of where a woman died as a result of a car crash . We then are treated to a series of murders ( . . perhaps not as notorious because of how the director pulls away the camera before the weapons really do their damage , but still repulsive acts of violence ) with an assortment of weapons raging from a spinning drill driven into the back of an alcoholic who knows him and is surprised at his antics , a hammer slammed into the back of a victim's head after knocking her unconscious , a screwdriver stabbed into the stomach of a victim who stumbles upon the killer before he could leave , and a nail gun to the head of a model after her lengthly bath tub masturbation sequence . Unlike a lot of giallo thrillers and slashers ( . . which would follow a similar model as this film ) , the investigation of the murders is the weakest aspect of the film . The director instead , after bludgeoning the viewer with that wallop of a crime spree , decides to take us into the insanity of Vance , with actor Mitchell , a veteran from the old school Hollywood working in films like this for the money because of problems in his life , sucking a lollipop the first time we see him bringing din-din to Laurie . Mitchell just lets it hang out as the wacko holding so tight to the memory of his little girl and going on and on about the wicked sinners of the world with how he must cut them out like the Bible says . Eure , with those pretty boy looks and squeaky-clean image actually surprised me because he was such an innocent teenage idol on the LotL show . I could see how Joey would be startled at the true maniac that lies behind what appears to be just an ordinary young man looking for some extra dough handed out by Uncle Vance . Beauvy as Joey didn't really impress me , he's merely a plot device who makes a grave discovery whose fate is particularly memorable . Ferdin is a virginal sweetheart mostly tied to the bed hurting from the tightened bondage and worried for her life , a fawn trapped in the madness of a crazed predator ( s ) . What I found most effective was the use of country music playing as Vance murders his victims , and the way the killer carries out his acts so cold-bloodedly , with calculated precision . This will certainly be unpleasant for the weak-hearted and easily offended .
The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies ! ! ?	" The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies ! ! ? " is most certainly a one-of-a-kind experience . Madame Estrella ( Brett O'Hara ) doesn't like being ridiculed or questioned by detractors . When an old drunk turns down her sexual advances ( ! ) she gets really angry and , trust me , you don't want to see her ( . . or hear her squeaky voice ) when she's angry . If you make Madame Estrella mad , you not only get acid tossed in your face ( . . this turns your face into silly putty ) but a prison behind her purple curtains is your brand new home . Almost always by her side is hideous hunchback , Ortega ( Don Russell ) who assists her in disposing bodies and grabbing innocents ( . . he even pops up in nightmares and hypnotic trances caused by Estrella ) . A customer ( . . a boozing club dancer who has a rather uninspired act with a male partner ) desiring to know her future fate finds Estrella's " xombie prison " ( . . I spelled zombie with an x because of have no idea what these ugly fiends should be labeled ) and is targeted for execution . She'll find a dope in " I'll try anything once " ( . . the world is my college ) Jerry ( Ray Dennis Steckler ) who is entranced with popular stripper Carmelita ( Erina Enyo ) . Carmelita , in league with Estrella , will trick him into coming backstage where he will be hypnotized into killing those who threaten to expose her prison . Estrella chose Jerry when he , pal Harold ( Atlas King , with an unbearably laughable accent ) , and girlfriend Angela ( Sharon Walsh ) wanted to try out a " reader " . I guess Jerry pushed that " no-no " button when he poked fun at her magical crystal ball . Anyways , hoody-up and eyeballs wide-open , Jerry , along with his incredibly shiny butcher knife , stabs the singer and her dance partner ( ? ! ) in the face during their act on stage . Haunted by one hell of a bizarre nightmare , Jerry awakens to a blur wondering what happened the night before when he went backstage to meet with Carmelita . Soon another dancer , who happens to oh so eloquently mention she had seen the murdered girl meeting with her , gets the knife ( . . along with a date , the barker who brings the salivating males to dance shows ) treatment . Soon , though , Estrella will make on fatal mistake , keeping open the prison a little too long as the xombies soon revolt , shredded clothes and hands that strangle . Soon Jerry will get acid-faced , on the lam as blank-faced police , guns-a-firing , give chase with Angela , her bro Madison ( Pat Kirkwood ) & Harold is hot pursuit . The closing of the film features a VERY long run across a rocky beach front as Jerry stumbles , falls , returns to his feet , and repeats the clumsy cycle for our amusement , performed so melodramatically . I'll admit that I found the carnival atmosphere particularly effective , it's all spontaneous and random , scenes where Jerry and friends are living it up . I realize that many will giggle at the lack of spirit or choreography for the MANY musical dance interludes which populate this bizarre 60's token of campiness , but I kind of figured it be this way in real life . . this isn't The Chorus Line , you know . The transitions from scene to scene are jarring to say the least , and the sound is rather tepid . I had a great difficulty hearing what was being said half the time ( . . maybe that's a good thing ? ) . I thought the nightmare sequence was a hoot , dancers with painted faces , images of Estrella and Ortega giving Jerry commands , and what seems like cigarette smoke steaming upward ( . . and the spinning spiral , a constant , returning Jerry to his homicidal ways ) . As MANY others have mentioned , this is far from a good movie and suffers from lack of real experience , but " The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies ! ! ? " is such a strange experience I couldn't turn away , wondering what was gonna happen next . Lots of dead air and oddly structured camera shots of characters ' faces . I must admit that I rather enjoyed some of the music sprinkled throughout and it was kind of neat getting a peek at certain parts of LA during such a cinematic era where independent filmmakers ( . . good and bad ) were finding opportunities to make movies .
Slaughterhouse	Well I'll be a suck-egg mule , director Rick Roessler's SLAUGHTERHOUSE is an oinker . Teenagers , police , and other unfortunate folks are being stalked by a father and son who live on the land of a decrepit , abandoned abattoir , pressed into bankruptcy due to an evolved mechanized processing system which prospers more within the county . The star of the film is Buddy ( Joe B Barton ) , a massive , unclean , mentally challenged son , in overalls , of demented slaughterhouse father Lester Bacon ( Don Barrett ) who kills people that threaten his pops or pigs . He's very primitive in nature , and the film establishes his kinship with the porcine population . . he even grunts like a pig instead of talk ! The problem with Buddy is that he comes off so cartoonish , the character doesn't have the menace required . Lester is told by his lawyer and an arch rival " hog slaughter " businessman that he's being foreclosed if he doesn't except a substantial fee offered for his land , not longer used to process hog meat . So Lester takes his vendetta one step further by having his boy dispose of them in gruesome ways ( . . one is lifted off his feet , his face crushed , another is forced into a meat grinder ) . A group of teenagers are shooting an amateur horror movie , using the abandoned slaughterhouse as a setting which is how they come in contact with Buddy , sealing their fates . The final girl is Lizzie Borden ( Sherry Leigh ) , not joking , and her father is the county sheriff ( William Houck ) . Generic characters ( . . the cast do their best but have little to work with ) and plot , relatively little profanity and features no nudity . The gore is at a minimum with director Rick Roessler having to find economic ways to make kill-scenes more cringe-worthy ( . . even without the graphic nature to back them up ) due to lack of budget . Let's face it , not every low budget filmmaker had the fortune of acquiring Tom Savini's talents so they had to do the best they could with the finances available . Rick Roessler uses blood and certain camera angles to emphasize blunt force trauma to victim's faces / heads without the effectiveness of grisly carnage . Buddy's weapon-of-choice is a " bone crusher " cleaver with a long handle and he swings it wildly at horrified victims who get caught on the premises of his paw's slaughterhouse factory . Some characters have trouble getting their key in the ignition to start up their cars , with one female victim actually vacating her vehicle ! Besides his cleaver , Buddy uses other hog slaughtering equipment to kill his victims . One positive is that the rural setting firmly plants SLAUGHTERHOUSE in the " hillbilly horror " category and is a nice change-of-pace from the usual squalor of city life ( . . or small town suburbia ) , but Rick Roessler isn't quite able to succeed in tapping into the terror such a location can often elicit . I felt the light-hearted and goofy tone , along with the kooky music had something to do with that .
King of the Ants	Gullible nobody Sean " Crawl " Crawley ( Chris McKenna ) is duped by cunning , imposing building constructor , Ray Mathews ( Daniel Baldwin , as mean as ever ) into murdering a pesky accountant , working for City Hall , who has incriminating evidence against him . Upon the scene of the crime after a startlingly violent attack , leaving the accountant dead in his kitchen , Crawl wisely decides to confiscate those important documents that Ray so desperately wishes to retrieve , passing it off to his only friend in the world , nerdy zoo-keeper , George ( Timm Sharp ) for safe-keeping . Meanwhile , Ray and his cronies , Duke ( George Wendt , vicious and malicious in an uncharacteristic role ) , Beckett ( Vernon Wells ) , and Carl ( Lionel Mark Smith ) attempt to force Crawl's information regarding the whereabouts of the documents , by beating him to a pulp . . held prisoner in a foul shack located at Ray's desert ranch house , each member takes turns swinging a mean golf club across Crawl's skull ( . . his head is reinforced with ripped mattress to soften the blows enough not to kill him ) leaving his face swelling and mind disoriented . Escaping through savage means ( . . his work on Duke's neck to break free is a nasty bit of business ) , Crawl's disposition favors the Elephant Man , and he just so happens to come across the homeless shelter run by gentle-hearted Susan Gatley ( Kari Wuhrer ) . Nursing him to health , Crawl is mad in love , but a dilemma arises . . she is the wife of the accountant slain by his hands ! An intimate relationship ensues , but how long can Crawl keep the truth from Susan , not to mention keep himself safe from Ray ? Probably one of a few disappointments I've had sitting through a Stuart Gordon film . Basic revenge tale , with Crawl getting even with those who wronged him . The film is crippled from predictability . . you can easily figure out the outcome of the entire story . You know Sean will escape certain death and that he'd eventually meet , and fall in love with , the wife of the very one he killed . You know that , despite how his mind-boggling decisions to associate himself with obvious crooks ( . . who never appear to be trustworthy in the slightest ) and kill an innocent man will bring nothing but trouble into his life , Crawl will somehow escape from his difficult situation . And , I had a really hard time feeling anything for Crawl , the guy brought all this on himself and poor McKenna has to somehow make this character worth rooting for . . to his credit , he almost pulls it off ( . . some might feel he does , but I still found him contemptible even as he gets his retribution towards those who caused him such misery / agony during the torture ) . Wuhrer does what she can with a rather underwritten , clichéd part as a lonely woman with a father-less child who finds comfort in the arms of Sean . . I had an awful hard time , to be honest , seeing what such a woman would see in him ( . . perhaps crippled souls find some sort of solace during passionate embrace , but I had a feeling she'd not fall for such a mysterious fellow who arrived at her shelter so badly beaten ) . Wendt and Baldwyn are suitably loathsome as hissable cretins who service the plot as bait for the audience to cheer against . The violence is , at times , shocking , but unlike in the past , Gordon pulls his punches a bit . Wuhrer does have a couple of sex scenes with McKenna , but Gordon doesn't remain with these acts of passion too long , although she's still quite a sex kitten . In my opinion , one of Stuart Gordon's weakest films . The title refers to a remark Duke makes to Crawl after nearly strangling him , pointing out how he's similar to an ant .
The Wizard of Gore	Complex mindscrew following an underground newspaper journalist ( . . who authors the Cacophony Gazette ) whose life is turned upside down when he visits ( . . supposedly ) a flamboyant magician , Montag the Magnificent's gore-themed magic show which repels the audience with a ( . . supposedly ) staged murder , through a chosen planted female assistant in the audience . Kip Pardue is Ed Bigelow , the writer who always dressed in suits and fedora hat as if he belonged in a Bogart movie , finding that his reality could very well be an illusion created by the drug tetrotoxin , planted on his hands thanks to Montag's handshake . He discovers that Montag's assistants are all chosen through the service of supplier Dr . Chong ( Brad Dourif ) winding up dead the night after their tour of duty for his live act . Ed utilizes the services of his pal , " Jinky " ( Joshua Miller ; Near Dark , The River's Edge ) , a coroner , in helping to establish Montag's use of a drug to possibly trick his audience in believing that they're seeing a live murder , quite an illusionist trick , while also hoping to indict him with their actual killings . But , what Ed soon discovers is that perhaps his whole life has become an illusion , the tetrotoxin creating a existence of constant disorientation and the impulse to attack those who provoke a negative response . We watch throughout the movie as Ed begins to breath into a paper bag as if hyperventilating , with bones cracking / popping due to the excessive abuse of tetrotoxin which is coursing through his body . Bijou Phillips is Ed's " girlfriend " , Maggie who might or might not have been a whore working for Dr . Chong . Jeffrey Combs is Montag's " opening act " , a filthy alley-cat who eats maggots and bites off rat heads as a means for sickening the audience in preparation for the really nasty stuff to come afterward . I was excited when I rented this just because Crispin Glover was in it , as the magician who seems to be actually killing those he performs fake murders on stage . As expected ( . . with my hopes fulfilled ) , Glover brings his glorious weirdness to the film , creating such a strange stage performer in the magician , Montag . This isn't his film , unfortunately , as Pardue gets the lead as the very confused and befuddled reporter who may be used as a pawn in Montag's games of illusion . Dourif , well , is Dourif , creating a manic " salesman " who treats clientèle to whores and drugs . Wild-eyed and temperamental , Dourif provides us with yet another memorable character . Combs hides underneath scraggly hair , beard , and tattered clothes , quite an accurate depiction of a homeless nut-case willing to go the extra mile to put on a performance which would make an audience gag . Miller is a far cry from that annoying brat with an attitude we remember from THE RIVER'S EDGE ( . . also starring Glover ) . Sporting a beard and curly locks , tossing witty liners often hurled at Ed , he is much more mild-tempered than the kid who used to clash with those around him . The film mostly features CGI gore ( . . and even this is shown from a distance probably to be on the safe side as to not expose the special effects ) when Glover performs his grisly stage acts on female victims ( . . the film proudly proclaims that the Suicide Girls perform the demanding tasks of standing on stage naked as Montag mistreats / humiliates them ) . The story is demanding and will require patient viewers willing to go the extra mile until everything falls into place with a satisfying ( . . to me , anyway ) finale when we get answers to a lot of head-scratching scenarios which present themselves as Pardue's " hero " wishes to expose Montag for the criminal he is . But , Dourif's " connections " with Glover's Montag regarding his " girls " also plays a major part in the grand scheme of things . Pieces to a puzzle come to fruition as the bizarre plot continues to the end . Clever , but difficult , this remake of HGL's notorious gore film will probably alienate some while others might find it rewarding due to it's challenging story .
Jack Deth goes Medieval !	Tim Thomerson is terrific as the returning Jack Deth , yet he is surrounded by Shakespearean rejects who wouldn't even last five minutes in a Dumas novel . The pains of carrying this film way heavy on the character of Deth as he must talk in this film with characters like Prospero and Caliban . Caliban is the lead villain in this film where his kind of Trancers are vampiric who suck the lifeforce from the humans on the planet ( when the humans turn white they're in the " safe zone " , but if the color reaches blue then red during an uncontrollable feeding it's " uh oh " ) . Jack Deth had become a time cop , traveling through the boundaries of time and space , working for Stephen Macht who finds " rifts " and anomalies in certain times . So Deth goes where he is needed because if there's a mess needing cleaning , Jack's the man for the job . On route for another job , this creature who manifests itself on board Jack's time ship causes an accidental crash onto this medieval planet which looks like a small patch of area with a castle . Caliban is shown here by Clabe Hartley to be a towering presence who strikes fear in everyone under his rule . Humans can not stop him and his great power outmatches anyone who dares face him . Yep , Jack Deth winds up in this place and now poses a threat to Caliban . That's about as easy as the convoluted , confusing film gets . There's this old wizard whose prophesies spelled out Deth's arrival to the planet not to mention his artistic rendering was put on paper by the old timer hooded as if just coming from " Star Wars : Episode 1 " . Deth seems to represented in this film as a savior for the people , but if anyone saw how he handled a sword against Caliban might try thinking twice . It's hard to watch really . To be honest , Deth is perfectly suited for the urban sci-fi waters of LA , but in a sword and sorcery adventure , he looks out of place . Thomerson still makes this nonsense fun to watch and his face down with whomever comes at him is always thrilling . The dialog is really horrendous { I believe one character in the castle says finding Jack Deth will be like " looking for a needle in a haystack " . . I kid you not } , especially when Deth and Stacie Randal's " first " Lyra have a spat about how they act to each other . I'm pretty sure Thomerson would probably enjoy starring in a couple of higher quality pictures , but is seemingly stuck in poopers like this film where his charisma has to take up the slack .
Female Vampire	A vampire countess and her various sexual conquests , drains the life force from her victims of passion . Countess Irina Karlstein ( Lina Romay ) often feeds from her male suitors as they are ejaculating ! The film opens the possibility of the vampire countess and a proposed rendezvous with a poet named Baron Von Rathony ( Jack Taylor ) . . Franco seems to be building to this meeting ( . . perhaps a love affair is in the future for these two ) as Rathony often hears the fluttering of bat wings in the sky from the patio of his palatial cottage overlooking a sea . Despite what the title says , this flick doesn't follow the usual vampire traits . . there isn't bloodletting ( . . in the typical sense , although there's a scene of whipping that sheds little cuts of blood ) and Lina certainly doesn't look like your usual member of the undead . Lina dives in no-holds-barred , willing to bend over backwards for director Franco as she is pretty much naked the entire film having graphic sexual sequences with men and women often rather explicitly . To be honest , the film is less a horror film than a porno flick . Franco's camera ravishes Lina's body , even closing in on Romay's vagina as she spreads her legs teasingly . Whether writhing in passion on her bed ( . . making good use of her bed post ) or bathing with erotic bliss in a bathtub of bloody water , Lina certainly is uninhibited and willing to go the distance . Not shy either is Taylor and other male actors unafraid to show their naughty bits as well . Not for the easily offended . As expected , the film often features jazz as background music often removing the slightest bit of tension ( . . although , I feel his films often are so coldly presented one feels little tension to begin with ) . The procedural with detective Franco on the case to prove Lina's involvement with the vampire-type homicides seems uninspired . My favorite scene has Lina's car driving around curves with this silver bat ornament adorning her car hood with bat wings that flap with the wind . My rating is more towards it as a horror film . I think it merely uses the idea of a vampire using lust as her way of surviving . I do think it'll work for those seeking other forms of entertainment .
Teenage Exorcist	College student , Diane ( Brinke Stevens who also wrote the screenplay based on a story by Fred Olen Ray ) gets a house ridiculously cheap for a reason . . a demon resides in the basement of her home . Plagued by weird goings-on ( . . milk box " breathing " , lettuce bleeding , Ouija board demanding her to join the evil living between her walls , etc ) , Diane calls up sister , Sally ( Elena Sahagun ) and her husband Mike ( Jay Richardson ) to see the place . Making the mistake of going down into her basement , Diane is possessed and it'll be up to Sally and Mike to somehow save her soul . Soon insufferable , jaded " boyfriend " , Jeff ( Tom Shell ) , who can not leave Diane alone despite her demands for privacy , will force his way into the situation . Together the three will see no other alternative but to call up a priest to exorcise Diane , Father McFerrin ( Robert Quarry ) . Due to outrageous circumstances , a pizza delivery boy , Eddie ( Eddie Deezen ) will even enter the picture and all hell breaks loose , with Mike chosen as a " virgin " sacrifice so that the demon in the basement can be set free to roam the earth . Full on spoof of The Exorcist with a spirited cast enjoying themselves . Stevens isn't a teenager , but she does spend a lengthy amount of time in seductress mode , transforming into a sultry sex kitten from a rather mousy , geeky type of virginal innocent when possessed . Deezen gets top billing despite not entering the film until it was half way over , doing his usual nerdy shtick . . he will become a chess piece the trio uses in an attempt to gain an upper hand against the forces of evil . Richardson , inspired casting as a stock broker , smoking a pipe , hams it up ( . . and obviously enjoying himself ) , as the cowardly hero who is at times almost putty in Stevens hands , resisting her feminine wiles unlike many others . . it's the kind of tongue-in-cheek performance he's accustomed to and a wink to the viewer that this movie is all fun and games . Sahagun is the worried sister who spends a great period of time talking her husband out of fleeing the house . . and has a very lurid shower sequence where demonic hands caress her naked body . Robert Quarry steals his scenes as an unprepared priest , in over his head and helpless when his bible is burnt to a crisp . Shell is the second unlikely hero trying to uncover a strategy that would enable them to save his beloved . Stevens , spending time in a very alluring gown and dominatrix outfit , seems to be reveling in the role of an innocent intruded upon internally by a demonic force using her buried sex appeal as a method for securing potential freedom . Michael Berryman has an amusing cameo , cast certainly against type , as a real estate agent ! You get the usual Exorcist parody gags such as Diane's face grotesquely warped , spitting pea soup , sounding out bizarre voices . The film is really more of a sex comedy , though , as non-stop zingers and sight-gags are on display , with horror elements also given goofy treatment such as the zombies released as a dangerous tool of the demon ( . . they are convinced by Father McFerrin to play cards instead ! ) to prevent the trio from exiting the premises for outside assistance . The horned demon is even lampooned for our viewing pleasure , lamenting aloud at how hard it is to complete his sacrifical ceremony because of Diane's " freshman " blunders . Mike , Sally , and Jeff often favor the scooby doo gang peeping cautiously throughout the house just in case evil is lurking around the corner or in the next room . This is essential viewing for fans of Brinke Stevens , even though she doesn't get naked . If you are in the right mood , Teenage Exorcist will entertain you , although the comedy is hit and miss .
Tokyo Drift	I like Lucas Black . He's the kind of actor that isn't limited by his southern accent and has the ability to always play believable characters even if they are stuck in genre films like this second sequel to the " race-car " franchise which has a lot of cars speeding and crashing with some plot thrown in to distract some . In this film Black is saddled with limited story to somehow overcome what is essentially a cliché part and create something out of it . For the most part , he succeeds . He plays this unfortunate teenager stuck in the role of " magnet " . . he always seems to link himself to trouble . With no other alternative but jail , Lucas ' Sean Boswell is sent to Tokyo where his military dad resides to somehow stay away from hot-rodding . It doesn't matter where Sean goes , he is destined to be placed a position to race for something , whether it's for high-stakes or good ole ' fashioned pride . He rubs a yakuza boss ' nephew the wrong way almost instantly , but finds an ally in Han ( Sung Kang , who is really the best thing about the film next to Black ) . . someone who seems connected to DK ( the yakuza boss ' nephew , played with a twisted look of menace by Brian Tee ) , but only by business standards . DK ( Drift King ) is known as the best racer and one who is indeed feared . He takes his role as yakuza nephew very seriously . Heck , even DK's smile is a snarl . He has a girl by his side named Neela ( Nathalie Kelley ) who has a thing for Sean . . she is pretty much his trophy to show off ( Neela was taken in by DK's grandmother we learn so that seems to mean she's his girl by default ) . Bow Wow adds flava and soul as Twinkie , an army brat like Sean who fulfills his goal as token black kid by selling goods for profit . He also does what he can with a cliché role . The film pretty much uses story as padding for all the dangerous races . Within the sub-plot we learn that Han has been stealing from DK , so this sets in motion a death and climactic race to end all races between Sean and DK . . loser must leave Tokyo for good . The place the big happens is up a curvy mountain known to only be driven by one man . . DK . I feel bad for Lin who must sacrifice story for stylish chases . His " Better Luck Tomorrow " was right the opposite . The characters in that film were able to grow in a very fascinating story . It's not the case here . People come to a film like this for the cars that rev up and the speedy , lightning-quick turns down highways in traffic ( one scene show Sean almost drive into a crowd of people ) . The film shows how " drifting " is the way to race in Tokyo . Drifting is a high-profile way of turning curves with delicate precision without hitting anything . To be honest , the whole film is ridiculous and it's hard to believe one ounce squeezed from this formula racer . Black tries to embody his young man with truth because he has nowhere else to go . . he's at the end of his rope and this climactic race may be his last chance to really put an end to the dangerous lifestyle that always followed right at his feet .
Trilogy of Terror II	Considerably tame tales of terror with Lysette Anthony portraying the female victim in each story . In the first she joins lover Geraint Wyn Davies ( Of " Forever Dark " fame ) in a plot to murder her husband Matt Clark and take his fortune . She finds herself instead contending with underground graveyard rats . In the second tale , she's the grieving mother who calls son Bobby back from his watery grave , after using some sort of witchcraft , only to find that he's not the same boy he once was . He , in fact , wishes to play his own game of homicidal hide-and-seek with her running for her life . The third tale , the best and yet silliest , has Lysette portraying a museum scientist studying a Zuni fetish doll which was found burnt in an oven at a vicious crime scene . It so happens that two women were found with their throats sliced open . What she doesn't realize once she takes this necklace from the doll's neck is that it is the very killer responsible for those other homicides . It seems , through a scroll also found at the crime scene , that the spirit of an African Zuni warrior harvests within the doll . The special effects are low-grade and each story is rather hokey , but , all in all , it's decent fare . Nothing spectacular , but if you want to waste 90 minutes . .
Not of This Earth	Alien ( Arthur Roberts ) , from a nuclear devastated planet , needs blood not only to keep himself strong , but for his people from home as war ravishes there . He brings in nurse Nadine ( Traci Lords ) to apply transfusions often so that his strength will remain . His eyes glow so he has to keep a pair of shades on unless retrieving the life force of victims . . he also uses mind control over the inferior humans who are weak against his power . He has a blonde servant , known for his criminal activities , named Jeremy ( Lenny Juliano ) . Nadine's boss , Dr . Rochelle ( Ace Mask ) is a mind control victim of the alien's and does as he wishes . If anyone even mentions his name as a possible suspect in the rash of crimes taking place , where corpses are being drained of blood , Rochelle will not implicate him . Various bimbos become victims as Nadine , her cop boyfriend Harry ( Roger Lodge ) , & Jeremy begin to suspect their wealthy employer , Mr . Johnson being his disguised earth name , may be . . Not of This Earth . Johnson keeps a gateway housed in his study which works as both a portal between worlds and a telecommunications device to his leader . Soon Johnson discovers that he'll possibly not be able to return home when a female alien passes through the portal to earth informing him that a bimbo he sent was crushed during the travel . Needing blood , the female alien is accidentally given blood , through a transfusion conducted by Johnson , infected with rabies that sends her into a violent frenzy wiping out a group of punks and hunting / executing an innocent woman . The discovery of the female ( . . coupled with Nadine and Jeremy's snooping ) could lead to the revealing of Johnson's true identity . To be honest , my true recommendation towards others is seeing Traci Lords in various states of undress or wearing dresses and / or skimpy , scantily-clad clothing that reveals her magnificent body . She's undeniably a sexy woman who does a capable job in the starring role opposite the stone-faced Roberts as an emotion-less alien killing machine , while Juliano as the slimy Jeremy , with a thing for Nadine ( . . who could fault him for that ? ) is a hoot . The special effects sequences at the front are really not needed and rather detract from the rest of the film which has nothing to do with those images of various alien monsters terrorizing . There are a number of spirited weirdos who often frequent director Wynorski's trashy pictures . But , Lords is the film's highlight , ESPECIALLY in that blue bikini . As Lodge's cop Harry pronounces as she walks away from him . . " Phew , have mercy . " Have mercy is right !
Those tourists never learn , do they ?	Dr . Zamora ( Miguel Lunardi ) loves to cut into idiotic tourists and take their organs for hospitals in his third world neck of the woods . This film provides him with some pesky ones who wish not to see their kidneys and heart removed from the bodies while they lie motionless unable to spring from the table . Thankfully , the tourists , who decide to hang down at a beautiful beach for the night instead of awaiting the next available bus ten hours down the road , make a Brazilian friend in Kiko ( Agles Steib ) . Kiko has an uncle he will take them to when they wake up the next day after being drugged and robbed . . it isn't a kindly fellow they hope for but Zamora himself . The place Kiko takes them to ( after carrying them on an exhausting hike through a jungle and inside a waterfall cavernous lair where only portions of air or openings to escape are available . . but come in handy later on ) is Zamora's place of removal . The hero , Alex ( Josh Duhamel ) discovers passports of people which ( like the opening sequence where a victim begs for mercy as the reflection of a man appears in her eye ) could very well be victims of Zamora's handiwork . Unfortunately , Kiko leaves the group in the monstrous hands of Zamora and his henchmen as many are thrown in animal cages awaiting what occurs to one of the them . . the surgical removal of many of her organs ( . . a ghastly scene which shows the removal taking place in exact detail as he informs her why he does this and how much he loathes tourists ) . The rest of the film focuses on if the group can somehow escape the clutches of Zamora and his men with a ridiculous , but harrowing , sequence in a cave where holding your breath ( . . flashlights ) is essential for survival as one of Zamora's men swims after them with an arrow gun ( . . while Zamora and another henchman await the moment they pop their heads up to shoot or secure them ) . The flick is mainly about how characters make one mistake after another because of a situation of their own making . Nooooo , they just couldn't wait for the bus , these tourists just had to find a hot spot to party . If HOSTEL doesn't shy away the tourist trade , TURISTAS will . It's amazing how skilled certain characters are at holding their breath under water while eluding danger in caves that look quite mean when one faces peril . To sum up this film . . at times the flick is quite intense , other times it's quite preposterous , but oftentimes it's both at the same time .
Def Con-4	Three astronauts operating an American satellite in space orbiting the globe , carrying a package of warheads , during a turbulent time on Earth as nuclear is a penetrating threat where war is imminent . When an American thermonuclear warhead lands in Russia , supposedly released by terrorists , which doesn't explode , chaos ensues , and the astronauts , faced with the fact that their loved ones and friends will perish , can only look on as the Earth is plunged into worldwide war . Someone from the ground below on Earth , after the nuclear devastation ends with most of the world dead from the nukes landed or dying from radiation in the air , triggers a program which forces the astronauts to land . Landing on a beach , the doctor Jordan ( Kate Lynch ) is knocked unconscious , while Captain Walker ( John Walsch ) is removed from the crash-landed capsule by cannibals which cook him over a fire , as astronaut Howe ( Tim Choate ) tries to find help . Awaiting Howe and Jordan will be a militant group under the command of baby-faced teenager Gideon Hayes ( Kevin King ) who operates a make-shift concentration camp ( . . he was the son of a military man , and successfully survived a helicopter crash , leaving him a broke-backed satellites specialist and girlfriend ) with other school chums as gunmen . With Gideon's lieutenant Lacey ( Jeff Pustil ) , a pathetic goon who relishes his powerful role which puts him in position to bark orders ( . . when in truth he'd be mincemeat if left in this world without such company ) , they take the remaining astronauts hostage , and the rest of the film shows their attempts to break free from his totalitarian grip . We are also shown that , despite most of the warheads having released from the satellite , one has remained lodged in it's chamber counting down to it's explosion time . Maury Chaykin has an amusing role as a filthy civilian named Vinny who , for a time , threatens Howe's life if he doesn't take him to the space capsule full of food , before taken prisoner by Gideon . Lenore Zann is Gideon's Achilles ' heel , ex-girlfriend JJ , for whom he still covets despite her rejections . Amusingly , JJ was Vinny's " prisoner " ( . . but basically , she was using his booby-trapped abode as a hide-out from Gideon ) who attempts to help Howe escape . I enjoyed the opening of the film inside the capsule with our astronauts showing their emotions at what was transpiring on Earth . The last portion of the film , once we enter Gideon's concentration camp , kind of ruins an otherwise interesting premise . . the idea of astronauts crash-landing on a nuclear devastated world . Gideon , played by King who looks all of 17 , as a leader is a bit of a stretch . . it's hard to believe that he , Lacey , or any of these teenage clowns , with ( . . or without ) guns could operate a camp of any kind . Gideon is quite a despicable bastard . . a kid obviously born with a silver spoon in his mouth and the world at his feet ( . . there's one scene where he promises his satellite specialist a cooked steak if he reveals a certain password , going back on his word once getting what he desired ) . But , would such a military brat survive a nuclear devastated world becoming a feared leader over slaves ? Bah , I doubt it . I think the film has it's moments , and certainly isn't the worst movie every made as claimed during the user comments . I found it minimally entertaining , being a sucker for post-apoc sci-fi . . but , it could've been much better with a more believable story ( . . and a more realistic villain ( s ) ) and focused direction . To start so well , and fall so short is a bit disappointing . I truly feel the film would've served better if the story remained centered on the three astronauts and their adapting to a devastated world .
Howling II : Your Sister is a Werewolf	Occult investigator / werewolf hunter Stefan Crosscoe ( Christopher Lee ) offers his assistance to Ben ( Reb Brown ) when he informs him that his sister is inflicted with lycanthropy . We understand that there are several werewolves amok in Los Angeles when a group of punks get destroyed in an abandoned warehouse . Jenny ( Annie McEnroe ) , a journalist ( . . and friend to Ben's sister , Karen ) will assist Stephan in his efforts seeing a juicy story in the future and does seek revenge for the loss of her friend . Mariana ( Marsha A Hunt ) , a vicious werewolf plans to remove Karen's body from consecrated ground . Karen's soul is not at peace because the silver bullets used to kill her were removed during autopsy . Mariana is a dangerous kind of werewolf for silver bullets can not harm her . . but titanium will ( yes , I know . ) But , Mariana is only a member of the werewolf race . . it's Stirba ( Sybil Danning , sporting a nice rack ) whose 10th Millennium birth is approaching and transformations reverse meaning all werewolves who hide under their human masks will show their true side . Through a werewolf he sets free from his curse , Stephan finds out where Sirba is in hiding . . Transylvania . So Stephan will set a course for Transylvania . . accompanying him with revenge on their minds , Ben and Jenny . What they find is a village overrun by werewolves under human skin hiding until the moment they can strike those who wish to interrupt their usual methods . Eventually , Jenny will find herself kidnapped , and Stefan & Ben will make their plans to attack Stirba's fortress once and for all with only vanquishing her evil on their minds . Don't let the respectable rating of fool you , this is not a very good film . It earns the stigma of " so bad it's good " . It's pure trash that finds itself amusing even if few others do . Christopher Lee is so stern and serious you'd think he was performing on Masterpiece Theater , yet this perhaps adds a peculiar quality to the film is doesn't deserve . It's noted for the notorious werewolf sex and Sybil Danning baring her terrific breasts . She also shows her naked body covered in fur . There's an orgy prior to Stefan and Ben ( along with some others merely put with them to service as werewolf lunch ) ' s arrival , Stirba practices black magic ( she has the ability to make a dwarf's eyes pop out by loudly expressing incantations ; she also shoots out bolts from her fingertips ) . There's plenty of gory violence toward werewolves , very in-your-face presented by director Mora . You also get the punk group Babel singing before a crowd of degenerates enjoying themselves in a club spliced throughout the film for some reason . This flick got brownie points for showing Lee dressed in punk garb ! The bland sexual chemistry between Brown and McEnroe makes their sex scene come off very awkward .
The Monster That Challenged the World	In the Saltan Sea of Southern California , giant prehistoric mollusks ( ! ) emerge from their centuries old tomb when an Earthquake cracks opens the wild rock formations which held them there . The monster's size derive from a Naval base's top secret Atomic experiments . Newly appointed Naval investigator , Lt Commander John Twillinger ( Tim Holt ) and the military will attempt to kill them as they use irrigation channels to travel , the mollusks threaten to drain the blood and water from any human being they come in contact with . In a method to stop such a thing from happening , the military attempt to close beaches and assign watches where the mollusks could surface . The key is to kill them before they multiply , or else the world could be in danger . Minor creature feature which doesn't really stand out amongst the vast series of sci-fi B movies that were in abundance during this period of time . The mollusks will induce giggles more than fright , and aren't very convincing . . but , for many , this will be entertaining , the monster design and movement part of it's charm . Holt's a serious , tough , rather bossy Naval investigator , who is actually a softy on the inside . . the kind of man-in-charge who expects proficiency and is always by-the-book . Audrey Dalton is Gail , Holt's love interest and woman-in-peril as she'll need rescuing at the end as a captured mollusk breaks free to terrorize her ( . . and Gail's little cutie pie daughter ) . Hans Conried is Naval scientist , Dr . Jess Rogers , the man in charge of the large desert base's laboratory . He's the one Twillinger turns to in discovering the facts regarding the mollusks . The film features unrealistic dummies representing human victims of the mollusks including one underwater military diver whose neck is caught in the creature's mouth . Another in a long line of films during this period focusing on the dangers of Atomic radiation , regarding testing and what it could mean to the welfare of our country and the world at large . Often develops minor characters who are to be sucked dry by the mollusks such as a young couple swimming and an assigned guard posted to watch guard over his portion of the irrigation canal . There's also a liberty to develop other characters effected by the duties of a Naval officer such as the pregnant wife of a scientist who is killed by the mollusk and we witness the blossoming of the relationship between widow , Gail and Twillinger who obviously takes a shine to her . Despite the hokey creature , I do , however , commend the filmmakers for at least building around it an ambitious screenplay ( . . the narration at the beginning is another familiar trait of these monsters movies which came out in the 50's , explaining the setting and the positions of the military who operate there ) . Despite the unusual creature itself , there's nothing particularly special about THE MONSTER THAT CHALLENGED THE WORLD ( . . including it's long-winded title ) , for it doesn't feature anything fans haven't really seen before , or better . And , killer snails are hardly the most scary kind of creatures to strike terror in the hearts of the viewers who watch such a movie .
Don't Go in the Woods . . . Alone !	Irresistible hunk of wilderness slasher trash regarding a grotesquely filthy homicidal mountain man who viciously attacks any camping tourist who enters his neck of the woods . I guess he might be a cannibal as well since he stores the bodies of the fallen in bags , placed inside his makeshift house , where a private collection of his victims are also present . While most victims are merely presented as lambs to the slaughter ( . . and artist , an ornithologist , wheel-chair cripple ) , the film does follow four backpackers , Peter ( Jack McClelland ) , Ingrid ( Mary Gail Artz ) , Craig ( James Hayden ) and Joanie ( Angie Brown ) who spend a great deal of time either arguing or pulling pranks on each other . They will eventually fall prey to the maniac who thoroughly enjoys hunting down his quarry and hacking away at them with a home-made spear ( . . a long stick with a blade on the end which sheds a hell of a lot of blood ) . While Joanie watches from her sleeping bag , hung from a tree ( . . by boyfriend Craig , whose the type of know-it-all who enjoys the authoritative sound of his own voice as he informs the others of the ways of living in the wilderness ) , Craig is sliced and diced while Peter , who has seen the killer and made a great escape , hunts for Ingrid . Joanie , separated from her friends , must find shelter while Peter and Ingrid attempt to find any sign of civilization , each trying to avoid being hacked to pieces by the demented psycho . Bottom line , this film is about a maniac savagely attacking innocent folks who are minding their own business . The film must be set during tourist season because the killer has quite a list of victims to dispatch . The camera-work is mostly following the actions of the characters as they move throughout the woods . . I guess this would explain why the film is so heavily dubbed . Layered like a lot of low-budget slashers with a synth score , the director often shoots the picturesque landscape of Utah , I'm guessing , to establish that the killer has plenty of territory to hide and roam as those from the city infiltrate his home opening up themselves to certain terror . The dialogue and dubbing is indeed cringe-worthy , no doubt , and there's some really mind-bogglingly stupid behavior exhibited by certain survivors who escape only to re-enter the woods . The director obviously had a limited budget to work with and the knife and machete stabbings are heavily edited with lots of blood splattering to and fro , cutting away from showing the weapons actually penetrating the bodies of those attacked . I found some of the killings rather effective because , despite not displaying how the blade truly slices flesh , the murders are so savage and unrelentingly sadistic that the menace behind the attacks left an impression . The film doesn't pretend to be anything other than a slasher where victims are brutally slain by a nutcase . The Utah setting probably enhances this film despite it's unoriginal plot and rather mundane characters / performances . I won't lie , though , when I say that I had fun with this one . The ending , reflecting an infant the sicko kidnapped , is a hoot . The most creative kill would have to be how the killer brutally stabs a couple who were together in a sleeping bag , thrown over a tree and stabbed repeatedly ( . . the director even shows their reactions inside the bag ! ) .
Crackers	A motley band of desperate , unemployed , penny-less characters desire to rob Pawn Dealer Jack Warden's safe while he's off to visit his mother . Sutherland at first shrugs robbing his boss ( for the time being ; his job as Pawn shop security is threatened when Warden mentions a desire for an alarm system ) , but has motivation when he sees he'll soon be unemployed again ( . . and losing his cable box only makes matters worse ) . Warden is the " bad guy " of the film , a penny-pincher who stiff those seeking a much larger sum than he's willing to pay for their valuables . The thing is though , as Warden tries to tell the film's characters as they come in to sell stolen merchandise or valuables from their own homes , that business is business and turning a profit is essential . The flick clearly exposes the unemployment hike and immigration pressure in early 80's Reagan era . Sean Penn ( . . tries on a Southern accent to give his character flavor and fails miserably ) plays a wannabee musician , often seen blowing on his harmonica or clanging away on a guitar in Warden's pawn shop he had to give away , who is Trinidad Silva's thieving partner as they often commit petty crimes such as stealing car radios from BMWs only to get close to nothing from Warden for them . Penn takes a personal interest in Silva's sister Tasia Valenza , courting her when dear brother's back is turned ( Silva is overprotective and wishes to pair Tasia with a bartender of his own choosing from Mexico ) . You have Wallace ( MY DINNER WITH ANDRE ) Shawn as an always-hungry pauper who is friends with Sutherland and hangs around the pawn shop playing chess all day ( it's rare you don't see Shawn eating something which is a gag the film plays to the hilt ) . There's Larry Riley as a would-be pimp stuck with the baby of a former " employee " . Following the cast of supposed safe crackers are Christine Baranski as a meter-lady who writes the tickets for those who stay parked too long on the side-walk who likes to moonlight as a slut and Charlayne Woodard as an always-unemployed maid who hooks up with Riley . All that said , this is a forgettable , minor film from critically acclaimed director Louis Malle with a decent cast not having that much to do . It supposed to play as a bumbling-thieves comedy , but seems to want to take a detour into character study . I'd say unless you just wish to see the film for it's cast , this is a very skippable film which ends with the characters looking quite silly at staging such an attempt towards cracking the safe . They still face what we saw them against at the start of the film . After watching the film , I just felt that this flick wastes our time .
Badge of Silence : Maniac Cop III	Matt Cordell's ( . . the formidable Robert Z'Dar , under heavy prosthetic make-up ) restless soul is conjured by a voodoo priest , with the resurrected zombie seeking a mate , which is provided when he hears about a shoot-out at a pharmacy between a female cop , Katie Sullivan ( Gretchen Becker ) and a sadistic junkie , Jessup ( Jackie Earle Haley ) . Katie doesn't know that the employee working in the pharmacy is Jessup's gal who picks up a revolver willing to kill the cop who had " saved her . " A couple of corrupt news clowns falsify the story , by deleting certain material which proves Katie's innocence , depicting her as a rogue cop using illegal weaponry , not allowed by the force to carry . In a vegetative state , Katie's brain seems dead , and her " guardian " , Detective Sean McKinney ( Robert Davi , returning from the previous film as the chain-smoking , reliable , street-wise cop whose seen it all and then some ) is disgruntled with how his best friend is being treated in the press . Despite his decomposing state , Cordell still understands how he himself was treated by those he considered allies , and begins murdering those who offer Katie harm , hoping to clear her . . while also planning to betroth her in unholy matrimony , with assistance of the voodoo priest who brought him back to life ! Dr . Susan Fowler ( Caitlin Dulany ) , the on-call physician over Jessup , who somehow survived multiple gun shot wounds from Katie's firearm , will assist McKinney while also falling in love with him during the process . Despite Larry Cohen's sloppy , incoherent mess of a script , director William Lustig and Joel Soisson ( . . Soisson , I'm guessing , was probably more associated with the stunt-work ) unload plenty of action sequences which impress such as the final car chase between a burning Cordell trying to drive McKinney and Fowler off the road , or bloody shoot-outs where a heavy supply of squibs were utilized to show bullet-riddled bodies . There's a thrilling shoot-out in the hospital when Cordell releases criminals from their handcuffs , with McKinney getting to show out his skills of evading gunfire . Beside Haley's psychotic junkie , many familiar faces make appearances such as Robert Forster as a happy-go-lucky doctor who plans , faithfully , to carry out a plan to remove Katie off of life support so that the police department could save face with the public as the image of the force has been dealt a serious blow , becoming one of many Cordell victims , thanks to the nasty use of an X-ray machine . Paul Gleason ( . . with his typical slimy charm , always portraying those kind of characters you love to hate ) plays an unapologetic lawyer for the police department who wishes for Katie to be taken off of life support so that they wouldn't have to forfeit millions to Jessup . His demise , along with Jessup's grinning lawyer who sees future engagements ( . . such as television shows ) for her client regarding Katie's supposed mishap , will probably elicit applause from the audience . . Cohen's screenplays always seem to have these appalling suits attempting to screw over unfortunates unable to defend themselves , meeting grim fates in crowd-pleasing fashion . I thought Dulany was fine as Davi's love interest , she's the kind of dependable female support Davi's cop needs when the stack is decked against him . Davi , as always , brings his usual grit to the role of a city detective . . looking the part of a cop whose been through the rigors of such a job , only helps sell his character . The whole sub-plot regarding Cordell's desire to marry Katie didn't really work for me , but maybe it will you . It does provide a memorable sequence in the voodoo priest's church where Cordell , on fire , carries Katie's corpse in his arms walking towards a trapped McKinney and Fowler . I'm not really sure why the priest resurrected him unless he felt that Cordell's reign of terror over those who betrayed him , wasn't finished , and that he needed further vengeance for how others wronged him . There seems to be a theme of anger towards the police force and their methods of justice , while also hammering the message home that the streets are a difficult place for the men and women in blue trying to halt crime .
Horrors of the Black Museum	The plot is deceptively simple . Michael Gough portrays murder novelist Edmond Bancroft who is obsessed with death and the act of killing in various methods especially . His devious acts of violence towards women is perhaps a hidden hatred for them . Perhaps researching murderers from the past , and his obsession with them , forged the way into his demented reasons to kill women . As explained to his hypnotized assistant Rick ( Graham Curnow ) , women were the main culprits in how murderers were caught and executed . Edmond lives and breathes the novels of killing he writes and he will do whatever it takes to make those works continue . So he uses poor Rick as a means to help perpetuate his literary bloodlust by often forcing him to kill or by helping him get rid of bodies he had murdered . Certain characters threaten Edmond's work so he makes plans to do away with them when their not expecting such as an antique store saleswoman for whom he buys merchandise from ( she plans to blackmail him after spotting her name on a pair of " spike-lensed " binoculars that stabbed a woman's eyeballs to the very nerves killing her ) or a doctor who , through both mental and physical examination , sees what Edmond is turning into ( . . or has already become ) . But , the most major threat is Rick's secret lady-love , Angela ( Shirley Anne Field ) . Horrors of the Black Museum has loads of potential , but seems to be devastingly marred by an abrupt ending . I myself felt like this film could've really been something great if we could've understood more about Rick's plight . Why does his face twist into this hideous sight ravaged by an ugly green tint . Sure towards the end we see him receive an injection by his master Edmond Bancroft , but really delving deeper seems to be this film's major flaw . It wants to make the evil Bancroft pay for his crimes rather quickly instead of furthering his abilities to lead detectives on a wild goose chase . He makes too many mistakes at the end which question his credibility to have gotten away with his twisted scheme for so long . I would suggest seeing it for several interesting death weaponry like the mini-guillotine or the aforementioned spiked-lensed binoculars , but Gough's delicious villainy is why I enjoyed it to a point . But , I also felt it needed a stronger ending than the blown-up finale which has Rick faced with the position of killing Angela when Edmond demands it . His descent through the " fun-fair " running around like a maniac is laughable ( still his face and how he turns is a mystery to me ) , and the reasons behind Edmond even going to the " fun-fair " is even more a mystery . And , why would Edmond abruptly try to have Angela killed so soon . . and SO PUBLIC ! Why not kill Angela like all the others . . in some sort of secluded execution . But , the film is colorful and has some fascinating moments . . just not enough for a great movie .
Shark Attack	Action hokum concerning a marine biologist , Steven McKray ( Casper Van Dien ) , who convinces his boss to fund a trip to South Africa where a series of unusual , grisly shark attacks have occurred . The fishing village , owned by an unscrupulous businessman , Lawrence Rhodes ( Ernie Hudson ) collecting on foreclosures , has fallen on hard times due to the alarming increase in these shark attacks on tourists and fishermen . McKray was to meet up with an old friend who went on numerous shark-hunting expeditions , Marc Desantis ( Cordell McQueen ) , and finds that he has died under horrifying circumstances , his arm found in the belly of a shark . Joining forces with Marc's disgruntled sister , Corinne ( Jenny McShane ) and likable live-wire fisherman , Mani ( Tony Caprari ) , who drives his truck and boat on full-speed always , Steven will seek answers regarding his best friend's death which seems like more than just an accidental dive gone terribly wrong . Monitoring a former colleague Dr . Matt Craven's ( Bentley Mitchum ) shark experiments , Steven soon discovers that he is attempting to find a cancer cure but the side-effects prove that such procedures are ethically , and more importantly , physically , wrong . And , Steven , studying sharks that are active in the area of the village , discovers that they are being controlled . . motivated by a mechanical source and have abnormal defects , some organs much larger than they are supposed to be , not to mention uncharacteristic behavior brought on by Craven's experimentation . But , is Craven ultimately the villain of this film ? As Steven pursues the truth , he and Corinne become endangered by a corrupt police , willing to kill them to keep their silence as they discover the truth about a shady oil deal in the works . It'll be up to Steven to uncover the truth , to shed light on the underhanded tactics concocted by greed without remorse for innocent blood shed . The shark action is relatively tame . . the photographic documents of such attacks are more grisly than what happens to innocents attacked in the water of this film . A lot of quick cutting between the faces of frightened victims and sharks underwater swimming towards potential human meat , blood used to relate whether or not someone has been ensnared within the mouth of the lurking predator . The film resembles those goofy actioners from the 80's we so know and love where the heroes and villains are black and white with only Craven given any shades of gray . Hudson chews scenery as he does his cigar as the town shark , in a suit and tie , attempting to play nice when anyone can see he is corrupt to the core . Van Dien does his usual mugging , a perfect direct-to-video hero for the B-movie market . He suitably fills the role of the crusader out to find out the truth . Mitchum is smarmy as the crooked scientist with dreams of a Nobel prize and millions if he can perfect his experiments and create a cancer cure . Jenny McShane is your typical free-thinking independent woman , a diver and love-interest for Van Dien , fulfilling the requirements of " damsel in distress " , and used as a negotiating piece when evidence is collected on villains . . she also looks great in a bikini , which doesn't hurt . There are lots of shootouts and hand-to-hand combats between the fishermen and the police at the end which many might find exciting , although I found the whole orchestrated set-piece rather surreal and humorous . Also features a boat chase , explosions resulting , and Van Dien gets to show that every investigating marine biologist might ought to study martial art techniques .
Jade	A polished , sleazy tale ( . . did you expect anything less from writer Joe Eszterhas ) about an assistant to the District Attorney with the Homicide division , David Corelli ( David Caruso , who isn't the weak link here ) , who finds that the number one suspect of a hideous hatchet murder { to a very wealthy man , Kyle Medford ) is a friend of his . That friend , Trina ( the sexy Linda Fiorentino ) , is married to his old buddy , Matt ( Chazz Palminteri ) . . a high powered attorney everyone fears . What makes matters worse are that things begin piling up against here . . the most damning evidence being a videotape , nearly destroyed in a fire , containing her doing the nasty with another man . The pot is stirred as always because Eszerthas can not resist implicating high-society types and their varying degrees of immorality . The governor of California ( Richard Crenna ) finds his hands muddied when the investigators find photographs of him in bed with a hooker , Patrice ( Angie Everhart ) . David finds he has a difficult path to tread as the governor threatens him , his important witnesses who can identify this particular woman named " Jade " as a woman sleeping with various men at a beach-house owned by the deceased Medford are being murdered , and the thought of his friend's wife ( . . a woman he had a relationship with before and still secretly loves ) being a vicious killer . . they all stockpile against him as he gets closer to the truth . This film , as directed by workman-like Friedkin , is very beautiful to look at , but like many films by the screenplay writer it is sordid and cold . There's a marvelous car chase as David tries to catch this black thunderbird that has killed Patrice . In an epic moment , both cars drive through a Chinatown Buddhist celebration . You have several shady characters who might be possible suspects , but if you have seen the work of one actor in particular , the twist at the end can be seen much earlier on . I feel Friedkin should've used a different actor to play the real killer , but can see why this person was cast . . there's an animal in him that is often showcased in other films that needs to be driven home in this movie . I , for one , like the casting of Caruso as the hero of the film for he brings this intensity and intelligence to the character . He has that kind of trustworthy and likable face that makes us root for him as he races against many elements to find a killer . The film is layered with sex and deprivation as one should expect , and I didn't feel the ending holds up to the solid establishing scenes early on . Perhaps the film is too heavy on plot devices and not strong enough on plausibility . So many people are shown as corrupt lowlifes , that the only one we can trust is David ( . . well " most " of his team of investigators ) . Perhaps that is what the filmmakers wished to accomplish . . that typicality of noirish film . I believe the film runs out of steam and I just couldn't buy how the killer does his deed and get away with it . Though the car chase is amazing , it's hard to believe anyone could survive such a maddening ordeal .
Unearthed	An alien creature , dormant under a type of suspended animation thanks to a poison used on it 900 years ago by a tribe the thing was wiping out , is unearthed by a crackpot would-be archaeologist unleashing it on a desert town . Sheriff Annie ( Emmanuelle Vaugier , who I actually thought was a rather good heroine ) is struggling with alcoholism due to an accidental shooting of a child during a botched arrest . Her small town community plan to relieve Annie of her duties as an official with a set-up town meeting , but no one amongst this dust-spot planned on some alien monster with multiple eyes and slimy sharp teeth ( . . reproducing worm-like creatures which burrow in the skin killing the host inside out ) wiping them out . A truck turning over when the monster runs out in front of it causes a road block which leaves motorists , without fuel , at a gas station run by a wise , kind Native American ( Russell Means ) and his daughter Nodin ( Tonantzin Carmelo ) , who has returned from college to help out her pa . Kale ( Luke Goss ) , who looks like a soldier-of-fortune with a long tattoo down his face , is the archaeologist working for the Native American who discovers in a cavern why his people were practically wiped out , with the business of starvation being merely a created falsehood . Film is essentially ALIEN in New Mexico . The creature kind of carries the HR Geiger design somewhat , but this film is badly hampered by a constantly moving steadicam . . I had trouble seeing anything , at times , making the action & gore sequences a trial to sit through . I kept hoping the camera would just stay still for just a little while so I could see the creature mauling someone , but there are tons of quick edits often making the attacks on human prey hard to visualize . Great setting , with actors who aren't that bad even if they're left with partially realized characters . There's an arachnid like bug-walker the alien reproduces very akin to the face huggers of ALIEN which attacks a victim and the worms are shown entering flesh , but what could've been cool icky moments to relish are interrupted by a camera with jitters and neverending editing . Please , someone just hold the damn camera still and give me one continuous uninterrupted take of a monster attacking a human !
Sorority House Massacre	Beth ( Angela O'Neill ) has been battling recurring nightmares since moving back to her sorority after her beloved aunt passed away . There's a man who has just murdered an entire family and seems to be coming for her . Director Carol Frank juxtaposes Beth returning home to her sorority with a man named Bobby ( John C Russell ) trying to free himself from the cell of a psycho ward . What does happen over time is that Beth will find that the images that occur in her mind and dreams ( not just that one recurring nightmare , but various images of Bobby trying at her with a long curving knife ) are repressed memories from her childhood resurfacing because they are awakened as she comes to the sorority which was once that very home Bobby killed in . Bobby will break from his cell when he attacks a nurse and return to the scene of the crime to finish what he started . . killing Beth , the one that got away . But , other sorority friends of Beth's will unfortunately bear her burden as they fall individually to his twisted wrath once he takes from a hardware store a knife he used to kill the owner . Energetic photography , potent nightmarish images of Bobby and his mean blade in Beth's mind , and a likable performance from cute O'Neill as heroine Beth lend a helping hand in another of those run-of-the-mill college slashers where young adults are simply enjoying life until they walk unknowingly into the knife of a sicko . There are jump-scares aplenty , over and over . The film pretty much is predictable and the screenplay provides ways for Beth's poor college mates to perish . This has those wonderful 80's items we cherish , the lousy fashion , lots of posters of musicians hot at the time , and those glorious hairstyles . The film also shows lots of cleavage . . nearly all the females ( . . but , Beth , of course , who appears to be the pure virginal innocent ) show their breasts . The boyfriends are all goof balls ( and most of the gals , as well ) so that might be another reason to check this slasher flick out . Just don't expect originality , because this sticks pretty close to formula except the added angle of repressed memories .
Reaper	A coastal Maine town is rocked by two vicious murders to traveling females which are similar to the deaths within a visiting troubled writer's novel , " The Reaper " . Famous novelist Luke Sinclair ( Chris Sarandon ) , notorious for his grisly , detailed violence in his books , is struggling through writer's block deciding to get away for a spell hoping to tap into the primal side that unleashes the creativity which yields the stories that have made him such a success . He believes we all have an ability , primal , to kill , but many of us know how to control it . Government sends a forensic pathologist , Sonya Lehrman ( Catherine Mary Stewart ) to the town to assist the sheriff's department in the case . Sheriff Norris ( Vlasta Vrana ) doesn't make it easy for Sonya , as he's not used to being ordered around " by a girl . " Sonya tries to cope with Norris ' " backwards ways " while trying to find the serial killer before he copycats the final murder from the " Reaper " novel . Luke seems to know a great deal about how the murders might've occurred as Sonya interviewed him , probing his thoughts and feelings on the two open cases . His boozing , and not taking prescribed pills to assist a mental disorder certainly don't help Luke's standing while a killer is being pursued . Understanding the psychology of the killer also makes him an ideal suspect . Slowly Sonya begins to develop feelings for Luke as his life begins to crumble due to alcoholism , a souring marriage , and media coverage of his possible criminal involvement in a double-murder case . The film also offers a possibility of Sheriff Norris ' less than polished career as a Boston detective and certain knowledge of a tattoo found on the second victim . To be honest , without some nudity ( . . the sight of two naked bodies , not exactly elaborating too much as the director does a good job of removing the camera shortly after we first see them ) and coarse language , " Reaper " actually plays like a Lifetime movie . The violence in this film is more discussed in details than shown . The film is quite dialogue , and performance driven . It's overall a detective thriller with multiple red herrings used to throw the viewer of the scent of who the killer really is . Some soapy melodrama thrown in with Luke and Sonya's developing feelings adding a bit of spice to the proceedings .
The Phantom of 42nd Street	Minor little murder mystery involving the deaths of members of a theater company and how it revolves around a popular star of the stage , Cecil Moore ( Alan Mowbray ) . A renowned New York City theater critic , Anthony Woolrich ( Dave O'Brien ) is asked by his newspaper's publisher to cover the story of the murder of Cecil Moore's brother , found hung with a note with written verse from a play . A second murder , an electrician who once worked for Cecil during an old theatrical troupe many years previous , is murdered as well ( . . a note with verse also left at his crime scene ) , and Tony has a hunch that it might concern a revenge of some sort tied to the Moores from their past . Looking through an old program that contained names of those involved with this troupe , Tony questions the leading actress , Janet ( Edythe Elliot ) and discovers , by her own admission , that she was in fact married to Cecil and is mother to his daughter , Claudia ( Kay Aldridge ) . This might just be the link . Both Cecil and his brother were after Janet's hand , but she was in love with another . . and actor who vanished , perhaps murdered by a jealous rival for her affections . Janet married and divorced from Cecil , and soon met another , a Buchanan , someone also involved with the stage who she confirmed died in an asylum . . or did he ? Tony believes someone currently working for Cecil might be the madman and that Claudia could be in danger as well . Even Tony himself was shot at . Along with his trusty taxi driver , Romeo ( . . the wisecracking Frank Jenks , whose cabbie never feels appreciated for all he does for our intrepid reporter ) , and Homicide detective , Lt Walsh ( Jack Mulhall ) , Tony will attempt to lure the killer into a trap by staging a charity play of Julius Caesar , hoping that he will literally inhabit the role of Brutus , getting caught in the process . Time hasn't been kind to this relic , and when you watch a film like THE PHANTOM OF 42ND STREET , you'll realize just why the role of film preservationists is so important . Lots of film jumps , lines and blotches that have effected key moments in the movie , and cuts into the dialogue due to the devastated quality really hamper the viewing experience . . nothing's as important as getting all the details and when characters are interrupted by ravaged film and sound , you never completely get the whole story . The film is certainly of it's time as the talk and humor are relative to the people who existed in New York City of the 40's ( . . Jenks ' cabbie is a true example of this ) . O'Brien is a handsome charmer and Aldridge quite a stunner . It's relatively quick at around an hour and harmless , but rather forgettable amongst others of it's type . Very talky . . quite dialogue driven as clues are pursued with our hero's life always in danger , although he never breaks a sweat , quite determined and motivated to save the Moores from potential peril .
Borderland	A sadistic Voodoo cult , practicing the Santerian rituals passionately so that their drug running would remain invisible to the authorities , plan to sacrifice a white American , Phil ( Rider Strong ) , a minister's son , whose screams would be loud enough to appease their god , Nganga . His pals , Ed ( Brian Presley ) & Henry ( Jake Muxworthy ) and their new female Mexican friend , Valeria ( the smolderingly sexy Martha Higareda ) must somehow save him before the ritual to take place at the next night of the Full Moon . The head honcho of the group , Papi , is worshiped by his proud and dedicated underlings like a god , for he has brought them much success in their efforts . In the border town between US and Mexico , the police are frightened of Papi and his Santillan brood , preferring to turn their faces away from the injustice which has lead to a multitude of sacrifices leaving a blood trail of vanished Mexicans along the way . To hopefully find their pal before being sacrificed , they will enlist the aide of a broken detective , long since casted off by his peers , who watched as his partner was butchered by two Santillan hoods , performing for their boss dutifully . Papi has his horde of heinas believing so wholeheartedly in this god Nganga , that they will perform whatever duties he sole requires , truly feeling they are invisible against any foe . Fairly predictable thriller , with director Zev Berman pulling most of his punches . Most of the hard stuff comes in the initial sequence where we see two of Papi's thugs , Gustavo ( Marco Bacuzzi , who impresses with his intensity in the undyingly loyal character he portrays ) & Luis ( Roberto Sosa ) giving detective Ulises ' ( Damián Alcázar ) partner the treatment , with an eye removal and decapitated arm , but even that is shaded somewhat through camera movement and cunning editing . The film does show how this group moves in packs swarming their prey , instilling a fear that leaves the citizenry of this bordertown frightened for their very lives , not knowing when they will be selected as a victim . I agree with others that this film follows the Hostel model in that Americans , who stray into a foreign land where protection and comfort of home are not as established , far removed from family and friends , can pay the ultimate price . This can clearly happen in America , too , obviously , but when you take three Americans who enter an unknown world alien to their own , somethings always open to happen . And this film , like Hostel , uses the young adults , with their careers ahead of them who go to a foreign place for beers and sex , right before setting off into the vast unknowns of life . . the oft-used angle that has worked for horror since " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and beyond . You're basically replacing Leatherface and his family of cannibalistic savages for this religious breed of murderous thugs dedicated to a cause with a fervent intent of pleasing their gods . And , as often is the case , certain characters are established , thanks to the detective Ulises , as the ones who will put an end to this reign of terror . Rider Strong is okay as the " soft " American who will be the sacrificial lamb , mostly shown tied or chained in some barn awaiting whatever this group of deranged loonies have in store for him . . he's both literally and figuratively left in the dark . What happens to him is mostly hinted at rather than shown . Whatever gory version others watched of this film must've been toned down , because most of the violence , is cleverly disguised through various technical methods . The breed often use machetes when they attack , and they work from a compound , with a fortress built for their master when he arrives from his drug-running errands . Sean Astin is cast against type as this American loser , whose body odor reeks right from the screen . Unshaven , with a filthy cap stained with sweat and dirt , often carrying a wad of chew buried deep in his mouth , Astin's Randall is a dedicated follower of Papi's who stands guard over their new prisoner . The film is shot a lot on steadi-cam , a choice that I guess Berman opted for to capture the characters in the heat of the moment , but as is often the case , will blur a lot of the action on screen . Violence , is blurred , thanks to this method perhaps allowing Berman to both save money on full fledged gore scenes while also alleviating the stress of having to set up long sequences with a camera on a dolly . This method is used among the new breed of horror directors and less expensive , so we are stuck with " Borderland " almost delivering us scenes of feverish intensity . . obviously , I'm one of the few who found this flick rather by-the-numbers and familiar . I never felt " Borderland " truly " seals the deal . " Perhaps , I'm wrong , but Berman certainly captures the zeal of faith in the clan of Santeria worshipers , and that sense of dread and fear is present in the border town . Still , I feel the viewer will know how the film ultimately will turn out , because the screenplay establishes , as films of this type often do ( . . especially slashers ) , who will live and die .
Cat's Eye	So-so anthology film with a cat linking the three vignettes . The first features James Woods as the victim of an anti-smoking organization and their disturbing , unorthodox ways of " healing " their clients . The second features Robert Hays as a victim of Kenneth McMillan's nasty millionaire who " offers him a way out " from his debt to him ( Hays also was having an affair with McMillan's wife ) if he can make a complete walk around the ledges of a high-rise . Along the way , McMillan toys with him trying his best to aggravate Hays ' fall . The third , and worst , feature is about some monster in Drew Barrymore's room that sucks her life force and eats her bird . The cat plays a more major role in this particular one for it must stop the monster before it kills Drew . This film really isn't all that scary despite being set in the 80's and having Stephen King's name draped all around it . The first two vignettes have their moments ( wondering if Woods will be able to outlast his hunger to smoke or risk possible harm to his wife thanks to the evil organization's threats ; Hays ' near-falls and revenge on McMillan ) , but the third falls flat to be basking in plain silliness . The film really is only moderately successful . I did like the little in-joke with " Cujo " and getting " The Dead Zone " in there was sneaky . But , the film just doesn't have that many true thrills to ultimately satisfy the true horror fan as this film takes a more psychological approach . The satirical humor of the first film , I believe , makes it my favorite of the three .
Minotaur	A monstrous product of a queen and bullgod by a people who desired amorous things , is fed the children of a nearby village ( 8 youths ) every so often . This massive bull , named the Minotaur , with a diseased skeletal look , was caged within a cavernous labyrinthine pit underneath the palace which is now ruled by King Deucalion ( Tony Todd , chewing the scenery as the lecherous villain ) and his sister Queen Raphaella . Sheepherder Theo ( Tom Hardy ) is being groomed by his father Cyrnan ( Rutger Hauer in a glorified cameo ) to become leader of their little village which is often raided by Deucalion of the youth . A wart-infested leper informs Theo that his beloved Ffion ( Donata Janietz ) , who was one of those chosen as meat for the Minotaur , is still alive and that he was destined to be the very man to kill the god . Their village worships the Minotaur as a deity , but Theo believes , thanks to this driven spirit and a strong love for his Ffion , he can kill the beast and will sneak among the chosen to face the music . Among those from the village chosen are loud-mouth Vena ( Fiona Maclaine ) , gruff & tough Tyro ( Lex Shrapnel ) who holds a grudge against Theo for " taking his girl Ffion away from him " , mute Morna ( Maimie McCoy ) , Morna's love and Theo's close friend Danu ( Jonathan Readwin ) , Tyro's love interest Didi ( Lucy Brown ) and quiet Ziko ( James Bradshaw ) who keeps to himself mostly . These are the ones who will be sent into the beast's lair maze to try and survive . Theo will have to somehow guide them through the most difficult situation . In an interesting turn of events , Raphaella hopes that Theo will succeed and opposes her brother Deucalion who wishes for her to bare him a child . She , herself , will enter the monster's lair willing to face whatever obstacles come upon her as a sign of resistance towards Deucalion and what he stands for . Meanwhile , Deucalion will plead with his sister to return even promising the bullgod statue sacrifices of the entire village and infants born for it . Okay little mythical monster movie set centuries ago . . small scale and mostly takes place within the Minotaur's den . A slight bit of graphic violence showing the Minotaur goring victims , but most of the deaths in the film happen off screen . Nothing truly memorable about it , really . May work best for monster movie fans with a Saturday afternoon to spare .
Mortuary	I must admit that this film really hooked me in at the opening hour or so as the film centers on a closely-knit family of three , mother Leslie ( Denise Crosby , Star Trek-The Next Generation ; Pet Semetary ) cutesy-pie , wide-eyed daughter Jamie ( Stephanie Patton ) and cynical , but sweet , son Jonathan ( Dan Byrd ) attempting to adapt to a small town , trying to renovate their mortuary which is in dire shape , needing extensive repairs and care . Something evil lies underground , a well housing something black which is attracted to blood , it's oil-slick tentacles reaching out for any it can find , such as when Leslie ( . . quite an amateur mortician , still learning her trade ) cuts her hand after a mishap with her embalming machine as the hose breaks away releasing fluid all over the place . . . a fungus-like residue remains whenever it comes from underground for blood . There's a spooky myth attached to the mortuary regarding local boogeyman , Bobby Fowler ( Price Carson ) whose parents once run the outfit , that he butchered them and still lives within the area . It turns out that Bobby does indeed exist and that he often feeds victims to the well , their blood giving whatever it is nourishment . Oftentimes , the black goo from the well turns humans into loony zombies , such as a trio of misfits , two goofy punk gals , Tina & Sara ( Courtney Peldon & Tara Paige ) and their brutish and rude male love-toy , Cal ( Bug Hall ) who have a bad habit of starting trouble , such as picking an altercation with Jonathan or mistreating the graveyard nearby the mortuary . The film , as typical with Hooper's oeuvre , has an array of eccentric supporting characters such as a stuttering , nervous sheriff and an always-laughing real-estate agent , a bit too cheery with off-the-wall remarks which produce most of the dark humor on display . I think the setting , a creepy mortuary with evil lurking within , works exceptionally well , and the graveyard is quite spooky , but the computer graphics are simply abysmal ruining what could've been an impressive follow-up to Hooper's The Toolbox Murders . The well isn't defined enough and is sloppily created , not looking the least bit realistic . Bobby goes from grotesque villain to heroic savior way too fast , and seems integrated into the film way too late . The corpses in Leslie's morgue , which are given life thanks to the black goo , are certainly effective enough , resembling the Romero signature zombies . The computer graphics ( for how they are destroyed through the use of salt ) are dreadful . And , the grim twist at the end doesn't make sense in regards as to what happens to Jonathan . Most of the murders that take place are handled specifically through the use of CGI ( . . even when the hand of a zombie bursts through the chest of a victim ) which removes the effectiveness of the horror ( . . The Toolbox Murders , on the other hand , is much more effective due to it's use of practical gore-effects ) . And , I , for one , felt the film was hampered by the decision to turn Leslie into a zombie because the strength of the family was an important ingredient in the overall story ( . . and I just enjoyed the chemistry of the three leads as a family absent a father , trying to start over ) . Perhaps , Hooper and company wanted to turn Leslie so that the terror heightens towards Jonathan and Jamie , a hopeless situation where they must depend on themselves to survive . Those also facing the zombie crisis , are Jonathan's gravel-voiced love interest Liz ( Alexandra Adi ) and her pot-smoking homosexual pal Grady ( Rocky Marquette ) . Lee Garlington has a nice supporting turn as a foul-mouthed diner owner , Rita , often mentioning her frequent drug-trips in the past ( . . she also serves as a mentor to Liz and gives Jonathan a job ) informing Jonathan of Bobby Fowler . The dialogue , as usual in a Hooper film , can be quite profane and darkly humorous . As typical in a Tobe Hooper horror film , corpses have collected by certain victims within Fowler's lair , and the theme of innocence facing destruction is ever-present .
Long Island Cannibal Massacre	" You're mad , aren't you ? You're mad because I'm alive and you're all chopped into little pieces . " A psychopathic duo mutilate and destroy victims , chopping up their bodies ( . . mainly the female victims ) for their " boss " who needs the human flesh to feed his leprous cannibalistic father ! A cop discovers a head in the sand of Long Island ( . . after the duo sloppily kill a victim on the beach ) and after being bribed by the leprous father's son to keep what he found hush-hush , pursues the truth behind the strange situation . Missing people around Long Island , an epidemic that seems to concern the police who have encountered no leads , could sure use a detective willing to find the ones responsible . Nathan Schiff's super 8 low budget " extravagansa " is loaded with everything a lover of bad cinema craves . I knew right from the start when I saw lines on the film stock , with the sounds of a projector running creeping into the dialogue . . I believe I even heard the opening and closing of a door at one point . . with silent film scores ( . . even some music from old serials , haha ) that I was in for a " treat . " Using non-actors and home-made grue ( . . I believe one of the actors in an interview on the DVD said the director used turkeys ) this film is bound to capture the hearts of an audience willing to embrace the cruddy visual look and home-movie aesthetic which this has . The movie is essentially a series of attacks , most of them off-screen with the viewer getting nasty aftermaths of bloody meat and torn flesh wounds . I particularly enjoyed one scene where a poor female victim gets her head smashed when the killer ( wearing a pillow case on his head with goggles , haha ) slams the back door of a van , re-opening it displaying smashed brains and blood splatter all over the place . And , another bit of sick humor shows the pillow-cased killer pulling a lump of flesh caught at the end of his tire-iron after bashing a victim's face in with it . I think going into this film , we get a direct idea of what we're in for . A school girl is walking down a green forest path home , with books in tow , deciding to relax for a bit when the killer , pillow case on head / goggles across face , attacks her with a lawnmower . . he opens the lawnmower bag to remove the head meat revealing her skull ! And , not long after we get the beach discovery of the human head as the camera hones in on a maggot-infested eye socket . The film's sound is about as cruddy as the film stock , bringing this effort from Schiff a unique charm film cineasts might not agree with . I think , for that specific audience , this will be a gift . . especially the gratuitous chainsaw attack at the end where the cannibalistic father relentlessly tears into his son's body with torn flesh , body parts , and blood ripping apart . You get the removal of a female victim's guts , and we even see the cannibalistic father's son forced into eating from a dead body . The detective , seeking the murdering duo , has sequences with his girlfriend that seem like padding to the rest of the film . He has a hilarious fight scene with the motorcycle riding psycho of the serial killing duo . There's even a " psychological twist " at the end revealing the detective that will have you howling . And , this guy doesn't die easily ! And , to cap that off , female children , seemingly followers of the cannibalistic leper ( . . now with an appearance of a monster whose face and hands are akin to those bad creature concoctions in old-school Roger Corman productions and Grade-Z creature features which burst upon the scene back in the 50s and 60s ) eats the guts of his son's mutilated corpse ! Pure sick trash with an assured cult following . . certainly not for all , or most , tastes .
Urban Legend	One night " Urban Legend " was being shown ( cut , mind you ) on ABC Family's " 13 Days of Halloween " late at night as I passed by the living room with my wife watching . It put an interest to see it and I found it at a decent price so I said to myself I'd give it a shot . " Urban Legend " , as you should know , is part of that cycle of films that spurned successfully from the huge popularity of Wes Craven's SCREAM . This one is pretty silly , but far more entertaining than it should be . Quality camera-work and craftsmanship try to make-up for a screenplay which asks a lot from our viewer . We are supposed to accept the fact that this serial killer can move from one location to another in quick speed ( with some of the deaths desiring elaborate planning and cunning ) . . and in a torrent rain-storm that would rival anyone having to stage death traps at just the right moment with success . Alicia Witt is the heroine who knew the murdered Natasha Gregson Wagner from High School . Around her are friends dying in different ways by a psychopath wearing a huge coat with a fur head covering that provides us with no way of seeing the killer's face . The gimmick of this slasher flick is that people are dying according to elaborately staged Urban Legends . Witt will turn to college-newspaper journalist Jared Leto for help . The film is loaded with the faces of youth television stars such as Joshua Jackson , Michael Rosenbaum & also features the likes of Robert Englund ( as a professor of folklore ) , John Neville ( as the college dean ) , scene-stealing Loretta Devine ( as the security guard modeling herself after blaxploitation heroine Pam Grier ) , Tara Reid ( as a radio-host who looks great with meat on her bones ) , & Rebecca Gayheart ( as Witt's best friend ) .
Prom Night	A young girl dies tragically when she falls through the window of an abandoned building upper floor as a result of a scare tactic prank performed by four kids playing a hide-n-seek version of " I'm going to kill you . " The kids responsible make a silent pact to keep their actions behind this death secret , with a schizophrenic known child abuser accused of being the guilty culprit responsible . The wrongfully accused man is seriously burned after trying to flee the police with his car turned over in a crash . Breaking free from the asylum imprisoning him , this event coincides with the four kids , now teenagers in high school , receiving creepy phone calls from an unknown psychopath forewarning their up coming meeting at the senior prom . The film shows the days leading up to the senior prom , and the psycho , dressed in black with a ski-mask covering his face , attacking each member of the group responsible ( . . when they are most vulnerable , away from a crowd of people , alone in some place either inside the quiet abandoned halls & rooms of the school , or just outside the building ) for the little girl's death many years ago , on Prom Night . More along the line of " Halloween " than " Friday the 13th " , this is a methodical ( . . some might say . . slowwwwwwwww moving ) character driven slasher with limited death sequences shown , with most of the killer's murderous activities occurring off screen . I will say that the victims are developed , given exposition before the senior prom so that they gain sympathy from the audience . The only one who might deserve her comeuppance in many viewer's eyes is Wendy ( Anne-Marie Martin ) , the very one who instigated the silence of their misdeeds as children , and the one who causes most of the mischief towards Kim ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) , who is dating her former squeeze , Nick ( Casey Stevens ) . What makes this union most interesting is that Kim's sister was the girl who fell through the window to her death , and Nick was one of the kids responsible for frightening her with that game . We witness the other two girls , now young women either experiencing love for the first time or heartbreak , before meeting their doom at the hands of the mysterious psycho . As is the case in giallo thrillers , which this is closer in spirit than 80's slashers , there are red herrings regarding who the killer might be . Could the psycho be the escaped lunatic seeking revenge for being framed for a murder he didn't commit ? Could the killer be Kim's grieving father , Principal Hammond ( Leslie Nielsen , handed a very underwritten role ) ? Could the killer be the peeping tom , alcoholic , sneaky janitor ? I'm just not convinced this will work for many slasher fans because the seedy , gratuitous elements which draw such a crowd are not that present here . Like a lot of fans of " Halloween " from their youth onward , I followed Jamie Lee Curtis ' career , looking for other horror films on VHS shelves , and " Prom Night " was one of those . Expecting something more visceral , I guess I was a tad bit disappointed . Watching it as an adult , I believe I can see what director Paul Lynch was trying to accomplish . . building up these characters looking forward to the future , or dwelling on their own personal dramas and dilemmas ( . . relationships and growing pains , these teens had in high school ) , before facing a grim fate they weren't prepared for . He also lenses the film , very soft-focus , giving it an almost dreamlike aura . One of a handful of slashers Curtis would star in during the early 80's before moving on to " Trading Places " where she'd hone her comedic chops , she was blossoming into a stunning woman . While I loathe disco with a passion , this film might amuse as a time-capsule film with how Curtis shows her stuff on the dance floor . She even teases her faithful with a lockeroom sequence showing how she has developed wearing a bra , shirt opened . As far as the death sequences , the highlight , of course , is the decapitation where a thug , taking Nick's place after he and his cronies attacked him , tying the kid up in a situation planned by Wendy , gets his head lopped off with it rolling onto the dance-floor walkway . The film's main suspense chase concerns Wendy trying to flee her pursuer through the empty halls of the school as the other teens are dancing . The film's reveal of the killer is really kind of sad , actually , as so many perish because of a childish prank which could've been prevented if the kids responsible had acted civilized .
Mindwarp	In a post-apocalyptic future , an " Inworlder " , Judy ( Marta Alicia ) resists the Infinisynth way of life , wishing to experience reality instead of the paradise of pure fantasy ( why ? ) where the world can be created at her choosing . There are few lucky enough to be an Inworlder and Judy wishes to go above ground and see the real world . Her mother embraces Infinisynth and has practically abandoned Judy for the fantasy world she's hooked into to . Judy wishing to communicate with her mother , is able to enter her fantasy causing a system malfunction . This system error kills Judy's mom , and she finally is allowed by the Systems Operator ( the person / godhead over maintaining the Infinisynth program with an overhead helmet and these peculiar wires which stem from it emitting blue light ) to have her wish . These mysterious police drug her with a hypodermic and Judy awakens on the cold , barren surface . Almost sinking in a quicksand death-trap , Judy is rescued by " Crawlers " , mutated cannibals who scavenge the surface at the command of a leader from underground . She is to be taken somewhere , but Stover ( Bruce Campbell ) , a regular human whose ancestry have since perished as the surface is an unforgiving place often causing " brain disease " , nasty facial sores , and death , saves her by vanquishing them with his crossbow and sword . They fall in love but are soon kidnapped by mutants and carried into a " Crawler's hole " which tunnels straight into an underground hellhole of darkness , garbage , and junk-metal . Underground , led by a homicidal , psychopathic intellectual named Seer ( Angus Scrimm ) who was once an Inworlder has the cannibal mutants under his command , adapting a religion and totalitarian environment where his voice is one of power and dread . The Crawlers are hideous with no language , just grunting . . . they are mostly used as workers trying to find anything of value from civilization of long ago ( such as the motor of a blender ) and when no longer of use ( such as one mutant whose hand is chopped off in an accident ) are put away . Cornelia ( Elizabeth Kent ) is Seer's sore-spotted maiden ( the marks on her face do not remove her slight beauty , though ) , with a nasty attitude , who has a slave named Claude ( Wendy Sandow ) , a timid mute who has been rendered quite fragile and weak by this underground world that would remove the strength of many a normal person . Judy will try to coerce Claude into helping free her from the bondage of leather arm straps , while Stover , put to work with the mutants , has removed the blade from a bender hatching a plan of escape . A cruel bit of irony is that Seer might be someone Judy has been looking for . . his plans to pro-create with Judy add a grotesque spin to this already blood-drenched gore-fest . What one must never forget is the Infinisynth machine and the world Judy was " released from . " Even though it seems the film is about escaping this society of monsters led by a pure human madman , the Inworld way of life doesn't completely fade from the plot . If you like the Mad Max films , this might be up your alley . Bruce makes a great hero , even though he finds himself always at odds against many more men often besieging him before he can save the woman he loves . The underground hellhole and Scrimm as the mutants ' Messiah add an extra bit of " fun " to this B-movie gore-fest . There's one scene where Scrimm's Seer removes the eyeball of a victim before throwing her into a chopping machine that drenches blood from the one being cut to ribbons for a ceremonial drinking ( . . no , I'm not kidding ) . Bruce gets a chance to slice throats , penetrate blades through mutant scum , even sword-fight with Angus . Scrimm displays his menace with a guilty-free calm . . he's flat-out bonkers , but carries himself like a quiet gentleman which makes him even more the creep than the typical over-the-top lunatic that often portrays these kind of characters . Marta Alicia is okay , I guess , but she's damned sexy so she's granted a reprieve if her character of Judy fails to truly grab you . I say see this if you liked the recent sequel to Alexander Aja's remake of " Hills Have Eyes " . . both resemble a lot . I don't think it's all that memorable despite carrying two horror icons . The most unpleasant sequence , other than Scrimm's chopping machine , is when these leech-like sea-slugs enter Campbell's body , crawling underneath his flesh towards the back of his neck ( how they are released is also a nasty bit of business , I must say ) .
Marked for Death	" Screwface has two heads and four eyes , and that's the secret to his magic . " Lincoln Heights , a cushy suburb of Chicago , is being overrun by Jamaican drug-lord Screwface who is selling to the white youth on school grounds . Burned-out , retired DEA agent John Hatcher ( Steven Seagal ) gets in the middle of a blood feud with Screwface and his cronies when they threaten his family after he exposes them in a bar shootout with Colombians that goes awry . Teaming with old Vietnam war buddy Max ( Keith David ; now a football coach with a player and family exposed to the ills of Screwface's drug trade ) and a Jamaican cop Charles ( Tom Wright ) who has spent his career trying to take apart Screwface's drug trade , they will infiltrate the cartel with many dead bodies lying in the wake . The title of the movie represents a Voodoo curse placed on Hatcher and his family for he has corrupted their business with his involvement in putting a stop to them . About as dumb as these typical actioners come , it supplies fans of Seagal for what they ask for . . car chases , gun-fights , sword-fights , and snapped limbs . Seagal's hands are amazingly swift and he's able to mow over these Jamaican scum with ease . It doesn't stray far from the usual formula of a Steven Seagal picture . . it's all about the man taking out the trash in graphically violent ways . Many arms and legs are snapped like a twig and the villains are merely clichéd vermin to be eradicated like cockroaches . . Seagal is the quintessential exterminator . The lovely Joanna Pacula has a thankless role as an expert in Voodoo assisting love-interest Seagal with information about his nemesis ' religious practices . Basil Wallace is unintentionally hilarious as the over-the-top , spitting , bulging-eyed drug-lord . The Jamaican gangsters are presented as uneducated twats who can not pronounce a single sentence plainly .
Hair Extensions	Positively bizarre supernatural Japanese horror regarding killer hair extensions ! A female corpse is found engulfed in hair , her organs removed by those black market surgeons , and becomes the immediate fixation of a nutty mortician who kidnaps her body taking it home with him . Enamoured with her hair , Gunji Yamazaki ( Ren Osgui ) begins furnishing salons " samples " with horrifying results . The film focuses on hair stylist Yuko Mizushima ( Chiaki Kuriyama ) , a young apprentice in a salon whose cruel sister , Kiyomi ( Tsugumi ) drops in unannounced to cause disturbance , leaving behind an abused daughter , Mami ( Miku Sato ) while embarking in a relationship with a sleazy lover at night . Yuko and Mami form a bond as Kiyomi is away ruining her life , while the hair extensions used from the dead girl cause death to customers . The extensions carry the hostile feelings of the dead girl and those who happen to wear the hair are recipients of the vengeance she so desperately harbors . Soon Yamazaki will drop off samples at the salon for which Yuko works bringing the separate stories together . Also , Yamazaki , with an unhealthy obsession with hair , is drawn to Yuko and Mami and wishes to possess what they have . . beautiful hair , of course . We also follow two detectives pursuing the one responsible for kidnapping the corpse and how their search will soon lead to Yuko and Yamazaki . Unsettling violence to human victims mainly displaying how hair bursts from body orifices and wounds , increasing in size as it flows out , often wrapping around arms and throats , out eye sockets , even bleeding when cut by scissors . The film really gets serious with Mami's neglect at the hands of a monstrous mother , whose presence yields nothing but anguish and misery . That bitch gets hers , though . Chiaki Kuriyama is a very likable lead with a wonderful smile that lights up the screen , and a pleasant disposition that is a direct opposite of her polarizing sister . The film grows darker and darker as Yamazaki becomes more and more unhinged , his home besieged by the corpses hair as it grows following fits of anger during violent acts towards victims . You just have to see this to believe it !
Transylvania 6-5000	Two journalists , Jack ( Jeff Goldblum , doing his usual shtick ) & the incompetent Gil ( Ed Begley , Jr . , who tries so hard ) are sent by their employer looking in Transylvania for Frankenstein ( never called Frankenstein's monster which tells you how badly the film will indeed wind up ) . But , this Transylvania , or it's supposed " monsters " are anything but ominous . Clearly the cast appear to be having a good time at the poor viewer's expense . I thought Goldblum was gonna burst into laughter out of character numerous times as we watch him trying to hold himself together . His character Jack spends most of the film trying to romance Elizabeth ( Teresa Ganzel ) . It's Gil who gets to do most of the foot-work and snooping , often stuck in unusual situations trying to sniff out leads . You have some weird characterizations . Michael Richards has by far the strangest pulling a more bizarre version of Kramer as Fejos , butler of the hotel where Jack and Gil are staying . He has some really off-the-wall comic bits with Begley , Jr . You have Geena Davis in an early role as a vampire wannabe named Odette who has a lustful thing for Gil . Donald Gibb ( Ogre of REVENGE OF THE NERDS fame ) as the " wolfman " . Joseph Bologna as Dr . Malavaqua , a gentle kindly doctor who turns stark , raving loony when he enters his lab underneath the hotel . John Byner is Radu , the much maligned assistant of Malavaqua , who also spends the day as a manservant ordered around by Mayor Lepescu ( Jeffrey Jones ) and Inspector Percek ( Bozidar Smiljanic ) who seem to care more for their wine festival than keeping law and order in Transylvania . Dusko Valentic is the supposed monster ( known by Jack as " the twisted man . " ) while the Mummy unwrapped has to be seen . Carol Kane is Lupi , the wife who adores Radu . . the running joke is she always informs him of her love and devotion to him in spades . More odd than funny . To be honest , the cast gives it their best shot . . energetic and inspired even if the material they're saddled with isn't . The film just lacks big laughs , and the moments of weird behavior will not always wash with the more mainstream crowd . I do believe fans of spoofs regarding classic horror might respond to it the most . Never quite works , although it desperately wants to .
House on Skull Mountain	Relatives are sent a letter , an invite to come to the Southern mansion , on the outskirts of Atlanta , of a voodoo priestess , who has died , expecting them to ward off an evil they do not know . Each person , the foxy attractive Lorena ( Janee Michelle ) , smart-mouth , obnoxious Phillippe ( Mike EVans of " The Jeffersons " ) , polite , mannered Christian Harriet ( Xernona Clayton ) and the unlikely " honky " of the group , an anthropology professor , who has studied voodoo , Dr . Andrew Cunningham ( Victor French of " Highway to Heaven " and " Little House on the Prairie " ) , haven't even met their ancestor . While it appears this group is gathering for a will reading , they are instead in for a battle against the creepy butler , Tomas ( Jean Durand ) , secretly practicing voodoo rituals in a hidden room below the mansion using his abilities to endanger their lives . It'll be up to the unlikely heroics of Cunningham , who definitely sticks out like a sore thumb in this mostly African-American cast , and his knowledge of voodoo , to stop Tomas who wishes to strengthen his powers by marrying Lorena , a mostly pure Christophe . Voodoo horror outing even has a musical ritual performed by practitioners in that cavernous den below the mansion . There are skulls aplenty , which I admired , such as the face on the mountain where the mansion resides and on the door that greets visitors . Even Death pops up every once in a while to point towards potential victims . The climax even has Pauline Christophe ( Mary J Todd McKenzie ) rising from the grave , by order of Tomas which adds some fun to the proceedings . I think this kind of horror film , which gives over to the supernatural elements of the practiced religion , might make many viewers chuckle instead of fold into their seats . The cast is okay , nothing mind-blowing , but just the audacity to have a white hero is something to create interest for this kind of unusual horror effort . Not a bit violent , this was suppose to spook , not disgust . The setting , I loved a great deal . . the mansion is quite a stunning set . I thought the ending where Tomas and Cunningham square off in a sword fight was a bit hokey , though . I'm not sure whatever happened to the participants of the voodoo dance once Tomas accidentally slices a skull , ritualistically placed on a stick which holds Lorena hypnotically imprisoned . You have to gloss over flaws like that when a film allows liberties regarding the power of voodoo on innocents .
Royal Rumble 1989	I guess one could look at the second Royal Rumble as Big John Studd's last hurrah , and a fitting finale to a rather unfulfilled career . He enters the 30 Man Battle Royal rather late , but , once he's in the ring , everyone else ( . . especially Akeem & Million Dollar Man Ted Dibiase ) knows it . I had never realized just how massive and imposing he really is because I hearken back to his times opposite André the Giant in the squared circle , and everyone looks small compared to him . But , anyone can see , if you are watching it on home video , that Studd was having the time of his life , pounding away at Akeem throughout most of his time in the ring . If anyone attempted to attack him , they were tossed aside with ease . The major running story-line at the time was the crack in the foundation of The Mega Powers , WWF World Heavyweight champion Randy ' Macho Man ' Savage and former champion Hulk Hogan , mainly due to beautiful manager Elizabeth . Savage , no matter how successful during his one-year tenure as champion , was always under Hogan's shadow , and if you add jealousy into the equation ( . . at the previous Thanksgiving wrestling card , Survivor Series , Hogan hoists Liz in the air after their victory and Savage doesn't exactly like it ) eventually the foundation will capsize . In the Royal Rumble , Savage was in a continuing battle with a foe at the time , Bad News Brown ( a rough Harlem streetfighter , always carrying a scowl , never getting along with anyone ) when Hogan eliminates both of them . Savage confronts Hogan after his accidental exit and this is a definite sign that the relationship , once quite strong , has deteriorated . Liz is able to separate the two and they end in a handshake , but later ( . . in the Saturday Night Main Event card where The Twin Towers , Big Boss Man & Akeem , wrestle the Mega Powers ) the situation between the two would end quite ugly , thanks to Hogan's leaving Savage to fend for himself against the Twin Towers while taking to an injured Liz ( Savage would accidentally fall on her ) to medical assistance . The opening of the card features a six-man tag match consisting of three falls ( . . whoever wins two out of three times is the victor ) between Hacksaw Jim Duggan & The Hart Foundation against " Canada's Strongest Man " Dino Bravo & The Fabulous Rougeau Brothers . Pretty entertaining , although , at times , sloppily performed . Duggan is quite a fan favorite at this time , although his style is not necessarily graceful ( . . Bret was a fine compliment to the team , his excellence of execution adding quality to the proceedings ) . The Rougeau Bros ( . . never given a chance to hoist the tag titles in the air ) have an abundance of talent and work extraordinarily well as a team while Bravo uses his brute strength to extend punishment to whoever the victim might be . Bret is pinned after the Rougeaus apply their fabulous finishing maneuver , and mostly dominate the opening of the bout pummeling Hart who finally breaks free to tag Duggan . Duggan pins one of the Rougeaus , then uses his 2X4 across the back of another Rougeau to win the match . This kind of cheating raises the ire of commentator Jesse the Body Ventura . The " pose off " between ' Ravishing " Rick Rude and Intercontinental Champion The Ultimate Warrior , is little more than filler , providing the audience with a new feud which would lead to an exchange of the IC belt between the two at both Wrestlemania V & Summerslam ' 89 . The Women's Championship is a joke and shows the viewer that this division will never work despite Vince McMahon's continual efforts . ' Sensational ' Sherry ( ' Scary ' Sherry , she'd later be labeled , making her presence felt when joining Randy Savage's side later after he turns heel ) makes an appearance disrupting the women's bout before it begins . The Battle Royal itself consists of a lot of WWF wrestlers of that time ( . . some like Shawn Michaels & ' Mr . Perfect ' Curt Henning were just pups at this point in their careers ) . Many tag teams represented the event , providing numbers to the 30 because no one expects the Bushwackers to win it . The Powers of Pain , Strike Force ( Tito Santana & Rick Martel ) , The Brain Busters ( Arn Anderson & Tully Blanchard ) , The Rockers ( Marty Jannety and Shawn Michaels ) , & Demolition ( Ax & Smash who would draw numbers 1 & 2 tearing into each other at the beginning ) . André the Giant was easily the one favored , at first , to win the Battle Royal , and , despite multiple attacks by an army of wrestlers , was pummeling everyone in his path and tossing them around . André the Giant definitely used his size and girth to dominate those who dared challenge him . Fortunate for those in the ring , Jake Roberts ( . . who had been tossed over the ropes by André ) had his secret weapon , his pet snake Damian , with André the Giant eliminating himself and running for his life in absolute fear . Until Macho Man and Hogan arrived , it loses steam with the exit of André . A running feud at the time was between The Mega Powers & The Twin Towers , and the crowd would shockingly witness Hogan being thrown out of the Royal Rumble by the gargantuan duo . The final act would have Big John Studd , Ted Dibiase and Akeem going at it , with a surprising win going for the more unlikely candidate . . Big John Studd , who was not amongst any hot story-lines during this point in 1989 . It was a great thrill to see a very satisfied Big John Studd win the Royal Rumble in such a memorable fashion , disposing of Akeem ( . . once One Man Gang , and quite the behemoth ) and Dibiase , barely breaking a sweat . A sense of funny irony was that Dibiase had purchased the final draw to enter the event , and was not at all successful in his desire to win The Royal Rumble . This victory is not as recognized as many others mainly because of the Mega Powers soap opera , but I was proud for Studd , a man who would walk tall celebrating quite a substantial victory , a shining exit to a rather disappointing career .
Mother's Day	Three friends ( . . the rat pack ) , old college buddies who now live in different cities coming together once a year for a gathering to get away from their lives , decide to camp in the woods and find themselves in the belly of the beast where a deranged mother and her two equally repulsive sons ( . . who she's training to be perfect serial rapist-murderers ) wish to abuse them in every way possible . Like a lot of other rape-revenge films , the girls strike back at their captors when one of the three dies from her wounds . Mother ( Beatrice Pons , the mother of director Charlie Kaufman and producer Lloyd ) has her boys enacting staged encounters they might use later to innocents on Jackie ( Deborah Luce ) , the vulnerable one of the group , eventually sodomizing and beating her senseless . The other girls , Abbey ( Nancy Hendrickson ) and Trina ( Tiana Pierce ) , are spared this humiliation and agony , for over night at least , while spending their time tied up to exercise equipment knowing that god knows what was happening to their pal , Jackie , in the next room . Freeing themselves from the room , and eventually finding their friend nearly beaten to death , crammed in a dresser drawer , Abbey & Trina try to flee the residence with a battered Jackie in tow . Into the woods , Ike ( Frederick Coffin ) , the more filthy son , with decaying teeth and dead left eye , is sent out to catch the girls . The film follows the remaining two girls and their return to Mother's den , with a sadistic brand of justice to wield against the scum that wronged them . Troma release which at points is wacky , sad , vile , and violent . The film gleefully pokes fun at the two brothers , Ike , & Addley ( Michael McCleery ) who are always willing to please , in regards to brutalizing women , their mother in any way possible . They have the manners of pigs and live like them ( . . Ike even eats out of a slop-bucket ) . Beatrice Pons lets it hang out as the mother who soldiers her kids in the arts of masochism and proper attack techniques . The ultra-violence is at times cheap ( . . such as a beheading which couldn't look more staged ; a television set is used and one can tell that the innards of the thing were removed ) , other times effective such as when an ax stabs into a crotch and Drano is forced down a throat . Even an electric carving knife is used ( . . not shown penetrating flesh , though ) to do damage . The girls are given a little development , with each's lives shown before departing for the camping trip . Their camaraderie is pleasant and fun , which makes the inflicted trauma by mother and her boys rather tragic for such a Troma release . Still despite what transpires , the tone rather ever darkens too much for the filmmakers always try to lighten the movie with twisted humor . Still , this is a legit Troma release , and therefore not for all tastes .
Killer Pad	Three kooky Midwestern pals move to Los Angeles renting what they believe is the perfect place , sitting on a hill away from civilization , not knowing that inside the basement is a portal to hell ! Three Hollywood hotties , presumed neighbors who supposedly wish to greet them to their new residence , are actually Satan and his minions wanting the naive outsiders to host a party inviting citizens who unknowingly will become victims for the Lord of Darkness . I will admit that the premise wasn't as much a draw as noticing that Robert Englund was returning for only his second film feature directorial stint ( . . after a twenty year absence ) . Without even listening to Englund's theatrical audio commentary ( . . which was a lot of fun ) , you can tell that Killer Pad , from the very beginning , is aiming squarely for laughs . A lot of Hell jokes and toilet bowl humor which will probably leave many wanting pure scares and not finding them here . Lots of in-jokes regarding reality TV ( . . a priest , portrayed by Jeff Bryan Davis , was once an alcoholic , drug-addicted human-stunt crazy , modeled after those idiots from Jackass who purposely perform body damaging stunts to inflict harm for laughs by unorthodox means ) and LA itself , featuring many eccentric citizens such as porn stars , gym babes , Joey Lawrence ( . . who provides some humor involving his peers such as a bad impersonation of Bruce Willis and his secretary's address miscalculation which sends him to the party instead of Tobey McGuire's house for poker ) , a Kinkos teenage nerd with no friends , a fire marshal desiring to work as a guard for the party to find a date , an Asian transvestite who provided them this palatial pad to begin with , and 16 year old Catholic school girls in need of some clothes and a spanking . The three leads were obviously hired for their physical comedy , their faces are colorful and Daniel Franzese , Eric Jungmann & Shane McRae really play their dupes to the hilt , providing the film with prime bona fide morons to root for with all our hearts . These guys work well off each other , embracing their characters ' gullible nature . Their horny goof balls are easy prey for the major babes , Emily Foxler ( . . as Lucy / Satan , who looks fantastic in red ) , Noureen De Wulf , and Corri English who use their seductive wiles , attractive figures , and supposed willingness for sex as a weapon . The film is loaded with wacky special effects such as Latino " angel " Héctor Jiménez ( who attempts unsuccessfully to ward our heroes away from the pad housing hell ) who , at one point in the film , spits pea soup , is forced against his will to rip his own heart from his chest and eat it , with his head twisting and spinning repeatedly ( . . spoofing The Exorcist ) before leaping off their balcony . Three models from Sweden are boiled in a jacuzzi . One poor soul's head explodes ( . . well , the silhouette of his head from behind a closed curtain does ) while another's throat is slashed after his body slams into a mirror . We get to see the babes in demon form and the priest , after porking one of the naughty Catholic school girls , converting to a rocker , belting Kiss ' " I Just Want to Rock'n'Roll All Night . . " in an act against Satan and his / her minions who were about to pulverize the entire group assembled together in the party who hadn't been killed yet . We get a disgusting bathroom sequence featuring a very imposing masculine woman and the toilet she was using . Englund just seems willing to please and the film has a goofy spirit to it , but I thought it wore a bit thin by the time it was over . Englund , during the making-of doc on the DVD , speaks about how his film , shot on a Viper camera , doesn't , at all , use stock ; the entire feature is shot all digital . Almost the entire film exists within the " killer pad " and shies away from presenting nudity even when the porn stars show their breasts to our Kinkos nerd . Oh , and there's a dwarf ( . . who orders the porn gals around ) whose buttocks are present throughout for in his cut leather pants for extra tasteless chuckles . I sure do wish Englund would actually make a film built for scares instead of giggles , though . He understands menace and evil portraying quite a many unique and colorful monsters over his career , you'd think Englund could direct a chiller . Still , the film has moments which are quite stylish when Englund doesn't resort to zany hi-jinx and over-the-top cheese . The pad itself has a very vibrant use of red and he establishes this as the film's intricate color because of the story arc involving hell . Englund also uses symbolic imagery involving Satan ( . . such as a pentagram from discarded beer cans and statues featured throughout the house ) .
Adrenalin : Fear the Rush	A virus-infected cannibalistic maniac , who needs to be killed because in a certain time he'll supply a plague that will danger mankind as he is a carrier , attacks humans using a curving knife with a spiked handle . Cops Christopher Lambert and Natasha Henstridge must pursue him into ventilation ducts which lead to an old , shut-down prison where he feels right at home . He becomes the predator and the cops become the prey as the prison is quite darkened and the monster is able to move quickly with cunning and skill . He also uses a gun that shoots the hell out of Lambert . Lambert's other partners include Liz Barondes and Norbert Weisser who wind up being hunted as well . As Weisser goes for help ( there are scientists in quarantine suits on their way and Andrew Divoff is the leader who understands what is wrong with the maniac on the loose . . if only he'd share with the rest of us ) , the other three must fend for themselves in an environment the quarry understands a lot more than them it seems . Once the maniac riddles Lambert and Barondes with bullets it'll be up to Henstridge to save them . Surprisingly suspenseful with a lingering foreboding due to the decrepit , darkly lit prison setting . Director Albert Pyun decides to close his camera in on the killer's ferocious fangs and blood-shot eye . Most of the time , he's shrouded in darkness . Pyun mostly shoots everyone up close with long shot sequences mainly of the spooky corridors where the killer could pop out at the cops at any time . The film , though , doesn't have much of a plot other than the killer trapping our heroes in the prison . This horrifying future where plagued humans are separated from the healthy isn't given enough treatment . Pyun tended to shoot way too many facial shots barely giving the viewer any breathing room . He edits fast as well keeping the action moving at such breakneck speed . The camera rarely sits still . I kind of liked this B-movie for what it is . It doesn't have much of a leg to stand on , but with what little story Pyun ( it's his own fault , though , since it was him who wrote it . . it seems like he merely designed a chase'n'attack flick ) has he makes an effective little no-budget creeper .
Species III	Female , birthed from Henstridge's alien and the alien DNA infected astronaut from the previous film , is close to the most perfect hybrid whose eggs might lend an answer to how to cease the dying half-breed alien species . The half-alien / half-human species , created when the astronaut impregnated human women , have flaws in their DNA and succumb to illnesses and sickness due to their low immunity . Dr . Abbot ( Robert Knepper ) kidnaps " Sara " ( Sunny Mabrey ) , posing as a soldier in the military , before a half-breed could get her . Abbot is a professor who sees the Nobel Prize in the future if he finds the answer to the perfect half-breed species , devoid of the current flaws plaguing them now . He seeks assistance from a gifted student , Dean ( Robin Dunne ) , to help him in collecting data and perfecting their experiments on Sara . Meanwhile , Sara , who has grown to a young , luscious , sexual creature from an infant in a manner of days , seeks a mate , finding none that are worthy of her impregnation due to their sickness . Abbot and Dean always remain in danger as the lethal half-breeds continue their pursuit of Sara and a cure . As with most second sequels and beyond , the premise of the half-breed female sexpot aliens is wearing thin despite rampant nudity by stunningly gorgeous naked bodies . While some of the f / x are effective ( . . such as Henstridge's giving birth to infant Sara , subsequently strangled by a half-breed alien boy's tongue in the truck with her ; a man is split in half by an alien Sara's tongue ; some cool disease-riddled aliens in human form showing nasty flesh wounds developing ) , the budget has certainly dwindled somewhat when compared to the other films . . . such as when Sara murders the college dean which isn't the least bit convincing . Also , the story is smaller scale , removed from the governmental / national / global aspects which enriched the apocalyptic terror , instead taking place almost completely within a university town where college kids reside . . . sure , in dialogue that global terror exists , but in this film , the setting is confined in one significant area . Leads Dunne and Knepper are okay enough , and Mabrey is a babe . Yet , compared to Henstridge , who is almost irreplaceable as the incredibly sexy alien from the previous two installments , Mabrey is also smaller scale . As a sequel to an okay franchise , I have seen worse . And , we at least get to see the alien creature designs again , even if there few and far between .
This Night I will Possess Your Corpse	The sadistic atheist Zé do Caixão ( José Mojica Marins ) returns , this time with a hunchback assistant Bruno ( Jose Lobo ) , still trying to find a woman to bare him a child ( this child , he feels will give birth to immortal blood ) . Certain women are disappearing and it's obvious who is behind the kidnapping . Zé has chosen these women to determine which is willing to carry his child . He releases spiders on them as they are sleeping as a test of their courage . All the women reply to the spiders with shock but one . . that being Marcia ( Nadia Freitas ) . Marcia is chosen while the other women ( save one , who becomes Bruno's " birthday present " for which he accidentally snaps her neck when she begins to struggle with him ) are placed in a snake-pit to die . Marcia eventually shows a weakness ( her love for Zé for which he can not bear . . he doesn't like dramatics ) , but Zé spares her life because she showed courage before . Marcia will remain loyal to Zé for a large period , even assisting him in tricking Truncador , the strongman ( Antonio Fracari ) who often is out-dueled psychologically by Zé . Eventually , Zé finds his mate and " carrier " of the great child he feels will lead the way of a brand new race of non-believing people who denounce God and embrace life without attachment . Laura ( Tina Wohlers ) , the Colonel's daughter , arrives into town and immediately takes up with Zé . She doesn't believe in anything but Zé and this will be her downfall . Even after Zé crushes Laura's brother's head with a large rock , she still remains just as loyal risking the scorns of others for him . Soon , mental torments plague Zé as the announcement of one of the women he killed in the snake-pit claims she'll return from the dead to get her revenge telling him that he will never have a son born in this world . As tension mounts in the village , Zé will eventually be found out as the killer of the missing women and have to deal with a maddened crowd wanting him dead . Two problems with this one I had . Laura just arrives and yet having never met Zé before just up and devotes her life and soul to him . It doesn't add up . Another is the snake-pit sequence which isn't very convincing because the actresses portraying the victims attacked don't sell it well . But , the " tortures of hell " nightmare sequence Zé suffers is an unintentional laugh riot . And , the ending is quite heavy-handed , yet eerie at the same time . Still , the film retains it's nasty edge from the previous film and that creepy atmosphere around the graves and forests remains one of the film's main strengths . This film is , however , much more cheesy than the first .
Bryan Loves You	A therapist from New York finds himself in danger when he reluctantly crosses paths with a cult sweeping across Arizona . The cult's deity was an heir to a throne , Bryan , who was slain ( . . his throat was slashed from behind in his own castle ) by a commoner dealt harshly by his community , named Tanzi . The cult dress like Mormons and often wear a plain white mask with black marks which carry the appearance of cracks . This group brainwashes the unadorned , taking innocent outsiders unacquainted with this spooky religion , running them through a psychiatric institute until they are essentially zombies , as if their humanity were stripped , soulless to servitude for Bryan . The film is completely told through hand-held cam-corders and hidden security cameras , nearly everyone snooping has one , whether it be our hero , his stalkers or an outside crusader working with a quiet few hoping to defeat the cult and their schemes at enlarging through their brainwashing tactics . Tony Todd is a very disturbed narrator who introduces us to the various recorded documents of the evolution in terror for Jonathan ( Seth Landau , who also wrote & directed ) who is kidnapped by the Bryan cult after making some inquiries into their worship practices . We see inside their secret society and how they slowly gnaw at those they wish to include within their religion . Jonathan represents a rare case of someone who somehow hangs on despite the rigorous degrees of manipulation and psychological warfare induced over a span of time . Someone is on his side , however , who wishes to bring to an end the Bryan cult which has become a cancer across this desert community , Frenchette ( Tom Noga ) who plans to somehow break him out of the mental torture factory before he's affected by their powerful methods of mind control . The film features a cast of B-movie horror cult icons such as Lloyd Kaufman as a " helper " who attempts to motivate Jonathan's acceptance of a mental reject claimed by the cult to be his alcoholic father . Scream queen , Tiffany Shepis portrays a nasty " psychiatrist " , Cindy , who mistreats Jonathan , often interrogating him while administering drugs into his system , with Brinke Stevens as a nurse who works for the cult . George Wendt has a strange role as a wacky patient of Jonathan's . The hand-held style services the paranoia theme where escape from a place overrun by diabolical extremists is quite difficult because eyes are all around watching your every move . The film grew tiresome to me over time , specifically the never-ending brainwashing portion of this film , and a stupid decision by our hero at the end robs this scary tale of a bit of it's power and realism . I do not think Jonathan would make such an incredibly asinine decision to risk his life in such an unnecessary way after such an exhausting exercise towards his mind and body by this unwavering cult trying every way to break his will . I did feel Landau produces a credible account , to a certain extent , of how spooky and terrifying such an ordeal could be when one is trapped within such an established cult willing to resort to drastic measures to seize one's soul and mind . It was amazing that he had the ability to round up so many familiar faces , also including Daniel Roebuck ( The River's Edge ) as a professor who informs us of Bryan's history and how it relates to the cult that would form in his name . To me , the pacing lags a bit , and I wasn't quite convinced that such a cult could completely unify an entire community , even conforming a pal of Jonathan's . The gimmick of " footage found and brought to us as a warning tool " wore itself thin to me , but others might find it rewarding .
Night of the Skull	Relatives and hired help of murdered aristocrat ( . . and close to English Parliament making him quite the important man it seems ) converge at his estate to hear if they receive anything from his inheritance as a notary is assigned to read his will . But , a killer donning a skull mask is murdering them one by one using a noted scripture from a book titled " The Apocalypse " ( " Earth to bury us . Wind to scourge us . Water to drown us . Fire to burn us . " ) as method of execution . A detective from Scotland Yard , Olive Brooks ( Alberto Dalbés ) , who knows a lot of things about the murdered Lord Archibald Percival Marion that he shouldn't which in itself is mysterious , assists Inspector Bore ( Vincente Roca ) in the case to find the skull-masked assassin . The film opens the possibility of relative Mr . Tobias ( William Berger ) being the possible killer because of something his wife Marta ( Evelyn Scott ) says when they are in private . Lina Romay has the role of plain Rita , supposedly the abused daughter of the murdered Lord Marion , whose servant mother was his mistress . Secrets and red herrings abound as characters aren't who they appear and few can be trusted . Not your prototypical Jesús Franco flick operating as a psycho-thriller murder mystery as he uses lots of rain and noirish darkness to create atmospheric flourishes . He doesn't even use as much zoom lens , although he does often close his camera in on faces tight showing their expressions during key moments in the film . He also , every now and then , likes to implement images of a skull into the film at certain points as the plot thickens . I didn't think the film was mind-blowing or anything , but still fairly entertaining on a basic crime mystery level . You could call this Jesús Franco's Spanish equivalent of the Italian giallo , but I'd say " Night of the Skull " is more akin to Agatha Christie mysteries ( . . even if the film claims Edgar Allen Poe as it's source ) . The film doesn't even feature a reliance on nude flesh or sexual sequences . . and surprisingly Franco doesn't even exploit Romay's naked body , something he hardly ever passes up . Despite this being a psycho-thriller , the film isn't very violent . . most of the murders are rather tame or occur out of focus ( or blanketed in the dark such as when the dead Lord Marion's butler stabs a couple who are about to find out a damning secret ) . I think real die-hard fans of Jesús Franco will be rather disappointed with this film .
Don't Open ' Til Christmas	Oddly structured , startlingly sadistic , and extremely sleazy British slasher concerning a maniac viciously stabbing and slashing unfortunate victims who happen to make the mistake of wearing a Santa costume during the Christmas holiday season . Inspector Harris ( Edmund Purdom ) is being grilled by his superior at Scotland Yard to solve the case before Christmas Day arrives , but he doesn't entirely seem that interested in finding the perpetrator , singling out Cliff Boyd ( Gerry Sundquist ) , the live-in boyfriend of a wealthy heiress , Kate ( Belinda Mayne ) whose father was a victim of the Santa Claus killer when dressed like Jolly Saint Nick one night at a party ( . . thanks to a spear through his head and out his mouth . . ouch ! ) who couldn't possibly be the one responsible if he were standing beside his lover when the murder took place . When Harris comes up with no results , he's suspended and his associate , Sergeant Powell ( Mark Jones ) takes over , given information by a creepy supposed newspaper journalist , Giles ( Alan Lake ) to keep an eye on the Inspector for he might know more than he letting on regarding the Santa Claus killer . Kate begins her own investigation in true slasher / giallo fashion and finds the man she was looking for , while also possibly falling for Harris , discovering that he visits an institution for the insane . Who's Harris visiting and does this revelation possibly lead to the killer ? As far as Giles goes , what he to do in the grand scheme of things ? The film also shows that a stripper , who witnesses a murder through her glass terminal towards someone wearing a Santa costume , who gave what little information she knew to Scotland Yard , herself is kidnapped by the mysterious killer , given a little time alive , imprisoned in a small makeshift room hoping that he makes a false move so she can escape . Pretty messy which is understandable due to it's difficult production problems . This is a must for slasher fans , though , as it features ample doses of both nudity and violence . Different types of sharp weapons are used to plunge into the bellies and faces of victims who are stalked down streets into darkened buildings , often throughout alleys . One especially memorable kill concerns a castration in a bathroom as the poor chap is relieving himself . My favorite sequence is where this drunken Santa attempts to hide from the killer in a darkened wax museum . Also memorable is one Santa victim's fate in the Piccadily theater as Caroline Munro portrays a pop singer belting a tune as she swivels her curves for an unseen audience . For fans of all things lurid , the film often takes place in seedier sides of London and the killer decides to check out a nude model underneath a Santa coat as the straight-razor slides seductively down her naked chest . The film never quite gels overall and the characters aren't given flesh perhaps due to a lot of footage not so easy to piece together even by the third director who was an editor . The reveal as to why the killer is offing unsavory sorts donning Santa outfits is as sleazy as the overall product which won't disappoint those accustomed to 80's slashers .
Curse of the Komodo	The brainchild of military man Foster ( Jay Richardson ) regarding giant Komodo dragons against American enemies is given birth thanks to scientist , Professor Nathan Phipps ( William Langlois ) who has bio-engineered the supposedly extinct species into massive dinosaur sized monsters , quite carnivorous and hungry for food . Along with a few associates on an island compound near Hawaii , Phipps , his daughter Rebecca ( . . porn starlet Glori-Anne Gilbert , who isn't in this flick because of her acting ability , having a nice little topless bathing scene near water falls ) , and his assistant Dawn ( Gail Harris ) attempt to find a way at controlling the beasts without success . Meanwhile , a trio of casino thieves hitch a ride with paid alcoholic ex-military pilot Jack ( Tim Abell , an ex-porn actor who gets a chance to play hero in an action adventure ) who lands them on the island containing the Komodo dragon . Jack informs cranky muscular head heister Drake ( Paul Logan ) , his lover Tiffany ( Melissa Brasselle ) , and fellow thief Reece ( Cam Newlin ) that his chopper will need repairs , but they will soon find themselves joining forces with Phipps remaining crew against a giant Komodo dragon whose outer skin seems impenetrable from gunfire as everyone fires endless rounds at it without effect , just annoying the beast . Phipps ' compound is guarded by an electric fence but they are low on fuel and the generator is on the fritz . With a plague deriving from a slime secreted by the Komodo dragon causing those infected to slowly succumb to horrible skin rashes , sickness and erratic behavior , and that Komodo loose and hungry , the group will attempt to make it for Jack's chopper due to the fact that Foster won't send a rescue team to fly them off the island . But , it won't be easy as the Komodo always returns to feast on human meat when it can corner victims . When inspired , director Jim Wynorski makes other films than just porn spoofs which is the case with this creature feature . It's nothing that you haven't seen numerous times on Sci-fi channel ( . . for which Wynorski has been a major contributor with numerous killer monster flicks ) , but I found it an entertaining enough time-waster . You get to see the Komodo dragon gulp a few humans . For a low-budget horror adventure , the special effects of the monster are the standard you are use to seeing on the Sci-fi channel , not really that bad or mind-blowing , either . The film alternates between our folks on the island squaring off with their sharp-teeth beast and the military headquarters of Foster . Unlike many of Wynorski efforts , the film plays it straight , not layered with tongue-in-cheek humor . As usual , though , Wynorski has two actresses with large fake breasts . Gilbert is a Wynorski regular who has starred in several of his porn spoofs such as " Witches of Breastwick " & " The Breastford Wives " ( . . also starring as a fantasy girl in another Wynorski creature feature " The Thing Below " ) . She attempts to emote , but couldn't act if her life depended on it . Abell isn't so bad and could make a living in these type of genre flicks . He'd probably made it well in Italian rip-offs back in the late 70's / early 80's . Brasselle is a major babe who serves as a very ripped source of eye candy . Logan as the brooding heavy Drake ( . . who shoots the late Buck Flower in his opening scene because Reece mentioned his name while they were looting a casino ) might be familiar to those who have his seen him in a bevy of porn flicks . The film has a nice pace , with decent inserts of military footage , and fulfills all the requirements of a B-movie adventure flick . It's supposed to be escapist fare and is geared towards fans of creature feature flicks . Could be better . Could be worse . It is what it is .
Humongous	The horrible rape of a wealthy woman trying to resist a drunken male killed by her pet dog sets in motion the later plot where a group of college kids become stranded on a seemingly deserted island thanks to the troubled Nick ( John Wildman ) who is incredibly jealous of his more responsible , likable brother Eric ( David Wallace ) who seems to get the most attention of the lovely ladies than he does . Eric is also a more heady , trustworthy type and so Nick wishes to take controls of the boat and , in a scuffle with his older brother , accidentally crashes it setting it on fire with everyone on board narrowly escaping ( . . including a shipwrecked passenger they take on board who boat was damaged by treacherous rock , played by Layne Coleman ) . On the shore , Eric calls out for his sister Carla ( Janit Baldwin ) with only silence answering back . Brother Nick , ashamed at the destruction and situation he caused , goes to search for help . . it's told to them by their passenger that the rape victim from the start of the film , Ida Parsons ( Shay Garner ) , has a place up on the hill from the shore , run down and decrepit , where she lived in seclusion with her dogs . What Nick encounters is something of a man who growls like a beast . Soon the others will run into this type of deformed man-monster who hunts with rage . Eric and his lover , model Sandy ( Janet Julian ) will have to find a way to stop him while also learning about the secrets regarding Ida while searching her home . . but , even more important is that she had given birth to a child with a photo , found in an album , showing her holding it with the dog , who saved her from the man raping her , by Ida's side . Had Ida given birth to the thing hunting them on the island ? Mysteries may be solved within the house as they find Ida's corpse , her diary ( . . or mad scribblings ) , and a special place where the monster lives . Interesting , gore-less slasher undermined by certain scenes at night & darkened places ( such as Ida's cellar where the monster is known to lurk ) where the low-quality lighting doesn't capture images or action on screen very well . Some scenes , such as the monster's chasing Nick into a desecrated boat-house , are incomprehensible . . you just wish someone with excellent skill at providing decent lighting ( such as perhaps Dean Cundy ) could've worked in the film because the plot is quite interesting . I mean my eyes begin to hurt I was straining so . But , the unnerving music accompaniment can be quite effective and Ida's depreciating abode creates a spooky setting so not all is bad regarding this flick . And , some of the night-time sequences are quite genuinely eerie . The flick is certainly better than it's 2 . 1 IMDb rating . Joy Boushel portrays the object of lust ( and she's quite easy on the eyes ) , Donna who carries a torch for Eric and envies Sandy . One thing's definitely for certain . . this flick needs a different title .
Beneath	Christy watches as her sister is badly burned in a car explosion due to a crash with which she was driving . Told that she was dead , Christy believed that she was still alive . Sent away to a mental hospital , Christy is said to have a Borderline Personality Disorder , and this affects her job later as a 20 year old intern ( Nora Zehetner ) . Finding out that an old friend passed away , Christy returns and decides to pursue whether or not her sister Vanessa ( Carly Pope ) died from heart failure due to trauma , or by malicious intent . Her sister's husband John ( Matthew Settle ) wishes her to leave as soon as possible and his daughter Amy ( Jessica Amlee ) speaks of a thing which comes from the closet to haunt her at night , hoping to catch it on her digital camera . When those close to Vanessa either wind up dead ( . . like John's mother , portrayed by Gabrielle Rose ) or harmed ( Amy and John ) , Christy , against the advice of those around her who resist her notions of a sister who was buried alive , will hopefully shed some light on obvious secrets which have remained hidden just like a crawlspace in the Locke house leading to several areas . An important sub-plot is Christy's uncanny ability to see people's faces and certain acts from the past and future for which she artistically renders to paper . Also important is the location of a mysterious medical assistant to John , Claire ( Eliza Norbury ) who was with him when Vanessa supposedly died . More or less a mystery with pretty , cat-eyed Zehetner , quite subtle and never really over-dramatic despite the struggles and hurdles she contacts during her search for the truth . If some character , particularly John , is rather aggressive and angry towards her wishing for her to leave , Christy ( . . through Zehetner ) doesn't overreact or throw tantrums about being mistreated . A constant feeling of others wishing for her to just leave the town is ever-present and when she questions anything about Vanessa's death , barriers are thrown up . But , you just know that Christy will forge ahead despite signs of danger , and find the truth . While it's easy to see who the culprit might be regarding the mystery's answer , I found a critical twist regarding Vanessa's true fate rather hard to swallow . The film contains a house with a crawlspace that is very important as a travel source for both escape and directly leading to rooms . . it's a plot device used well . You often see Christy attending funerals , too . The twist might work for some . . who the monster is that is supposedly terrorizing Amy and behind the attack of John , but I found it a bit hard to take . Beautiful location work , attractive production values , and rather decent acting , but the overall film never really gripped me . And , that ending ( . . what happens when Christy discovers the real truth about Vanessa ) left me cold and indifferent .
The Hand	Comic book artist Jonathan Lansdale ( Michael Caine ) loses his good hand in a freak car accident . His marriage to Anne ( Andrea Marcovicci ) had already begun to crumble and even suffers worse because JL even becomes are harder person to be around than before . She has hinted at them separating while she takes their daughter Lizzie ( Mara Hobel ) to school in New York , but when his professional career hits the skids , a California teaching job becomes available . The job itself is nothing to write home about but an affair with a student , Stella ( Annie McEnroe ) , offers a promise of happiness as Anne becomes involved with another man much more attentive to her emotional needs ( . . and it does help that this man is kind to her treating her with respect which seems to be faults JL lacks ) . But , JL is not the kind of person to give up his family because his pride is a monster to deal with and his very thought of that man fulfilling his role as father enrages him . That's where the horror elements come into play . Those who cross JL's ire are being attacked and killed by his severed hand ! That hand seems to have such power in it that it crushes bones and throats with gusto . Director Oliver Stone , though , often provides doubt regarding whether it's really that hand or JL himself as we see his face twist in bitter anger as if he's on the verge of unleashing furious violence . Caine does this well , but unfortunately his cartoonist can often be so vile and harshly aggressive and taken to outbursts towards Anne , that we feel nothing for him at all when his life becomes threatened itself . I certainly don't blame Anne for wanting to leave him and seeing his life fall apart isn't that shocking . It's hard to feel any sort of sympathy for his plight because we rarely have a chance to like him . Stella is able to get through to his calmer side which seems to soften him until we find out a secret regarding her and another teacher ( Bruce McGill ) she's involved with sexually . Decent horror fare , with a nasty little bloody sequence where JL loses his hand with blood squirting all over the place . Stone creates enough a mystery keeping us from totally believing this hand is doing the offing . It has an end result regarding JL when that hand has one last task , silencing Anne ( not that surprising , huh ? ) which might provide enough answers to satisfy , yet Stone doesn't release us , but instead drags it out further . That last five minutes , I believe , could've been left out and it wouldn't have hurt the film . Stone , it seems , wants one last grisly scene to close his film .
Hangman	Serial killer detective thriller regarding a Police Detective's search for a slick murderer using an Internet game of Hangman , as a challenge to find him / her . Detective Nick Roos ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) enlists the aid of " retired " pill-popping psychotherapist , Grace Mitchell ( Mädchen Amick ) , who supposedly awakened to find a man hung in her living room . As Roos and his precinct squad work to find the killer , a development seems to be occurring , those chosen by the Hangman are affiliated with Grace and her former place of employment , a psychiatric institute ran by her estranged stepfather , Dr . Henry Mitchell ( Robert Haley ) . As Roos pursues leads and evidence , his team uncover suspicions of an employee , Paul Jarvis ( Grant Nickalls ) who was once a patient at the institute , carrying a torch for Grace . Roos also discovers that Grace's reason for leaving had to do with an affair and some bad blood associated to Dr . Henry's associate , Dr . Natalie Walsh ( Rosemary Dunsmore ) . It seems that Natalie was having an affair with Henry as Grace's mother lie dying . Natalie's medical practices with patients was reported by Grace but Henry saved her from being terminated thanks to his powerful influence with the board . In turn , Grace was marked , with Natalie using her affair with a deeply depressed patient as leverage . Meanwhile Jarvis was stalking Grace , obsessed with her since first meeting her in the institute . The film shows that Jarvis was sneaking into a room right next to Grace's , even calling in a masseuse who would be a victim of the Hangman game . . this took some gall considering that an armed policeman was guarding Grace's room and Roos was talking to her about the on-going case . Obvious , for those who have seen their fair share of these films , Jarvis is a red herring and the true mastermind will be revealed even though Paul isn't an innocent . The film features familiar traits often associated with these types of films and crime shows dealing with a detective who is burdened to find the killer , and we see how Roos is led on a wild goose chase with his superiors demanding answers , willing to close what they believe is a solved case when a man of his experience knows something's amiss . Also , the film ( . . as often as occurs in this type of crime thriller ) allows the super-intelligent killer to perfectly plan and execute these incredibly difficult / elaborate Hangman murders encountering no problems , carrying them out without a hitch . I always find this far-fetched , but there are serial killers who have survived for a long time , duping police and investigators , but considering who the mastermind is in this film and how incredibly hard it would be to pull off the murders , staged the way they are , the participants involved , and the exact precision it takes without even the slightest mistake , you have to accept it as entertainment in order to fully swallow what's taking place . The film doesn't end the way many often expect , not at a neat resolution for our heroes as is often the case in the past involving detectives and their catching the killer responsible . We're asked to take a leap of faith considering that we must accept a character's personality changing quite drastically when the reveal takes place and the film unveils it's hand . Like many television shows and crime dramas , the detectives often face heavy resistance from sneering , slimy big-city lawyers who enjoy embarrassing them when it is shown that they were either wrong about an arrested suspect or just didn't have the proper evidence to hold him . And , like any giallo or mystery , the story opens numerous suspects , and a motive for committing such crimes soon is enlightened to the viewer . I think this film will possibly find a home with those who like slippery thrillers where the killer stays one step ahead of the police until the lead detective puts two + two together . . the whole cat-and-mouse aspects might draw you in if you are a sucker for this sort of thing . Startling erotic sequence isn't expected and unveils the psychology of the murderer who'll do whatever it takes to get revenge . As always Lou Diamond allows his detective a sense of dignity and compassion , but he's quite gullible at times which exposes him as being human when it comes to shady characters with ulterior motives . Flashy role for Mädchen Amick , whose character is complex and conflicted , with plenty of skeletons in her closet .
Penny Dreadful	Penny Deerborn ( Rachel Miner , in a great performance ) suffers from a deep , penetrating fear of cars stemming from a devastating wreck which took the lives of her parents . To tackle this fear head on , her therapist Orianna ( Mimi Rogers ) wishes to take Penny to the location of which the wreck occurred . But , along the way , they pick up a hitchhiker who is actually an escaped lunatic who murdered several people at a diner . Releasing the hitcher at a closed campsite for the winter , Orianna wishes to get the hell out of dodge , but her tire is torn by a large pin . . the hitcher has them where he / she wants them . With it getting colder and colder and a storm a brewing , Orianna walks away from the car hoping to get a signal on her cell phone , but the hitcher has other plans . Penny suffered a twisted ankle when Orianna was teaching her a lesson ( Penny would not return to the car so Orianna pretended to leave her which had the frightened young phobic running for it with the end result being a twisted ankle ) and when trying to get away from the killer hits her head on a stone . Awakening inside her car , Penny finds the recording of Orianna's murder on a camcorder in her lap and even worse the car pinned between large trees with no escape route possible ! So Penny is at the mercy of a psychopath bent on toying with her inner fear of cars . There are various characters in the flick merely fodder for the hitcher to sneak up behind with his / her knife such as two camp groundskeepers pulling night shift duty , Eddie ( Mickey Jones ) and Alvin ( Chad Todhunter ) . Also , Alvin's adulterous lover , Mary ( Tammy Filor ) is another addition to the hitcher's death list . Cliché ridden horror flick is surprisingly intense thanks to the effective multiple dilemmas facing our heroine Penny . Miner's virtuoso performance as the tormented Penny helps anchor this exercise somewhat . Having Mimi Rogers ' corpse in the car with Penny ratchets up the macabre situation not to mention the blood scattered all over the car windows bringing a vibrant color red splashed on Miner's face as she constantly looks for the appearance of her captor or possible help from somebody outside . The knowledge of a sicko killer somewhere out of the car as we watch poor Penny inside adds dimension to the thriller . But , when we are introduced to the killer in all his / her glory . . the screeching , hammy , over-the-top villainy is laughable instead of frightening and ruins the sharp build-up of suspense from director Richard Brandes . And , the cliché-ridden script is also hard to overcome considering this is still a hitch-hiker psycho-thriller that has been done before . This flick's damn lucky Miner is as good as she is and that her mental plight is so interesting because it almost makes this little creeper a success . I will say Brandes is quite talented with a keen ability to squeeze every bit of tension out of this rather-predictable flick . It's also quite attractive visually . . good production values , it's most certainly a good-looking film even if it's rather derivative . Horror icon Michael Berryman has a cameo as a Gas Station Attendant .
Body Melt	A neighborhood suburban community is selected by corrupt scientists testing subjects with a very unstable , unpredictable vitamin supplement , which causes hallucinations , glandular problems and hideous death . . the body , resisting the vitamin in the system , essentially destroys itself from the inside out . Opening a posh health / fitness resort , Shaan ( Regina Gaigalas ) wishes for the vitamin to be mass produced due to a customer contractual demand , but her partner-n-crime , Dr . Carrera ( Ian Smith ) , testing the experimental drug on a pregnant woman of all people , has fears of it's possible side effects and questions such a hasty decision to do so right away without further testing . A third scientist , who actually has the chemical formula needed for the vitamin to truly work , lives in the boonies outside of Melbourne with his inbred family of freaks . . at first welcoming a couple of teenagers on their way to Vimuville ( . . where Shaan's health resort is located ) halted by a vehicle malfunction , soon the kids are treated hostilely when one of them is ripped apart by the inbred daughter with a taste for human flesh and sadism . We watch as each member of the community of Homesville suffers horrifying effects by the vitamin , as the police attempt to solve the baffling mysteries behind the deaths . We are provided the icky , gooey adverse reactions by the vitamin supplement towards those who ingested it unknowingly . Those who abuse the vitamin knowingly , taking excessive amounts , often suffer even worse reactions . Faces come apart , throats rip open , heads turn to slop , a tongue protrudes from a mouth , a pregnant woman's placenta attacks her husband entering his mouth later causing a devastating bodily meltdown among other gory effects . The film is primarily aimed at the rapid growing obsession for fitness and shaping the perfect body , also poking fun as the mass-market process of consumers with greed motivating the production of a vitamin without proper testing . The film spends small amounts of time on the various victims of the vitamin , but none of the characters leave a lasting impression . . except maybe for the inbred weirdos and their grotesque way of living . My favorite sequence is when the skateboarding kid crushes his face on the ramp and we see the aftermath . . his face disfigured , quite a ghastly sight .
The Murder Mansion	Modestly entertaining spook-house chiller has a various group of motorists finding themselves crashed nearby a cemetery thanks to a thickening fog that has engulfed them . Near the unattended graveyard is a manor once home to a rumored-to-be witch who , along with her chauffeur , died in a car crash three decades earlier . Their spirits perhaps roam the grounds as a car , being driven by a man dressed in a chauffeur's uniform , almost runs over handsome motorcyclist Fred ( Andrés Resino ) who was attempting to flag the driver down . Fred is carrying a lovely hitchhiker , Laura ( Lisa Leonardi ) , as they found themselves crashing near the graveyard . Before their unfortunate accident , wealthy heiress , Elsa ( . . beautiful red-head Analía Gadé ) , recently recovering from a nervous breakdown due to the death of her father ( . . who died of a heart-attack while having sex with a much younger woman ) , was driving to a village to meet clients , Mr & Mrs Tremont ( Eduardo Fajardo & Yelena Samarina ) but , also runs off the road and into an embankment near the graveyard , encountering two sinister beings shrouded in darkness , one in a chauffeur's hat and boots , with a female figure slightly behind him . Incredibly frightened , Elsa runs into Fred and Laura . The trio find the manor , discovering that the Tremonts inside , having been in a wreck with another motorist , a gun-toting , sports-car driving , alcoholic , skirt-chasing , weak-hearted Mr . Porter ( Franco Fantasia ) who came on to Laura a little strong when he had initially picked her up on the side of the road . This group finds that the manor has an owner , the mysterious , enigmatic Martha Clinton ( Ida Galli ; Case of the Scorpion's Tale , Seven Notes in Black ) , who carries a striking resemblance to her aunt ( . . her portrait hangs above the fireplace in the living room of the manor ) . Martha dotes on the folklore behind her ancestor , the claims of vampirism and witchcraft and how these things drove locals from the location elsewhere . Over the night , Elsa will be targeted by the eerie chauffeur and Aunt Clinton , as she slowly is driven mad , but why ? Why would the spirits of Clinton and her chauffeur wish to drive Elsa crazy ? Meanwhile Fred and Laura snoop around , wishing to understand more about their surroundings and the chauffeur who almost run him over . Important sub-plot is introduced in the early going , regarding Elsa's very unhappy husband Ernest ( Alberto Dalbés ) , who is having an affair with another woman . Ernest was once wealthy as well , but spent his money on women and drink . Ernest mentions to his devoted lover how he'd like to split from Elsa , but her financial support is hard to give up . This isn't just thrown in the movie for filler , and could very well tie into the future events of the movie . The cast is decent and the dubbing is bearable . The film flirts with the supernatural , but the overall story isn't that overwhelming . The whole film lives and breathes familiarity . . . you have seen it all before , over and over . Perhaps the film offers surprises for viewers who are not accustomed to these type of old dark house mysteries where something's afoot , but I believe most will find this merely an adequate time-waster , nothing special or mind-blowing . Could've been a lot worse , but I have a pretty good feeling most will forget about this movie soon after it's over . Elsa's story is emphasized more than everyone else's .
The Curious Dr . Humpp	Dr Humpp ( Ricardo Bauleo ) has almost perfected the formula for eternal youth and it's source derives from the removed libidos of those engaged in passionate sex . A newspaper reporter , George ( Aldo Barbero ) , is on his trail , soon finding his hidden fortress , kidnapped , and forced into becoming a sexual subject , attempting to not only escape but help those captured as well . This plan won't be easy because Humpp has his secret estate / society surrounded by monsters , hideous human experiments which went awry , now robotic servants obeying his command . Humpp also is guided by his dead mentor whose alive brain ( . . kept in a jar with fluid ) motivates him to continue on what seems like a potential success . Humpp's actually an elderly man using the extracted libidos to remain young , aided by his nurse ( . . and lover ) Enfermera ( Susana Beltrán ) . George soon falls in love with a sultry captive , Rachel ( Gloria Prat ) and desires to rescue her from their prison . Meanwhile the police attempt to trace George's steps before he went missing also following leads tipped to them by several witnesses who reported a brute with a ghastly face before they were killed by him . Humpp needs certain pharmaceutical items and his henchman is sent out to fetch them , soon having to kill the pharmacist who contacts the police based on a sketched facial diagram of a suspect provided to them by a bartender ( Justin Martin ) . That monster also burns the human subjects once they are drained of their libidos and has a particular fondness for Rachel . Basically a bizarre concoction of the mad scientist genre and soft-core pornography . I personally found most of the sex scenes tedious , unerotic , performed rather zombie-like , and repetitive . The frank sexual dialogue is often so unbelievably blunt , it's almost hard to accept that the performers had the ability to say their lines without bursting into laughter . I think what makes THE CURIOUS DR HUMPP such a delirious experience is how serious the tone and performances really are . Bauleo is incredibly intense as the scientist , quite fanatical at times when anyone attempts to defeat his purpose behind using folks ' passion as a means to remain young . Features a delicious striptease by Prat before she's kidnapped , and Beltrán is scrumptious as Humpp's assistant yearning for his affections . The sex scene between George and Enfermera is so odd because it occurs when she's drugged and he was about to attempt an escape , yet they just go at it without abandon . It's so surreal to see the kidnapped subjects just embracing each other as if they were elsewhere , not captured and doomed to perish . The sets are really cheap as is the monster's rubber mask , hairy gloves with claws , and black costume . This will all appeal to a certain audience who find such lo-fi junk entertaining . Veritably wall-to-wall sex with lengthly screen time devoted to people disrobing each other . Not short of trashy dialogue either while couples are engaged in their tawdry exercises . Frequent lesbianism which I normally fancy is so blandly performed I had a hard time staying awake . Luridly photographed in B & W photography , often quite voyeuristic as if an invited peeper with a camera was recording folks up close and personal . Director-writer Emilio Vieyran is less concerned with the police procedural aspects as he is with showing naked flesh gyrating in a state of supposed ecstasy .
Cold & Dark	" Never trust anything that bleeds for a week and still doesn't die . " Vice Sergeant detective John Dark ( Luke Goss , who seems more worried about how cool he looks on screen ) realizes that his new , well dressed partner , " Governor " Morty DC Shade ( Kevin Howarth , who grows more and more creepy and menacing as the film continues ) was actually killed in a raid on slave runners gone awry , revived by the blood of a foreign girl which gives birth to a creature ( . . labeled a " grail " by a kooky member of internal affairs , Dr . Elgin portrayed by bald-headed Matt Lucas ) inside him . The grail yearns for blood , slowly transforming the host , creating a monster which replaces Shade overtime . Shade begins attacking those behind the slave-running operation which moves underage girls from country to country illegally for prostitution purposes , and Dark stands pat because playing by the rules hasn't brought the " bad guys " to justice . But , when Shade attacks a decoy placed in harm's way by the mastermind behind the entire slave-running operation , Dark convinces himself that the monster must be destroyed before things really get out of control . Albany ( Carly Turnbull ) , a secret agent keeping a member of the slave-running organization safe because of his testimonies against his comrades in exchange for favors , butts heads with Dark when those associated with her client are turning up dead , horribly disfigured by some sort of beast with a nasty overbite . Soon Dark and Shade will have to duke it out or else the monster poses danger to the human race at large , not just those undesirables which break laws and pose a threat to society . Director Andrew Goth presents a flashy neo-noir Gothic horror flick which also works as a variation on the vampire theme and cop drama . The British-speak is on display and the tough-talking detectives ooze machismo . The villains of the film are rather undeveloped , only serving the plot as delicacies for Shade's vampiric monster , which emerges from a hole in his hand ( . . also , before the monster appears , long nails burst forth from Shade's fingers ) . Goth's style is ambitious and flamboyant as he uses all types of camera set-ups and movements , attempting visually , it seems , to make up for the paper-thin plot . Without the creature , this is just another Death Wish variant with Shade replacing Bronson's vengeance seeking vigilante , out for his own brand of justice . The heavies in the film are colorful , but they appear , are killed , and disappear . . card board characters placed in the film as vermin for extermination . One member of the slave-ring , a woman needing money for her young son , Tommy ( Rhys Moosa ) , who forges passports , is developed a bit because we do need some sort of sympathetic character in this film , other than agent Albany ( . . who often seems but a mere robot doing her duty to prevent harm towards her voice into a major operation she wishes to demolish ) for when you have a story seething with such corrupted sorts and coppers stooping to their level to " clean the streets " , it's nice to find someone to care about if even slightly . The attacks are often committed in a way to not show the creature eating inside it's victims perhaps due to budget constraints ( . . instead we are privy to the pleasured expression on Shade's face as he " feeds " ) . The creature is also rather shown quickly , never fully visible too long on screen , perhaps because it's created through CGI , which would expose how unrealistic it is . A lot is left to our imagination , that's for sure . Shade looks more and more like a vampire as the film moves along , his eyes absent of humanity , as he carries a ferocious visage . He really looks like a human monster by the film's climax . The film doesn't go out of it's way to explain how this creature came to be and the entire warehouse sequence where people died , including Shade ( . . the director follows Dark as he attempts to find his partner and the two slave-runners who were party to this particular exchange ) , occurs away from our eyes . Merely a hanging female corpse whose blood drops gave new life to Shade , combusting into flame , is our reason for the creature's existence .
The Nun	" So let me get this straight , are you trying to tell me that all this is some sort of I Know What You Did 18 Summers Ago or something ? " Sister Ursula ( Cristina Piaget ) , murdered by her students and thrown in the pond near the Catholic school she taught them , returns in watery form to kill those who took her life 18 years later when the watering hole that was her place of rest is dried out by the Thermal Heating Spa planning to place their site there . Each now-adult student of Ursula's is killed in the form of the portrait of their patron saint counterparts hanging on the wall in the school which was shut down after the nun's disappearance . Eve ( Anita Briem ) finds her mom's throat being slit by the liquefied nun as Ursula flees out the window . It's Eve's new mission to find the other students who attended with her mom in the hopes of understanding what exactly has spurned the events taking place . She doesn't exactly understand what her mother and those students did one day many years ago and finds that each person who partook in Ursula's demise die in various gruesome ways , most right before her eyes . Eve receives assistance from a seminary student , Gabriel ( Manu Fullola ) with past emotional baggage of his own , when she travels to Barcelona with her high school chums looking for answers . They will make their way to the closed-down school as Eve meets with the two remaining students left alive as the nun plans to finish her quest . If one can look past the hokey premise , and terrible explanation of who the nun is by dufus Joel ( Alistair Freeland ) , then there's some good , inspired moments in this flick . The watery nun creation is obviously more than inspired by the Ring's Samara , but she is quite a creepy concoction Yuzna and company's Fantastic Factory have come up with . Lots of gruesome decapitations such as one woman's arms being sliced off by an elevator and one woman's head being sheared off by a sliding piece of broken window glass . Anita Briem is merely okay as the heroine , but most of the cast have a hard time combating the English language . The production values are surprisingly good for a flick such as this and it's stylishly photographed . It's a glossy bad movie , but one that at least leaves somewhat an impression . The ending , as silly as it's explained , is marred with an unsatisfying resolution .
Trackman	Thieves remove money and three hostages from a Russian bank , take it to a labyrinthine underground subway system of tunnels where their mastermind is supposed to be waiting since he understands where the exit is . What the three bank robbers don't expect is a psycho wielding a pickax with a penchant for removing eyeballs as keepsakes ! The film highlights Grom ( Dmitri Orlov ) as the most level-headed humane figure among the thieves who soon becomes leader of their motley frightened group hoping to set some sort of trap for the killer , but his problem is that only the " trackman " understands his way around the underground maze . Kostya ( Tomas Motskus ) and his partner were responsible for this seemingly perfect plan of snatch-grab-hide-and-escape not knowing that there would be a major set-back awaiting them in the tunnels . Kostya and his pal had planned on keeping the loot for themselves which , in a wicked twist of fate , is spoiled thanks to their choice of location . The killer wears an eerie pair of goggles over a ski-mask , heavy overcoat and pants , carrying not only his trusty pick-ax but an eye-removing device as well ( . . one of those nasty kind of creations obviously designed and made by his own mind and hands ) . Director Igor Shavlak often shoots the trackman in ominous ways and really exploits the dread of our characters ' situation thanks in part to the choice of location . The ancient abandoned underground subway tunnels make an ideal choice for an atmospheric hunting ground for a killer , and the perilous situation our characters find themselves in works in the film's favor . The idea that the killer knows the method of travel and escape in the tunnels as the others attempt various ways to escape heightens the suspense even though slasher fans have seen this all before . Director Shavlak mostly pulls his punches , not really elaborating on the attacks with great detail , disguising the pick-ax violence ( . . and eyeball extracting ) through cunning camera-movements and editing . What is a constant , a certain success , is that the location , claustrophobic and unsettling , where light is privilege the characters often lack and their cold breath is always visible , works it's hold over you . . you would certainly not want to be caught in this environment with a killer who knows where every nook and cranny is of the place . Unlike a great number of films in the slasher genre , the identity of the killer is of no great importance to the plot as a whole . He's a warped and dangerous psychopath who constantly threatens those he pursues . Guns are used in ways which shape the outcome of certain characters ' lives thanks to a killer who hides and moves well in the dark patches of the place with fear often separating them . One robber , who decides that there's no way in hell the killer would get his trophy , slashes his own eyes with a blade . We do witness an eyeball being pried away from the socket , but it's rather brief . I think the novelty of this being a Russian slasher might catch on with fans of the genre , while others will find it just another average entry in the ever-growing cycle of films regarding a serial killer chasing his prey .
Aliens versus Predator : Requiem	Gunnison County , Colorado faces an incredible crisis of galactic proportions . . A Predator-alien hybrid , Predalien , has birthed on a Predator ship studying other aliens , face-huggers kept in liquid glass cannisters , and causes the space vessel to crash-land in a forest region on Earth near the Colorado town posing a thread to humankind . We watch as the Predalien spreads eggs into the human populace while the face-huggers , which escapes the crashed Predator ship , attach to human faces . The birthing process , unlike in previous Alien films , is much faster it seems and they soon grow into the monsters that go on a murderous rampage leaving bodies piled up . Soon the National Guard moves in only to be eliminated in quick fashion , leaving a motley group of surviving citizens to fend for their very lives as menacing baddies are at every turn . A Predator warrior , who finds his fallen comrades , silently vows vengeance , and any human in this path will die . Glossy dumb cartoon action-horror flick is a fun way to waste 100 minutes . Characters are given just enough exposition to establish them before they face the trials of being in between a war of a Predator warrior and slimy alien walkers . Yes , a lot of the film takes place at night and within darkened places ( such as a sewer during which alien face huggers attach themselves to derelicts ' faces and Predalien attacks a female hobo who finds her buddies under unfortunate conditions , while we also see the Predator warrior setting up hi-tech booby-traps and blasting them before exploding through the city street above ) so the action can be hard to place which is a shame . I didn't have a problem others , it seems , have with the CGI used in the film . CGI actually never occurred to me . The filmmakers found clever ways to use Predator warrior's night vision to display the violent wake of their victims ' dead bodies . There was also an amusing scene where a citizen's head is taken clean off by the Predator warrior's helmet laser . And , the Predator warrior uses a large , hi-tech forms of daggers which , when thrown , slice off alien heads ( . . one even sticks a human to the wall ) . The Predalien is a funny hybrid which can actually lay eggs down the throats of victims ( . . as is the case when the things fills the body of a pregnant woman in a hospital ) . It has the face of a Predator , yet has the alien walker's whipping tail . As in any of the previous films that came before this , there are human casualties , in the wrong place at the wrong time , such as a father and his son hunting , nuclear power plant technicians who find themselves trapped at work while the Predator warrior does battle with an alien walker , a sensitive father whose killed right in front of his returned soldier wife and frightened daughter , etc . You have two brothers , with a troubled relationship , who must set aside their differences when terrors are threatening them . One's hottie girlfriend gets the goofy clichéd lines that have become standard dialogs for these kind of films , such as " We're not gonna make it , are we ? " or " Maybe , they're all gone . " You have the typical governmental corruption , as humans expect an airlift to rescue them with a plane under different orders . As you've probably read elsewhere , with a fine-tooth comb , you could pick this film clean because there are an endless foray of holes which pop out to snap you faster than an alien walker's second mouth . . but , it goes by so fast that I barely had enough time to care . Certainly a guilty pleasure , but isn't a classic by any means of the imagination . If you can somehow turn your brain off ( . . yes , this is often used when one watches a film such as " Aliens versus Predator " ) this might be entertaining . If anything , you get little aliens bursting from the stomachs of women , acid melting away human faces , and a combat between a Predator using the gadgetry at his disposal against a growing number of nasty , slimy-mouthed aliens . What's not to love , eh ?
Pinocchio's Revenge	A recently divorced district attorney and her troubled daughter ( . . she has " repressed hostility " towards her father who left them ) move to a new place to start over . Jennifer Garrick ( . . the lovely veteran of television and B-movie horror , Rosalind Allen ) is worried about her daughter , Zoe ( Brittany Alyse Smith ) , who has a hard time adjusting to any school she's been in which only adds weight to the heavy anvil of stress in a job often representing the lowest of criminals . Jennifer feels she has found a new love in landscaper David ( Todd Allen ) but their lives get a little complicated when she inherits the case of a convicted child murderer , Vincent Gotto ( Lewis Van Bergen ) who is on trial for the killing of his son . Unable to to rescue him from the electric chair , and truly believing he was innocent , Jennifer reluctantly " inherits " a Pinocchio doll , wood carved by Gotto's own hands . It's really supposed to be evidence filed away , but manages accidentally to make it into the arms of Zoe setting off a chain of dangerous events that will put many lives in jeopardy . The film seems like another in a long foray of killer doll movies where a puppet can move amongst the adults freely committing cruel and violent deeds because no one in their right mind would suspect an inanimate object of such things . But , instead , the films opens the possibility that Zoe herself could be harvesting a dark side urging her to commit foul play out of some sort of mixed up agenda to keep her mother from " leaving her like daddy did . " The film even opens a possibility that Pinocchio is possessing Zoe , and perhaps did the same to Gotto's son . At any rate we actually " hear " the puppet's voice and director Kevin Tenney ( Witchboard ; Night of the Demons ) has us seeing his " lips move " , although Zoe's therapist records a session where she appears to be talking to herself after we had just witnessed a conversation between child and puppet ( . . the pivotal scene has Zoe confronting Pinocchio about his actions in a key character's death with the puppet questioning her on perhaps actually being the perpetrator behind the crime ) . The climax has Pinocchio killing another key character with a fireplace poker before chasing after Jennifer which might remind many of the Zuni doll attack in Dan Curtis ' Trilogy of Terror . Candace McKenzie is Jennifer's hired help , Sophia , an Italian beauty who sees herself certain odd happenings around the house such as Zoe's dolls either damaged or thrown in the trash . I think many might find the puppet chasing after Jennifer with a butcher knife too wacky to be disturbing or scary , while , for some reason , the Chucky doll was able to escape such a pratfall . Many might be reminded of Child's Play while watching this . Perhaps a critical mistake by the filmmakers was featuring so little action at the start , only kicking in the " thrills " after about 45 minutes in ( . . the first real stunning attack has Pinocchio using the handle of a rake to trip a girl ( . . a bully to Zoe ) from her bike and into the path of a moving school bus ) . And , David ( . . seen as a threat at " seperating mom from daughter " ) is not only attacked once , but twice . I think a major plus is that the characters are likable and the girl's position within the plot raising a question on who is behind the deeds that occur to innocents , is actually a fascinating psychological arc . I felt Tenney does what he can through technical means to enhance the thrills when victims are in danger , but while his 80's films had a degree of spunk and enthusiasm , Pinocchio's Revenge lacks those traits which often make his work such fun to sit through . In this film , Tenney's direction plays completely straight , without even a scent of the tongue-in-cheek attitude one recalls from time's past . Dick Beals provides the voice of Pinocchio , and none other than Verne Mini-Me Troyer portrays the puppet walking around in darkness after Zoe clips his strings enabling him to move around with freedom ( . . it seems the puppet strings limited his abilities to do whatever he so wished ) .
Friday the 13th	Underwhelming , formulaic " addition " to the Friday the 13th franchise has hockey-masked psychopath Jason Voorhies killing a group of teenagers who make the unfortunate mistake of trespassing on his property , the wilderness and surrounding area of his home and Camp Crystal Lake . The film opens with Jason , as a boy , watching his mother being beheaded by the remaining survivor of a group of camp counselors ( . . this opening is incredibly disappointing and uninspired ) . He picks up a neck-laced locket with his mother's ( . . and his ) picture inside . Years later , a group of teenagers are on the pursuit of marijuana , building a camp in the wilderness nearby Crystal Lake , falling prey to Jason ( . . at this point wearing a pillow case over his head with an eye hole cut to see ) . Whitney Miller ( Amanda Righetti ) watches as her boyfriend is attacked by Jason while they are touring through a ravaged house belonging to the killer's mom . Running like hell , she encounters her fallen friends and as Jason is about to drop his machete towards her face , the screen fades black ( . . a plot point to add : her boyfriend encounters the locket noting to Whitney that she favors the woman's picture ) . Whitney's brother , Clay ( Jared Padalecki of " Supernatural " fame ) is searching for her , probing the area of Crystal Lake hoping that a citizen might've recognized her , encountering locals who warn him to leave . Meanwhile , another group of partying teenagers decide to crash at the wealthy estate of Trent's ( Travis Van Winkle ) father . Jenna ( Danielle Panabaker , who has blossomed into an attractive young woman ) , Trent's girlfriend , opts to assist Clay ( . . they seem to know each other as does Trent who does not embrace Clay's presence , seeing him as a threat , hostile towards him ) in his search while others smoke dope and get wasted . Clay and Jenna discover some gruesome truths regarding Jason after finding the psychopath with a dead body draped over his shoulder . We will also discover what happened to Whitney along the way . I will admit that this remake / reboot / whatever looks fabulous . . it is dark , gritty , and polished . Director Marcus Nispel and Platinum Dunes essentially give this film the same kind of look their TCM " re-envisioning " had . The film has all the bells and whistles money could buy but lacks that sense of fun the franchise always had . . it's an exercise in weapons stabbing victims with characters running for their life or finding Jason's massive presence behind them . Jason is indeed a menace and kills with an authority everyone ( . . except one female character ) in his path . It's simple really . . if you invade his turf , you die a horrible death . The film is essentially a series of graphic violence towards teenagers . . the machete rips through bodies a lot . Victims ' backs are turned and the blade penetrates them all the way through ( . . we see their shocked reactions as the machettes bursts from their chest ) . Savage murders include an ax thrown at a victim as he retreats ( . . slamming into the guy's back ) , an arrow stabbing a victim driving a motorboat ( . . through the skull ) , a fireplace poker inserted through the eye of the local sheriff ( . . and through Trent's father's front door ) , a girl is " antlered " ( . . an obvious homage to Silent Night , Deadly Night ) , one girl is trapped in a sleeping bag upside down over a camp fire , one guy's ankle gets caught in a bear trap with the bone and ripped flesh present ( . . also receiving a machete slammed into his face ) , one girl ( . . underneath a bridge in Crystal Lake hoping to avoid Jason ) getting rammed directly into the skull by the tip of the machete , another victim slowly stabbed into the throat with a screwdriver , etc . Nispel often shoots the film at night . . a moody , brooding , forbidding place where victims barely stand a chance . The wilderness and home of Jason around Camp Crystal Lake are a murky , decadent environment civilization has left to rot . Jason has no personality . . he's simply a killing machine who awaits vulnerable victims , mainly when they are alone or in the middle of something . The cast is your basic stock group of attractive disposable teens , lambs to the slaughter , representing basic stereotypes we slasher fans know all too well . There's a pretty lame set-up for how Jason finds his hockey-mask . Nothing about this film is fresh or original , although many of the chase scenes are exciting accompanied by a pulse-poundingly loud musical score and frenzied camera attempting to capture the horror of it all , with " jump scare " sound effects ever present to make theater-goers scream with fright . I rather liked Padalecki and Panabaker . . they are likable enough and not overbearing . The others meant nothing to me although , Julianna Guill is quite a sex kitten who sheds her clothes ( . . having sex with Trent who can not escape his lustful desire for her ) and Willa Ford goes water boarding topless , so that was appreciated . For slasher fans only .
Beyond the Darkness	Spoilers regarding some violent acts in the movie . . Read at your own risk . . " Death has no power to separate us . " Franc ( Kieran Canter ) succumbs to madness when his beloved wife Anna ( Cinzia Monreale ) dies of heart failure . What he doesn't know is that his house-servant Iris ( Franca Stoppi ) , someone who is was supposed to be able to trust , was the one responsible for her demise . . via witchcraft . Franc ( in a very explicit , gory sequence ) digs Anna's body from her grave , and preserves it removing the organs and blood . A female hitchhiker he was stuck with after fixing a flat tire ( she helped herself in the passenger's seat ) discovers what Franc is doing and tries to both flee and attack him in a state of fear and pays the ultimate price . Scratching his neck , Franc retaliates by plucking out her fingernails followed by death through suffocation . Iris finds Franc stuck in a difficult situation and assists him ! We find that Iris wishes to become his new wife and will help him get rid of the dead hitcher's corpse ( in another of many grisly scenes , Iris only too happily chops the body up dumping the pieces in a bathtub of acid ) . Another female victim is claimed later as Franc picks up a female jogger training for a race . You see Franc keeps his Anna's preserved corpse in their former bedroom and imagine the shock of a sexually willing jogger getting a glimpse of that as the man she's about to sleep with carries on without a flinch . Biting his hand , she receives a chunk of her throat pulled out by Franc's teeth as he devours the flesh ! Iris again steps in to assist him by burning the corpse in their incinerator in the basement . But , you have to question how long this union between to obvious wackos can last . A snooping man , who works for a priest in charge of keeping Anna's grave-site undamaged , begins to circulate around Franc's humble abode . . will he discover the truth ? Disgusting , unflinchingly gruesome tale lives up to it's reputation mightily . It'll take individuals with strong stomachs to watch it . The flick is directed seriously with no winking , but the twist at the end regarding Anna's surprise relative seems pulled out a hat . . it just seems a bit too much after seeing what we have for 85 minutes . As a gore film it succeeds . . but the flick is tasteless and especially morbidly sick . The flick's theme is about how obsession can cause people to do strange and bizarre things .
( Clive Barker's ) The Plague	A plague renders mostly 9 year old children catatonic , yet alive . Through ten years , they have serious seizures twice a day and mysteriously grow stronger . After this , anyone with child birth infants catatonic . . it brings about societal collapse and all across the world , laws are being enforced regarding pregnancy being outlawed and forbidden . Then one night , everything changes . These kids , now teenagers mostly , awaken inhumanely violent towards anyone who is in their path . While , thanks to news bulletins , this is a global catastrophe , the film centers in a town being overrun by these cold-blooded and unhinged kids who operate as a collective . What sent them into a coma for ten years and why are they so violent and powerful ? The film focuses on a selected group of characters . Tom Russell ( James Van Der Beek ) is recently paroled and returning to his hometown rather unwelcome . His older brother has a kid among the " catatonic collective " he has tended to for ten years . After meeting up with Sheriff Cal Stewart ( John P Connolly ) to show him his proper release forms , Tom finds his brother-in-law , Sam ( Brad Hunt ) drinking in an alley . Through Sam we find that Tom was responsible for the murder of someone in a bar-fight ruining a promising sports career and marriage to Jean ( Ivana Milicevic ) , a nurse who tends to a school of catatonics along with a staff . Jean's resistance isn't surprising but what Tom wakens to is . . his nephew attacking him after murdering his father . Along with Sam who has to assist him in dispatching their newly revived and bloodthirsty relative , Tom makes it for the school where Jean is working the late shift . With these catatonic kids now forming packs of murderous fiends , Tom , Sam , Jean , Cal ( . . his deputy and wife ) & a teenage couple , who pretend to be among the catatonic collective as a means of survival , hole up in a church as a temporary sanctuary . Sam's leg is snapped thanks to one of the powerful kids he attempts to fend off , and must rest while the others try and figure out how to evade the other killers for an Air Force Base miles ahead . The plan is disrupted when Cal's daughter is found in the church , with all hell breaking loose as a result . And , the collective are growing smarter , removing the innards of every vehicle and using guns . . For a good portion of the running time , " The Plague " operates like a zombie film . Characters who are able to escape from the clutches of the killing breed swarming around gather in a temporarily safe location until circumstances arise threatening the momentary peace . The killer kids attack with a ferocity , sometimes individually , oftentimes in groups . They pop up out of nowhere at times . A Steinbeck novel providing hope during harsh times ( " The Grapes of Wrath " regarding the Great Depression ) is used as a symbol for those in the film trying to hold their head up as the obstacles increase in number . The book is used as a device several times . The " collective angle " is important to the film as a whole . When one kids learns and adapts , the collective follow suit . The kids " devour " the souls of victims taking the emotions of each during the moment of removal . Perhaps this is why the collective continue their murderous rampage with seemingly no end . . taking what their victims feel at the time , there's turmoil , fear , and a desire to kill if necessary for survival . It seems they are searching for someone in particular . . this will ultimately come at the very end when Tom makes a revelation , provided through the last written words of a priest . The film also looks at the need for revenge with Jean serving as a major example when she reacts to the death of her brother in a most negative way . Clive Barker's name is on the film , but " The Plague " doesn't carry a single signature of his work , so do not be fooled . This film , despite some violent moments , is just too soft to even resemble a product of Barker's . . his name was just used as a marketing tool . The film , unlike many a zombie movie ( . . which this resembles even if it isn't directly a zombie picture ) , is played dead-serious with little-to-no humor . Carries a heady existential conclusion . Dee Wallace has a rather minor role as a grieving mother ( . . and wife to the sheriff ) who doesn't accept that her daughter isn't the little girl she once knew , with repercussions threatening our heroes .
Autopsy	Modern slasher spin on the Mad Scientist genre stars Robert Patrick as a psychotic doctor keeping his terminally ill wife alive by using the harvested organs and spinal fluid of victims , brought to him fresh by two ex-cons posing as paramedics . A motley group of college drop-outs , having just enjoyed a raucous time of partying at Mardi gras , are heading home when they suffer a car wreck which provides Patrick's diabolical Dr . David Benway a new supply of fresh meat . Jessica Lowndes is Emily , the established " final girl " who seeks out her boyfriend Bobby ( Ross Kohn ) when he is taken away by Benway's goons , Travis ( Michael Bowen ) and Scott ( Robert LaSardo ) supposedly to get attention to his severe rib injury ( . . a piece of glass was embedded into his skin , almost causing a lacerated lung ) . Meanwhile , Emily's other friends , Clare ( Ashley Schneider ) , Jude ( Ross McCall ) , and Andrey ( Acradiy Golubovich ) are each sent to a room by Nurse Marian ( . . James Cameron regular , Jenette Goldstein ) , not knowing that instead of receiving a check-up , they were bound for certain grisly death . Writer-director Adam Gierasch ( . . who cut his teeth authoring screenplays for Tobe Hooper ) provides quite a colorful , glossy look thanks to his superb cinematographer , Anthony B Richmond , and the setting compliments the blood shed and grue nicely . Make no mistake about it , this is a gore film , first and foremost , and the rules of the slasher formula are in full effect . The screenplay finds multiple opportunities to rescue Emily from certain harm while her friends never have a prayer . Most of the characters , except some modest exposition for Emily and Benway , aren't incredibly developed , and the film pretty much features our heroine pursuing her beloved Bobby never knowing which brute is around the next corner . We also bare witness to the sadistic activities of Travis and Scott , as they clean up the messes once Benway is finished with his victims . As far as the graphic violence , gorehounds will not disappointed . . director Gierasch ( . . whose screenplays for Hooper often feature extremely unpleasant ends to characters killed off ) doesn't shy away from the fact that he's setting out to shock the audience with gratuitous ultra-violence . One scene has poor Clare pinned down by a patient whose wounds aren't sown , his body parts splashing in her face as she struggles to break free . One poor soul is alive , under anesthetic , as his stomach's being removed ! And a cleaver is used to lop off an arm . Travis , in particular , loves torturing victims ( . . how he slams a cleaver into the back of a live victim after punching her in the face , not to mention a very nasty scene where he pokes his finger into the tiny drilled hole of a victim's head display his penchant for embellishing the work of himself and colleagues ) and Scott introduces Jude to a very hallucinogenic drug , locks him in a room , and watches as he falls prey to the effects . Scott is assigned the role of disposing of the body parts no longer needed , sanding off the finger prints . Benway's always operating without emotion , coldly detached from the suffering and pain of others , only concerned with his wife . How Emily fights back against those who need her silenced follows the pattern of slashers , she finds ways to save herself ( . . or is saved by circumstances like the drill which doesn't cut into her skull like Benway desires , and a friend willing to sacrifice himself by lighting nitrous gas ) by using the tools around her . . she gets a chance to really upend one of her attackers by stabbing him in the kneecap with a knife , scissors into his chest , before smashing his face in with an oxygen tank ! The ending ( . . where we see Bobby's condition and how he's being used to " service " Benway's wife ) is quite disturbing , and how Emily confronts the one responsible for all the death that has taken place certainly ends on a vicious note ( . . although , as Gierasch's written screenplays often do , the killer isn't so easy to eliminate ) . The alternate ending ( . . where Emily's fate is different thanks to Benway's wife ) is even more chilling than Gierasch's preferred choice . Fans of " hospital horror " might really enjoy AUTOPSY , although it rarely rises above the routine .
Maniac	Positively strange portrait of dementia features Bill Woods as an insane vaudeville actor , Don Maxwell , working as the assistant of a deranged scientist , Dr . Meirschultz ( Horace B carpenter ) desiring to reanimate the dead . The very definition of ineptitude , the film features a gallery of oddball characters and situations , sectioned with narrative chapters speaking on various diagnosis regarding mental afflictions . Dwain Esper ( Marijuana ) lets his cast ham it up without restraint and there are characters nonessential to the plot which come and go as if dropped into the film to fill the running time . For instance , there is a drop-dead hilarious scene where a police detective is meeting a neighbor of Meirschultz who owns a giant cage of cats and rats that has to be seen to be believed ( " The rats eat the cats , the cats eat the rats , and I get the skins . " ) . What little plot there is consists of those who come in contact with Maxwell who has shot and killed his boss , assuming his identity . Bizarre scenes rarely come as close as seeing a troubled patient , Buckley ( Ted Edwards ) , given a shot of powerful adrenaline by Maxwell , as he transforms into a Renfield type of deranged nut , carrying off a gorgeous female corpse which was stolen by Meirschultz for his experiments . Mrs . Buckley ( Phyllis Diller , nope , not that kooky comedienne ) actually seems shocked at first regarding her husband's sudden surge of psychosis , later propositioning Maxwell for control over her husband after discovering that he plans to re-animate the dead Meirschultz . . to see her negotiating with Maxwell , after her husband had just snatched up a dead chick is jaw-dropping . And , in an uncanny decision , director Esper intersperses scenes from , I think , HAXAN when Maxwell has these demented inspirations which come along fleetingly . Such as when his wife , Alice ( Thea Ramsey ) desiring to get her grubby hands on Maxwell's inheritance from a distant uncle , comes a calling ( . . deciding to rid himself of both Alice and Mrs . Buckley , he concocts a scheme to have them murder each other in Meirschultz's basement ) or his decision to hide Meirschultz's body under a brick wall as to not be caught ( . . this is the body he had planned to experiment on , but that falls to the wayside not long after ) . Edgar Allan Poe's THE BLACK CAT is used for the body hiding sequence thanks in part to a black cat named ( . . appropriate enough ) Satan , who hops into the make-shift tomb . Perhaps the most mind-boggling scene features Maxwell getting revenge on Satan ( . . who had destroyed a living , beating heart kept in a jar ) by popping out it's eyeball and eating it ! I have a hard time believing such a terrible film could be made seriously . . I always had a sneaky suspicion , MANIAC was played as a black comedy . It's just too weird , with several instances of crazed behavior , to be taken seriously as a thoughtful subject on insanity . The acting is off-the-wall and their characters often speak some pretty inane dialogue . The film is basically a series of vignettes in the life of Maxwell the impersonator and how his life is eclipsed by sheer lunacy . A definite must-see for fans of rancid cinema . Those who consider this a precursor to those bad Ed Wood movies down the road are correct , in my opinion . Startlingly features bare breasts .
Amusement	A maniac practical joker , with an overexaggerated , distinctively crazed laugh , terrorizes three young female adults he knew from childhood . We witness how he sets them up before capturing each one of them , preparing a very grisly game holding them in his house of horrors , a maze of intricately designed traps in darkened rooms he elaborately created for them to fall prey to for his own amusement . The opening hour works as a loose anthology , with each female victim headlining a chapter in the movie , named after them . The first victim is Shelby ( Laura Breckenridge ) , who is riding home with her boyfriend , Robert ( Tad Hilgenbrink ) who likes to drive within a convoy ( . . partnered with two other vehicles on an interstate , working as a team ; this one has a suspicious trucker in a rig and a seemingly hospitable suburban father driving an SUV ) . Unfortunately , Robert chooses the wrong convoy , it containing the laughing psychopath whose goal is to kidnap Shelby . This one is woefully short in length and ends rather abruptly with the true psycho pulling a fast one on Robert . The second tale concerns Tabitha ( Katherine Winnick ) , babysitting her nephews while the parents are away . This one works off the fear of clowns and builds suspense ( . . a slow burner where Tabby's sleeping room is decorated in clown dolls with a particular big one in a chair giving her the willies ) eclipsing the first tale , which had ended as it was just getting good . Someone is in the house with Tabitha , the laughing psycho who dons an eerie disguise ( . . the clown mask is particularly effective ) chasing after her . . reminiscent of Halloween , Tabitha must get the boys out of the house as the maniac attempts to break into the bedroom . The third tale , a bit long-in-the-tooth , concerns Lisa ( Jessica Lucas ) who is worried about a roommate / pal who hasn't returned to their pad , very uncharacteristic for such a " good girl " . Persuading her beau , Dan ( Reid Scott ) to drive her to the residence where the friend claimed to be heading , Lisa makes an unfortunate discovery . . a certain someone is waiting just for her . This tale follows Lisa within the ominous confines of a decadent hotel which harbours an unpleasant truth regarding past visitors who became victims of a certain cackling madman . The remainder of the film follows Tabitha as she makes her way through a darkened hellhole , created by the weirdo , not as familiar with this foul unfriendly environment as he is , finding her friends Shelby and Lisa in a very difficult position . Kind of a Saw-lite , with traps and psychological warfare befalling the three female leads and those who happen to be around them , in the wrong place at the wrong time . I thought it was technically sound . . I was thoroughly impressed with the cinematography from Mark Garret and the art direction of Bence Erdelyi & Mihály Molnár . While I wasn't that blown away by the content of the movie ( . . rather bland and predictable story-line , even as the filmmakers attempted a clever arrangement of chapters leading up to the " great escape " where the girls try to flee their captor whose hot on their trail ) , it looks great and is professionally made . Being that this is an independent horror film , it looks as if is has the production values of a big Hollywood budget . I attribute this to the presentation . . I just wish the material present had some originality and pizazz to it . The attractive leads I found credible enough , although I found Keir O'Donnell as the hissable villain really terrible in his over-the-top performance , never creepy enough and , without restraint , he just reeks of amateurishness . I think the overall film is uneven , certain chapters ( Shelby & Lisa ) suffering pacing issues . . . the first too short , the third too long . A problem plaguing me was how Tabitha found herself in the killer's lair towards the end . . and how the psychiatrist winds up there also left me scratching my head . While I realize " it's only a movie " , I have always wondered where these lunatics find the funding and skill available to create such elaborate traps .
Zombi 3	For fans of zombie gore films , Lucio Fulci and Bruno Mattei's " collaberative " efforts will probably leave you rather entertained . The plot is as uninspired using the tired formula of scientists working on a bacterial experiment for the military , called Death 4 , which revives the dead , with a very nasty side-effect . . the hunger for human flesh and a thirst for blood . The threat is contained until enemy agents attempt to steal the formula ( . . placed in a metal case for proper travel ) while scientists are preparing to board a helicopter . . in a shoot-out between these agents and military personnel , one gets away with the metal case , fleeing into the nearby jungle , only to be shot from a helicopter soldier from above . . in doing so , the case bursts open with the formula spilling on his hand . Finding a nearby villa , the agent gets a room , slowly falls victim to the formula's radioactive side effects which cause the skin to bulge grotesque sores which ooze blood , and peeling flesh . A very contagious infection , others come in contact with this guys bodily fluids and an outbreak ravages the closest city with violence and cannibalism . The military , as they always do in these films , decide to quarantine the city , destroying all humankind within the perimeters so that no infection can spread , containing the problem . The huge boo boo the military makes is burning the renegade agent's remains after discovering his body in the villa . . the ashes enter the sky making contact with a flock of birds . This in turn causes the birds to react violently , while also posing a threat to all who happen to live within the area where rain can fall carrying the infection . We follow American soldiers on leave , as they flirt with a bus load of female tourists . A bird attack on the bus leaves a girl wounded , while in another area , a troubled couple encounter homicidal birds of their own . These characters will all face a very hostile threat as the undead of the city , from all directions , wish to feast on their flesh . Meanwhile , the scientists work to find an anecdote so that their military employers will stop the killing . There are plenty of shock-gore moments to be had here , although , the film itself isn't exactly a masterpiece . From what I understand , Fulci directed most of the perilous situations regarding the central characters within the city seeking a way out as zombies keep coming . Bruno Mattei was responsible for the scenes involving the scientists and military providing another hostile threat towards the characters we follow in the city . . as they pursue an escape , the military , in white contamination suits , are to exterminate them following orders to not let anyone out of the city as they pose a possible threat globally . Fulci uses a lot of dry ice in this film as fog is very present as the zombie outbreak becomes more and more imposing . While I considered the use of fog in the swimming pool sequence rather ineffective and corny ( . . although , a female character , who was thrown from a balcony by a zombie into the pool , the result being that her legs were gone , amputated , I guess by underwater undead flesh eaters ! ) because it really looks like gaseous chemicals causing it , but I thought the way the zombies rise from the water and jungle wilderness nearby quite suspenseful due to the " strength in numbers " aspects of it all . There's a classic Fulci sequence where a bridge is immersed in fog shrouding a pack of zombies looking at the character Patricia ( Beatrice Ring ) as she struggles with a damaged , wounded leg causing quite a limp . The American soldier Bo ( Massimo Vanni ) , who is attacked by the woman whose legs were eaten away , futilely fights valiantly against a non-stopping horde of zombies attempting to find some sort of escape route that always eludes him . Ken and Roger ( Deran Sarafian & Ottaviano Dell'Acqua ) are the soldiers who attempt to help Patricia find away out of their difficult situation . Nancy ( Ulli Reinthaler ) has a memorable exit involving a zombie fetus bursting from it's mother's stomach and it's father ripping apart her face . The most obvious memorable effects sequence which causes you to rise from your chair in disbelief is a flying decapitated head out of a refrigerator ( ! ) attacking the throat of a surprised victim as another zombie tearing the flesh from the neck of his lady friend . Of course , there's a gruesome sequence where an infected man chops of his diseased hand . Some very effective make-up for the zombies ' faces , very reminiscent of Romero's undead gut-munchers , yet these look more monstrous ( . . particularly the hands and fingernails ) due to the side-effects of the bacterial infections causing the plague . Some scenes I thought evoke John Carpenter's The Fog , particularly when rotted hands appear , breaking through wood , or standing from afar cloaked in darkness and fog . And these zombies are more athletic and engage in a tussle with potential victims , often even falling from buildings to grab their prey . Plenty of bizarre moments to be had here , some really unintentionally hilarious dialogue , laughable dubbing , and an ending ( . . regarding the condition of a DJ whose a voice across the airwaves , ala Vanishing Point , communicating to the people , and Ken's ridiculous decision to " return to fight " ) that's just side-splitting . This is more of an action-survivalist film overall , with atmospheric touches that hearken back to Fulci's Zombi 2 , but Zombi 3 doesn't achieve the same kind of visceral thrills as it's predecessor . The Phillipines setting is quite alluring , and Fulci achieves a dread through it's being uninhabited as if civilization had gone extinct except for those pesky flesh eaters who'll stop at nothing to corner fresh meat .
Mission to Mars	In 2020 , a small crew on Mars , led by Luke Graham ( Don Cheadle ) come across a metallic object which causes a catastrophic sand-storming tornado , which coils like a snake , killing nearly every member thanks to an accidental miscalculation using radioactive waves . Luke's friends , astronauts at a space station , Woody Blake ( Tim Robbins ) , Jim McConnell ( Gary Sinise ) , Woody's wife Terri ( Connie Nielsen ) & Phil Ohlmyer ( Jerry O'Connell ) convince their superior ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) to allow a rescue mission to Mars to see if he's still alive . The film documents their harrowing journey to Mars and the unforeseen complications that arise . And , especially what they find on Mars , a specific face which shows itself after the massive dust storm erupted killing Luke's crew . Who'd have thunk it . . a family friendly Brian De Palma movie . A rousing score from Ennio Morricone and state-of-the-art special effects ( . . the best money can buy ) highlight a rather artificial " 2001 " wannabe . While the setting is 2020 , the characters seem like they were from 1965 , in modern dress of 1999 . The use of product placements , something of an object of critical scorn , such as Pennzoil and Kawasake , along with an amusing use of Dr . Pepper during a crisis , is certain to get under the skin of those who notice them blatantly paraded on screen ( . . heck , someone had to pay for the visual effects on Mars , and set designs inside the space station and rescue ship , not to mention the outer designs ) . It's clear that Kubrick's masterpiece inspired the filmmakers ( . . the rotating sequence in the rescue ship where Woody and Terri are dancing as Phil walks nearly upside down in zero gravity ) and the ending aspires for grand heights when our remaining survivors find out exactly what gave birth to the Earth we live and how Jim's life will change forever when he accepts an otherworldly " invitation . " The film attempts to give the characters a little exposition . We have the opening barbecue party ( . . a " going away " for Luke and his other three crew members set on a course for Mars ) where De Palma shoots in one long uninterrupted take it seems as his camera follows the main characters who will become a part of the action of the story . We find that Jim has lost his beloved Maggie ( Kim Delaney who just glows with beauty ) to a terminal illness and has suffered for it to the point where his planned mission to go to Mars is not granted due to his difficulty coping with such a shocking loss . Woody and Terri are planning to dance at her sister's wedding . Luke will not be able to read bed-time stories to his kid once he goes on the trip to Mars . Most of this is developed in the first thirty minutes so that the filmmakers can get that back-story out of the way as the action starts . You have the trusty suspenseful " meteorites attack ship " sequence which brings the astronauts through a complex situation where Oxygen is running low and the ship is losing pressure . You have the horrifying loss of an important character when he overshoots a mini capsule , giving his life for the others by attaching a hook-line so that they could make it to Mars . You have the typical " astronauts meet an alien " , straight out of the " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " ( . . even the alien favors the one which greets Earthlings from the ship ) . This is a commercial effort which might generate positive reactions from science fiction fans , particularly when the crew discovers that the alien they're attempting to communicate with is testing them ( . . how Jim discovers this through the use of M & M candies is another rather amusing form of product placement ) .
Pieces	Slasher favorite with a very vocal cult following concerning a demented sickopath murdering female students on a Boston college campus with disgruntled Lieutenant Bracken ( Christopher George ) hoping some kind of lead can be detected from secretly planted policewoman Mary Riggs ( Lynda Day George ) , covertly posing as a tennis coach , and student Kendall James ( Ian Sera ) as they pursue his identity on the grounds . Under their very noses the killer uses a chainsaw and butcher knife , stalking and viciously executing victims while they are alive and screaming . Bracken also relies on partner Sergeant Holden ( Frank Braña ) to seek out informative leads on the campus faculty , perhaps questioning whether or not they might have a motive or background history which would provide an incentive to chop up bodies , taking pieces away from the scene of the crime . Secretly , the psycho is building a body of his own using various parts removed from those he kills , while also putting together an old jigsaw puzzle from his youth the day he attacked his mother with an ax , hacksawing her head from her body . A possible suspect . . and prototypical red herring . . is the grounds-keeper Willard ( . . the massive and imposing Paul L Smith ) who uses a chainsaw to remove unneeded limbs from bushes on campus . Over the years , thanks to netflix , I've watched some films from the 80's regarded as " video nasties " . Many didn't quite live up to such notoriety , but if any film would it's Juan Piquer Simón's Pieces . This has to be one of the vilest , most violent gore-fests I've sat through . It's a mean film in the vein of Lucio Fulci's New York Ripper , where women are attacked in the most vicious , cruelest ways possible . An ax to the head as blood sprays throughout a room as a young boy , who'd later be the campus psychopath , delights in pulverizing his mother for seemingly no reason whatsoever . A female student , studying , gets her head taken off by a chainsaw in broad daylight with blood splattering . A girl in a pool is pulled from the water by a net , later found chopped into pieces , shown in such a state as the police comb to area for clues . A woman is stabbed multiple times on a water bed , ending with the knife sticking through her head and out of the mouth . One tennis student is cornered in a shower with no where to run as the killer slices her side with a spinning chainsaw blade . Another female student is cornered in an elevator with her arm decapitated by the infamous chainsaw . If you thought Fulci was a misogynist , then you need to see this film because Simón unrelentingly butchers women as they cry for help , receiving nothing but the unforgiving chainsaw blade carving through their flesh . As others , both those who embrace and dislike this film , have mentioned , Pieces will appeal to those who find bad cinema and gratuitous violence , with nudity , entertaining . You have to appreciate and / or enjoy films which are made for a certain crowd who digs sheer exploitation , and Juan Piquer Simón's slasher is catered to those who want just that . I think this succeeds where many other slashers fail , it delivers the gore and tits fans crave . It really is a true , dye-in-the-wool , slasher fan's wet dream . For everyone else , I find it hard-pressed to recommend Pieces . The Mondo Bizarro ending has to be seen to be believed . It is like all the victims come together to gain revenge on the male member which often demeans them ! Edmund Purdom ( Don't Open Til Christmas ) is one of many suspects , the school's Dean who finds the circumstances plaguing his school aggravating . Jess Franco's vet , Jack Taylor also portrays a suspect , professor of anatomy who is often enlisted by the police to aid them in the horrifying cases concerning the methods of mutilation . This is not for the squeamish , but why would anyone with a weak stomach rent a film like this to begin with ? The dialogue is sure to cause plenty of chuckles .
Rush Hour 3	Flimsy , by-the-numbers plot ( . . about the cops getting tangled up with a criminal organization known as the Triads in Paris ) is just an excuse to re-team director Brett Ratner and stars Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker . Inspector Lee ( Jackie Chan ) watches as Ambassador Han ( Tzi Ma ) is shot by a sniper , a man he's assigned to protect . Able to finally track him down , Lee is startled to find that the shooter was in fact a " brother " from his childhood , Kenji ( Hiroyuki Sanada ) , a prestigious member of the dangerous gang known as The Triads who wish to find the document which reveals the secret members of their organization . This document , which was in Han's possession has been stolen back from a French beauty named Genevieve ( Noémie Lenoir ) , a popular fashion model in Paris , and Lee and Carter ( Chris Tucker ) , currently a traffic cop for bumbling up several cases , plan to find her before Kenji does . It is only inevitable that Lee and Kenji will meet again , after the inspector , unable to relinquish love for his brother , isn't able to arrest / shoot him . Both fish out of water will hit the streets of Paris , attempting to find and protect Genevieve while also evading the Triads who will not stop until they retrieve what is theirs . Also in danger is Han's daughter Soo Yung ( Jingchu Zhang ) , quite a bargaining chip for the Triads if they could kidnap her . The film's plot is basically a series of comedic bits strung together with martial arts stunt sequences . Chan seems as flexible as ever , although , I'm certain he must depend on a stunt double at times . . there's just so much punishment a body can absorb for someone in their mid 50's . The film depends heavily on the chemistry of the leads ( . . and their clashes in culture which bring out the best comedy , specifically when both are in another country ) and the breathtaking action sequences , which feature Chan in a magnificent sword fight with Hiroyuki Sanada on the Eiffel Tower while Tucker engages in a martial arts brawl with Kenji's goons , and an all too brief encounter between Chan and " Dragon Lady " ( Youki Kudoh ) in a hotel room . Stunning supporting cast compliments the film such as Roman Polanski as Paris Detective Revi ( . . with a funny interrogation gag who even gets punched out by the duo at the end ! ) , Dana Ivey as a nun who understands French and gives information during an interrogation to find out about a contact vital to the case , Max Von Sydow as Reynard , leader of the World Councel who may not be who he seems , and Philip Baker Hall as beleaguered ( . . with Tucker's hapless Carter ) LAPD Captain . Yvan Attal has a very amusing role as a French cabbie who helps Carter and Lee during a thrilling car chase , and wishes to join forces with them to stop the Triads . My personal favorite sequence occurs in a training facility where Lee and Carter find themselves in an unpleasant fight with a giant , only saved by the blind master Yu ( . . the names of Yu and Mi are playfully poked fun at during an inspired interrogation with Carter ) . . many will relate back to Game of Death between Bruce Lee and Kareem Abdul-Jabar .
Storm Warning	I'm gonna be completely honest with you , this film's plot is paper thin and easy to describe . . two innocents , an Aussie barrister and his French artist wife get lost while boating on French Island and find themselves caught in a game of survival with three savage marijuana farming sadists with a penchant for twisted sex . That's it in a nutshell , the rest of the film shows how this non-cruel , civilized rich couple find the primal violent nature in themselves in order to somehow survive against sadistic Aussie rednecks , with naked pictures taped all over their house , their dwelling's a pig-sty , and each one could use a bath and fresh , clean clothes . As in these types of films , Pia ( Nadia Farès ) is able to come up with nasty ways to upend her captors with designs on raping her . Hubby Rob ( Robert Taylor ) stumbles onto the farmers ' barn of weed , rather loudly pronounces that he'll turn them in to the police when they escape , and gets his leg broken when attempting to save her from the inevitable . Poppy ( John Brumpton ) and his heathen boys , Jimmy ( David Lyons ) & Brett ( Mathew Wilkinson ) are quite the heavies , with their bulging eyes , spitting profanities in every sentence , and grubby appearances . The film is really predictable and you know how it will end . This is an exercise in visceral carnage as we watch Pia figure out a grisly way to halt a rape with the use of a broken bottle . We see how a booby trap using fishing line and hooks can really do damage when one walks unknowingly into it . We also see the effects on the human body when a victim is thrown into the spinning propeller blade of an air boat . And , for extra effect , we get a chance to see what a hungry , bloodthirsty bulldog can do to a crotch gushing blood . If you are looking for a gore film , this is especially for you . No deep meaning to be found , just a build up where these kind folks get lost , having to kill or be killed when facing dangerous , unsavory sorts who wear their stench and filth like a badge of honor . The innocent couple get modest exposition before they are flung into this difficult situation . The director of this film , Jamie Blanks , known for pulling his punches in tame teen slasher flicks like " Urban Legend " & " Valentine " actually doesn't shoot blanks regarding the bloody violence this time . Still , honestly , the couple do get off relatively easy . . in most cases , they'd be mincemeat , winding up in Poppy's meat-grinder .
Madman	A notorious psychopath named Madman Marz murdered his family and was a horrible drunkard . Well , supposedly he survived a lynch hanging ( . . while also getting his face scarred with an ax to it ) and his butchered family's bodies were never recovered . Over a campfire , the mythos of Marz is that if one calls his name ( . . the infamous home of Marz where the murders occurred , isn't too far from the campsite setting of the film ) he will return to kill those in his path . So the plot , or of what little there is , is set up as counselors , over a camp for gifted kids , are being murdered one by one . The chain reaction ( . . or domino effect ) begins when idiot kid Richie ( Jimmy Steele ) , the dope responsible for crying out Marz's name , tossing a stone through the legendary psycho's window , doesn't return to camp with the rest of his brethren . He takes a hike to Marz's creepy , seemingly-abandoned home , out of curiosity , and doesn't return to camp . Why ? I dunno . He watches from the bushes as Marz brings victims back to his lair . Meanwhile , counselors begin to go into the woods to find Richie , and each time another meets their maker . Marz looks like some monstrous ghoul , a Sasquatch in hillbilly attire who grunts like an aggravated animal . His skin is pale and fingernails look as if they could use a good manicure . Not the best of hair-days , either . Anyway , like many psychopaths in the slasher genre , Madman Marz has superhuman strength and can pull one male victim with a rope over a strong branch that leaves him in a difficult position , with the result being a nasty neck snap with the eventual eyes rolling back into his head . There's this ax that has been buried in a log stump for sometime with no one able to remove it with force . . of course , Marz does remove it with a little pull and some grunting . There are some off-screen beheadings ( . . one amusingly as a female victim is working on repairs under a hood Marz slams down on her ) with the severed neck squirting blood . There are subtle scenes inside Marz's cellar where he keeps the murdered bodies and we hear a sharp thud in the background , later finding that he has a thing for hanging corpses on hooks . There's one howler of a scene where this dim-bulb female victim attempts to hide from Marz in a refrigerator . She gets it with an ax and an accidental shot-gun blast to the face ( . . nah , not as gruesomely staged as it sounds ) . Poor Gaylen Ross of " Dawn of the Dead " fame gets the " final girl " role , but it isn't much and she is served a grim fate . All in all , " Madman " is tame compared to the slashers lucky enough to have obtained the talents of make-up extraordinaire Tom Savini . There's a campfire scene akin to " Friday the 13th Part 2 " and " The Burning " . Marz is yet another Jason Voorhies clone . Nothing that inventive or terrifying here , folk . Some stylish touches in the woods where victims pursue a dumb kid , and the sad irony is that this boy makes it out unscathed , the very one responsible for the madness in the first place . I think this benefited from the DVD boom because Madman has a quality release . . the use of campfire and fireplace light are exceptional , and the way Marz is shadowed works well enough . If this weren't so damned run-of-the-mill . . .
Make The Die Slowly . . Cannibal ferox	Despite it's notoriety , I was so surprised that CANNIBAL FEROX was so positively dull . The film concerns a student of anthropology , Gloria ( Lorraine De Selle ) her research assistant brother , Rudy ( Danilo Mattei ) and gal pal ( . . with loose morals ) travel to the Amazon to prove that cannibalism doesn't exist . They encounter a vile , violent coke-addict diamond hunter , Mike Logan ( Giovanni Lombardo Radice ) and his poisoned friend , Joe ( Walter Lucchini ) soon discovering that they had attacked primitives in a nearby village , setting off horrifying circumstances . The premise is indeed a yawner as is Lenzi's unbearable pace as he relies heavily on the killing of animals ( . . villagers feasting on turtle and gator ; a tiger eating a monkey ; an anaconda smothering / squeezing the life out of a rat in it's massive tail as the poor creatures cries out for help ) and the Americans wondering / contemplating how they would be able to get out of their present situation intact . There's a lot of conversation , but the dialogue is painful to listen to . The approach is straight-forward yet stretches the action beyond what needs to be , letting the viewer sit impatiently on an alternate plot regarding a detective seeking out the whereabouts of Mike due to his involvement with drug dealers , including his girlfriend who may know where he is . I think the film could've trimmed the New York City scenes practically altogether , but alternating between the jungles of Amazon and the " civilization " of a big city does provide an interesting sub-text , but the heavy-handed message of who is actually the savage is rather loud and pretentious . Anyway , Gloria and Rudy are a sympathetic pair , but their decision to descend into the depths of a jungle without a guide is sheer lunacy . And , Pat ( Zora Kerova ) , the wild friend who accompanies them , makes a really bizarre decision to mess around with Mike , an obvious cretin from the get go . MAKE THEM DIE SLOWLY differs from CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST ( . . for which it's often compared ) in that , this time , you have people who aren't to blame for what happens to the villagers , yet in associating with scum like Mike , place themselves in great jeopardy . I will say that the film delivers in the grisly violence . A top of a victim's skull is chopped off , his brains eaten . . the same victim's pecker is hacked off and his testicles eaten ! A female victim is hung by hooks through her breasts as she slowly dies . One is hiding from the villagers , during an escape attempt , in a watery hole containing piranha which gnaw at his knee wound . A poor villager is bound as his eyeball is plucked out . A victim dies from a blood disease , he's disemboweled , his innards removed and eaten . A villager is shown eating slithery bugs . A villager is helping Gloria to escape and pays a great price when he sets off a spear trap that stabs him in the chest . Plenty of ultra-violence with Lenzi attempting to dethrone Deodato in sadistic grue . Radice is gleefully obscene and viciously ruthless in his treatment of the villagers which provides the viewer a chance to cheer for his execution . Radice's Mike Logan is a selfish sadist , coked up beyond the normal limits , and actually coerces Pat into leaving her friends without any supplies , to die . I'm pretty sure Lenzi directed this as a message movie , but that got lost within the blood-letting and unnecessary sub-plot involving the police's search for Mike .
Video Violence	Satire on our desire for the closest form of graphic bloodletting and violent carnage as possible has a NYC couple , Steven and Rachel Emory ( real life married actors Art & Jackie Neill ) discovering that their new town is a haven for snuff connoisseurs . These psychos , mainly loonies Eli ( Uke ) who grinningly hosts and camera-operator Howard ( Bart Sumner ) , often leave their video recordings of the live murders of innocent travelers in the rental store of Steven's and as he ( . . and a frightened Rachel ) seeks to put an end to such sickening shenanigans , finds that almost everyone ( . . if not everyone ) is in on the sadistic misdeeds . You know perhaps video is a proper medium for a tale on the creation of snuff films , with director Gary Cohen , who is actually a pleasant and charming enough fellow on his interview for this film's DVD release , exploring the joyous nature of those who partake in slowly killing hitchhikers or lost traveling innocents just passing through . The violent gore effects are cheap and cheesy , but rather impressive if one considers the limited funds available . Head and arm sliced from the body . An ice pick slowly inserted in a victim's breast . A woman's near-entire leg being hacked from her body . You know if one really thinks about the plot , it can kind of provide an unsettling feeling . . that idea that you happen to come across such deranged people as Eli and Howard who know jack squat about you , but are willing to stab you with a knife or remove your legs slowly with a machete just for the hell of it , laughing their asses off with such glee at your horror and torment . Cohen uses his film as a vehicle to explore such sadism and how seemingly normal citizens ( . . perhaps representing the kind of rental customers he himself had when Cohen was renting videos in the 80's ) could enjoy such evil antics on screen . I think fans of horror who recall renting videos back in the 80's will have a time warp trip seeing the movie posters and VHS tape boxes lining the shelves in 1987 . Disregarding the acting , performed by no-names , amateur production values , and rather poor camera-work ( . . and the loud piano used producing the score ) , horror fans with tastes for such an unpleasant storyline might dig " Video Violence . " There's an especially disturbing film sent to the Emory's titled , The Vampire and his Bride , which depicts an unfortunate actress suckered into a video production not knowing that her stomach would be torn open by a knife with her guts removed by a local would-be actor portraying a blood-sucker .
Night of Dark Shadows	Quentin Collins ( David Selby ) moves into the Collinwood manor with his lovely wife Tracy ( Kate Jackson ) not knowing that the evil presence of his look-a-like ancestor Charles ( . . with a noticeable limp signifying to the viewer his appearance ) and the lynched witch Angelique ( Lara Parker with limited dialogue still scoring thanks to her sinister presentation ) live within ready to take over their lives . Their maid-servant Carlotta ( Grayson Hall , winning as the human host of a very cleverly subdued , but appropriately sneaky reincarnated child spirit who befriended Angelique ) is secretly working for Angelique in the attempt to keep Quentin in the tower room where Charles and Angelique had a torrid affair , which also was his studio , as the menacing spirit takes hold over time . Meanwhile , Tracy tries to rescue her husband from Charles ' grasp , with help from their friends , Alex & Claire Jenkins ( Dark Shadows regulars John Karlen & Nancy Barrett ) who live at a nearby cottage . Tracy finds herself outmatched thanks to Carlotta and man-servant Gerard ( Jim Storm , in the film mainly as a heel whose motivations are inappropriately defined ) who manipulatively persuade Quentin to continue to work in the tower . The film depicts , somewhat , Tracy's battle to keep her husband from being overtaken by dark forces as the spirits of Angelique and Charles haunt the manor , while her life is in constant danger . The version I watched , presented on Chiller , was badly tampered with in post-production . It seems very important scenes which define perilous situations are interrupted by cuts and background music stops abruptly at key moments . You can plainly see the scissors at work . I've read from sources that a complete director's cut is available , but certain troubles continue ( . . such as dubbing , I believe and dueling production companies regarding the film's rights ) to keep it away from the public . It's a shame , because I might like this one if I could see the story play out in a complete form instead of a badly botched hack-job . Selby attempts courageously to tackle duel roles , as innocent Quentin who adores his wife Tracy , and the vicious and corrupt Charles who seems to be a male mirror image of his lover Angelique . Karlen , against type , actually is the hero of the film , along with Barrett , attempting to remove his pal from the clutches of the evil which permeates within the Collinwood manor . Hall plays her character lurking about , quietly stirring the pot , but I'm never sure we ever know Carlotta all that well . Her character is rather undefined . Perhaps the spirit has already consumed her , taken full custody of the human host . I never understood Gerard . I think he lusts after both Carlotta and Tracy , but I feel that he might've been more properly defined in the longer version . I think this is a more imaginative film that " House of Dark Shadows " since that film was basically a rehash of familiar material , but it suffers due to the tinkering which remains a jarring distraction . I liked the camera-work , and we can see Dan Curtis sharpening his visual skills with each film he directs . Many might find that the ending to his far superior later " house of evil " feature , Burnt Offerings echos " Night of Dark Shadows " as our couple are almost free from the sinister trappings of the Collins-Stoddard manor only to succumb to it's powers . Unfortunately , the ending is so orchestrated early on thanks to the painting of Charles , that it doesn't produce the necessary effect it would otherwise . There's no surprise when you have already seen the twist painted to canvas . One sequence that truly puzzled me was when Angelique's evil spirit corners a trapped Tracy only to never explain what exactly transpired ( . . of course this was one of the key sequences cut to ribbons ) . And , there's a suicide which never quite made sense to me either as Angelique led a specific servant to certain destruction . The film reflects past memories which come to Quentin in dreams as he sees what took place many years ago setting up the plot . What this film lacks that " House of Dark Shadows " has in spades is atmosphere . The melodrama is intact , but the dark Gothic elements which were such a staple on the soap opera are missing , for the exception of evil spirits Angelique and Charles . The absence of Barnabas Collins can be felt as well , with Angelique being the motivating source of all things evil this time around . I wonder how good the official cut , made the way Curtis & Hall intended , might be .
Tombs of the Blind Dead	Someone has to be the spoiled sport of the user comments section and it might as well be me . I thought this was a mess of a film with some creepy , very atmospheric scenes built within . Eastern knights , who were excommunicated by the Pope due to their Satanic ritual practices in seeking immortality , rise from their tombs within the ruins of a 13th century village Berzano to hunt prey that dare venture there at night . I guess their horses do the same , although none of them show skeletal parts emerging from their flesh . . oh , well . Why are these skeletal ghouls , with a thirst for the blood of fresh humans , eyeballs gouged ? After sacrificing a beautiful virgin , through a series of sword stabbings by the soldiers , not to mention their hideous drinking blood from her gaping bloody wounds , the knights are tried and executed for their horrendous cultic activities . Made as an example against participating in such activities , the dead knights are left hanging on a tree while the crows plucked their eyeballs out . Virginia ( María Elena Arpón ) , I'm guessing , gets jealous of the way her " friend " ( or whatever he is ) Roger ( César Burner ) is flirting with her former lesbian lover Bet ( Lone Fleming ) so she hops off the train they are traveling making the inanely stupid decision to stay the night in an obviously deserted village . . the very ruins once dominated by the knights resting in their tombs until nightfall . We watch as Virginia tries to flee from the SLOWWWWWWWWW skeletal knights and seems unlucky at finding any form of escape route available to her because they have these magical horses that appear out of thin air . Roger and Virginia pursue their supposed missing friend's whereabouts when she never made it to the hotel they planned to stay . Finding out she was attacked and viciously bitten , Roger and Bet will seek out knowledge regarding the history of the knights and Berzano . Hooking up with Pedro ( Joseph Thelman ) , a corrupt notorious figure the police have yet to nab , they will visit the Berzano ruins ( along with Pedro's annoying girlfriend who thankfully becomes a blood-feast ) and face the same threat as Virginia . . and fare about as well . There's no doubt , the ruins of a once thriving monastery is an amazing setting for a spooky zombie ghost tale . . the night sequences created are quite foreboding . The problem I had were the intensely slow zombies . There's a scene where Pedro , who horribly rapes Bet in a uncomfortable , unnecessary sequence , has plenty of time to escape the clutches of the knights but seems to stand in his location for ages as they creep ever so slowly in his direction . It's as if he wants to die , the idiot . Then there's the scene where Bet is running from the knights and just approaches the train when she just goes numb . . I mean she waits to go completely life-less when the train is right there in front of her putting the conductor in the awful position of dragging her limp carcass to the steps giving even the slowest zombies extra time to catch up to the victim they are chasing . You also have this whole sequence where Virginia's body , for some reason never explained , that comes back to life attacking a morgue attendant by sucking his blood , then attempting to drain Bet's co-worker at a mannequin factory ( this features a hilariously awful sequence where Virginia is burned alive but one can easily see the effects fails miserably ) . It just seems unnecessary grinding the film to a halt . Instead of keeping the focus on the knights , you shift gears towards her making the film uneven and unfocused . The final thirty minutes is the best part of the film where the knights are the most frightening because we get a good look at their skull faces and blood-drinking in all it's glory . It's an eerie sequence that soon gets even more disturbing when they reach the train killing many passengers inside .
The Green Slime	The Class-Two asteroid Flora is on a collision course for earth and Commander Jack Rankin ( Robetrt Horton ) must take over operations of the space station Gamma Three from unproven Commander Vince Elliot ( character actor Richard Jaeckel ) . . they will use a cruiser on the Gamma Three to land on Flora to detonate it before it can reach earth . They have 10 hours and immediately head for Flora and indeed accomplish their goal . What they do not expect is a second , and just as deadly , threat . . green slime that , when feeding from energy , evolve into tentacled blob monsters with a big red eye ( . . with multiple collections of eyes underneath ) and crab claw hands ! These monsters electrocute their prey on instant contact resulting in immediate death . Using laser weapons on these creatures is oblivious because the green blood that releases from their wounds evolve into monsters themselves when contacting any form of energy ! And , the monsters that bleed can heal themselves ! Chief medical physician , Dr . Lisa Benson ( foxy red-head Luciana Paluzzi ) comes between Jack ( her former flame ) and Vince ( her current flame and fiancé ) resulting in a love triangle of galactic proportions ( . . well , maybe I'm exaggerating just a bit for effect ) . A past mission where Elliot made an order against Jack's wishes resulting in many dead officers over one has put a bit of tension that remains throughout until the gung-ho final battle against the monsters at the end . Ever present is the love triangle which causes friction and an un-needed problem when trying to focus on how to kill these alien slime bastards . Quarantining the space station , Jack and company will exhaust every feasible option available before contemplating the most terrible one . . exploding the space station before it can , like the asteroid before , threaten earth . The film's budget is low , relying heavily on models ( mainly the space vehicles and station ) and the sets are designed like something out of Classic Star Trek . The film's cheap look might appeal and charm those who enjoy this type of movie . The sequence on the asteroid looks like some back-lot sound-stage . The rubber-suited monstrosities , with waving tentacles ( you might be inspired to cry , " Warning ! Warning ! " ) and screeching are right out of the Godzilla creature factory . In other words , the film is cheap so many viewers judging harshly will not like it . Director Kinji Fukasaku ( Battle Royale ) implements a claustrophobic style using zoom lens often keeping his camera close to the action and faces of the actors / actresses . He also keeps his camera moving with the action such as when the crew try to keep the monsters at bay or have to move with them throughout the space station . You know this feels like a Japanese creature feature merely replacing the typical Japanese cast with an American one .
The Amazing Transparent Man	A determined ( quietly deranged under the surface ) Major Krenner ( James Griffith ) wishes to possess the ability to create an invisible army and enlists , through an arranged escape , notorious criminal Joey Faust ( Douglas Kennedy ) a thief and all-around bad hombre , to steal money from banks while completely unseen thanks to the genius of dying former Nazi scientist Dr . Peter Ulof ( Ivan Triesault ) ( . . the " former Nazi " part is more subtly mentioned in the screenplay never elaborating what country he worked for , but the horrifying description of what he did to his wife , through undetermined experiments , one can see who he represented considering the atrocities committed ) . Ulof's daughter is being held captive in a locked room and if he doesn't define his experimental invisible formula , which works through a peculiar use of radiation using a unique method regarding X-rays and how they can completely transform the body , then her safety is in danger . The Major uses those under his watch through various means . . his gunsel , Julian ( Boyd Morgan ) , believes Krenner knows the whereabouts of his son , supposedly held captive in Europe , Joey is an escaped con for whom can be sent back to prison ( . . dead , more than alive , since his body's worth 5 grand either way ) , and femme fatale Laura ( Marguerite Chapman ) who fears for her own life if she even decided to leave her employer . But , soon double-crosses will be attempted and we see that if one toys with radioactive material for use in corruptive schemes only bad can come from it . In this respect , director Edgar G Ulmer doesn't abandon his noir roots , for nearly every character has been ( . . or is ) corrupt in one way or another . Major Krenner , wounded not only physically by war ( . . the shrapnel which ended his military career , Krenner habitually tosses around in his hand , quite a reminder of what ruined what could've been ) but haunted by it psychologically as well . Faust , using the invisibility as a means to continue his profession without the restraints once holding him . Scientist Ulof , haunted by his shady alliances with a government whose atrocities committed against humanity exploded in his face with the murder of his wife by his own hands , and now forced , against his will , to continue experiments which could lead to a threat against the United States by outside forces thanks to his invisibility creation . And , Laura , a dame all too willing to stab her employer in the back for cold hard cash in an alliance with Faust . Blindly loyal Julian knows what his employer is up to in using the others for the benefits of invisibility , and is all too wiling to hold his shot gun pointedly at Faust and others who dare try to escape . Basically , this is Ulmer's take on THE INVISIBLE MAN , using the dangers of atomic energy as a type of lesson to preach against . When Faust is invisible , the other actors pretend he's there by mimicking his presence ( . . such as when he attacks Krenner ) This particular film shows Faust , in and out of stages of invisibility , including one ingenious sequence where parts of him appear and disappear after he holds up a bank . Ulmer , seemingly always burdened with little budget to work with , has a precious few scenes where objects move by themselves . Ulmer counts on his cast to parlay to the viewer where Faust is . . not an easy task , but I give the cast credit for giving it the ole college try . But , in my opinion , this is more of a noir cheapie with sci-fi undertones . . a mad scientist B-movie regarding the dangers of tampering with science for our own personal gain . I know Ulmer often gets a bum wrap for making no-budget films which show the lack of funds he had available to him , but I like the idea of a cross between the mad-scientist and noir sub-genres . I like the fact that this motley group is doomed right from the start because when you have untrustworthy types , with their own greedy agendas , and a dangerous weapon ( . . in this case invisibility and the tools used to create it ) only bad can come from such an enterprise .
Ozone	Goofy , cheap gore-flick from Ohio's own JR Bookwalter ( The Dead Next Door ) has cop , Eddie Boone ( James Black ) tangling with the malformed agents of a drug pushing monster ( . . once a human being who evolved into what looks like a talking protoplasm , with a pig's head ) who has created a drug called Ozone which turns your body into something quite grotesque . This monster who sits in a swivel chair ordering his posse , whose faces bulge these bulb-like warts , to commandeer Eddie , wishes to use him as the next step in an evolutionary ladder with Ozone providing the change . Most of the film displays Eddie's nightmarish night of dodging the villains while suffering bouts of hysteria caused by part of the Ozone drug that was injected in his arm when he lost his partner on a drug bust gone awry . Lots of outrageous gore for fans of the ultra-violence . A druggie's head explodes when he ingests too much of Ozone . A human body dissolves into a skeleton . A head is crushed under the tire of a driving car . An arm is severed with the wound bleeding . A female gives birth to Eddie's demon baby ! The monster of the film is a badly designed costume , with the actor's voice mechanically altered . When Eddie and Justine ( Lori Scarlett ) , the female he is seduced by who is in league with the monster , transform momentarily into these hideous beasts ( . . a severe case of mutation ) while embracing for a sexual encounter . The director depends heavily on the morphing process utilized in Terminator 2 . When humans begin to transform , their faces and skin often bubble ! Eddie's world , presented in the film , is basically a series of run-ins with the monster's zombie agents , and his escapes . A lot of the film has Eddie working through the city under siege much like Snake Pliskin in Escape from New York . Close encounters , staying one step ahead when all hope seem lost . The special effects are as low budget as it gets , but there's a charm to Bookwalter's films that might rub off on those just seeking a flick to consume 90 minutes . It has enough insanity , I believe , to please an audience looking for such over-the-top grue and strange characters .
Annwyn	There is a dark realm called Annwyn , based in old Welsh folklore , and Adèle ( Maria Bello ) has lost her daughter to it . It seems to the outside world that her daughter , Sarah ( Sophie Stuckey ) has drowned , but her body has not been recovered . Adèle believes that the idea behind retrieving your loved ones by leaping off a certain cliff into the watery depths below until you enter Annwyn is real when she researches the man ( called The Shepherd ) who created a church to worship this Welsh doctrine they pretty much made up through folktales . The Sheperd lost his daughter to illness at a young age and manipulates his congregation into a mass suicidal leap from the cliff . One who didn't sacrifice himself is Adèle's husband , James ' ( Sean Bean ) friend , sheepherder Dafydd ( Maurice Roëves ) . Through Dafydd , Adèle learns about the history of The Sheperd and Annwyn . Adding another layer in strangeness to the ordeal concerning Adèle and James is a young girl , Ebrill ( Abigail Stone ) who may've returned from the dark place within the water to find her a new father . . James ! She hears her daughter's cries of help and will take a leap into the dark to rescue her by using Ebrill as bait . Confusing , ambiguous horror tale doesn't really ever tell us how The Shepherd was able to create this dark world . What actually happens to Adèle at the end and why all the arduous , unorthodox happenings once she finds Annwyn . There's a lot left to our imagination , but it especially wishes to question Adèle's character as it pertains to her tumultuous relationship with her daughter . Sarah wishes to live with her father and we see that Ebrill has bonded with James as well . As Adèle is within Annwyn , we see what may've occurred on one terrible day between mother and daughter and how their relationship may've been scarred for good . Perhaps what ultimately happens to Adèle is that she is having to answer through a morbid sort of punishment for neglecting her daughter . Lots of room for conjecture here .
Haeckel's Tale	Nasty piece of business from director John McNaughton has atheist scientist Ernst Haeckel ( Derek Cecil ) finding out that his father is gravely ill , and as he is returning to his home runs into a couple who have had dealings with a man he knows from his past . . a necromancer named Montesquino ( Jon Polito ) who can bring the dead back to life . There's a catch , however , and that is the dead remain in their same condition . . and thirst for flesh as all zombies apparently always do . The couple Haeckel meets on his journey home is an old man named Wolfram ( Tom McBeath ) and his lovely , very young wife , Elise ( Leela Savasta , who has an incredible body ) . Elise has need of the necromancer as her love and devotion is to one man . . her dead husband ! So here is Haeckel in amongst all this madness ceaselessly trying to find out how to send the dead back to their graves , but understanding futilely that there is no way . This yucky MOH offering has some wild sex scenes between Elise , who really lets go and makes the sexual love-making with a corpse erotic in the disgusting sense . There is gut-munching for zombie fans and even a homage to FRANKENSTEIN thanks to an inspired Mick Garris teleplay . Garris uses a narrative device from an old female necromancer telling some poor sad soul ( who has returned from his beloved wife's funeral and wishes her resurrected ) this tale of what Haeckel experienced . There's an ending only a horror fan could love . . it is indeed a unique twist to cap it off . I'm not real fond of the idea showing sex with corpses , but there is a built in audience for this sort of thing . McNaughton relies on some mediocre filler scenes designed to make a person jump ( such as a dead pederast hanging from a noose or a stones falling from a hole in the wall housing rats ) which take away from the overall story . This shows signs of a mini-film having to work through a plot rather quickly instead of giving it the proper development it really does need .
Eve of Destruction	Mediocre sci-fi thriller about a renegade android , Eve VIII ( Renée Soutendijk ) who malfunctions when she is shot by a bank robber while on a mission . Her creator , Dr . Eve Simmons ( also Renée Soutendijk ) designed the female android with the same facial characteristics , while also transferring memories , thoughts , and feelings from herself . Those memories reoccur in Eve VIII's mind and she reacts violently . She is very dangerous because , she is a nuclear threat as well . Equipped with a machine gun , this android has to be stopped because she is also very powerful with the ability to toss men across rooms and in the air with ease . The secret government group funding the Eve project enlist the aide of Colonel Jim McQuade ( Gregory Hines ) with expertise in anti-terrorism , to somehow stop the malfunctioning killer android before truly dire consequences erupt . Many innocent bystanders , and a few profane undesirables , will cross Eve VIII's path and suffer the consequences . The film shows how Dr . Eve must assist McQuade in his efforts to find and kill her creation ( a shot through the eyes is the way to down it ) . The android targets Eve's father ( for the murder of her mother which returns in a memory ) and later , in the film's harrowing climax in the New York subway , her son . The film owes a hell of a lot to the really good leads who work well off each other . I've always felt Hines had a strong presence on-screen , very easy to like and charismatic . He takes what could've easily been a dull role and injects life into it . I like his character because he's sympathetic to Eve's cause , yet looks at the dire , difficult situation they find themselves with a levelheadedness . Renée Soutendijk , I thought , was very impressive in this film . . having to portray two different characters while making both of them different than the other is an outstanding accomplishment . I give praise for her work in such a rather unextraordinary sci-fi actioner . Pretty much by-the-numbers , but the leads keep it interesting . Kevin McCarthy has a cameo as Eve's now old-aged father .
Sombre	I'm pretty sure director Philippe Grandrieux's SOMBRE was supreme festival fodder during it's initial release , but to me it was an aggravating and trivial exercise to sit through . Like other important modern filmmakers , Grandrieux adopts a camera style that lenses his subjects often out of focus with the characters at times ( . . more like most of the time ) on the edges of the frame , rarely in a position where we can see them with clarity . This choice is probably applauded by critics and those who appreciate a particular vision ( . . perhaps mimicking the distorted , warped view of the world in regards to the particular characters features prominently in the film ) shown in this film , but I found Grandrieux's style frustrating and difficult . I'd actually prefer to see characters and Philippe Grandrieux's camera always moves , following the actors / actresses around , often jerking and shaking . I consider myself a patient viewer who has tolerated this style for a great deal of time , but it's begun to weigh on my nerves and what's even more tiresome about Philippe Grandrieux's direction here is that his performers , especially Elina Löwensohn as the psychologically troubled and confused Claire in love with volatile , quietly menacing serial killer Jean ( Marc Barbé ) , are very good and deserve to have their work seen clearly without a camera unable to capture every nuance and aching truth presented for the viewer . Sure , if you are attentive enough and completely focus , the viewer is able to catch the performances when the camera stays still long enough . The film somewhat focuses on a serial killer , Jean , driving through the French countryside as the Tour de France is in full swing , picking up loose women working the streets , clubs and nudie rooms , strangling and suffocating them , leaving their carcasses often in rural areas along river fronts and fields ( . . or wherever he happens to engage in rough sex , often humiliating them before sticking his fingers down their throat as he initiates his ritual of grabbing their throats , squeezing tightly , covering their mouths pressing the air waves tightly so that oxygen can not be successfully and sufficiently accessed ) . Jean meets Claire , a very depressed virgin , a beautiful wallflower who seems detached from the world around her , bored and alone . Her free-spirited sister , Christine ( Géraldine Voillat ) is her polar opposite , actually attempting to seduce Jean , and is an open and vocal woman who has engaged in sexual activity , quite a blunt and frank individual . . she's also a model for the type of woman Jean likes to ravage and kill . Once the three start on a journey together , Jean can not control the beast and almost kills Christine before Claire thankfully intervenes . Unable to break free from Jean's grasp , Claire will submit to his will in that Christine can survive without dire harm . But , will Claire be able to survive ? Jean will force Claire into the night , having her indulge in drink and dance , but his victim becomes an all too willing subject with unpredictable fireworks sparking between these two troubled souls . Definitely an ultra-dark character study which features several unpleasant scenes where Jean works over victims before killing them , but the director's haphazard camera doesn't capture these traumatic attacks with any clarity ( . . there's enough to make those with a faint heart squirm a bit , though and the grunts , screams and pain of the victims certainly convey to the viewer what is happening to them ) . Löwensohn hits it out of the ball park with a very demanding and complex performance , her character's not an easy nut to crack . . one grimaces at her decisions to associate with Jean when she knows the kind of person he truly is , yet embarks on an affair with him anyway risking her life in the process . Barbé shows us the torment he's facing , the monster he can not tame . His face conveys the agony that always pushes him to commit the deeds he does towards " corrupt " women who feed that anguish and desire . This film might test viewers who like a film to remain on the story of these characters because the director likes to show the trivialities of their lives , not concerned with moving in a linear path , freely allowing these people to exist the way they might in real life . Shots of the French countryside , which are often dump sites of the killer , are haunting . . as are scenes of the waving water before Jean makes his move to dive in with a goal of possibly killing Christine . The director also opts for minimal music ( . . the sound of a car on the road with other sounds drowned out ; a type of droning as the killer moves to and fro , from one place to another ) , instead using natural sounds of the environment with which the characters exist , quite effective .
Cloverfield	A party given by Jason ( Mike Vogel ) to his brother , Rob ( Michael Stahl-David ) whose moving to Japan for a spell is interrupted when a rampaging monster wreaks havoc on New York City leaving absolute devastation in it's wake , while also " leaving behind " little creatures to terrorize citizens on foot . Through the use of a camcorder , operated by Rob's best friend Hudson ( TJ Miller ) , we are witness to the monster's attack and how the city appears once it leaves for other areas to destroy . Following the monster's attack on the bridge they're walking , Rob decides to return to find his beloved Beth ( Odette Yustman ) , who sends him a call claiming to have been hurt , with Marlena ( Lizzy Caplan ) , an unfortunate victim attending the party , Lily ( Jessica Lucas ) a dear friend set up the party , and Hud , taping everything he can . I think the most effective moments are when we witness the aftermath of the monster's rampage with a city crumbling with buildings and cars destroyed . The monster itself didn't really impress me , to tell you the truth , and perhaps should've been left to the imagination . The little creatures which seemed like off-spring from the monster were pretty creepy , especially when they attack our heroes in a subway tunnel . The bridge attack was a bit effective and the the smoke and terror on the faces of those who just witnessed their city attacked rather works . But , to tell you the truth , Spielberg's " War of the Worlds " was basically made in the same fashion , except for the " Blair Witch Project " type of " real footage found " governmental set-up . The city is attacked , we witness the carnage and horrified people , and follow certain protagonists as they try to move to a desired location . I agree with others that the camcorder used is top of the line and takes a licking and keeps on ticking . I do digress . . I don't think Hud would follow behind Rob , or Marlena , for that matter . Being best friends is one thing , but returning to find someone that's very possibly dead , Hud wouldn't be criticized if he joined those being evacuated . . . although , I realize we wouldn't have the " Cloverfield experience " if that was the case . You can read on this site the numerous factual errors that are looked over in impacting the viewer like Beth's damaged building leaning against another skyscraper or the Statue of Liberty's head . As far as the constant dizzying movement , it didn't bother as much as others , but there were times where I wanted him to hold the damn thing still . . I guess we must understand the situation Hud was facing and take it from there .
Species II	Patrick Ross ( Justin Lizard ) was the very first man to step foot on Mars . But , in one of the planetary samples , a specific fungus carrying the alien race from the first SPECIES film thaws out on board the American space shuttle and invade the body of Patrick and astronaut Anne Sampas ( Myriam Cyr ) . For some strange reason , Dennis Gamble ( Mykelti Williamson ) wasn't invaded by the alien . Later testing might prove that being a sickle cell anemia carrier might've saved him . This also might be a key to killing them because it's proved through experimental testing by Dr . Laura Baker ( Marg Helgenberger ) on clone half-human / half-alien Eve ( the VERY , VERY sexy Natasha Henstridge ) that the breed are able to regenerate cells . When women are being found mutilated soon the government will be on the lookout for Patrick , who has been having sex with various females ( hookers , lovers , admirers , etc ) and impregnating them with half-human / half-alien children who burst from the stomach not too long after mating occurs . When these children reach a certain stage in numerous days , they will turn into a cocoon and once released will be fully grown to terrorize and conquer the human race . Colonel Carter Burgess , Jr ( George Dzundza ) is the military muscle behind pushing the experimental project for finding a way to kill the alien species and when he discovers that another is on earth ( . . after the murder of a scientist who discovers alien genes in Patrick's blood ) , he calls in Press Lennox ( Michael Madsen ) , the kind of special ops man / bounty hunter with a skill for finding prey he target . He's the man the government call in to do their dirty work . He'll team with Dennis who sees for himself , when Patrick blows his head off with a shotgun ( . . with it subsequently regenerating before his very eyes ) , what the alien is . Laura , who has bonded with Eve during their period of time together ( . . while it's Laura's job to find a way to kill Eve , it's really her agenda to protect her from harm ) , will also have to team with press to stop what could be a global disaster from taking place . Patrick must be stopped and the storage place of the cocooning aliens must be found before it's too late . The most prominent threat . . if Patrick and Eve mate an even more advanced alien being might emerge perhaps too unstoppable for anyone to handle . The cast doesn't have a lot to do except quote their lines and the film is rather derivative of other similar sci-fi films using threatening aliens , but I found it decently entertaining in a race-against-time sort of way . I wanted more Henstridge , here used more as a sympathetic being , and the pace is so fast plot can not catch up . . but , I'm one in the minority who doesn't believe this is the worst sequel ever . It was just not as well developed , screenplay-wise . It does feel rushed , but has some gruesome alien-attack sequences such as the aliens protruding from the bellies of their human mother hosts . It's forgettable , but could be looked at as a flick to watch when you got time to kill .
Soul Survivors	Cassie ( Melissa Sagemiller , whose face is forced into the background of the movie poster behind the recognizable faces of Eliza Dushku , Casey Affleck and Wes Bentley , despite being the main star ) shares a forbidden kiss with an ex-boyfriend , Matt ( Bentley ) who still carries a torch for her as current beau Sean ( Affleck ) watches . Annabel ( . . the absolutely sexy Dushku ) was dancing in the goth club playing loud industrial rock music as Sean went after her as Matt pursued that " innocent " kiss with Cassie , whose head-over-heels for Sean . With Sean mum due to being appropriately angry with that kiss he witnessed , Cassie's eyes are on him when a car in front of her Bronco ( . . carrying " thrashers " who were inside the club ) skids leading to a head-on collision . Awakening to find Sean supposedly dead while the remaining party survived , Cassie attempts unsuccessfully to move on with school , but her whole world spirals out of control as people appear and disappear , those thrashers ( . . one with long hair and a facial scar , another wearing a mask ) often either follow her , chase her , even threatening her life , and visits from Sean begging her to return with him . Matt returns from Harvard to help guide her through the pain and misery of Sean's death , while attempting to win her adoration , meanwhile Annabel begins to carry on relations with the third thrasher in that car the night they wrecked , Raven ( Angela Featherstone ) . For about 70 minutes , we watch as Cassie attempts to convince Matt and Annabel that people are after her and that Sean is with her . But , we see that perhaps everything that happens to her may be fiction created by some sort of head trauma as a result of her crash , or maybe even some sort of near-death journey with a " priest " , Jude ( Luke Wilson , never more angelic ) trying to help her . About 70 minutes of this film is rather disorienting with constant nightmare scenarios , characters who behave normal one minute and oddly the next , blood making appearances often in bizarre ways ( . . from Cassie's nose , mainly ) , constant dangerous figures who appear and vanish , with Cassie constantly wondering what the hell is going on . I must admit that I found this rather frustrating , but I guess that's part of what director Stephen Carpenter is aiming for , creating a difficult experience where nothing is what it seems and questioning Cassie's mental state . I do feel Carpenter is certainly ambitious , trying to challenge the viewer , but I personally found this rather tedious . I think those who buy into the " love conquers all " concept at the heart of the film ( Cassie and Sean's love can go up against any odds , including death ) , will like this best . But , the film's freakish nature , constantly hurling one bizarre sequence involving Cassie and her remaining pals ( . . and those creepy folks after her ) after another , might turn many off . After a while , I gave up on it , but the ending does bring everything full circle , and Carpenter does shed light on various characters and things Cassie sees which don't make sense at first , so maybe it's a sleeper for horror fans looking for this sort of thing . Not really as violent or lurid as it could've been thanks to the teen-friendly PG-13 rating . Fans of Dushku might wish to check it out just to see her in tight little outfits and during certain scenes with the goth look . She's a babe , no doubt . Pretty blond Sagemiller spends most of the film conflicted , frightened , and miserable . Bentley is wooden and Affleck plays up the perfect , sensitive , gentlemanly dreamboat boyfriend every 18-25 year old girly could possibly hope for . I think the film echoes " Carnival of Souls " in some ways , with Cassie ( . . like the character is CoS ) actually trying to escape fate .
Triloquist	Seriously warped horror comedy about an unlikely trio , a demented family of weirdos driving across the desert wreaking havoc on whoever they meet . A mute , seemingly autistic brother , Norbert who communicates through his ventriloquist dummy , Dummy ( . . voiced by Bruce Weitz ) and psychotic foul-mouthed sister Angelina ( Paydin LoPachin , a real blond babe with things that come out of her mouth that make a ghetto gangster blush ) were left to fend for themselves after their mother overdosed on heroine . Sent to live with an uncle , who would sexually abuse Angelina ( . . perhaps shaping the monster she would become ) while Norbert closed his eyes in horror , they would soon murder him , winding up in a foster home before chopping the fingers off a kid who insulted them . Blaming Norbert , Angelina and Dummy concoct a plan to break him free from his asylum , hitting the road to Vegas , often killing various victims for their vehicles , and kidnapping a female traveler , Robin ( Katie Chonacas ) who is to carry their family's seed . Angelina is quite a cold-hearted sociopath always scheming while tormenting Robin ( . . who tries endlessly to find ways to escape ) , while constantly at odds with Dummy who begs Norbert to leave her behind . A running gag has Dummy a isolated entity who can speak and move on his own away from Norbert . . hell , he even has fantasies of naked chicks ! We watch as Angelina's trail-blazing psychopathic ways leads to a countryside manhunt for her and Norbert as Robin attempts to get away before she is killed . A great deal of the film shows the crazy antics of a demented family , but the film is more or less a gore-less , colorful send-up of killer-clans-on-the-road thrillers . This movie is built around the often very obscene dialogue , particularly the nasty mouth of Angelina who often blatantly asks strangers if they are looking at her tits ( . . or telling them that they would love to do sexual acts towards her ) . Rocky Marquette is really a tight-lipped innocent with the misfortune of growing up with a sicko sister and dummy he too attached to . Dummy is a vessel to communicate , and Norbert is very dependent on it , as a crutch you could say . The trio as a unit are seemingly unstoppable , until the cracks start to show and Angelina's violent streak ( . . along with Dummy's desire to break free from her hold on Norbert ) gets out of hand . It's only a matter of time before their " happy " union sours , and Robin pleas towards Nobert and Dummy begin to work . I can understand why many hated this film . It doesn't really have a plot , but is a series of comic vignettes showcasing Angelina's unpredictable nature and her manipulative hold over her brother and dummy . And , the way the film embraces Dummy as a vehicle for humor ( . . and he is one ugly wooden creation ) and the twisted acts performed by Angelina so that she and her posse can continue their quest for Vegas won't always appeal to everyone ( . . or even most people ) . I found it entertaining and sick in equal measure . The film doesn't know when to quit and is always bizarre . The director includes several B & W sequences featuring the trio at times . Paydin LoPachin is a knockout and the director often loves to focus on her face with the camera . She rarely cracks a smile when delivering her profane zingers . Plenty of time is spent showing how Angelina keeps Dummy in check by threatening his livelihood with matches . There's incest played out with Angelina initiating contact with her brother , and this might be the first time I've ever seen a dummy giving head .
Hybrid	The bio-engineering transplant of wolf eyes in a young man yields devastating consequences as the wild spirit of the animal motivates him to act out his primal nature . Thankfully he encounters Lydia ( Tinsel Korey ) , a Native American woman who wishes for the outside world to appreciate her people's beliefs and customs . Her confidant is Claude Robertson ( Gordon Tootoosis ) , a wise old Indian whose private wilderness is desired by the white man . Lydia's beliefs in nature are important in that Aaron ( Cory Monteith ) has someone who might can lend a hand in taming the beast that wishes to unleash itself . The scientist responsible for the successful surgery , Andrea ( Justine Bateman ) begins to understand that their human subject , the guinea pig they experimented on , may've had psychotic tendencies that wouldn't react too well with the transplanted eyes , and thus wishes to help him cope with such a radical change in behavior . But , Andrea's organization is one of those secret government projects and she's up against the military who want to start up a program using her " success " ( . . Aaron gains senses of the wolf , like nocturnal sight , that would certainly benefit men in the field ) . When Aaron escapes , the military commandos will seek him out leading a manhunt as Andrea fears for her subject's well being and stability among civilization . The werewolf genre has always yielded so few really good films . I remember seeing this for sale , part of The Maneater series , and the cool box art had this man transforming into a werewolf . . quite catchy and could easily sucker those who know nothing about it . But , the film never shows Aaron transforming into a wolf , he's often seen running with the pack , shirt off , eyes glistening . The best part of the movie was the wolf contacts used on Monteith's eyes . . but , he's not an imposing presence ( . . I felt Monteith is just too scrawny and non-threatening which I felt works against the film ) so the eyes do little to make him a real threat towards innocents . Bateman has a secondary role , merely a worried scientist who finds that her procedure is flawed and regrets performing the surgery without further testing . Korey is the dramatic heart beat of the film , the girl caught between two worlds , the modern and natural , finding in Aaron her possible soul mate . Korey's Lydia will have to protect him and , in a sense , find a type of psychological leash to bound him even though the spirit that possesses him wishes to be free from restraints . This is where spiritual mysticism , laid on thick , plays a major part in the story . . Lydia's mentor , Claude , has the means to let Aaron free from those restraints . The ending is typical . . the commandos enter the wilderness to pursue ( . . possibly kill ) Aaron and find they have their hands full . I think in the climax credibility goes out the window as we see these heavily equipped military men unable to stop a young man running throughout the woods with wolves as his companions . I think people will have a hard time believing Aaron could evade and attack his pursuers when they have such an arsenal at their disposal , but in these kinds of movies , we have to see nature defeat technological progress , and crooked government must be defeated , so HYBRID just follows the formula .
Attack of the Crab Monsters	Two giant crab monsters , grown from poisonous radiation thanks to the H bomb ( good ole reliable radiation sure provided many a screenplay with the perfect excuse to enlarge regular animal and fish life into killing monsters ) , terrorize a Navy science research team sent to an island to investigate the disappearance of another science team who stopped communication with their base . It seems that the crab monsters are equipped with the ability to absorb the knowledge of the heads they eat from their various victims since the brains essentially carry electrical impulses . The team will race against time to find out a way to try and outlast the two monsters hoping to study them while staying alive as the island is being capsized , by detonated dynamite , around them . The crabs can telepathically communicate through metal ( ! ) to the crew through the voices of those they behead and eat . This telepathy , at first , is used to lure victims to them , and then as a device to threaten . It seems that bullet-fire and grenades do little to stop the giant crabs , but attacking their brains ( where their ultimate power stems from ) or the use of positive electrical energy are the perhaps the crew's only defense against them . Charles B Griffith's screenplay uses science to explain the shenanigans of the crabs and their preposterous powers thanks to radiation , but this flick is ultimately for fans of creature features . The monstrous crabs are , at the very least , more effective than that hilarious patch-worked beast in Corman's other sea-creature flick , " Creature from the Haunted Sea . " Russell Johnson , the Professor of " Gilligan's Island " fame has the part of handyman Hank Chapman .
The Vampire Bat	Someone ( or , something thing . . ) is leaving puncture marks on the jugular and draining victims of their blood till dead . Police detective Karl Brettschneider ( Melvyn Douglas , before slipping out of the B-movie horror genre for greater heights ) is stumped at who . . or what . . is behind these notorious crimes . The village is overcome by hysteria and Karl depends on his trusted medical genius , Dr . Otto von Niemann ( Lionel Atwill , in yet another effective mad scientist role ) to provide some feedback as to what might be causing the deaths of innocents . He also fears for the safety of his beloved Ruth ( the lovely Fay Wray who stars for the third time with Atwill after " Doctor X " & " The Mystery of the Wax Museum " ) who is Niemann's assistant . Dwight Frye steals the film as a rather loony village idiot who collects bats and carries a demented demeanor wherever he goes . . it's easy to see why he becomes a suspect as local paranoia is at a fever pitch . Maude Eburne provides the film's humor as a very naive ( . . and easily influenced ) patient of von Niemann's who believes she has ailments she reads about in books near the laboratory where he works . She's impressionable and often von Niemann just humors her and constant fictional illnesses she feels plagued with . Lionel Belmore returns as yet another frightened , superstitious Bürgermeister . Creaky , static , but rather entertaining nonetheless thanks to the cast . The film is obviously as low-budget as they come , but this doesn't hurt the film too much since it's put together rather well by director Frank R Strayer and his crew . I'm certain the film's print has seen better days , though . This is the kind of B-horror item you'd find packaged in with 50 other random cheesefests and poverty row programmers . The film's villain . . and his motives for feeding a synthetically made biological creature . . certainly provides a different take on the Frankenstein formula . Many might be disappointed with the end results as the film strays away from being an actual supernatural tale about a real vampire killer causing the murders .
Fair Game	A narcissistic intellectual video game designer doesn't appreciate the fact that his " weakling " ex-girlfriend has moved on with her life , trying to earn a living from her putty sculptures ( ? ! ) enjoying the fruits of her labor in a posh vast loft , blessed with limited windows , highly secure . Gene ( Gregg Henry ) decides to put an end to this by " inheriting " a deadly venomous black mamba , required by a snake handler ( Bill Moseley , in one his many grubby roles . . the actor has a whole trunk load of these parasites he can pluck for use ) he dupes and murders . Gene's plan at eliminating an " ungrateful " inferior girlfriend is to seal Eva's ( Trudie Styler , and hour or so of running time spent with her is enough for any wary viewer to endure ) home , locking her inside with the Mamba snake , with a special tracking device on both of them , watching their " progress " from his car . Gene injects more hormones in the snake supposedly giving it a limited life expectancy providing the Mamba with " extra motivation " for attacking anyone in it's proximity . . Gene even has a timer set on his computer as to when the snake would die if it couldn't release it's venom in time . So the main meat of the film is Eva by herself practicing meditation and yoga , talking and joking to herself , making funny expressions to herself in the mirror , and generally goofing off until she realizes the snake is in there with her . . and the fact that her loft is locked tight with no exit it seems . The film often cuts to Gene in his vehicle , " sweating " it out as the counter clicks away and Eva often evades the deadly fangs of the Mamba . I would recommend seeing this film for those interested in Gregg Henry . The DVD release of " Just Before Dawn " , and films like " Slither " , " Payback " and " Body Double " feature his talents . But , I think his work here is exceptional . I think the point-of-view shots of the snake slithering around in the loft are quite reminiscent to those snake-cameras used by thieves attempting to find passages through difficult security systems in hi-tech actioners . The director often uses this device probably because it's a lot easier , and a bit more realistic . On paper , this film could be a winner . It probably is if you find Trudie Styler interesting or entertaining , because , in just my opinion , the film hangs on her likability . . she is in the film the most and it's her plight we must be concerned with . I found her pretty annoying so her plight didn't concern me , to be honest . I was more interested in Henry , because he created this air of pomposity and I've always been a fan of actors who could create a quiet menace , seething underneath this calm exterior . I like how the director often shoots him from below as if he were standing on a pedestal looking down on his prey . I say if you like Styler's performance and character , the film will work . . if not , then you'll feel the same way I did . Really , the interesting premise on paper never quite materializes on screen although , as I've mentioned already , Henry's villain is quite memorable . To be honest , in a real movie , a character such as Styler's would've been mincemeat . The funniest scene would have to been when Eva stares down the mamba with a lit cigarette lighter .
The Bunker	German soldiers ( who sound awfully British ) have to take refuge in a bunker when Allied American forces have surrounded them . Only an old timer , a bit off his rocker , and a young soldier are present inside the bunker to protect it until they join them . With hardly any supplies and little ammunition , they are easy sitting-ducks ready to be picked apart . Within the gut of the bunker is a creepy , dark , dank tunnel which might lead to a way out if the Americans haven't found out about it . But , something sinister lives within the tunnels where a large crop of human skeletons and bones are stored . The tunnel seems to be a sort-of burial ground for dead soldiers put there by the German Reich . But , as wise tales of the tunnel's creepy past begin to fester in the minds of those in the bunker , paranoia , mistrust and irrational behavior set in with disastrous results . Ambitious film doesn't have the budget to quite succeed . It tries it's hand at making the soldiers human , but it's hard to care about their fates knowing who they are . You almost feel like cheering for whoever is causing these soldiers to turn inside out . The dark tunnel is a highlight providing some chills , but I felt it has lots of potential in it's " ghostly " story-line it fails to capitalize on . That could be because not enough money was present to provide us with ghastly looking ghouls , but it seems director Rob Green is aiming for what you don't see than showing us ghosts with decaying corpses or skeleton soldiers going for revenge . There is an interesting reason behind a certain violent deed these particular Nazi soldiers did that plagues on them which might provide the motivation of acts against them in the bunker . There's also a running theme about desertion as one soldier goes mad wishing to eliminate all those German soldiers who came to the bunker after departing war when it was getting harsh .
Cannibal Apocalypse	Two Vietnam vets contracted a form of " rabies " that has caused a mental disturbance for causing violence and the unending hunger for human flesh . It seems that when they bite someone else , that " virus " causes the one bitten to have the same symptoms , because the soldiers ' commanding officer Captain John Saxon ( bitten by Radice ) is developing the craving after taking a small bite out of an alluring female teen neighbor . I'll just be honest . . I know this flick has it's fans , but I thought it was crap . I enjoyed it for all the wrong reasons ; I seriously giggled non stop at the crude vulgar dialogue nearly every character speaks , especially the police detective . There are some ridiculously over-the-top gore scenes which nearly had me rolling in the floor like when a demented Giovanni Lombardo Radice is sawing away at a gas station attendant's torso as he hits bone or when a certain character trying to flee police in the sewer ( . . guess who ? ) gets a complete hole blown through where his stomach once was . . replete with a camera shot through the hole as police come around the corner to see their handiwork as a glide up the body shows the dazed face of the now-dead character . Both shock sequences are pretty impressive , though . And , Radice really " gets into character " , saddled with some hilarious rubbish dialogue and his co-hort Tony King REALLY has a field day with his deranged Vietnam crazy who just loves leaving violent carnage in his wake . Liz Turner is John Saxon's concerned . . yet also terrified . . wife who worries about her husband's well-being and mental state . The conclusion is grim , to say the least . If you rent the DVD from netflix , I highly recommend watching the documentary with interviews by Saxon , director Antonio Margheriti , and ESPECIALLY Radice whose very candid and quite funny . Saxon says he didn't know that this film would feature flesh eating and Radice denounces his later film with Umberto Lenzi , " Cannibal ferox . " Director Antonio Margheriti did what he could , I guess , with the material he's stuck with . Radice says that he didn't take the material too seriously , which is probably good .
Basket Case	" Granny " Ruth offers refuge to fugitives Belial and Duane , who are on the lam from NYC police for several murders , including the doctors behind their separation . Ruth is an activist for those born with malformations and rejected by society as misunderstood freaks , and her attic is a secret haven for them . But , that haven might be threatened by a troublesome tabloid reporter who is sniffing at their heels for a major exclusive since a warrant is out for the arrest of Duane and Belial . Ruth will motivate her freakish community to rise up against those who threaten their comfortable way of existence . Meanwhile , Belial falls in love with a female freak such as himself as Duane falls in love with a seemingly normal young woman , who assists Ruth , named Susan ( Heather Rattray ) . Henenlotter's oddball sequel to his cult hit is really designed for the kind of crowd with a twisted sense of humor , not an audience at large . I have to admit that some of the freaks in the film are a bit much , such as a gargoyle and frog , but underneath the sick plot is a metaphor speaking out for those mistreated by the normal-looking society who shun anyone that's different from them . I did feel the ending takes things a bit too far , but it's more of a personal opinion . . Duane's reaction to Susan's " flaw " and how he decides to " re-join " with his brother maybe pushes the limits of bad taste . I found the film's two highlights being a back yard feast for the freaks by Ruth and a particular homage to Tod Browning's FREAKS . I did think effects whiz , Gabe Bartalos came up with some amazingly creative grotesque facial designs for his freaks , but Belial's attack sequences are rather laughable because he never escapes the unconvincing appearance of a rubber concoction .
Wishmaster	A Djinn is a demonic genie caught between two worlds who needs the person who calls him to ask for three wishes so that he can release his legion upon the earth . Shannon ( Wendy Benson-Landes ) unfortunately blows on a gem , created by a wizard to hold the Djinn inside , wiping it on her shirt so that she could get a clearer picture of it's center not knowing that was how you release the demonic genie from his cage . The Djinn takes the face of a dead corpse and names himself Nathaniel ( Andrew Divoff , who is perfectly cast as the purely evil demon in human form ) . The theme of " Monkey's Paw " is utilized in this film as anyone who desires a wish from the Djinn suffer the consequences losing their very soul in the process . These victims are merely a pawn in the Djinn's game for proposing that Shannon use her three wishes to halt the torture that will take place to those who made wishes . The climactic showdown between the two occurs in an cultist artifacts collector , Raymond Beaumont's ( Robert Englund playing a " normal " character for a change ) party where he wishes his shindig were like another in the past ( the one Djinn suggests . . the very gruesome one the viewer was privy to at the beginning in the past when a King's people were being slaughtered by the Djinn ) . The slaughter at Beaumont's party is quite graphic as well . It will come down to one last wish and whether or not Shannon can make it one that will not backfire releasing pure evil the entire Earth can not overcome . Making up for the silly premise is the film's outrageous graphic violence . People die in hideous , unusual ways . The idea that wishes can spawn evil to those who desire them is merely used as a tool to flood the screen with various means of bloody death . But , Divoff as the demonic genie is very effective and there are many cameos from B-movie types such as Buck Flower playing , yes you guessed it , a homeless person who wishes for pharmacist Reggie Bannister to die of Cancer because they hate each other . You have Ted Raimi in a small role as Robert Englund's assistant . The Tall Man Angus Scrimm even has the credit of narrating the opening introduction to the Djinn and where they came from .
Werewolf vs . The Vampire Woman	Silver bullets are removed from the chest of Waldemar Daninsky ( Paul Naschy ) by a skeptical coroner and weary assistant who suffer for doing such an idiotic deed . It's a Full Moon and the werewolf releases itself in attacking both them and an unfortunate female who happened to be walking nearby . Elvira ( Gaby Fuchs ) and her friend Genevieve ( the delicious Barbara Capbell ) are searching for the burial site of a devil-worshiping , supposed-vampire Countess Wandessa d'Arville de Nadasdy ( Patty Shepard , who looks great when she ever gets a chance to be on screen ; quite menacing yet striking at the same time ) . Their car runs out of gas near the estate of the mysterious , yet kind Waldemar ( yep , the man plagued by the wolf within ) who offers them a place to stay while they wait for the handyman , Pierre ( José Marco , playing one of those creepy perverted types ) to take them into the closest village . Waldemar's sister , Elizabeth ( Yelena Samarina ) is a bit off her rocker but tries to warn Elvira to leave . She later attacks Genevieve when she ventures into a chamber with chains and hand-latches showing signs of blood . Genevieve survives and Waldemar apologizes proclaiming that Liz is a bit unstable since the death of their parents . Later Waldemar takes the ladies to the resting tomb of Wandessa . Genevieve wishes to take some photos of Wandessa's corpse and Elvira takes a rain check heading towards the ruins of St . Anne's Chapel . A specific cross , wedged in the heart of Wandessa , is pulled out by Genevieve who rather likes it . . Big Mistake ! Cutting her wrist , the blood that sprinkles on Wandessa ' rotted mouth " rebirths " her so that she can rise again awaiting a certain night where her Lord and Master Satan can assist her in taking over the world ! Elvira will fall in love with Waldemar , while Elvira is bitten by Wandessa . Soon Pierre tries to kidnap Elvira and is killed by the werewolf . Genevieve will attempt to bite her friend and Waldemar informs Elvira that the cross which was pulled from Wandessa can in fact rescue him from his Full Moon Curse . Waldemar believes that if the cross is put through his heart by the one that loves him , he would be freed for good . You know that climactic battle that will take place as Wandessa kidnaps Elvira and her former beau , police Inspector Marcel ( Andrés Resino ) chaining them while awaiting her master Satan , but instead finds a battle with the werewolf . Despite many things plaguing the film , ( mainly mediocre writing and some languid pacing with acting that is sub-par ) the film is quite atmospheric with Naschy's werewolf quite a great monster . . a homage to the Universal creature except with blacker fur , lots of ferocious teeth , drool and blood gushing from the mouth and those scary , piercing white eyes . I would've loved a bit more of Shepard because I thought she had incredible presence on screen . I actually liked how the director puts their walking in slow motion as they pursue their desired victims . The music worked for the most part , often matching the mood of the night walkers . Sadly , the print I watched had bad visual and sound quality . . I would have enjoyed this much better if it was also in it's original language subtitled with a decent quality print .
Nightmares Come at Night	Strip-tease artist Anna ( Diana Lorys of Blue Eyes of the Broken Doll ) is having disturbing nightmares where she's forced against her will , it seems ( . . possibly under hypnosis by lover Cynthia ? We do see her lips moving without words uttered as she stares towards the screen as if giving orders right before the off-screen murders occur ) , to murder people she doesn't even know . Her nervous cries to psychiatrist Dr . Paul Lucas ( Paul Muller ) are resisted , as he seems to offer an ear , but often scoffs at the idea of her being crazy , suggesting that hospital care might be an option worth pursuing . Anna is convinced that her lover , Cynthia ( Colette Giacobine ) is behind what ills her . . . this stems from the fact that the nightmares really didn't start until after beginning their love affair . Meanwhile a couple ( Andrés Monales & Soledad Miranda ) , neighbors who live across from Cynthia's home where Anna stays , are often shown spying on them awaiting their " pay day " . To be honest , there are some major problems that keep Franco's mystery undermined . I think Lorys is good in the right role , but , to be honest , she's not really the archetypal heroine that leads a Jess Franco production . Lorys isn't ugly , but I'm afraid to say that she doesn't really have the beauty needed for this particular role . And , Lorys tends to take it a bit over the top , except one scene , my favorite , which is in a dream sequence where Anna has this moment of tranquility and peace ( . . and what truly enhances this dream sequence is Bruno Nicolai's melodic and serene score which only makes the final result of it even more tragic and sad ) as a possibility of true love with a fling of Cynthia's ( played by Franco regular Jack Taylor ) only to end in tragedy . I think Lorys is at her best when the character is subdued with the turmoil and paranoia bubbling underneath the surface , not elaborated outwardly where she often descends into hopeless melodramatics . My favorite actor in Franco's " inner circle " is Paul Muller , and he doesn't fail me here , either . His character carries an appearance as of someone who cares about the plight of a patient , listening to what Anna has to say with a quiet observance , delicately offering advice and solemn treatment to her . . I think , in portraying the doctor in such a fashion , the end result with him makes a greater impact . I don't think anyone ever doubted Cynthia was corrupt . Cynthia , almost from the get-go , is pointed out as a culprit behind Anna's trauma . . the way she slaps her around when angry at Anna for behaving " out of line " or how she seems little bothered at the suffering her lover is going through . Fans who adore Soledad Miranda will be sorely disappointed , because her role in the film is minimal . This is Lorys film , and Franco's camera doesn't shy away from closing in on her face and naked flesh . Lorys , like many a Franco heroine , wears revealing , see-through gowns , or those types opened down the middle as she sprawls out on a bed either in a seductive pose or under a difficult mental ( . . or nightmarish ) state . The DVD version I watched of Nightmares Come at Night was full screen and the technical aspects of a low budget show . The lighting in certain scenes was rather blah , making it hard to see certain actions ( . . like a sex scene between Anna and a couple she would murder ) taking place . Still , I've seen worse films than this and it held my attention . . any film which uses dreams and a troubled heroine inflicted by them will always have a place with me . I have to say this is one of the saddest and grim Franco films I've seen . Two scenes which didn't work for me were the longish strip-tease sequence with Anna ( . . when she meets Cynthia for the first time ; perhaps , I just never found Lorys acceptable or convincing so the act didn't wash ) and a love-making scene between her and Cynthia due to Franco's blurring the camera not allowing us to see what was taking place between them . I think the best aspect of the film is Nicolai's score . . it perfectly accentuates the mood of the story and characters even if the cast doesn't always succeed .
The Wasp Woman	A scientist has discovered a way to reverse the aging process through experimenting with the extracted enzymes from wasps , but there's a nasty side-effect . . those who take injections of the serum slowly " become " a wasp over time , which includes attacking those the person ( . . or thing ) comes in contact with for their blood , devouring the prey . The lovely Susan Cabot stars as Janice Starling , the head of a cosmetics marketing company , Starling Enterprises , that is slowly losing their customers due to her aging ( . . she is also the company's model spokesperson ) . Janice discovers that a scientist , rather rejected as a kook by his own medical community , Eric Zinthrop ( Michael Mark ) , may've found a way to reverse aging and she provides the financial means for his research and experiments . Shown the success of his work on animals , Janice opts vocally to serve as Zinthrop's human guinea pig . After the experience of her beauty and youth returning , Janice becomes obsessed with the process working faster , entering Zinthrop's office while he's away . After an auto accident where a vehicle hit Zinthrop while crossing the street , Janice continues to inject herself , and even worse , her scientist has suffered a possible brain injury . While comatose , Janice begins turning into a human wasp attacking certain employees who have the misfortune of coming in contact with her , at night . She reverts back to her human form , but the changes are becoming more frequent and it's only a matter of time before she threatens nearly her entire staff , including Bill Lane ( Anthony Eisley ) and Mary Dennison ( Barboura Morris ) , members of her marketing team who begin to search for missing colleagues such as the cosmetic chemist , Arthur Cooper ( William Roerick ) and the building's night watchman ( Bruno VeSota ) . One of director Roger Corman's notoriously cheap creature features with star Susan Cabot first wearing old age make-up , soon donning a silly wasp mask and insect gloves . Look , I fight myself when I watch these movies because on one hand , this is 1960 and many young filmmakers had to deal with the budget they had , attempting to make the best movie according to the funds available . I like these mad scientist movies that deal with the " fountain of youth " formula and Corman's film hones in on the obsessions with beauty and how that drives ambition to return to the thriving success you once had , that has waned due to age . And , it's as prevalent today ( . . if not more so ) as it was in 1960 . I think Corman makes the correct decision showing less of the wasp woman as possible , to restrain the giggles of many audience members who wouldn't consider such insect wardrobe realistic . I really liked Cabot , and thought she expressed all the anxieties of losing her beauty , the rejuvenated spirit of gaining it back , and the pressures of keeping it ( . . while struggling with the creature yearning to escape and the secret of having to hide bodies from her employees ) rather well . It doesn't hurt that she's not bad to look at ( . . and , the old age make-up did little to fool us into thinking she wasn't a sight for sore eyes , because her impressive figure was still intact ) and I felt Cabot was able to draw sympathy from the viewer due to the harsh climate of a powerful woman in a business world where beauty is held to such a high degree . But , it receives a high level of criticism due to it's poor costume for Cabot . . during the time of it's release , I'm sure it probably made hearts flutter from those in attendance . If I were to hold this movie at such severity , I'd have to pick on THE FLY as well , because both films deal with actors in costume . . I haven't seen the remake of THE WASP WOMAN , but the story is fine and could benefit from some more effective ( . . elaborate ) effects . That , for me , was really the only negative holding THE WASP WOMAN back . I feel the low IMDb score is unfair , but many have contempt for these kinds of movies so THE WASP WOMAN lingers with a 3 rating .
Period of Adjustment	As the film opens we see right at the offset that the marriage between " shaky-hands " George ( Jim Hutton ; a problems that resulted from his war experience in Korea ) and Isabel ( a smoking Jane Fonda at the early part of her career ) is rocky . But , the home they are headed for in Florida holds a marriage coming apart at the seams . Ralph ( Anthony Franciosa ) and Dorothea ( Lois Nettleton ) are having problems of their own . Ralph has had enough of his boss , and Dorothea's father , and tells him his thoughts about the crusty old man and where he can take this job . Other things underneath the surface , though , lead Dorothea to leaving Ralph such as his quitting his job , the way he wishes for his son be treated like a male than a sissy ( I felt this was an intentional Tennesse Williams subtle plot point about parental homophobia ) . . his son is given girlie toys instead of a football or other more manly presents . We watch as these four characters face personal demons in a night of not only bitter feuding , discussion , and , most importantly , reflection . The main question is can both marriages survive ? Like a lot of films based on plays , this shows characters searching their souls and trying to become honest with themselves and the faults that guide them into unusual terrain . We watch as they try and sort out their emotions by talking . We see an age-old ordeal in the Ralph and Dorothea marriage . . the in-laws butting in and causing further conflict . That alone casts a foreboding shadow Ralph wishes to escape . Also , the " ugly duckling " aspect regarding how Dorothea feels about herself is also a little ordeal that plays out in the film as she questions whether Ralph wants to remain in a " love-less " marriage . George is a fragile man who met his wife Isabel in a mental hospital where doctors tried to find the reason for the consistent plague of shakes that take over his hands ( it would probably acute to panic attacks that many suffer today ) . He talks a big talk , even tries to play out his aggressiveness , but he's weak and really does need Isabel even though he pretends to acts all macho . Isabel has such a wonderful personality , but her insistence to be heard and appreciated , at times , weighs a bit on George . So we see that each person has to come to terms with each other's faults and problems . This film has a tendency to over-exaggerate it's message ( . . and is a bit syrupy at times ) and lays on the melodrama a bit thick . It still has a more adult theme to it and touches on some very important things every marriage faces . It's always interesting seeing Fonda in these early roles before she becomes engulfed in the hippie lifestyle of the on-coming Vietnam war .
Assault on Precinct 13	Potty-mouthed , tough-talking cop film , preposterous to the max . One can easily rip the film to shreds psychoanalyzing the mistakes and holes in the plot . I can understand if many loathe it for the very fact that a saboteur is among those in the precinct and yet he doesn't just plug everyone despite the fact that they have no knowledge of this person's outside criminal activities . You could question how a few people on the inside of a precinct could fend off professional cops with high-tech equipment and state-of-the-art weaponry without major casualties . Or , you could just say the hell with it and enjoy it despite it's numerous faults . I realized it's a ridiculous action-packed film where Ethan Hawke seems to be the luckiest cop in the world because he can evade gunfire despite those shooting having the very best snipers shooting with their night-scope . The film is a very loose remake of John Carpenter's superior remake ( that film was set in LA ) , this time set in a wintry Detroit precinct on it's way to being closed down . As we see in the thrilling opening sequence , Ethan Hawkes ' Roenick loses his undercover crew when a drug bust goes awry . He's mentally shaken by this and is now a Sergeant behind the desk of the soon-to-extinct precinct awaiting another desk-job reassignment . His night crew consists of Secretary Iris ( Drea de Matteao ) , who has a thing for bad boys , and soon-to-be retired cop Jasper ( Brian Dennehy ) . Their peaceful night is shattered when a bus driver must stop his vehicle , with criminals aboard including drug crime-lord Marion Bishop ( Laurence Fishburne ) , at the old precinct to await out the winter blizzard that has erupted causing badly icy roads . That takes us to the up and coming siege of the 13th Precinct by Duvall ( Gabriel Byrne ) and his corrupted police cronies . They have been in partnership with Bishop for sometime , but the drug-lord doesn't wish to do business with them anymore ( he kills one of Duvall's men in a church early on before being caught by police ) . Afraid he'll testify , therefore possibly bringing down 33 men on the force , Duvall will eliminate all those present in the precinct after Roenick discovers , when venturing outside towards the bus killing one of them in a fight , that the police are behind the attack . The film spends most of the film showing Roenick trying to find out how he and those inside the precinct , including three other prisoners with Bishop ( John Leguizamo , Ja Rule and Aisha Hinds ) and his department-appointed psychiatrist ( Maria Bello ) , will survive an onslaught of consistent gunfire . Worse even still is how they will ever make it out of the precinct to possibly get help . The precinct is located around abandoned industrial plants where no human life is around to hear the constant barrage of bullet-fire . But , what even makes matters worse is someone among them is working for Duvall .
House of Frankenstein	Escaping Neustadt prison ( after a terrible storm appropriately capsizes their prison cells ) with hunchback Daniel ( J Carrol Naish ) , the evil Dr . Niemann ( Boris Karloff ) , a scientist , and follower of Frankenstein's work , wishes to find his idol's records wherever they might be . Niemann will murder Professor Lampini ( George Zucco , rather wasted in a VERY minor role ) taking his identity of traveling promoter for his " Chamber of Horrors " . Desiring revenge for being sent to prison , Niemann first sets his sights on the village of Reigelberg to kill Burgomeister Hussman ( Sig Ruman ) . Lampini had removed the skeletal remains of Dracula as an exhibit , with the stake still firmly wedged in his heart . Niemann removes the stake promising he'll watch over Dracula's coffin at night if the vampire murders Hussman . Under the disguise of Baron Latos , Dracula ( John Carradine , quite effective in his limited screen time ) will do as Niemann wishes but makes the mistake of pursuing Hussman's married granddaughter Rita ( Anne Gwynne ) . . Upon stopping at Frankenstein village , Daniel lusts after a pretty dancing gypsy , Ilonka ( Elena Verdugo ) and saves her from the whipping of a thief . Coercing Niemann to carry her along , Ilonka will join them upward to Frankenstein's castle ruins . Niemann and Daniel find The Monster and The Wolf Man Larry Talbot ( Lon Chaney , Jr , still weary and sorrowful for having his affliction , but the sympathy for this character is waning . . ) encased in blocks of ice underneath Frankenstein's castle . Niemann releases them from their temporary tombs , promising to cure Talbot of his affliction if he helps find Frankenstein's records . They head for Niemann's laboratory in Visaria where , on the journey , Ilonka and Talbot fall in love with Daniel growing jealous of this budding relationship and Niemann's not fixing his body as promised . Niemann , in fact , promised Daniel the body of an Adonis . With Niemann only concerned with revenge against two assistants who betrayed him to police , regarding his experiments , for wages and bringing strength back to the Monster , both Talbot and Daniel grow impatient and angry . Talbot hopes that Ilonka will kill him with a silver bullet and Daniel will finally confront Niemann once and for all regarding not doing as he promised . . Episodic which really is the only method when trying to form a movie with so many characters . My favorite part of the film has Carradine as Dracula . I thought he looked the part . . completely sinister with a strong presence on screen . I was actually quite disappointed when his part in the movie was over . I think Naish captures that sympathy quite well taking a completely different approach to his hunchback than Dwight Frye . Karloff captures that menace with ease . . . it is good that he freed himself from further Universal monster movies , though . Fun , but a far cry in quality from the earlier Frankenstein films .
Panic !	Cautionary tale about a family who are driving on the outskirts of LA when an atom bomb is dropped right on top of the mighty city . Dad Ray Milland ( who also directed from what is clearly a minor budget ) understands human nature's decline when civilization is attacked and our idea of order is crumbled ( for a realistic example Katrina's damage and how chaos ensued in New Orleans when order was effected ) . He decides to take his family to the hills , but faces many trials along the way . They hole up in a cave until safety and some sort of order can be re-established . There are others nearby their cavernous hideaway and danger ever so becomes an imminent threat . That specific threat , and the key conflict to our family , are three hoods they were able to get the best of on a highway , but now must face them in the mountains . Will civilization ever be restored ? Is there anyone left to trust ? Or , is this only a clear sign that the collapse of human nature will awaken a beast that eats itself alive ? The score is rotten cheese , and the film can't escape the look of a studio set . But , the story is quite compelling and having the point-of-view through the suffering eyes of a family trying to survive works . And , the constant fear of villainy just out in the distance somewhere creates this kind of unease as Milland and family worry almost every waking moments of possible attack . Despite a straight-faced bravado , this film can't escape it's hokey nature .
Mindhunters	Okay , so I have an affinity for Renny Harlin's Hollywood movies . So sue me , I can't help but enjoy these polished time-wasters . I'm also a sucker for these FBI crime thrillers where someone is not who they seem . On an island compound , designed by the FBI to train profilers , Kilmer places a group of intelligent wannabees there to find a " killer " called the " Puppeteer " . It's all supposed to be a simulated game . . this changes when murders start to occur . Lots of tricks and traps are pulled by the puppeteer , and the film goes out of it's way to place LL Cool J ( charismatic as always ) as the chief suspect . Sure , the film will also put out there the main heroine as well , but this is perhaps far-fetched that anyone would believe she's anything more than a decoy by the screenplay to leave open everyone as suspect . Yes , I was eye-rolling at some of the elaborately staged death traps , but they are built much like SAW in surprising us . You never know what crazy kill will happen next and to whom . And , the always asked question . . who is the exceptionally talented assassin ? This , like SAW before it , is the ultimate screenwriter movie . I can envision the writer coming up with all kinds of nutty scenarios at his laptop , hammering out which ones work best . I felt the revealing of the killer and his motivations rubbish . I question the ability of anyone being able to set up and execute such sharply created death tricks . But , the film is a play of cat and mouse with the viewer . I will freely admit to being entertained , nothing more or less than that .
The Ghoul	Pagan Professor Morlant ( Boris Karloff , absent for far too long ) wishes for a rare jewel , sold to him by Arab " shiek " Aga Ben Dragore ( Harold Huth ) who stole it from an Egyptian crypt , to be buried in his tomb when he passes . Morlant is dying and has his aide , Laing ( Ernest Thesiger , up to his usual scene-stealing ways ) bandage the jewel in his hand . Unfortunately for Morlant , Laing steals the jewel in a moment of weakness and before long others seek after it such as Dragore , sneaky no-good accountant Broughton ( Cedric Hardwicke ) , and even " padre " Nigel Hartley ( Ralph Richardson ) . Betty Harlon ( Dorothy Hyston ) and Ralph Morlant ( Anthony Bushell ) are cousins from bickering families related to Professor Morlant who stood to benefit from anything left by him after his death . What no one counted on was Professor Morlant's " rising from the grave " in search of the stolen jewel . . he plans to bow at the altar of his pagan statue hoping for eternal life with the jewel clasped in his hand . While being deliciously atmospheric with foggy nights and creepy Morlant estate as the setting , this film lumbers along at too slow a pace . Kathleen Harrison is the comic relief as Kaney , Betty's friend who tags along , falling for Dragore and getting into possible peril when the jewel winds up in her hands out of all people . The leads , Hyson and Bushell aren't charismatic or charming enough , but pros Karloff ( . . the precious few minutes we have him ) , Hardwicke , Thesiger , & especially Richardson give this some merit . Not really that bad , but could've been so much better .
Tormented	From director Bert I Gordon , I was surprised to find in TORMENTED a rather competently made little thriller about a troubled jazz pianist whose lover falls to her death from the top of a lighthouse accidentally . . hanging for dear life from the lantern room's Astral bars , Vi calls for Tom Stewart to help , and yet he allows her to fall , crashing to the rocks below . Tom's actions were out of fear that she'll do as she threatened , informing his fiancé of their affair . This act will be quite a burden as Vi returns as a tormenting spirit , haunting him ( . . could it be his guilty conscience or was Vi so determined to have him , her vengeful spirit would rise from the watery depths to stake her claim at owning him ? ) . Tom's life grows even more complicated when a blackmailer , Nick ( Joe Turkel , most know him as Lloyd , the bartender in Kubrick's THE SHINING ) , who boated Vi to his location , wants compensation due to her never paying him for his services . When Tom makes a decision regarding Nick , his fiancé Meg's ( Lugene Sanders ) little sister , Sandy ( Susan Gordon ) catches him in the act only adding to an already difficult situation . The planned wedding could be in danger as Tom's pressures at concealing a secret slowly lead him down a dark path to no return . . You know director Gordon is known as a schlock filmmaker , but I think this is one of those times where the story is told in a rather effective way , although his special effects featuring Vi , the ghost , might induce chuckles , such as when her disembodied head and hand appear to him , when her ghostly apparition often pops up unannounced at inopportune times , or a photo taken featuring her face along with Tom and Meg . Unlike other films , though , they aren't as corny ( . . or , at least I didn't think so , but you be the judge ) and the story regarding a man's sins returning to him over and over , never letting go , due to his own mistakes , isn't a bad one . Bottom line . . this kind of film has a concept that could work if the filmmakers had the kind of effects which exist today . But , Gordon didn't , so many will have a bit of fun at his expense . I actually liked the movie if just for the finale when a wedding service is actually interrupted by the slamming opening of the church doors accompanied by withering roses , leading up to a disturbing close as Tom contemplates murdering young Sandy because of seeing too much . The final image is a dandy , probably one of Gordon's most compelling closings to any film he's made . . a wedding ring lost , and found , with a proclamation actually coming true . Understandably , movies like FOOD OF THE GODS & EARTH VS THE SPIDER would almost make any film look like a masterpiece , but still those didn't feature a story with some merit to it and Carlson is the anchor holding the dramatic elements together . Plus , Carlson's character is quite a noirish archetype . . the kind of flawed victim of circumstances , most his own making , who , instead of coming clean to the woman he loves , continues to create a worsening situation for himself . By the end , he's quite scary , especially if you take into count his willingness to possibly throw Sandy from the top of the lighthouse . . also his end is quite tragic , but Gordon allows the character to suffer for his bad decisions .
Shock	Prehistoric Price vehicle , before he become a major horror star in HOUSE OF WAX , where he portrays a psychiatric doctor at an institution who attempts to silence a patient under his care who suffered a traumatic shock after witnessing him murder his wife with a conk on the head using a candlestick after she threatened his career due to his adultery with a fellow nurse working under him . Janet Stewart ( Anabel Shaw ; spending most of the screen time in a bed either sedated or trying to warn others of the murder she witnessed ) has been long awaiting her husband , Lt . Paul Stewart ( Frank Latimore ) , who was a three-year POW , and has been battling nightmares regarding their separation from each other , spending time in a hotel worrying about the potential of his not showing up . While she waits , Dr . Richard Cross ( . . a young , dashing Vincent Price , proving here his capabilities as a leading star ) confronts his wife in another room across the way , attacking his wife in the heat of the moment , placing her body in a trunk . Janet is shocked to total silence , her face frozen with horror . Husband Paul finds her in this devastated condition and Cross is called to look at her . . discovering why she is in such a shape , he will act to keep her mouth shut , having Paul reluctantly moving the poor girl into his hospital , under his care . Enter , Cross ' lover , nurse Elaine Jordan ( Lynn Bari ) who persuades him to not follow his emotions of reporting his actions towards his wife to the police , by keeping Janet sedated , while attempting to drive her mad , with their plan soon evolving into a possible murder . While Cross becomes more and more weary , his conscience and psyche cracking , Elaine continues to motivate his cover-up so they can be together . Soon Cross is able to dump the body with it found , proclaimed an accidental plunge . . but , a district attorney ( Reed Hadley ) soon gets involved in the case , which will inevitable make Cross squirm even more . What doesn't help is Janet's awakening long enough to finger Cross as the murderer , producing an even more difficult situation for Cross , but Elaine is concocting a scheme to convince their colleagues ( . . and husband Paul ) that she's simply delusional , perhaps even crazy . I must say that the performances ( . . particularly Price and Bari ) are effective and the story is suspenseful . There's nothing new regarding the old storyline of man killing his wife , with his lover helping him to cover it up , facing challenges along the way , but the idea of a psychiatrist holding psychologically hostage the patient who can put him behind bars is a rather gripping and intriguing one . I like that Price isn't as much a villain , as a trapped man , who is painted in a corner trying to escape with few options available except the criminal kind . We obviously sympathize with poor Janet who has been waiting for her husband for so long , not knowing if he was hurt or dead , fragile already emotionally , only to be stuck under the treatment of a man who holds her life in his hands and needs her silenced . Bari is the true villain of the film , as Elaine , her behavior cold-blooded , a devotion to Cross so unyielding she go to great lengths to help him remain out of harm's way . Unfortunately , I watched an obvious public domain rip with rather dodgy picture quality and poor sound . One major complaint was the ending with a certain negative reaction between Cross and Elaine that I felt was forced in the story to clearly implicate the doctor . . at this time , there was a rule in Hollywood where the criminals must be punished . I'm not saying Cross couldn't change his mind regarding Janet's fate , but his actions towards Elaine feel a little suspect as if the writer put it in the film as a way of appeasing the censors . To be honest , the film is unremarkable in style , but I believe SHOCK is a must-see for Price's loyal fanbase . . this kind of role was a sign of things to come and it was a showcase for his abilities regarding the character shaped by fate , his frailties leading to certain downfall .
The Blood Stained Shadow	A professor , Stefano ( Lino Capolicchio ) , returns home to visit his brother Don Paolo ( Craig Hill ) , a parish priest , and finds that someone is bumping off specific citizens in gruesome ways . We get a séance reading with the spiritualist after earlier seeing her receiving bribe money in an envelope in the café where the brothers feast and chat about old times . The spiritualist is strangled by someone in black leather gloves and raincoat as a storm rages outside with Paolo hearing her death scream from his room above . He doesn't see the person responsible only later receiving threatening fragmented riddled letters informing him to remain silent or else . Stefano will pursue the identity of the killer , out of devotion to his brother . Stefano meets an art decorator , Sandra ( Stefania Casini ) , on his train to home , with a blossoming relationship resulting as the murders to several who partook in the very séance held by the spiritualist before she was killed , continue to increase . Sandra's ill mother , once a very talented artist , has a specific painting which might yield a clue to the overall mystery that opens the film in slow motion . . an innocent girl was strangled by someone ( . . the killer , of course , off camera ) and as she falls to the ground , ripping pages from a book tossed away . Also , the way the letter " t " is printed on the threatening letters to Paolo , an image that haunts Stefano , an abortionist with a mentally ill son , and the aforementioned painting someone is very interested in requiring all play a hand in who is committing the murders . Those who sought after by the killer include a wealthy aristocratic homosexual Count who likes to fondle boys , an atheist doctor often clashing with the priest , Sandra's own artist mother , and quite possibly the abortionist and Paolo himself . Stylish giallo from director Antonio Bido perhaps is a bit slow in places , but is convoluted enough with a pretty good cast and sordid characters which should satisfy the giallo thriller crowd . I thought Craig Hill as the troubled priest was very good , quite expressive as his face displays tormenting thoughts and paranoia . This giallo does have a sex scene between Stefano and Sandra which should also satisfy the ones expecting it in their gialli . Not as violent as other thrillers of it's ilk , and the film takes it's time telling the story . Very story-driven with the mystery unveiling bit by bit . Those who are familiar with this genre might find a twist ( . . used in films such as " Don't Torture a Duckling " & " Seven Blood-Stained Orchids " ) rather derivative , but I think this giallo works well enough . Some beautiful , effective uses of the island the director shot the film representing his own form of Vienna . My favorite set-piece would be the following point-of-view shot as someone is walking behind Sandra through alleys of Vienna and across corners as she makes her way to home .
Curse of the Devil	Irineus Daninsky ( Paul Naschy ) and his men , crusading in the name of God , execute a group of Satanists and his ancestry are cursed by E Bathory as she is burned alive . The movie continues many years later as a descendant , Waldemar , kills a wolf which was actually a male member of gypsies who call upon the Devil ( a man dressed in a black suit and gloves . . quite a surreal sequence in a cave ) to have sex in a cavernous worshiping lair swearing to torment him with a curse . A pretty one from their group seduces Waldemar later sprinkling some of her " infected " blood on the skull of a wolf's head pressing a nasty bite into his flesh . He is now to become a werewolf at the Full Moon always to terrorize innocents biting and slashing . A vicious ax-killer is also on the loose chopping up pretty ladies and beheads the satanic woman who accursed Waldemar with werewolf blood . The ax killer will also do battle with Waldemar in werewolf form . A family from Budapest set roots in a cottage nearby Waldemar . Waldemar falls in love with the older daughter of the Wilowa family who informs him she's pregnant with his child . Her jealous younger sister seduces Waldemar . . at the wrong time , a night of the Full Moon , and becomes another in a growing line of werewolf victims . Soon many villagers ( . . and a traveling troupe camping nearby Waldemar's estate ) are getting their throats slashed and faces ripped to shreds . By the end of the film , most of the film's cast are destroyed by Waldemar , in werewolf form . Not too bad , I thought , as far as the series goes . Mixes the occult within the werewolf sub-genre for some interesting results . I think it would work a lot better if given a better soundtrack , in Spanish language with subtitles ( truly terrible dubbing where it seems that those who spoke the dialogue had contempt for the material making this flick cheesy when it could be an more serious werewolf product ) , and had snappier pacing . But , this delivers on the gore . . lots of bloody gaping throat wounds and facial tears . The werewolf even slams a huge stone across a victim's face ! Also has a grisly scene towards the end as villagers decide to form a lynch-mob killing Waldemar's hired help and comrade with farm equipment . Beautiful location assists , especially at night where my favorite sequences seem to take place . Chock full of nude female flesh as well . Not as good as " Werewolf Shadow " , but not the worst werewolf film I've seen .
Pumpkinhead : Ashes to Ashes	Doc Fraser ( Doug Bradley ) has Bunt Wallace ( Douglas Roberts presenting a flawed , but sympathetic character ) throw corpses his removed the skin from in the swamp as he sells the hide to others for grafting and plastic surgery . His source is a meth-maker named Lenny ( Emil Hostina ) who can sell the skin and other parts ( like a poor live soul who makes the unfortunate mistake of crossing their path on a hike through the backwoods ) such as kidneys to other lucrative clients . When the poor unfortunate soul is able , despite having his kidney removed , to run into Molly Sue ( Tess Panzer , whose character is a grieving mother stuck in an unhappy marriage ) traveling on the road . When Molly calls on the local fuzz , Doc's operation suffers , although he isn't unmasked as the ringleader . Those taken in are Bunt ( who is often visited by the ghostly image of Lance Henriksen's Ed Harley from the first PUMPKINHEAD film ; it's Bunt who told Ed about the witch in the woods . . Ed serves as a type of guilty conscience for Bunt ) and his meth-addicted sister ( and Doc's lover ) Dahlia ( Lisa McAllister ) . They are the ones who dug up the corpses for Doc from their graves . When Molly's interference causes the finding of all the corpses , both found in a barn and in the forest , Doc has to come up with a plan to halt anyone finding out his involvement . That's the least he has to worry about , because Molly will pay a visit to the witch in the woods , along with three others including her husband's lover , Ellie ( Ioana Ginghina ) . Seeking vengeance for her son being dug up and skinned , Molly will give over her blood marking all those involved with the grave-digging operation . The corpse of Ed Harley will be the demonic vessel used to summon Pumpkinhead to wreak havoc not only on those marked , but also anyone , innocent or otherwise , that stands in the way of that murderous goal . Will Molly's husband Oliver ( Emanuel Parvu ) be able to find a way , along with Ellie who regrets her decision for participating in the summoning of the monster , to stop Pumpkinhead and it's bloody rampage ? Can Bunt find redemption for his past involvement with Fraser ? And , will Fraser be able to kill all those who summoned Pumpkinhead before he becomes a victim ? This film is a welcome return to the franchise and seeing Bradley out of his Pinhead make-up is really neat . He's a good actor and being able to play a human monster without a disguise is fun . The cast outside of Bradley and Henriksen , who is also a welcome sight even if he's basically in it as a messenger communicating to Bunt about how vengeance and summoning evil can do no good , is forgettable and uninteresting . The monster is terrific , even if the filmmakers can not resist whipping out the CGI for some climbing sequences ( particularly the church sequence ) . The film also wisely avoids even mentioning the sequel BLOODWINGS adopting a more serious tone and staying close to what made the first film so intriguing . It's also quite gory with the monster mangling quite a few folks who get in it's path of bloodshed .
Silver Bullet	A small town community is rocked by a rash of killings thanks in part to a werewolf , and Sheriff Joe Haller ( Terry O'Quinn ) has no clues as to who the predator is . With a curfew effecting the town and frightened , angry citizens wanting the killer apprehended , it'll be up to brother and sister Marty & Jane Coslaw ( Corey Haim & Megan Follows ) , along with their dis-believing alcoholic Uncle Red ( Gary Busey ) to stop the one committing the violence . Bothered with having a responsibility for helping take care of crippled brother Marty , Jane must somehow trust him when he claims that he shot the werewolf in the eye with a bottle-rocket one night while lighting them in a nearby park . When his identity is discovered by Jane , they will have to convince Uncle Red to assist them or their very lives may be in jeopardy . You know looking at " Silver Bullet " now , I feel it's a tale of two halves . A rock solid opening up until the fog-misted werewolf slaughter of gathered citizens , joining a mob out to find the beast , and the stunning show-stopping highlight , a dream sequence of the priest whose congregation turn into werewolves . Then the film suddenly changes . The one plagued with lycanthropy , once before was a good man , troubled with the beast , but at a certain point turns into a grubby-faced psycho attempting to murder Marty with his car , even threatening the wheel-chair bound kid inside a crippling bridge . When the sheriff is told Marty's story about being threatened by this person , he goes to the person's abode without a deputy backing him up . And , it seems that the town up and forgets about the terror plaguing their community murdering their citizens after the incident in the foggy park where the werewolf picked off several out to kill it . When Stephen King's screenplay shifts completely towards Marty & Jane's battle of wills with the man troubled with lycanthropy , the folks from the first half slide out of the picture . But , the first half effectively , I felt , displays a town riddled with paranoia and horror , especially when a child , a friend of Marty's , is brutally murdered . There's an effective attack on a pregnant woman on the verge of suicide . Another effective sequence is where the werewolf attacks a nasty repugnant citizen with a foul demeanor and profane mouth in his greenhouse . The last half does show two werewolf effective transformations . . one where the killer turns after his identity is discovered by the sheriff , and at the end from the beast back into a man . Less effective , I felt , were the decapitated heads which never looked very real . I think the true success of this beloved werewolf flick is the undeniable chemistry between Busey and Haim . Their bond really helps bring the characters to life , as does the troubled brother-sister relationship . . these elements are indeed important in fleshing the leads out into real characters , building up to a rather underwhelming conclusion when the werewolf comes to claim their lives . One touch I had never noticed before that really impressed me was the last time Marty would see his friend Brady alive , asking him if he was coming . . the camera closes in on Haim's face as he stares as if knowing that this would perhaps be the last time he'd see his pal alive ( . . I felt it worked as an ominous omen the director was foretelling to us , that the werewolf would attack anyone in it's proximity ) .
Madhouse	Clark ( Joshua Leonard ) is a meek student intern looking to earn a credit so that he can finish his degree taking an employee position at a poorly ran mental institution , overrun by the stern and irritable Dr . Franks ( Lance Henriksen ) . When Clark poses the idea of making conditions better at the institution , immediately Franks shows aggravation and resistance towards him . When mysterious brutal murders begin to occur to the staff of the institute , Clark joins forces with a co-worker Sara ( cutie , Jordan Ladd ) , who herself has secrets regarding her own bouts with slight schizophrenia , to uncover what exactly is going on . Who is committing the murders and is the good Doctor Franks hiding something . Clark confides in a " patient " in a cell block on the bottom floor , a darkened hall of prisons for lunatics and psychos , named Ben who seems to know about specific details regarding the murders and history of the institution . Also , Clark sees the ghostly apparition of a little boy . How does Ben know about details being that he's locked away in a cell and who is this little boy ? And , who exactly is the murderer doing in hospital staff members and a certain mental patient who seems healthy enough to leave the facility ? I thought for the first hour , this was quite a nifty little asylum terror tale , but the twist conclusion , as the reveal of the killer is established , really opens up Pandora's box where the logistics of everything we've seen and the possibilities of how an identity of someone could be taken so easily . I'm not sure the twist can hold strong on close scrutiny . The opening sure belts you for a loop . . we get an explosion of bizarre , grotesque images of creepy characters within the mind of a child patient who escapes out the third story window of an asylum who is hit by a car intentionally . It certainly sets up the story in an unusual way . I'm drawn to horror films set in asylums because crazies make for interesting subjects . . that's what the genre's all about . Natasha Lyonne is wasted as a patient named Alice who sees a boy yet no one believes her . Dendrie Taylor is Nurse Hendricks , who appears as about as loony as the ones under her watch . Leslie Jordan is the eccentric Dr . Morgan who informs Clark of the place's unusual history regarding the escape of the boy and how buildings such as the specific institute they reside has secrets which continue to live on through the place . Leonard ably fulfills the role of Clark , a young man trying to set things right in his pursuit of the killer . He's geeky , yet attractive . He's a bit naive , yet doggedly determined enough to continue his search for the truth . Jordan Ladd sets up Sara as someone with troubles , who has finally found a possible soulmate in Clark . There's an air of mystery about her and the film goes with that offering up a possibility that she might be the one responsible for the slayings . But , the film gives you clues within the story to guess who is committing the ghoulish murders taking place . Those who have watched enough of these kind of twisty movies will probably guess who the killer is . I'm not sure I completely bought into the twist , but I found the flick entertaining enough . I might've actually have enjoyed this more if it had followed the possible supernatural path , concerning a possible haunting to the institution , instead of the psychological direction it eventually takes . Henriksen fans might be disappointed in his rather underwritten role . . he's merely here to provide a possible figure of higher authority with secrets to hide , who might just know the answer to what's going on under his watch .
The Monster Maker	J Carrol Naish stars as a scientist , Dr . Igor Markoff , obsessed with the daughter of a skilled professional concert pianist , Anthony Lawrence ( Ralph Morgan ) and will do whatever it takes to have her . . including injecting him with acromegaley ( . . a glandular condition which causes physical distortions of the face , hands , and feet ) in a diabolical scheme to force a marriage . His object of desire , Patricia ( Wanda McKay ) , is in love with pop's business manager , Bob Blake ( Terry Frost ) . Working as his assistant is Maxine ( Tala Birell ) , who understands his intentions and longs to have his love towards her . But , Maxine's devotion to Markoff and love go unrequited and she is growing tired and worried regarding his behavior , voicing her concerns , threatening to leave and report his devious actions ( . . regarding his purposely infecting an innocent man of a rare disease for the sole reason of gaining his daughter in return ) , with her life in danger as a result . . Markoff attempts to murder her by releasing a caged gorilla , and often hypnotizes her when she threatens to expose him . Meanwhile , Pat watches her beloved father fall prey to the acromegaley , at first restless and energetic , suddenly a hideous human monster in an accelerated amount of time . In an ultimate confrontation , Igor will meet his created abomination with Pat following soon after in the hopes that her father will be saved not yet knowing the warped scientist's plan to have her as his own . Cheap , low budget production with Naish is great form as the disturbed Markoff , willing to go to any lengths necessary to claim a woman who reminds him of his late wife . The whole movie is macabre , particularly the back story and what Markoff does to Anthony . . Naish's character was an assistant to the real Markoff , killing him in retaliation for adultery with his wife , Fiona , and assuming his identity , taking his work to the United States , along with Maxine , and continuing the acromegaley experiments , perfecting a serum which can regress the disease while also holding a dangerous weapon in liquid form that can also cause it ( . . . Markoff admits to Maxine that he purposely infected Fiona with acromegaley so that no one would want her , the result being that she committed suicide ) . Naish has really never been recognized as the star that he was , and little modest B-pictures like THE MONSTER MAKER are examples at how commanding he could be . A real talent he had at portraying a number of characters , from a man evolved from an ape in DR RENAULT'S SECRET to a dogged inspector in THE BEAST WITH WITH FIVE FINGERS to a rejected , mistreated hunchback assistant in HOUSE OF FRANKENSTEIN . I sadly believe the man perhaps left this mortal coil thinking that he had not left an indelible mark in the genre he starred in for so long . . but when those of us discover his work in a film as minor as this , an admiration for him grows exponentially . He absolutely embodies this madman , perfecting the balance between brilliance and madness , all low-key and subtle , never over the top , with a calm voice and unshaken disposition which makes him all the more menacing . The rest of the cast , except for Morgan , soon hardly recognizable under ghastly make-up , are merely adequate . . Naish practically carries the movie on his shoulders . I'd recommend this to classic horror buffs who wish to see Naish in his element , while also getting a glimpse at a towering Glenn Strange as a hulking henchman , Steve , who works as Markoff's enforcer .
The Pyjama Girl Case	A female corpse , with a charred face , bullet wound in the neck , and rather burned feet ( . . also carrying semen possibly explaining rape as well ) is discovered by a child on a beach on the outskirts of Sydney , Australia . A retired , and bored , crusty , easily irritable Inspector Thompson ( Ray Milland ) offers his services to the investigation under young , and rather green , Inspector Ramsey ( Ramiro Oliveros ) who eyeballs a suspect named Quint ( Giacomo Assandri ) . Quint is quite an easy mark . . maybe too easy . . for he is notorious for leaving empty cars on the beach , is rather uncouth and grubby , & lives rather close to the location of where the unidentified corpse was found . He also lifted a watch from her arm and was caught by the inspectors masturbating to the sight of a female neighbor's bum . Thompson , however , believes Ramsey's too focused on nabbing a suspect in order to quickly close the case , instead of finding out who the dead girl is . It's Thompson's belief that if you find out who the girl is , her murderer's identity will soon follow . Yet , Ramsey's too involved in making Quint admit to a murder he might not have committed , thus creating a narrow-minded agenda towards getting an easy confession . Meanwhile , like a bloodhound sniffing for clues , Thompson uses his old-school methods of following leads through little bits of evidence ( . . such as rice found in the a bag which wrapped the dead body , and a tag from the yellow pajamas she wore ) which will ultimately yield results towards who is the real killer ( s ) . In an alternate story , free-spirited river-boat waitress , Linda ( Dalila Di Lazzaro ) juggles sexual relationships with three men : one a wealthy professor , Henry Douglas ( Mel Ferrer ) who perhaps opens an avenue of removal from financial struggles , one a slimy lothario , Roy Conner ( Howard Ross ) whose merely well built and good in the sack , and a poor , rather melancholy , but handsome Italian immigrant waiter , Antonio ( Michele Placido ) . You might ask yourself what this film is doing taking two different paths telling alternating separate stories which often abruptly interfere each other . I will merely say that everything , as others who wrote user comments have already mentioned , falls into place at the end as the mystery is solved . I'm one of those who feels , despite this film's being Italian made set in Australia , that " The Payjama Girl Case " is not a giallo . It's mostly a somber tale about the ramifications for living a certain sordid lifestyle . Linda mistakingly marries Antonio , only to find herself pregnant , living a life of near-poverty , and desiring more in life than merely making ends meet . We see that , despite how happy she seems bedding different men , Linda is deeply yearning for a connection with someone unfortunately ending in limited ( . . to no ) success . Through the beautiful Lazzaro , who offers a surplus of emotions both exteriorly and under the surface ( . . the pain is quite evident in her eyes , particularly one unpleasant sex scene where she prostitutes herself for abortion cash as a 13 year old boy on-looks in horror at what the two men he's with are doing to her ) , we are witness to a really sad unfolding of events as the sleazy atmosphere of her lifestyle choices come back to haunt her . But , the film takes a unique turn in Linda's story by showcasing the true tragic character as the film continues , Antonio . Antonio , deeply jealous and wounded by racial strife , lonely in a completely alien world of Australia far removed from his Italian country , confides in the wrong girl and is left battered emotionally . The detective story almost takes a back-seat to the lurid melodrama of Linda . It's cool seeing old pro Milland ( . . another one of those Hollywood abandoned , making his way into Italian cinema , even if temporarily ) as the ornery detective , on his own it seems , deemed a relic better suited for remaining out to pasture by his younger colleagues , who represent a new breed of investigative reporter . There's an aura of sleaze throughout the whole film , in both stories . It's interesting viewing Milland's reactions to the ugliness he comes in contact with as he searches for answers ( . . such as how he responds to Quint's whacking off and nude posters on the wall ) . The most incredibly bizarre scene would have to be Inspector Ramsey's decision to put the dead corpse's nude body on display for the public so that someone might come forward to identify her . . just the idea to do such a thing certainly shows the detective's unorthodox approach at solving his case ; the crowd reaction takes voyeurism to a whole new level . The film's true weakness , in my opinion , was the musical accompaniment whether it be the cornball elevator score or the disco songs with a female singer belting her tunes rather masculinely . I do think the director brings style to the film through the camera-work , specifically the way he shoots faces and characters in certain settings ( . . especially the difficult / intimate moments between Linda and Antonio ) . I will admit , though , that after a central character is dispatched , my heart wasn't as into the movie . . I was rather mortified because I thought the character brought such presence to the movie . . .
Murder Rock	The flashdancers of a prestigious dance school are winding up dead thanks to a killer in a leather coat and gloves who uses a lion-headed hat pin and chloroform as his / her weapon . The hard-nosed , tough Candice Norman ( Olga Karlatos ) , embittered by being robbed of her own opportunity of achieving a dance career thanks to a motorcyclist running her over , pushes her students to the very brink . Three dancers have a chance to move on to even greater heights , and this might provide extra motivation towards murder . Candace sees a vision of a model / actor named George Webb ( Ray Lovelock ) coming at her with the murderous hat pin closed in hand ready to stab her . Candace is driven by the dream to pursue George once she spots a billboard add with his face modeling a product . What she doesn't count on is falling for him . The film shows the setting up of certain girls being murdered ( such as two who are attempting to take a shower after practice in the dance school ) and Candace's pursuit of the truth . As she digs deeper , George might be the major suspect in the murders . Set amongst the backdrop of New York City flash-dance music scene at the time , the soundtrack and look of the film shows this time of life in the early 80's as women connived and killed themselves in order to make it to the top of the dance scene by any means necessary . I'm sure in Fulci's macabre mind , he saw an opportunity to question . . Just how far is one willing to go towards achieving that dream ? But , when the killer is indeed exposed even deeper truths come out such as losing that dream before having a true opportunity of achieving it thanks to circumstances out of left field . George is presented as a male model struggling to make it in the treacherous business of modeling and acting . He has ambitions and dreams like the flashdancers , but is hitting the brick wall that often comes when wishing to achieve stardom . Certainly gialli fans ( . . and , most especially those of Fulci fandom ) will probably find this slow and talky . It's also anemic , barely showing any real violence at all due to what the killer uses as his / her weapon . The dialogue and dubbing are nothing to write home about , either . But , technically , Fulci's film is polished . I loved the DVD transfer and felt the cinematography ( . . and how Fulci uses light such as the bathroom / locker rooms in the dance hall at night as the lights blink on and off in increments stating that the electronic doors will be bolted in a specific time frame telling anyone still in the building they need to get out ) and lighting were top-notch . Fulci is quite restrained not filling the screen with bloodshed and gore as he does in his zombie flicks . And , yes , the flash-dance music scene backdrop is indeed cheesy but merely a product of what was happening at the time .
How To Make a Monster	Creating the scariest game comes with a price . . and we witness this when a group are put to work on " touching up " a video game which doesn't scare or thrill children who play it . Evilution , where skeletal armored creatures do battle , is supposed to go to market soon and it's up to Drummond ( Steven Culp ) to get the right associates on board to fix the numerous problems keeping the game from truly adhering to the addictive requirements associated with kids and their parents ' dollars . Intern Laura ( Clea DuVall ) , a naive , meek , sweet-natured chick who sees the world through rose-colored glasses , interviews three programming geniuses , all with their various short-comings . . Hardcore ( . . the hulking Tyler Mane ) a bit too intense / intimidating with an extensive knowledge of weaponry for " battle games " , Sol ( Karim Prince ) , a narcissist who loves the sound of his voice and enjoys informing others of how brilliant he is , and acne-faced , speed-speaking , stuttering nerd Bug ( Jason Marsden ) who is a whiz at producing sound effects . With a promise of a bonus ( 1 million dollars ) to any of the assigned group who can create this game on time for market , the war begins with each individual often at odds with each other . But , their competitive nature will indeed be tested when an electrical current " brings to life " ( . . Bug has an explanation , but it's in " geek-speak " , so I won't bother elaborating extensively ) a telemetry suit used by actors for the game characters . The computer is controlling the suit , and the computer is playing the game so the cast are being targeted as if they were characters in the game . The suit actually uses body parts from a few of the victims to form a hybrid and those left try to escape the best they can throughout the well-secure building . . but , thanks to Bug's mishap , the doors are slammed shut with limited means ( . . crawlspaces ) of retreat as the creature hunts for them . Along the way , Laura learns a lesson on greed and the evils of the world . A twist yields a surprise regarding the back up disc , the remaining members are seeking , which contains the entire game . Yes , this is as wacky as the premise sounds , but if you can somehow look past this there's some fun to be had here . I thought the cast did what they could under the circumstances , playing it as straight as they possibly could . Still , the film has a grim view of human nature , leaving us with a transformation of Laura when it's all said and done that's kind of a bummer . There's some truth to her logic regarding the dog-eat-dog world we live in , that she learns from her boss , Drummond . The monster suit is a wild concoction of metal , wires , and body parts . Not overly gory , but some heads are removed and blood splatter . The computer effects are rather underwhelming . I think the casting of DuVall succeeds . . she's the normal eyes of what is transpiring , but her battle with the creature at the end is hard to take serious , even if you cut your brain off . Food for thought . . perhaps the title has a two fold meeting regarding Laura's metamorphosis ?
The Card Player	A psychopathic poker wiz has challenged the Rome police department to either defeat him in three rounds of Internet poker in a game where if they lose , a kidnapped female victim will die ( after each round if the sicko wins he removes a finger . . if he wins the complete game , the female victim receives a sliced throat ) . The police pool all their resources into finding the killer trying to tap into his location even though his ability to thwart their efforts is quite skillful . Detectives Anna Mari ( Stefani Rocca ) , and visiting Irish forensics expert ( from London assigned on the case after a messy incident back home ) John Brennan ( Liam Cunningham ) must try and figure out where this killer is before he leaves a nasty blood trail of many victims . They are able to find a 19 year old poker ace named Remo ( Silvio Muccino ) who can lend them a hand against the killer . . his task even becomes greater when the Police Commissioner's daughter is kidnapped and used as a pawn in the poker game . Also , Anna finds the killer in her home one night letting us know that the card playing monster has targeted her as well . Director Argento aims more for a police procedural than a bloody thriller having us attend the detectives ' methods at trying to piece together facts that surface such as seeds found in the nostrils and slit throats of victims , the peculiar sound of a gunshot firing as John listens to the audio recording of a victim sobbing , the confines of the card player's location when a victim is able to free herself from the ties that bound her arms and his size & height when he kills her , etc . The film has a good pace , a very fascinating story-line which gets quite complicated when Remo , the wiz who is the first to " defeat " the killer , is hunted down by the psychopath . Even more interesting is that a development arises which might prove that the killer may very well be a member of the Rome police ! There are things that might be highly unlikely concerning how the killer could accomplish his feats considering who he is and when he does his murderous deeds , but the film's a wild ride that I actually found quite fun . It isn't that gory and seems to aim more for being an unfolding mystery with Argento using the Internet poker game as a thematic element within whether luck plays a hand in victims surviving . Perhaps unfairly criticized as a dismal failure , I must say that I'd rather watch a flick like this than most of the drivel churning out on the horror fans of today . I will say , though , that this doesn't have the usual Argento stylistics , but I thought the film still looks terrific and the locations used are gorgeous .
Moving Violations	A group of people , whose vehicles are held because of traffic violations , must pass the test of hardened , tight-wad Deputy Halik ( James Keach ) and his very butch lover Virginia ( Lisa Hart Carroll ) . What weighs against them , other than their own ineptitude , is that crooked Judge Henderson ( Sally Kellerman playing the usual sexpot slut ) is in cahoots with Halik on failing them despite their chances of passing so that they can sell their cars and share the profit . Henderson also offers her bed to Halik . Will they be able to outwit Henderson and Halik ? John Murray ( who is indeed imitating his brother . . but doing it very well because he's quite funny ) plays Dana Cannon , the one responsible for costing Halik a big promotion . Halik and Virginia attacked a car believing it was Dana's but was indeed their chief's ! So being busted down to traffic teaching really has Halik gunning for Dana . The cast has some recognizable faces such as a young frizzy-haired , bubble-headed Jennifer Tilly as Amy , Dana's love interest and an employee of NASA ! Brian Backer , with his bulging eyes , plays Scott , a puppeteer in love with a 15-year old punk rocker ( who pretends to be older and passes off as an ordinary clean-cut girl until the bad side comes out ) . Wendie Jo Sperber has a hilarious role as hypochondriac Joan who doesn't understand that Fred Willard's " Doc " Williams is an auto mechanic ( she thinks he's a doctor , he thinks she's wanting her car worked on . . the dialogue of the scene and when she comes to visit for a " check up " are priceless ) . But , the real laughs come from Nedra Volz as Loretta Houk . She's blind as a bat and this provides some gut-busting moments of true silliness such as the scene where she mistakingly goes into the men's room and wonders why her back is all wet ( . . or how she wound up in the class to begin with ; she actually drove her car onto an airstrip ! ! ) .
Midnight Cop	Inspector Alex Glass ( Armin Mueller-Stahl ) is on the trail of a serial killer who leaves Vaseline on the faces of his victims , dumping their bodies in secluded areas . We see in the opening of the film that Glass accidentally shoots a girl as an attempted arrest escalated into a shoot-out with a drug dealer who gets away . Glass also is burdened by an ex-wife who will not let him see or communicate with his daughter . The girl is a cripple and Glass is afraid of confronting her , leaving the little girl gifts as she tries to recuperate from her injuries . Meanwhile , Glass deals with renovations to his dilapidated Berlin precinct , a new associate / partner , Shirley May ( Julia Kent ) who he pesters for the hell of it , and a nasty drug dealer named Miskowski ( an effective Frank Stallone , in a criminally underwritten role ) who is the leading suspect in the murder of a murdered girl who seemingly died of an overdose . Glass has a friend and confident , lawyer Michael Karstens ( Michael York . . not his finest hour , to be honest ) whose own sister was found dead , and pregnant in a meat plant freezer . When Karstens ' own daughter is found dead the same way as the other victim ( . . also a ballet friend of hers ) , Glass will certainly have to fend off his alcoholism and sadness to stop the killing . Another plot development has Glass getting involved with a high-price call girl named Lisa ( Morgan Fairchild , fatally miscast and , in my opinion , hurts the film ) who has a relationship with drug dealing Mikowski , who is black mailing an important public official which reveals the answers to the film's ultimate mystery as to who is committing the murders . I will admit that this is troublesomely convoluted , as mysteries often are , despite the fact that viewers who are paying attention will recognize who the killer is relatively early . But , Stahl's performance , in my opinion , is a must-see . He adds little touches and quirks to his character ( . . such as a funny little twitch with his nose , and little bit with a horn mouthpiece when bored during a stake-out of a person he's tailing ) and is the kind of actor who adds dimension to a his detective which makes him interesting and believable . Stahl could've phoned it in , but he really makes the most of this part . Despite his flaws , Stahl is incredibly likable and vulnerable . When he's betrayed by someone in the plot , and is duped during the investigation , Stahl handles this perfectly . He's not a carciature whose detective knows every move of his quarry and has all the aces up his sleeve . . I like this myself and was happy that he doesn't make all the right decisions . Yet , Stahl's character doesn't remain in a sulking state , and he isn't some cranky , angry sort always barking at people as is typical by boozing , down-on-their-luck detectives always seem in these type of films . I also thought the film was evocatively photographed in a moody neo-noir style capturing an effective Berlin where teenage prostitution , buildings in ruin , drug-abuse & sordid types all bathe the city streets where our Inspector works . Sometimes the score can be a liability , especially when the music hammers in certain scenes , but there's some jazz that I think added a nice little touch to the proceedings . I didn't care for the ending . . a bit strange where the climax has the killer cornered in a meat plant where Stahl's detective sets up a dangerous scenario which could've been handled with a bit more finesse and an all too quaint close where Glass can appropriately exorcise that massive demon that's been plaguing him . But , worst of all , is having us buy into the relationship between Glass and Lisa . To be honest , Glass has better chemistry with his partner , Shirley . . this would've been a more ideal pairing and they have a wonderful scene where they're caught in an uncompromising position thanks to a clumsy misstep when tailing Lisa hoping to catch up with Miskowski .
Curse of the Fly	Oddly plotted , yet strangely compelling second sequel to The Fly has the next generation of Delambres , Henri ( Brian Donlevy ) and son Martin ( George Baker ) still attempting to make their teleportation machine work , with a decent degree of success . . they were able to travel from Quebec to London , but not without consequences . Martin is plagued with rapid aging unless he is injected with a serum and Henri suffers from radiation burns . Three lab assistants , including Martin's wife Judith ( Mary Manson ) were tragically altered by mutations due to trips through the teleportation device . Henri has a second son in London , Al ( Michael Graham ) who operates the other teleportation device , but is conflicted and disturbed with his father's disregard for the lives affected by the experiments . Al is fed up , and longs for a happy , normal life away from teleportation devices and labs . Martin makes a rather bad decision when he marries Patricia Stanley ( Carole Gray ) , a patient who broke free from an asylum ( in the bizarre opening title sequence , quite a weird way to open a sequel to The Fly ) . . Pat is in the asylum due to a nervous breakdown as a result of the death of an overbearing mother demanding her to excel at playing the piano . Henri is alarmed at Martin's marriage due to the risk of their experiments being disrupted . The plot thickens because Henri and Martin keep Judith and their student lab assistants , now monstrous mutations , locked in sheds like diseased animals ! Even worse is Wan ( Yvette Rees , in poor oriental make-up ) , the wife of the Delambres ' Chinese assistant Tai ( Burt Kwouk ) who is repulsed at Martin's decision to re-marry even though he's still attached legally to Judith . Wan responds by secretly tormenting Pat by reminding her of Judith's presence , with Henri and Martin covering up her treatment by saying she is merely having bad dreams . Pat begins to question her own sanity , while Wan ( who I believed was in love with Judith ; it just seems that way , I could be wrong ) continues to torture her in manipulative ways . Soon , a detective , Inspector Ronet ( Jeremy Wilkins ) . . called to find the whereabouts of Pat by Madame Fournier , the head of the mental institution . . begins to delve into the history of the Delambre threatening the whole teleportation operation . Tragic results spurn from Henri's insistence to continue as Wan stupidly releases Judith from her cage . . . Certainly flawed , but I found it rather fascinating for some reason . . maybe it's the way the story is arranged . The make-up of the mutated victims is terrible . Yet , I felt director Don Sharp made a rather entertaining little feature despite the material's limitations . That opening credits with shattering glass exploding at the screen , with Carole Gray escaping with nothing but undergarments , running ins slow motion is certainly an eye-opener . You have that angle of an emotionally disturbed , yet quite beautiful , young woman entering the life of a scientist who is weakened by aging that attacks with such painful force ( George Baker makes it look like a heart-attack was occurring ) , experimenting with his father on transporting humans from one place to another instantaneously . The scientist is actually already married to a woman he keeps locked up in a shed , has completely disregarded her , his father who has turned a blind eye to the effects of their experiments because of his undaunted desire to see his family's legacy completed . This is a lot of drama , not even including Wan and her antics throwing everything out of proportion . I think the film's strongest scene is at the end when Henri must get rid of the two lab assistants , having his son Al commit a dirty deed that puts all the madness into perspective . Clouded by his mad , dogged desire to see the teleportation experiments succeed ( and especially removing themselves from the possibility of being apprehended by the police for their illegal conduct , amoral decisions and treatment towards victims of their failed science ) Henri will do whatever it takes , no matter what consequences result . Not a successful film , but an interesting failure . I never thought it was boring , that's for sure .
Mimic III : Sentinel	Marvin ( Karl Geary ) is one of the last remaining persons to have contacted an illness called Strickler's which derived from " diseased " roaches . He is pretty much confined to his room where he keeps a camera pointed constantly across the street at his neighbors ' open windows gazing into their lives since his has been put on hold . His condition is so bad , if a woman , such as his later love-interest , a dentist's assistant , Carmen ( Rebecca Mader ) comes near him with perfume he requires oxygen or he'll go into an asthmatic fit . Even if he smells the afterlife of smoke , like from Carmen who had just finished a cigarette prior to entering his room , the shock kicks in with him darting for his oxygen tank . Occasionally , he journeys out of his room , but not without his tank and only for minutes not wishing to risk his health . His sister , Rosy ( Alexis Dziena ) is an addict who notices her brother's interest in Carmen . Rosy likes to poke fun at Marvin's hobby and often struggles with the need to get high . . she is always on edge and squirrelly . His mother Simone ( Amanda Plummer ) has a new love in her life , a beat cop Gary Dumars ( John Kapelos ) who pretends , at first , of being a detective . He's called in when Marvin and Rosy believe they saw a drug dealer , Des ( Keith Robinson ) killed by the " garbageman " , a dark , conspicuous character with bags on his feet whose face they have a hard time seeing . Also , Marvin keeps tabs on a father and son , whose relationship descends as the other son of the family ( seen at the beginning killed by the cockroach killer ) remains missing . Soon , the person they believed was the garbageman ( Lance Henriksen ) committing the murder of Des , shows his face when he finds Rosy and Carmen in his apartment ( they decide to see what's up with him while also searching for possible evidence regarding Des ' death ) . This man has something padlocked in his freezer . . and it could be something relative to the cockroach creatures which show up to kill various victims on the streets at the wrong time , including Dumars out searching for anyone suspicious . As many have already mentioned , the film uses the idea from Hitchcock's " Rear Window " that a helpless peeper has to watch helplessly as others he loves walk into possible peril . He often struggles for air when simply moving some in his room , so his assisting those in need of help when facing giant bugs with claws that stab the torso repeatedly and have wings which flap incessantly is rather limited . The film plays with what Marvin sees and , especially , what he doesn't . JT Petty adopts a little trick with the camera to let we , the viewers ( who are essentially peepers ourselves if you think about it ) see other poor apartment dwellers being killed by the giant winged cockroaches through the lens while Marvin is away from it . We see the things responsible for the slayings , but such as Marvin , the viewers can not help anyone either . . . so , we , in a sense , are helpless on-lookers to peril . I like this idea and think it's the most positive aspect to the flick . But , in all honesty , there's not much story here , other than the poor soul with Strickler's trying to find a way to help his loved ones who seem unable to escape the horror that awaits them . Sadly , I found Henriksen's character a little murky . . his motives were open to a point , but I wanted more about him . The killer bugs themselves are only revealed at the end when they attack certain individuals . . these attacks deliver the goods in how they speedily thrust the victims before they even have a chance to scream . In the film , Henriksen tells us that the things which lie in his freezer are breeding underground , so I'm guessing there are more sequels to explore a possible outbreak . This flick surrounds a few characters near an apartment complex staying away from what's been occurring to civilization as a whole .
The Fly II	Martin Brundle ( Eric Stoltz ) , the son of Seth Brundle , is only 5 years old and has progressed at an alarming rate into an adult . His mother died giving birth to him , and so Martin is raised by Anton Bartok ( Lee Richardson ) as a sort of lab experiment , almost a captive in a sealed room where scientists can study and observe him . He's released from this prison with Bartok informing him that he now can live in a home without mirrors which is anything but the case . Bartok's scientists have not mastered the pod experiments of Seth Brundle and through cunning manipulation , Martin is coerced into finding out how . Along the way , Martin meets an office employee , Beth Logan ( Daphne Zuniga ) , and as they fall in love , he realizes that the supposed serums Bartok's scientists have been injecting him with , to halt his " illness " , were never useful . . Martin is slowly progressing into what his father was , a monstrous fly . Bartok informs his " son " that he has desired for this re-birthing for many years hoping to use not only Martin , in his new state , but the teleporting pods as means to create a brand new world . It's clear Bartok sees himself as a God-like figure if he's able to gain control of his " pet freak " and the telepods with their abilities . While the love story between Martin and Beth is basically recycled from the first film , this sequel boasts a gory climax as the monster goes on a rampage getting revenge towards those who have betrayed it / him . Lee Richardson is a perfect heel , the kind of manipulating corporate slime who has clear goals and an empathy regarding the use of human life when it pertains to receiving success . . casualties mean little when the importance of life stands in the way of big business and radical dreams . Stoltz and Zuniga have little chemistry and their tragic affair plays second fiddle to the gooey effects of Martin's changing / cocooning . But , I'd be lying if I didn't admit that the final twenty or so minutes is what draws me back to this sequel . The opening sequence is a doozy . . when the Martin baby is born , it's hidden within a slimy insect cocoon . The final conclusion when Martin , in full fly form bursting from his grotesque cocoon , seeks retribution towards those who allowed this horrifying fate to happen , is exciting because there are highlights of gory attacks . The special effects from the director , Chris Walas , are superb . One security guard's face blasts apart as an elevator crushes his head . Another security guard's face melts to his skull appears when Martin Brundlefly spits acid directly at him . One security guard's hand is burned by acid before he's snapped into by Martin Brundlefly . Bartok's fate is particularly satisfying as it has a sense of irony . Sadly , John Getz turns up in a minor cameo as Stathis Borans from the first film , boozing in loneliness and quite worse for wear who gives little hope to Martin and Beth as they're on the lam from Bartok regarding a cure for the illness plaguing Brundle . Gary Chalk , as Bartok's chief security guard Scorby , plays a real loathsome scumbag , often making life unbearable for Martin and Beth just because he can . He takes delight in Martin's woes and often gleefully cracks wise towards Beth regarding her state of affairs with Brundle . The true star of the film are the special effects , Walas ' real strength to begin with .
The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires	I think The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires has a very fortunate novelty having Peter Cushing ( as Van Helsing attempting to teach Easterner orientals the dangers of the vampire threat often ridiculed with scorn by citizenry who feel insulted at his ravings coerced by Hsi Ching ( David Chiang ) and his family of martial artists into accompanying them on a journey to their ancestral village to destroy centuries-old bloodsuckers and their undead slaves , with son Leyland ( Robin Stewart ) and wealthy widow , Vanessa ( Julie Ege ) who is funding the difficult trip due to her adventurous spirit ) in a film featuring martial arts , Hammer and Shaw productions , an interesting marriage which should seduce the curious . Dracula occupies a brief space in the film , mainly as the chief source behind the resurgence of the oriental vampire threat , using Kah ( Shen Chan ) , the human leader of the group , as his host out of his Transylvania castle . Something you'll definitely notice is the lazy writing which functions mainly as an excuse to allow the Hsi brothers ( . . and kick-ass sister whose better than nearly all of them ) , using their various skills and weaponry , in dazzling battles against a horde of skull-faced corpses and the golden-masked vampires ( . . whose faces / bodies are rotted badly , resembling zombies ) with Cushing , Stewart and Ege often servicing the plot as on-lookers until being forced to protect themselves when danger presents itself . Cushing's presence alone brings a unique glamour to this otherwise action-oriented fare . The Hammer influence comes towards the beginning and end when Dracula is present , his battle with Van Helsing anti-climactic and uninspired . John-Forbes-Robertson is in the film perhaps ten minutes tops which is fortunate because Christopher Lee he's not . The film really doesn't even need Dracula to tell you the truth and I'm guessing the character was only added as to draw an audience to see the film . Lots of blood , and surprising amount of boobs , displayed as vampires rip the blouses from female victims they wish to feed from . The method of attack in killing the vampires , and their minions , is through the destruction of the heart with the end result being that their bodies deteriorate into dust . Fire is also used from time to time to destroy these ghastly ghouls . The climax occurs in the ancestral village , kind of a last stand between the undead and heroes attempting to stop their reign of terror forever . But , the battle in the cavern previous to this is just as exciting . The days of " Horror of Dracula " quality story-telling were gone , but " The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires " takes a completely fresh ( . . for the most part ) direction which should provide something new for the crowd looking for a different type of vampire feature than Hammer Dracula fans are used to . I think fans of martial arts action will appreciate this more than the die-hard fans of the Hammer Dracula series .
The Scarecrow reviews " Watchers 2 "	Paul Ferguson ( Marc Singer , whose likability and charm bring a respectability to this B-movie ) is being taken to a suspension area for punching a superior when his MP's encounter a creature that had escaped and killed several animal rights ' activists when the government decides to shutdown the andodyne program ( more on this in a moment ) . Paul is helped to escape from his hand cuffs thanks in part to an intelligent golden retriever . Fleeing from the creature , Paul holes up temporarily with his ex-wife for the night . Paul is able to flee the residence thanks to his wife ( Irene Miracle ) driving him past police watching her home outside . With the dog in tow , Paul is able to swap his car with a man for a jalopy so that he will not be spotted . Tracy Scoggins ( trying to hide her hotness underneath nerd-glasses ) is an animal behaviorist named Barabara White who was trying to teach the golden retriever how to read letters in the alphabet . She is pretty much out of college and beginning her career & is green to exactly what the company she works for actually does . Andodyne is actually a military project where scientists ( in this case a doctor named Steve Malceno played completely wooden by Jonathan Farwell ) create beings from genetics which are in fact linked to canines . It is a new project and the creature that Malceno is over is the first experimental venture . It is explained that the canine would be used to " spot the enemy " and the beast would attack and destroy . Unfortunately , the experiment goes awry because the creature has an uncontrollable urge to kill . So everywhere the canine goes , the creature follows leaving a bunch of dead bodies in it's wake . Soon Paul will understand that the canine is much more than just some ordinary dog and will soon be lead to Barbara because she is the only one available to trust . Will Paul and Barabara be able to stop the thing and quiet it's rampage once and for all ? The film also shows the obsession of Dr . Malceno to continue his research regardless how many this thing kills . The film has a rather low budget ( produced by Roger Corman . . need I say more ? ) , and at times the creature really simply looks like a man in a rubber suit . Singer and Scoggins try , but this film suffers somewhat by revealing the creature awfully early into the film . The director does try to shade the monster and this often does work , but when light reflects on it the credibility of the creature takes a lashing . The dog's tricks are fun to watch and I liked Singer enough to at least enjoy the film . This film is perhaps the close you are about to get to the quality of the Koontz novel ( the first one tries the approach of " less is more " , but the unveiling of the creature was laughable ; the " Watchers Reborn " has that " so bad it's good " quality , but is very mediocre ; the third film in this series is merely a " Predator " rip-off ) , which is kind of sad . You kind of wish a Koontz novel could get a decent enough budgeted film , but maybe " Watchers 2 " is about as quality as we'll ever see .
Seven Deaths in the Cat's Eye	Gothic giallo from the late Antonio Margheriti ( Castle of Blood ) with the novelty of a cat always present at the scene of murders , by a leather gloved killer using a razor , which occur in and around the castle estate of the family MacGrieff . The actual proprietor of the castle , James ( Hiram Keller ) , is deemed mad by his family doctor , Franz ( Anton Diffring ) and held responsible for the murder of his sister as a child . James ' mother Mary ( Françoise Christophe ) faces a difficult financial crisis which may leave them without their ancestral home . Trying to persuade monetary backing from her sister Alicia ( Dana Ghia ) , Mary promises Franz , who are secretly lovers , that she will keep the castle , one way or another . Alicia's daughter , Corringa ( Jane Birkin ) , arriving unannounced after being expelled from Catholic school , will soon face a horrifying ordeal . . her mother is suffocated by someone , leaving Corringa on her own to possibly face the killer whoever it may be . Could it be Mary , willing to do whatever it takes to keep the castle ? Could it be James , who has such a harsh attitude towards nearly everyone ( . . and with a record , whether it be real or a set-up ) and is considered emotionally hostile ? Is it the hired french teacher , Suzanne ( the delicious Doris Kunstmann who run rings around Birkin in a very sexy , albeit slutty , turn as whore hired by Franz to seduce James ) who might have a concocted plan with Franz at getting their hands on Mary's estate if everyone is killed off ? Is it secretly Franz , who is bedding two women under the same castle roof ? As each possible suspect is eliminated we'll know soon enough . Venantino Venantini has a limited but crucial role as a trusted priest , Father Robertson . Keeping the spirit of Mario Bava alive , Margheriti uses the environment of his castle , grounds , family cemetery & crypt , really well . He tries , through some enthusiastic camera movements , to make up for a deranged screenplay . There's a lot of naughty activity taking place within the film's castle . Margheriti sure grabs you right away opening the film with a wail from this unfortunate soul , after having his neck slit , placed in a trunk , tossed down the spiraling steps into a creepy cellar , with his corpse exploding forth with rats having a grand time using his body as lunch . . we see the poor guy's torn face , ripped apart and exposing the skull underneath . As always , the giallo trademark of the deck being stacked against a specific character ( Lord James , who is easily recognized as a red herring , once Corringa gets involved with him , opening an incestuous love affair between kissin ' cousins ) is here as is the convoluted plot yielding countless twists peppered with a corrupt group of characters offering much in the way of seedy melodrama . The violence is mostly blood spray across walls after a victim is sliced off-camera . Nudity is limited to Kunstmann showing her breasts . Unusually Birkin , as the innocent , naive and jaded protagonist , doesn't get out of her clothes , although there's one juicy implied lesbian crush as Suzanne lustfully sets her eyes on Corringa as she removes her stockings . Also thrown in is James ' pet gorilla ( ! ) , the proposed idea that the relatives of MacGrieff return from the dead as vampires if murdered by their own kin , and the reveal of the killer ( . . which seemed pulled right out of the screenwriter's ass at the last possible moment ) showing that this particular film falls right in line with the giallo genre of Italian cinema which populated the screens of the 70's .
Nightmares	Four tales with no wraparound story titled TERROR IN TOPANGA , BISHOP OF BATTLE , THE BENEDICTION , & NIGHT OF THE RAT inside a movie structure consecutively . The first is about a housewife who , despite her husband's warnings to stay in because of an escaped loony who murdered a police officer with a knife , goes out for a pack of cigarettes . Guess who she perhaps bumps into when she unfortunately runs out of gas ? This one has a nice build-up , but goes absolutely nowhere which is a shame because it has lots of potential . . it simply lacked inspiration by the writer . The second tale is about an obsessive arcade nerd who just can't rest until he reaches the prestigious Level 13 of a very difficult game called " The Bishop of Battle " . When he does , he's thrusted into a new kind of game where the stakes are his very life . To be honest , this one was a bit hokey . . the result when he reaches 13 I mean . My favorite of the anthology has a Priest ( Lance Henriksen , with conviction ) , who has lost his faith because of the frequent human suffering he sees on a regular basis , being terrorized by a psychopathic trucker , whose face is never revealed thanks to darkened tinting on the windows . We do get an indication who the driver might be . . an upside down crucifix is hanging from the rear-view mirror . And , the weapon the Priest uses against the trucker also is telling in perhaps who this evil driver is . Tense , well developed little episode with little spiritual elements which aren't too heavy-handed which is a plus . An unhappily married couple ( Richard Masur and Veronica Cartwright ) have a MAJOR rat problem . Their house cat finds that out first hand . It has been leaving a path of destruction throughout their house yet the husband wishes to fix the rat problem on his own without paying someone else . The wife , having had enough of her kitchen being demolished , calls a specialist ( Albert Kague ) and after studying comes to the conclusion that this big rat might be a Devil Rodent , the type from ancient German myth . He says they are indestructible . I know one thing , as presented here , when it lets out a roar it must measure on the Richter scale . The final scene where the couple come face to face with it might be a little too cheesy to fully scare , but I feel the episode overall works quite well . None of the stories can claim complete originality , but the last two , I believe , are thrilling & creepy enough to rise this anthology as a whole slightly above mediocrity .
Perfect Creature	" Everything flows from me . My blood will change the world . " An evolved genetically enhanced race of homo-sapiens ( " vampires " ) titled " The Brotherhood " have lived in harmony with humans serving them faithfully for centuries until a rebellious rogue member , Edgar ( Leo Gregory ) , responsible for creating an anti-virus towards the dangerous outbreak of influenza which took many lives , decides he's tired of being a servant towards those he deems inferior . He has created an influenza virus that poisons humans , and his direct aim is the Jamestown slums where he feels those undesirables aren't fit to live . His brother Silus ( Dougray Scott , mostly emotionless and stoic , tilting his head slightly towards an action or something of human nature that fascinates him ) is to be a leader of The Brotherhood one day , but Edgar's goal is to infect him with the influenza virus . For the first part of the film , Silus ( . . and The Brotherhood members ) has trouble catching an elusive and cunning Edgar who is feasting on the throats of humans in alleys and apartment dwellings . Silus joins the human police , lead by policewoman Lilly ( Saffron Burrows , although glammed down she's still quite beautiful ) as they seek the whereabouts of Edgar . Edgar bites Lilly , but doesn't kill her . Silus develops an attraction to Lilly , who now will be Edgar's chess piece in his goal to infect his brother . For a little while The Brotherhood are able to quarantine Edgar , but you know a prison will not hold this villain very long . Edgar's goal is to kidnap Lilly and cause a world of chaos as The Brotherhood see no other alternative but eradicate Jamestown due to the outbreak by one of their own . Will Silus be able to stop Edgar ? Will Silus turn on The Brotherhood , his people for what they plan to do to Jamestown ? Will Silus be able to save Lilly from the harm Edgar has in store for her ? The film moves about as fast as Edgar , and the plot isn't very complex ; I'm pretty sure most vampire fans will find it easy to follow . The setting isn't very glamorous , but the film uses that to an advantage , dipping the viewer into an ugly world where humans are rotting from disease , poverty , and filth . The Camera often briskly follows the actions and movements of the characters . . the camera even often follows the heightened senses of the vampires such as what Silus hears and what Edgar sees as he crawls through a ventilation shaft in retreat and hiding from those out to catch him . Leo Gregory , as the snarling villain , often has his face locked in rage like a venomous snake on the verge of attack . There are moments of vampire carnage such as when Edgar takes a bite out of slum victims . You know the film is heading towards a showdown between Silus and Edgar , so that shouldn't be a surprise . The ending opens the possibility of a sequel . Not a bad way to waste about 88 minutes . Nothing that'll stay with you afterwards , but works as a futuristic vampire tale that doesn't overstay it's welcome .
Halloween 4	The series brings back Michael Myers , the mystique and terror of The Shape far removed . He's just some supernatural killing machine who can be anywhere he pleases and survive every scrape it seems . The Shatner mask he wears this time produces about as many chills as a Disney cartoon . The cast is pretty good , though . Michael has niece Jamie ( Danielle Harris , oh so cute as the little girl . . just a doll ) he wishes to kill . Standing in his way , of course , Sam Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) who warns Sheriff Ben Meeker ( Beau Starr ) that Michael has escaped from an ambulance killing the paramedics inside and is probably somewhere in Haddonfield . Michael is quite a busy man . He has time to knock out the power lines by tossing an engineer into the power grid , follows in the shadows after Jamie and foster sister Rachel ( Ellie Cornell ) who are trick-or-treating before accidentally separating , and sneaking into a deputy's car as he drives to the Sheriff's house for a shut-in to watch out for the killer . The film's main setting is Meeker's home where his daughter ( the uber-hottie Kathleen Kinmont who knows how to where a guy's shirt ) and Rachel's boyfriend Brady ( Sasha Jenson of DAZED AND CONFUSED ) are making out before Daddy barges in with Loomis , Rachel , Jamie all in tow . The point is to hold out for State police since Michael seemingly wiped out an entire police station as if he were the Terminator . But , despite the gang's best efforts to board up the whole house , Michael somehow can manifest himself within the place . . he doesn't need an entrance way in , not Michael . My favorite portion of the film is when Rachel and Jamie are out in the neighborhoods trick-or-treating and we get a sense of what John was going for in the original . . this vast area of houses where the killer could be anywhere . One great ( probably the most inspired moment in the film ) scene has Meeker and Loomis caught on a street . . after finding Rachel and Jamie . . with several men wearing Shatner masks not knowing who among them is the real Michael Myers . Sadly , though , the film barely registers past mediocrity . The kills are off-screen except when Michael plunges his finger into someone's face or forehead . The film works best , I guess , with the angle of a poor innocent child being stalked by the killer . . there's a harrowing escape sequence on Meeker's roof that seems to work rather well . Good thing is that Cornell , who is cute , and Harris are both quite likable and easy to root for against the killer . My question is , does this film rise amongst the pack of the countless Friday the 13ths and slashers that came before it ? Oh , and the film's little novel twist had my sides splitting . .
Raising Cain	Now I know directors of today love the hyperkenetic , shaking camera and the fast editing technique , but watching " Raising Cain " has awakened why I love the methodical , slow-burning Steadi-cam . . that fluid camera flow is a thing of beauty . Even if the film from De Palma is less-than-stellar ( a rehash of other film ideas done to death such as split personalities and non-stop use of dream sequences which often distort reality ) , the film's main star is indeed the camera stylistics . The long unedited tracking shot of Dr . Lynn Waldheim ( Frances Sternhagen ) explaining her history with child psychologist Dr . Nix with detectives Lt . Terry and Sgt . Cully ( Gregg Henry & Tom Bower , who work well together and clearly are enjoying themselves ) as they walk from their office upstairs down to the morgue should be a pleasure for fans of " Rope " ( you'll be reminded of the amazing opening sequence with Nicholas Cage in " Snake Eyes " ) . There's also a highly inspired climax at a hotel where the real Dr . Nix is secretly staying that is a visual wonder to behold as well . The film is about the troubled Carter ( John Lithgow ) , an example of a traumatized abusive childhood with split personalities . His evil personality comes in the form of Cain . . the one who kills and does the dirty work for dear dad such as stealing children for the old man's experiments . Two other personalities lie within . . Josh , a child who stays in constant panic of Dr . Nix's perhaps drawing near , and a mysterious female personality in the form of Margo . Margo is the interesting one because her voice remains silent yet could be the most meticulous and craft personality of them all . Lolita Davidovich is absolutely sexy as Carter's wife Jenny who still has a thing for hunky Jack ( Steven Bauer ) . Her adulterous betrayal sets off a series of events that lead to the framing of a murder and other dire consequences where poor Carter will be the victim of tragedy again . Carter seems to be the reluctant victim called on to do dastardly deeds he can't accomplish because the evil to do such things isn't there . Cain is clearly like Norman Bates ' mother personality ( though , Margo might be also . . her voice isn't heard but actions speak louder , don't they ? ) . . the dominant , benevolent one who can accomplish what dear old dad desires . Brian De Palma gives John Lithgow free reign to play his numerous characters to the hilt and I'd be lying if I said I wasn't entertained . Watching him twist into Cain from the weak Carter is so much fun because he plays the evil one with such flair . The film is pretty preposterous , though , and asks us to believe that a man could walk out of a police precinct so easily towards the end leading to the hotel climax is hard to swallow . The film has such grand style that it was hard not to enjoy it . I know the film material is old-hat and his ripping off the " car-river drowning " sequence from PSYCHO is hard to not be disgusted at . De Palma can't resist these impulses and they cost him this time .
Unhinged	Three teenage girls , traveling to a rock festival , find themselves trapped in the castle of a mother and her dutiful daughter , after their car hits a log in the country road they've managed to get lost on . With rain-swept roads unable to drive on , the girls must wait out the time in the house , opting for finding a way out of the castle for their hosts are a bit creepy . . and the thoughts of remaining in such a repressed environment where the mother is always blasting her daughter for being such a disappointment , while also establishing her hate of men , is a bit of a drag . They will , however , come in contact with a killer who is behind a rash of female disappearances in the woods near the castle . Here we go . . an Oregonian slasher flick , made by folks from the state , in Portland at a creepy mansion , utilized well by director Don Gronquist , whose influences of such films as " Halloween " , " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " & " Psycho " are undeniable . Don't let the whole " BANNED IN THE UK " fool you . . this slasher flick isn't really that gory . Sure blood sprays from off-screen slashing ( . . one is murdered with a scythe , another with an ax , and the good old machete does some damage as well ) , but most of the gruesome violence isn't shown . I think the film benefits most from the uneasy dinner table scenes between Terry ( Laurel Munson ) , a nineteen year old early 80's teen and the two " women " of the house she's stuck with , from another time living in the past . The house itself , whose lavish grounds are buried deep within the mountains cut completely off from society with a paid ground keeper doing their chores and bringing in supplies when they need them , carries the appearance of a castle from many years past where the regal wealthy would have their tea parties , and pomposity filled the room . Certainly the senile , loony crippled matriarch , Mrs . Penrose ( Virginia Settle , showing her character teetering on the brink of insanity , snapping back into reality to insult her " daughter " some more for having men around the house behind her back ) reflects the atmosphere of the home . . she too is cut of from the modern age , still living in the past . Janet Penner , as the tormented spinster daughter Marion , portrays her as polite and controlled , surprising under the circumstances she finds herself . You can not help but wonder when such a person is bound to snap , after bearing the weight and burdens of such an overbearing and mentally troubled mother . Then you have the wacky brother roaming the grounds , wondering if he is the one behind the murders of Terry's pals . We're not sure , until the very final scene , whether or not it is he who is the person whose eyeball peeps through a hole in the wall spying on the girls when they are either bathing or talking to one another . Through the heavy use of a synth score , director Gronquist builds the dread , while also , through the secretive Marion , revealing little secrets along the way . The film's low budget , at times , can be a liability . Sometimes the picture is too dark , and the cast show their uneven acting ability , although Munson , and Sara Ansley ( . . as Terry's friend Nancy , the " evil influence " her mother was worried about ) aren't afraid to get naked . I noticed Gronquist shies away from conversations between the female teenagers , perhaps recognizing a limited ability to project the type of " high schooler banter " needed when these types of girls speak . I think the film's greatest strength is the awkward situation the girls find themselves in , amongst such relics from a time they have no knowledge ( . . although Terry does mention that the mother reminded her of a senile grandmother ) , there's an unpleasant discomfort I thought worked wonderfully . The twist at the end can be realized much sooner if one is paying attention to a certain photograph found in an upstairs room by Terry . And , the twist echoes " Psycho " quite a bit , as does the overall thematic elements of a mother's emotional state effecting her child . I think if one can look past the director's ( . . and film's ) limitations , there's an eerie quality the film has . . or , at least , the flick gripped me : being closed off from help , caught in a place where disturbed people live , with a wilderness outside housing possible terror . Do remember that the film shows signs of an amateur filmmaker , for there are needlessly long stretches of helicopter shots of the girls ' car driving down the road , and fade-to-blacks that last too long . There's a much tighter film that could've been produced that would've made this film feel less tedious .
Dead End .	Frank ( Ray Wise ) takes a detour into the Twilight Zone when he wishes to try another road besides the interstate which , after traveling it for so many years , causes intense boredom . What Frank and his small family doesn't know is that their in for one heck of a hellish nightmare . It's really the road that never ends . Where their true nightmare begins is when they pick up a mysterious lady in white and her dead infant . Marion ( Alexandra Holden ) watches in horror as a black car with her boyfriend Brad ( played by Billy Asher ) in the backseat , trapped and fisting the glass in terror , drives away . Later finding Brad's badly torn body , the family never quite recovers the initial shock . One by one , each family member succumbs to dark forces in various odd ways . The Harrington family will never be the same as Frank searches nervously for a place called Marcott . . it is the only evidence of any normality other than one deserted ranger station . A paranoia thriller , this film's main strength is it's unpredictability . The ending perfectly conveys why most of their road odyssey is indeed so strange . The repetitive things within the drive should flick a light switch for many viewers . Fast-paced and surprisingly entertaining .
Night of the Demons	A group of kids decide to have a party in old Hall manor on Halloween which was the location of a massacre by the proprietor many years previous . They decide to turn it up a notch for the sake of holiday spirit and have a séance using a mirror which could hold everyone's reflection . What they don't know is that their little séance DOES unleash a demonic force of some kind that enters through the mouth of slutty Suzanne ( Linnea Quigley who is scorching ) who then spreads it to goth pal Angela ( Amelia Kinkade who has a show-stopping " dance of the damned " sequence in the film ) . Soon the slaughter begins with various characters running for their lives through this frigid , ancient , decrepit manor trying to flee those taken over by demons . Rodger ( Alvin Alexis ) and Helen ( Allison Barron ) ultimately become the prey . Helen is the stereotypical pure and innocent virgin . In the vein of films like CHOPPING MALL , acting and dialogue this bad ( . . over-expressed , heightened emoting with extra emphasis on delivering corny dialogue loudly ) had to be intentional and encouraged . You don't even know the meaning of obnoxious until you've seen Hal Havins ' very annoying , boisterous character Stooge . I thought it was very reminiscent of THE EVIL DEAD , especially the creepy demonic make-up work and how the camera travels ( the camera represents the demonic force which enters Quigley much the same way as that force which attacks Bruce Campbell at the end of THE EVIL DEAD ) through doors and down halls . The manor , full of cobwebs , dust & darkness with hints of dense light , makes up quite an effectively eerie place and there's enough gruesome bits to provide the thirst of starving gore-hounds . The film's saving grace is that it never takes itself seriously .
The Deadly Mantis	A volcanic eruption near the Antarctic circle causes an after-effect which triggers the release of a gigantic Prehistoric praying mantis , enclosed in ice centuries ago , in the Arctic circle . An outpost ( Weather Shack ) of a " dew line " radar system set up around the North Pole , is the first of many attacks by the flesh-eating insect ( . . with an insatiable appetite ) which can leap , fly , and walk making it a dangerous and deadly threat to human civilization . A C-47 plane and an Eskimo village become other targets before Colonel Parkman ( Craig Stevens ) , authority over a radar Interceptor base for the Dew Line ( Red Eagel 1 , " Sentinel of the Arctic " ) built as a distant early warning system to cease sneak attacks by other hostile countries , and Dr . Nedrick Jackson , curator of the Department of Paleontology of the Museum of Natural History and chief scientist in his field , are called to stop the monster before it poses an even deadlier threat to the United States during it's suggested path of a more tropic climate of South America . General Ford ( Donald Randolph ) of the Pentagon hopes they can stop it as the praying mantis sets it's sights on Washington . The closing of the film is the mantis ' attacks on Washington before a showdown in the Manhattan tunnel between it against Parkman and his men . While the low IMDb rating of 3 . 3 perplexes me , I'm guessing that a modern audience will find it hard to accept the monster for this movie . It's not as realistic as the Harryhausen creations , but if you are a die-hard fan of these types of creature features , then " The Deadly Mantis " will provide a decent amount of entertainment . I thought the dialogue was literate and intelligent . . those who wrote the script weren't numskulls . The flick has a serious tone and is handled very matter-of-fact , and I think this can only help considering the hokey monster created on screen . You might call " The Deadly Mantis " a " second-tier " creature feature , as it doesn't have the qualities of much better sci-fi / horror " giant insect " outings such as " Them " or " Tarantula . " Still , I think the cast is fine in their roles , enhancing the dialogue , bringing a bit of respectability to this B-movie item . I've seen a hell of a lot worse movies than this and , at the very least , the film uses stock footage well , juxtaposing it within the film rather seamlessly . Only major problem I had was that no insect , no matter how huge , could sustain the attacks of bullet-fire , missiles , and a flamethrower , not to mention the mini-mines used in the tunnel at the end . My favorite scene was the climax in the tunnel as the men try to stop the mantis as it emerges from the smoke . The special effects are a detriment that are awfully hard to overcome , specifically in the age of CGI . Alix Talton is Marge , a magazine photographer working with Jackson and the military , and a love-interest of Col . Parkman .
Man-Thing	A restless Native American spirit , deep in the heart of a creepy Southern swamp being drilled for oil by power tycoon Schist ( a portly , over-the-top Jack Thompson with bulging eyes , cat-like grin and slimy disposition ) , formed from the natural resources of it's habitat , viciously attacks those who have the misfortune of entering it's lair . A " Yankee " from " up north " is hired on as the new sheriff after the old one disappears . Kyle Williams ( Matthew Le Nevez ) just wanted to be a sheriff in a nice peaceful place but instead inherits Bywater , a township reeling from an obscene number of missing citizens who entered a sacred swamp never to return . Through an attractive schoolteacher , Teri ( Rachel Taylor , doing what she can with a pedestrian role ) Kyle will find out about the town and it's troubles . The oil refinery has brought undesired attention to Bywater , and it's claimed that a well-respected Native American , Ted Sallis , a presumably proud man who wouldn't appear to be the type to sell away his heritage for green out of Schist's pocket , run away with money meant for the remaining members of his dying people . Pete Horn ( Rawiri Parantene ) , a medicine man who Kyle confides in and Teri loves and has known since childhood ( . . an important story-arc is Teri's knowledge of the swamp ) , is troubled by the violence spurning from his people's sacred swamp and plans to face the beast who is the cause of so many deaths to innocent people . Rene LaRoque ( Steve Bastoni ) , a bald-headed Native American who lives within the swamp often seen hidden underneath a hood , knows of the swamp-monster and has plans to end the madness as well . Important to the whole picture is the refinery and drilling rig which is centered at the heart of " Dark Water " , the Native American tribe's most sacred spot in the whole swamp . Why is the Man-Thing killing folks and what does this have to do with Schist ? There are indeed hidden secrets which will be unveiled as Sheriff Kyle Williams searches for answers in a place shrouded in mystery . One thing's for sure . . this isn't your family friendly Marvel Comic Feature . Loaded with profanity , ugly characters , and a few moments of shocking images ( . . half a body on a morgue slab , one poor soul's body ripped to pieces in front of Kyle , victims who get " wooden limb-branches " thrusted into their bodies while hoisted in the air ) , " Man-Thing " certainly isn't for the eyes of children . While it's rather predictable ( . . you know who will live and die , plus the mystery of what this creature is , why it was " born " , and the revealing of the real purpose behind it's specific hunting ground perhaps won't leave that many people surprised ) , the hunting lair of the killing swamp-monster is dandy . Like entering a sinister green abyss , wooden branches protrude from the ground and swamp water , moss " spider-web " the dead trees throughout , and fog moving with wind and layering the area . Oftentimes , characters can barely walk as the trees ( . . and their branch-like arms ) colonize . . the setting is also quite dark with light only seldomly greeting those who find themselves in the wrong place at night . I found this thrilling and eerie and the atmosphere of the whole setting really took my mind away from the rather threadbare story which essentially has a sheriff trying to find out information on why the monster is killing people in a swamp and how Schist plays into the grand scheme of things . I can see how many might consider this a rip of sorts from " Swamp Thing " perhaps making little comparisons as they watch this film regarding it's Marvel character . But , I found this monster quite ominous in how it looks like an evil hybrid of nature , an essence of it's environs . . but unlike Swamp Thing , this beast is an unstoppable killing machine without a conscious or guilt over who it may harm . Schist and those who associate are it's main targets , but if you enter it's domain , expect no privileges . Robert Mammone portrays Mike Ploog . a rather cuckoo photographer chasing that one chance for a legitimate picture of something out of the ordinary which will land him fame and fortune . John Batchelor and Ian Bliss are the filthy croc-hunting Thibadeaux brothers who make the mistake of boating in the beast's neck of the woods . One major gripe ( . . being that I live in the South , Mississippi ) is the fake Southern accents from the obvious Hollywood cast . . but only a minor gripe for I guess they did the best they could ( . . they failed to convince me , however , that they are members of some Southern backwater town ) . Many will be surprised to find that this comic feature even has a woman displaying her boobies .
Watch Me When I Kill	Those familiar with Antonio Bido anyway , the director of WHO SAW HER DIE ? & THE BLOOD STAINED SHADOW , understand that his giallo thrillers are always leisurely paced ( . . to say the least ) with LOTS of plot . And , there's always a sense of real sadness behind the plot , real tragedy often motivates the story with characters uncovering horrible truths . And , WATCH ME WHEN I KILL is no different , it is insanely convoluted yielding such a melancholy conclusion when our detective hero finally figures out the painful reasons behind a series of murders in ( . . and outside of ) Rome . Three characters share a secret involving the Nazis and a family they betray and this fuels the killer who hunts each down , waiting for the right time , when they are most vulnerable , slaying them from behind . The first is a pharmacist stabbed in the back , the killer slicing his throat . The second , a female character named Esmeralda ( Bianca Toccafaondi ) , who is friends with Giovanni Bozzi ( Fernando Cerulli ) , a businessman with corrupt lending practices , she has a history with . Bozzi seeks aid from neighbor , Lukas ( Corrado Pani ) regarding disturbing phone calls featuring a collage of loud , random sounds which mean little to him , yet are enough to cause concern . Lukas is also assigned to protect his actress girlfriend , Mara ( Paola Tedesco ) who came across a crime in progress ( . . the pharmacy as the killer escaped quickly ) and has been targeted for possibly seeing too much . Lukas begins his own investigation into the murders , and soon realizes that his girlfriend's pursuer and the killer behind the others are related . Soon , a judge ( Giuseppe Addobbati ) , a wrongfully accused escaped con ( Franco Citti ) , and a screenplay writer ( Paolo Malco ) all have their own part within the convoluted story . I will admit that I labored through WATCH ME WHEN I KILL , even though I respect director Bido for the ambitious story and it's chilling finale when we get all the facts after a lot exposition . I thought the score , supplied to us by Trans Europa Express was fabulous , good mixture of styles which often provide the film with a texture complimenting the shifts in tone ( . . while also making the long haul a little more bearable ) . I wasn't as critical of the acting and think the important characters were handled reasonably well . I agree with others that the dubbing and dialogue effects the impact of the film because characters are often saddled with cringe-worthy words that were perhaps more articulate in the Italian language . I for one liked Pani as the lead detective . . he had the look down , and the cigar was a nice touch , and he never , to me anyway , ever committed a dopey characterization which would make him unsympathetic or unworthy of interest . The trademark giallo POV shot for the killer is often relied upon , and there's really nothing particularly stylish or fresh . . that could be looked at as perhaps a positive for Bido , his conscious decision to bare more emphasis on the story , not dependent upon certain camera angles or imaginative methods at keeping our attention . The murders themselves are vicious affairs ( . . especially the final strangulation using a shower head's extension cord ) which correspond with what their past mistake resulted in . . the savagery with which the killer conducts his work ( . . such as the grisly sequence where Esmeralda's face is buried in a beef stew she was preparing on a skillet ) correlates with how certain family members fell to the Nazis . Also important is a family photo with faces cut representing lost lives .
Room 6	Amy Roberts ( Christine Taylor ) is having recurring nightmares where a surgeon and staff are about to make an incision while she's still awake , and the faces and event are so real . Boyfriend Nick ( Shane Brolly ) finally pops the big question but she's late for work , and this unresolved answer ( . . if she'll marry him ) will have to wait until after school ( . . she's a school teacher ) . Amy is incredibly afraid of hospitals and this fear derives from a tragic incident when she was a child regarding the death of her pops . A child plagued with terrifying nightmares , Melissa Norman ( Chloe Moretz ) , in her class might have the answer to halt the dreams tormenting Amy . . Melissa's artistic renderings of those nightmarish faces troubles Amy , demonic and grotesque . After school , Amy and Nick are driving home when a truck smashes into their SUV causing a massive collision . . left with a broken leg , Nick is taken away by rude , inhospitable paramedics and Amy left concerned about which hospital he would be going . Lucas Dylan ( Jerry O'Connell ) , the other driver , whose sister is also hurt and taken to a hospital of unknown origin , will accompany Amy as they search for the whereabouts of their loved ones . Meanwhile , Amy begins seeing demonic faces of her own , many carrying an exact likeness to those horrifying drawings painted by Melissa . We also follow Nick , who is trapped in a hospital with a weird , intimidating staff , and nervous , frightened patients who are reluctant to answer his probing questions about the mysterious behavior of those in charge of their well being . I'm in the minority regarding this movie , because I thought it was an unsettling , rather creepy little demonic thriller , with terrific make-up effects from Robert Hall and his Almost Human team . I thought the demons were genuinely frightening , and provide a real sense of dread as Amy confronts opposing forces who want her soul . The Rosemary's Hospital is quite a spooky setting and it's back story heightens the terror , while also providing answers to what Amy is up against . . a battle , or test , facing a past decision regarding her father's death that has lingered over the years , and overcoming this by confronting it will be the only way of escaping those who desire for her to " join them . " The theme is really traditional " good vs evil " subject matter with Amy's soul hanging in the balance . Renowned camera operator Raymond Stella learned a lot from working with Dean Cundy , as cinematographer really creating a disquieting atmosphere within the hospital ( . . the way the lights flicker on and off ; how disconcerting , empty , and dark the halls are ) . Within the film , Amy does have help ( . . ambiguously presented by certain characters who somehow know her name , like the taxi driver ) in discovering the history of Rosemary's hospital in pursuit of saving Nick , while the evil forces always try to thwart her mission . Nick also finds himself pitted against the forces of darkness , trying to uncover the mystery behind the hospital he's stuck in , while also attempting to understand the aggressive and off-putting nature of the staff . Why do they take so much blood , and where are they when he needs them ? Director Michael Hurst creates a state of unease for Amy and from the moment she leaves the wreck , the film remains surreal and strange , a world in purgatory as she attempts to find Nick , a spiritual struggle to the very end . Flashy role for Ellie Cornell ( Halloween IV ) as a disgruntled , acid-tongued white trash mother of Melissa who doesn't appreciate Amy's attempts at " headshrinking " her daughter . Kane Hodder has a terrific cameo as a bum who attempts to attack Amy , and gets into a violent scuffle with Lucas . O'Connel , as Lucas , is able to create an air of mystery despite conveying a very comforting and supportive friend to Amy , who certainly needs one . The climax in the hospital is a doozy , particularly when Amy must face the spirits of burn victims and killer nurses after her as she searches for Nick . The computer effects aren't as effective as the make-up prosthetic work , but I felt they aren't a really heavy burden on the movie overall . Cool factoid . . the boiler scene where Amy squares off with a demon harassing her was in fact the very room where NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET was shot . The film does seem reminiscent to JACOB'S LADDER in it's spiritual theme and discomforting nightmarish scenario ( . . though , this film doesn't quite reach it in overall quality ) .
Hide and Go Shriek	Group of teens ( forming four boyfriend-girlfriend couple ) , just recently graduated from high school , decide to stay overnight in a furniture store to have a little sex , but have no clue that a killer awaits them . . a transvestite psycho at that ! The film opens the door that a recently released con , who needed a job and place to stay , is bedding in a room on the bottom floor . John ( Sean Kanan ) is the son of the furniture store's owner and takes the rest on a tour of the massive multi-floored building with it's bevy full of mannequins creating a creepy decor . When asked why his father would have all these mannequins stored throughout , John says it makes the customers feel that someone's always at home . So anytime a teen bumps into a mannequin , they jump because you never know if it is someone with flesh not plastic . They keep the lights off so that no one will spot them inside fooling around which even increases the danger and scary-factor of the mannequins for they are always there popping up when the characters come around corners . They decide to play a game of hide-and-seek within the furniture store while also taking time out to have sexual relations in the numerous beds on the different floors available to them . This furniture store becomes a playground for the killer as he can come upon them unannounced , often hiding within the mannequins in the darkness . What's his purpose for killing them ? You have to see it to believe it ! It's absolutely an outrageous reason . Gloriously lame late-80's cheese-ball slasher with hammy overacting by the young cast made with style thanks to the darkened , enormous setting inside the huge furniture store . Multi-levels provides plenty of room for the killer to hide and attack his prey . The idea that he is amongst them without their knowledge also allows a slow build-up until he strikes . Not very gory , but still a blast if you go in not expecting much . I probably enjoyed this one a bit more than I should have .
Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-O-Rama	Biker / thief Spider ( Linnea Quigley , punked out , but still a babe ) , vulgar and disgruntled most of the film , has to reluctantly join forces with nerdy Calvin ( Andras Jones ) to outsmart a demon imp released from his bowling trophy prison ( ! ) who is turning college kids into ghouls and victims . It all starts when three dweebs , the aforementioned Calvin ( drunken thanks to his dorky dorm pals ) , porky Jimmie ( Hal Havins of " Night of the Demons " fame , as obnoxious as ever ) , and Keith ( John Stuart Wildman . . I have a bone to pick with this particular nerd , more on this joker in a moment ) caught peeping on two sorority hopefuls , Taffy ( Brinke Stevens , at her most delicious ) and Lisa ( Michelle Bauer . . at the height of her sexual powers ; but shamefully underused ) naked in the bathroom , getting cleaned up after their paddlings and whipped creaming . Babs Peterson ( Robin Stille ) is the head sister who , along with her pledge sisters Rhonda ( Kathi O'Brecht ) and Frankie ( Carla Baron ) , force the girls hoping to join their sorority , and the geeks caught sneaking a peek , to steal a trophy from her father's bowling alley . Once inside , the gang release the imp accidentally unleashing carnage on them all . While Babs and her posse plan to spoil their victims ' evenings , they have no idea what's ultimately in store for them . Before this unfortunate mistake , the group find Spider trying to break open an arcade game for the cash inside . Seduced by the imp's supposed good will at granting each individual a wish a piece , those who take up his seemingly good offer find themselves doomed . But , the imp uses it's powers to hold the group hostage inside with a type of electronic forcefield and can invade bodies with possession . Based on this silly premise , you must acknowledge that this film is completely tongue-in-cheek the entire way through . Anyone who ventures into a film titled , " Sorority Babes in the Slimeball Bowl-O-Rama " ought to know what they are getting themselves into . Director David DeCoteau seems to be using natural light within the bowling alley because it's often hard to see what has happened to various victims . This film , like many a sex comedy / horror comedy trots out the clichéd characters , dumb girls naked and naive , nerds who , once confronted with the possibility of sex , freeze , sorority gals who like to mistreat their " inferior " subjects , and hogger practical joker who annoys everyone around him . It's all in good fun if you approach this film in the right frame of mind . Often the one-liners , many from Quigley , do fall flat , but there's enough true gags to keep one entertained . . particularly those looking for a cheap laugh or two . I couldn't stop laughing a near-deaf Janitor Buck Flower , who for the first twenty or so minutes is locked in an equipment room , and later has a HILARIOUS conversation with Quigley regarding the imp and their terror within the bowling alley . . . misunderstanding what another is saying often works so well , especially when it's Buck Flower . But , even Buck , as funny as he is , can not top Brinke Stevens bathing soap from her naked flesh during her shower or Michelle Bauer hot and bothered ready to rave Keith . Oh , and on Keith . . one thing that has always driven me bonkers about movies with nerds are those where they have this sexual dynamo , in lingerie no less , on top and ready to molest them , as they squirm trying to retreat ! And , this guy has Bauer on top and wishes to get away from her . . NUTS ! Anyway , the film has Buck , a puppet demon with the voice of a bluesman , and two major-league honeys . . what more can a guy ask for ? ! Oh , and to top it all off , you have one of the sorority girls turned into the Bride of Frankenstein ( . . the scene as she chases Quigley with an axe and surprises Buck with a knock at his door . . not to mention his reaction . . are gold ) running around loose ! What's not to love , right ?
Sweet 16	Bo Hopkins stars as a small town sheriff , Dan Burke , trying to uncover the one responsible for a series of murders towards young men surrounding fifteen year old Melissa Morgan ( Aleisa Shirley ) whose " sweet sixteen " is approaching . A number of suspects emerge including two Native Americans , elderly Greyfeather ( Henry Wilcoxon ) and his grandson , Jason Longshadow ( Don Shanks ) , but they could be smokescreens of another , whose long buried past has awakened and those who attempt to get involved with Melissa pay the price . Susan Strasberg ( . . still quite beautiful at this time ) is Melissa's mother , Joanne , and screen veteran Patrick Macnee is her father , archaeologist Dr . John Morgan , excavating old Indian grounds for artifacts . Don Stroud is a rowdy racist cowboy , Billy Franklin , often hanging around with goofy hoodlum , Jimmy ( Logan Clarke ) teasing and abusing Greyfeather when he enters their juke joint for a beer . Billy and Longshadow are mortal enemies and a destined showdown is imminent . Dana Kimmell is Dan's inquisitive daughter Marci and Steve Antin is his son Hank , whose attraction to Melissa puts him in potential danger . The horror escalates at Melissa's sweet sixteen birthday party , put together as a way for the town to meet the Morgan family . . the killer will be revealed and Billy , along with Jimmy ( . . his shadow , pretty much ) will attempt to have a little fun with Melissa when she goes skinny dipping with Hank . The film carves a psychological path as Dan soon discovers the history of a certain character whose traumatic past could have developed a disturbed personality willing to kill those who pose a fictional danger to Melissa who represents someone else symbolically . The director , Jim Sotos , mentions that they were working from an unfinished script , during an interview with Hopkins admitting to ab-libbing some lines ( . . and a funny story mentions how Macnee was confused with the twist regarding why the killer was committing such grisly knife murders ) . Aleisa Shirley , a very pretty girl , has some nude shower sequences that left me rather disoriented . . as a fifteen year old character , I didn't know whether to be mortified as the camera embraced her naked flesh , or jovial because it's obvious she was a much older woman than the Melissa she was portraying . Sharon Farrell has a nice supporting role as Kathy Hopkins , a forensics expert carrying a torch for widower Dan , who proposes marriage to him all the time . A great asset to the movie was the camaraderie between Hopkins and his fictional family , Kimmell and Antin . . their chemistry together is quite fundamental to the overall success of this rural slasher . They will become embroiled within the developing situation just as much as their father investigating the case , just in a different way . Fans of Macnee will be rather disappointed in his rather lackluster role here . . it's nice to see him , but not much is demanded from him since the character isn't too strongly involved within the major plot . Strasberg , however , has an interesting development since it's revealed that she was born in the town setting of this movie . . and has friction with Michael Pataki's citizen , George Martin , an obvious history between these two is apparent . The violence isn't too gruesome , with carefully edited attacks showing the knife stabbing torsos up close . . not that extreme for dye-in-the-wool slasher fans used to gratuitous gore . Hopkins is as appealing and laid back as ever , a dominating presence of the plot , his authority convincing in a small town atmosphere , dealing with confrontational cases appropriately and realistically . I particularly liked how his sheriff handles his kids who respect their father , even if they disobey him sometimes . . unlike today's children who resist parental guidance , Dan's children know their place and don't cross him . Kimmell , who would go on to star as the lead final girl in Friday THE 13TH III , is adorable , always studiously involved in dad Dan's cases .
Psychos in Love	Cheery serial killer comedy has Joe ( Carmine Capobianco ) , a homicidal murder of women meeting Kate ( Debi Thibeault ) , a psychopath who enjoys killing men , with the result being a match made in hell . Joe selects his victims through a strip joint / bar he owns , sometimes customers , other times employees . Kate is a manicurist who often slays male customers who make sexual advances . We follow their extra curricular activities and complicated life before and after marriage , dealing with the urge to kill and loss of thrills that derive from slaughtering too many victims . Also , in a minor sub-plot , this plumber butchers and eats clients who call him up to fix their clogged sink pipes . The entire film is completely tongue and cheek , but features sick humor regarding the joy of burying a knife or another weapon into chosen victims for kicks . Lots of blood and throat slashing . . with knives , scissors , even a finger-nail file stabbing into the bodies of unfortunates who decided to accept what they thought was a type of probable sexual encounter . The film doesn't really follow a narrative with the filmmakers instead allowing us into the disturbing lives of this psychotic duo , and how they go about their daily activities ; the selection of victims , how obnoxious those chosen can be , the time spent with them before Joe and Kate tire of their presence with bloodshed not far behind . Plenty of tits feature prominently during dances in the stripper joint , not to mention , those female victims who come home with Joe . Even a bevy of shower sequences with the camera shooting up close often gliding down naked bodies as women bathe . Thibeault is not bad to look at , and one can see why she has a wide selection of men to off in sadistic ways . Capobianco seems to be enjoying himself , not really even trying to act . . I felt just by watching him that Capobianco acts like this all the time . Director Gorman Bechard and his film-making team were able to get a lot of women to go topless in this film , with obviously many being local gals . Shot on a shoestring , you can see how the filmmakers cut corners in an attempt to realistically present the nasty behavior of psychopaths with a pleasure for violence and dismemberment . That's why they do everything they can to ratchet up the zany comedy and endless supply of zingers with some hitting the mark , and others painfully lame . While their acts of violence , and calm reserve during and after them , are meant to shock , you never take the film seriously due to the lighthearted tone . To a certain crowd , this will be a lot of fun , but for a vast majority , I feel it will be considered repulsive and cheap . I think for such a low budget ( . . Capobianco doesn't shy away from the fact that he used a Casio for the film's soundtrack , it's even out during a scene at his bar while the crowd was dancing ) , many will turn it away . But , I consider this to be one of the better micro-budget flicks to come out of the 80's . Shot mostly in Joe's home and bar , the film can be a bit claustrophobic at times . Oh , Joe and Kate's loathing of all things grapes is constantly reminded to us . . they even kill people who claim to like grapes .
Quicksilver Highway	" I'm chronicling the real America , not the ideal America . . the warts , the coarse black hairs , the dark underbelly of a nation trying to fool itself that it has none . . . . There is no light without darkness , no life without death , no peace without war , no God without Satan . . . . I'm a boatman on the River Styx in Black Asphalt . . a traveler on Route 666 . " Introducing himself to recent , wedding-dress clad bride , Olivia ( Missy Crider ) is Aaron Quicksilver ( Christopher Lloyd , dressed as if he walked off the set of THE ADDAMS FAMILY ) a storyteller of the absurd and macabre and does he have quite the tale for her . Olivia is awaiting her husband off to find assistance due to their car having a flat tire . In the story Quicksilver tells her is Bill Hogan ( Raphael Sbarge , also portraying Olivia's husband Kerry off to get some help ) a bar-code label salesman who runs into a psycho hitchhiker on his way home through a bad dust storm that doesn't let up . Luckily , Bill has aide when a vehicle crash , during the hitcher's threats to kill him , causes his van to run off the road and upside down into a gully . Unable to unlock his seat , it seems as if Bill is sure bait for the killer , but is assisted by a steel toy he received by an old man running a grocery store nearby . That steel toy is chattery teeth with legs ! This tale is based on a Stephen King story called " Chattery Teeth . " In the wraparound , Olivia finds that this story hits closer to home than she could possibly ever realize . Matt Frewer , a Mick Garris vet , is Charlie , a pickpocket who happens across a gallery of oddities at a carnival , operated by . . . Aaron Quicksilver . Charlie spots a wax hand which serves as a candle for Quicksilver on display . Quicksilver has a tale for Charlie and it consists of a plastic surgeon , Dr . Charles George whose hands are rebelling against him ! We see them actually talking to each other in conversation , the hands I mean ( I'm not joking , we hear them speaking words as certain fingers act as lips ! ) , planning to escape the tyranny of the body seeking freedom ! Poor Charles George can not understand why his hands would wish to kill his beloved wife or sever ties with him . The rest of the tale consists of one hand , severing itself from Charles ' arm , causing turmoil amongst a hospital staff telling the hands of everyone to revolt ! Charles must make an ultimate decision . . one remaining attached hand seems to be a " messiah " for the other hands and will have to die with his suicide the possible only viable option left to make . And , in the wraparound , pickpocket Charlie might not have the chance to use his hands for criminal activity any longer . Based on Clive Barker's story , " The Body Politic . " Now , both stories are insane dealing with bizarre tales of horror . The outrageous nature of both tales might work for those willing to suspend disbelief . The beautiful , fluid camera-work , often always an asset in even director Garris ' worst films , is on display here . The hands running free in a hospital causing havoc has to be seen to be believed . If one has seen the ADDAMS FAMILY feature films , they have an inclination of what I'm talking about . Seeing a toy with chattery teeth and legs leaping at the throat of an evil hitchhiker ( Silas Weir Mitchell ) isn't exactly something I remember seeing before so that might be novelty for those interested in the silly and weird . This anthology can be a lot of fun for undemanding viewers expecting true terror because these tales seem more geared towards chuckles than horrifying it's audience . If you enjoy Christopher Lloyd , you might enjoy his creepy storyteller , whose cracking , demented smile is memorable as those who hear his stories are effected by them .
Stray Cat Rock : Sex Hunter	Goofy title aside , this is essentially another Japanese gang war carried out through racial turmoil orchestrated by Baron who targets " half-breeds " due to a past traumatic experience involving his sister's rape at the hands of black attackers . Meiko Kaji , her deep , penetrating eyes peering from between her long black hair , wearing a big-ass black hat which looks to weigh a ton , is Mako , representing a female group ( . . I've read them referenced as " The Alley-cats " ) who seem sexually aligned with a hostile clan of hellraisers known as The Eagles , directed by their sadistic brooding leader Baron ( Tatsuya Fuji , under dark shades , wearing colorful shirts and white pants ) and his obedient lieutenant Susumu ( Jiro Okazaki ) . A handsome foreigner enters the city looking for his sister , a " half-breed " , Kazuma ( Rikiya Yasuoka ) , finding much trouble with Baron who wants him out of their turf . Kazuma works as a mechanic and strongly desires to find his sister no matter the cost to his well being , and Baron is determined , & hell-bent on ridding his city of all those who carry Negro characteristics . Mako , attached to Baron , falls in love with Kazuma while helping him find the sister he's searching for . When she's actually a member of Mako's own sisterhood , rejecting Kazuma , he takes the resentment especially hard . When she is gang-raped by Baron's hoods , Kazuma will have it out with him once and for all in a climactic shoot-out . Mako must endure a tragic conclusion , right up close-and-personal as Baron and Kazuma square off in a duel , western style . The film features the period psychedelic bubble gum pop music club scene of the 70's , the fashion styles , drug use , criminal activity and overall rebellious youthful atmosphere of Japan , an obvious cinematic concoction designed to appeal to the target demographic attracted to these themes at that time . STRAY CAT ROCK : SEX HUNTER started out seeming rather aimless , an inside look into the culture of defiant youth , the film startled me when the very topical theme of racism is injected into the story . Baron , upon first appearance , seems little more than the head of a group of males without an identity . . they merely exist to smoke dope , lounge around clubs , and stir up some trouble with anyone who dares an attempt to date their women . When one of Mako's girls , Maki , leaves Susumu for a half-breed named Ichiro , Baron hearkens back to that painful childhood memory that has left an indelible scar , resulting in a systematic hunt for those for whom he looks at as " symbols " of those that raped his sister . Scenes that emerge include Baron's setting up Mako's girls for a rape party , his constant heinous attacks on Kazumi , the Molotov cocktail revenge which sets a hotel room ablaze , and a very bizarre shooting resulting in a brother killing his sister for some unexplainable reason . Early on you even had Mako in hand-to-hand combat with one of her own girls due to a roundabout challenge . The Eagles drive around the city in army jeeps , all ( . . or most ) wearing dark shades , and certainly reveling in their violent actions towards innocents . Baron allows his boys to play , often laughing hysterically ; you come to realize that Baron is a moody psychotic , often stewing quietly until something pushes him over the edge . Kaji always holds my attention and Fuji commands the screen as her one-time-lover and eventual adversary . Yasuharu Hasebe , thanks to the typically marvelous production values of Nikkatsu studio , brings a polished look to compliment his skills at maintaining a decent pace ( . . which can lag due to long drawn out camera set ups capturing the intensity or sadness of faces ) . I think the film's most interesting feature is how Hasebe captures that particular time in Japan , and the way he lenses characters . The unpredictability might just be another asset STRAY CAT ROCK : SEX HUNTER has in it's favor . Attractive cast with interesting faces ; the story could be polarizing to some . Rather depressing ending .
Burnt Offerings	Hokey haunted house flick regarding a family who moves into a large mansion for the summer strangely paying for it rather cheaply . The Allardyces ( Burgess Meredith , wearing his usual demented grin , and Eileen Heckart ) talk to the Rolf family regarding the house as if it were a living breathing human being . For instance when Marian ( Karen Black ) and Ben ( Oliver Reed , who gets so intense sometimes I was afraid his eyes would pop out of their sockets ) mention the idea of keeping the house clean without hired help , Mrs . Allardyce says that it cleans itself . Okay . The Allardyces also have a stipulation . . they supposedly have their mother in a room up stairs who wishes to be undisturbed . . all they want Marian to do is leave a tray of food for her . The Rolfs bring along Auntie ( Bette Davis , not really in the flick much ) and son David ( Lee Montgomery who is quite a screamer ) and as soon as the family move in weird occurrences kick in . Ben , for some reason , almost drowns David as if , out of the blue , a madness takes over willing him to murder his son . Marian begins to metamorphose into a different person . . a developing infatuation and obsession with the house overwhelms her . And , Auntie , so full of vibrant life at the opening of the film , begins to worsen both physically and mentally . She was quite aware and energetic . . but slowly goes senile and old the longer she remains in that house . And , poor David is privy to the ordeals that strike his family , yet something wishes him harm . . someone locked the window and door to his room with heater gas cut on almost killing him ! And , who is actually in that room upstairs , if anyone at all ? The mystery at the heart of the film is what's wrong with Marian and why does she get nervous when anyone wishes to speak to Mama Allardyce . . what is she hiding ? Despite some disturbing , creepy elements ( Ben being haunted by the image of a ghostly chauffeur with an ominous grin , Auntie's worsening condition , Marian's slow transformation into a completely different person than she was before , etc ) the film falls flat with an ending that's laughable . It's not really that scary despite director Dan Curtis ' best efforts using a soft focus lens inside the house to give it a unique look and some eerie music in the background . The premise , about a house who perhaps lives off of those who stay in it , just seemed rather silly to me . The ending , where we see what was in that secret , locked room , doesn't pack the punch it's supposed to , but right the opposite . . it's an eye-rolling howler ( . . though , it's certainly a downbeat ending ) . Sadly , I think this flick works best as enjoyable camp . . not the intention I believe Curtis was going for .
Dead Men Walk	George Zucco sinks his teeth into dual roles as good and evil twins , one a friendly town physician , Dr . Lloyd Clayton , and the other , occultist brother Elwyn who had discovered the power of vampirism while away in another country ( . . also known as a devil worshiper who studied and dabbled in sorcery ) . Accused of murdering his brother , by Elwyn's loyal assistant , Zolarr ( Dwight Frye , yet playing another hunchbacked fiend ) , Lloyd is soon confronted by him after attacking a female victim within the town . Claiming revenge for being pushed off a cliff , Elwyn promises to ruin Lloyd's life , and starts by draining his beloved daughter , Gayle ( Mary Carlisle ) of her blood . Gayle , slowly dying due to anemia , Lloyd starts debating his sanity , and soon accepts , despite common logic dictating otherwise , that Elwyn is in fact a vampire , and must convince his daughter's fiancé , David ( Nedrick Young ) as well . As more people are killed ( . . such as local snoop , Kate ( Fern Emmett ) , considered the superstitious town loony , who stumbles onto Elwyn's hiding place and is executed by Zolarr ) , the town hicks become restless and scared , forming a mob that will accuse Lloyd of committing the deeds after overhearing David's threats towards him to the sheriff ( Hal Price ) , considering him the one responsible for Gayle's weakening and deteriorating state . But , when David himself sees Elwyn , returning to antagonize his brother Lloyd , they set out a plan to stop him and Zolarr of their conniving evil schemes to endanger innocents . Lloyd faces insurmountable odds as the town mob set out to find him while he searches for Elwyn's lair , also confronting Zolarr in a climactic battle of good vs . evil . Zucco and Frye are the definite draws for this little horror tale which operates using the traditional vampire themes . It was certainly neat seeing Zucco getting a chance to portray not only the compassionate , caring doctor who faces daunting challenges as nearly everyone sides against him , but also the vile , malevolent vampire brother who uses unbelief as a weapon . Frye doesn't have to stretch since he has portrayed this same kind of character numerous times , but it's always fun watching him playing these devious , slimy , animated villains who work valiantly for their masters . Young and Carlisle are colorless , but the roles of loving couple caught in the middle of a war between the forces of good and evil have never demanded much for the actor and actress who portrayed them . There's nothing that original in this film ( . . and it is rather predictable ) , but it's rare that you get to see Zucco as a vampire and hero , so that gives DEAD MEN WALK an allure . Typical of the vampire genre , Lloyd can only awaken at night , fears the crucifix , and is susceptible to death by fire . . also , his loyal servant , Zolarr , must watch over his casket during the day , proving that despite his supernatural powers , he's vulnerable . Interesting enough , Elwyn's main weakness is returning to torment Lloyd .
Route 666	Get a load of this premise : federal agents taking a mob informant to a court date take an old road as a short cut to Los Angeles and find themselves being chased and attacked by the zombie spirits of a dead chain gang ! For some reason these spirits ( whose faces / skin are crumbling like old dirt and old prisoner uniforms ripped and tattered ) are wandering the road seeking them and follow a repeated pattern where a few beat their victims with pick-axes while another drives a jackhammer into their stomachs . The film gets particularly interesting when a desert sheriff of the territory , Bob Conaway ( LQ Jones ) and his two deputies enter the picture with ulterior motives concerning the feds not leaving the Route 666 alive . Lou Diamond Phillips is ex Navy Seal and head Federal Marshal Jack La Roca whose father was one of the chain-gang who mysteriously vanished with a marked grave off the road of 666 . He and US Marshal Stephanie ( a peppy Lori Petty ) are assigned to bring " Rabbit " Fred ( Steven Williams , chock full of one-liners in a spirited performance as the obnoxious informant who changed his mind on giving key info on two mob organizations ) into court , with an accompaniment of other agents , led by PT ( Dale Midkiff ) , who's really difficult and always trying to rouse La Roca into arguments and fisticuffs . . it's clear that he doesn't like taking orders from a superior just recently placed in command . Despite their differences , La Roca and PT will have to co-exist if they are going to make it out their difficult situation alive . Also important are these memories from the past , concerning the four prisoners of the murdered chain gang who return as zombie spirits , which pop up in agent La Roca's mind over and over during the film . This flick is just crazy . I mean a plot so ridiculous , and played so straight , must be seen to be believed . It plays , for a while , as a straight action thriller with this mob assassin in pursuit of the feds hoping to silence Rabbit , but then these zombies appear out of thin air , and the film really takes off into strangeland . The desert is an awesome setting for a horror film , and the setting provides a unique atmosphere for all the lunacy that takes place . The violence isn't too gory because the director shakes the hell out of the camera when the zombies are released on the road to exact carnage on those poor souls whose blood they crave to remain active spirits . The cast is quite fun . . the chemistry between Phillips , Petty & Williams helps because they make the most of their roles in such a wildly bizarre film . The ending brings everything full circle and we get an understanding as to why these zombies are appearing on this particular stretch of road , what the sheriff's motives are for causing trouble with the agents , and why La Roca sees all those images replaying over and over in his mind . Unfortunately , most of the action sequences ( . . including the opening shoot-out between La Roca and Steph with the Russian assassins in front of the diner where they apprehended Rabbit ) are shot through shaky-cam . I won't lie to you , though . . despite the film's premise , I thought it was a lot of mindless fun . Dick Miller has a miniscule role at the opening as the diner bartender and Gary Farmer has a strange cameo as a sunshaded Shamman who befriends La Roca , offering him Peyote tea to drink .
Black Cadillac	Tough Yale collegiate football star Scott ( Shane Johnson ) , his naive , virginal 17 year old brother Robby ( Jason Dohring ) who idolizes him , and troublesome , wise-cracking school chum CJ ( Josh Hammon ) with a scar down his face , are taking a brief visit to Wisconsin to get laid and drink a few bears when a bar-fight at a roadhouse ensues . Scott saves the day , but the three must get out of dodge in a hurry , finding themselves on snowy dirt roads being chased by a psycho driving a black Cadillac . Picking up a Wisconsin town sheriff , Charlie ( Randy Quaid ) whose car broke down on the side of the road , they continue to receive endless threats by the Cadillac which is playing cat'n'mouse games with them . Soon , after stopping at a diner , a message regarding a sin one of them committed is painted to Scott's Saab windshield and the group realizes that the driver in the Cadillac might be targeting someone in particular . Scott , believing Charlie is the one aimed at , leaves him , but the Cadillac driver ( . . despite what he does to Charlie ) continues to pursue them with the film following their efforts of evasion . Scott's car will suffer heavy damage along the way as the Cadillac driver will stop at nothing to cause great harm to them . The reasons behind the chase and the one truly being sought after will soon be revealed as Scott finds that his car's radiator is on the fritz and the cold , dark wintry Wisconsin woods offer no shelter of comfort whatsoever . Not a bad little low-budget chiller basically taking " Duel " and replacing the mad truck driver with someone behind the wheel of an ominous black Cadillac . The desert setting of " Duel " is replaced with the icy roads and frosty woods of Wisconsin . But , unlike films such as " Duel " or " Joy Ride " , where the madman behind the wheel's face is never shown , we do get an opportunity to see who the culprit ( s ) are in this particular film . The film takes place almost completely at night , often inside the confines of the Saab car with the leads ( . . and Quaid for a little while before he " departs " ) . The flick is quite economical if you think about it , with a great deal of the film inside the car displaying the reactions of these frightened young men being pursued by a psychopath . The characters are your typical males preparing for their futures , finding themselves in a most dangerous situation , isolated into the backwoods and roads by someone with an ax to grind . The setting at night sure adds punch to this little film . Very reminiscent to films like " Dead End " and " Wind Chill " , other nice little surprises concerning characters in a car haunted by things beyond their control . The ending ( . . why they are being chased and who the ones responsible are ) isn't exactly fresh or original , but this is a nifty little ride until then . " Black Cadillac " ultimately , like other films of it's ilk , preys on the fears of many of us who worry about being caught in a place we are not familiar in circumstances spiraling beyond our control .
Hercules in the Haunted World	Hercules must journey on sea to Hades to bring back a certain stone that'll remove the curse of anemia from his beloved Queen Deianira ( Leonora Ruffo ) caused by her evil uncle King Lyco ( Christopher Lee ) whose eyes are on her throne . Along with Herc are pals Theseus ( George Ardisson ) and Telemachus ( Franco Giacobini , a weakling slapstick foil who provides the film's supposed comedy relief ) . . they must first find a specific golden apple in the land of Hermides before entering god Pluto's Hades to retrieve the special powerful stone . In Hermides , Herc must battle a stone creature while Theseus meets god Pluto's daughter with them falling in love instantly . She will return with Theseus causing Pluto to reign terror to Deianira's people . Lyco plans to separate Herc from Deianira and kill her before the dragon swallows the moon in the sky . To be honest , the story is pure nonsense . This is about directors Mario Bava and Franco Prosperi creating colorful , surreal fantasy worlds . Using a Hercules film as a palate , both men make good use of fog and wild colors that mix and mingle . The film works as an adventure fantasy for children and one might could say it allowed Bava to evolve and mature as an artist / filmmaker honing his craft for future Gothic horror that would make him a legend . The tools for creating otherworldly atmospherics certainly is represented her . Christopher Lee is , as always , just fine as the villain of the film at first sending Herc on a wild goose chase when his King Lyco was the actual fiend behind the horrors of the Queen and the village . Throw in the sappy forbidden love-affair between Theseus and his rejected-goddess and the minor tasks Herc must overcome to retrieve the precious stone needed to bring his beloved back from the cursed spell that had weakened her . The stories aren't as interesting as the presentation . Reg Park Provides the muscular physique needed to represent the Hercules character . . and the directors do let him toss boulders . I think we get a taste of vintage Bava at the end when Hercules must fight of zombies rising from their graves in Lyco's underground pit underneath Deianira's castle . But , without the exotic visual presentation , I don't think this would hold up as well . . I just feel that the fantasy itself , particularly the tests Herc must overcome , are not as motivationally conceived as the look .
p2	Sometimes the simplest of plots can create such an intense thrill-ride if directed with a sure hand . It's essentially a game of hide'n'seek as business employee , Angela ( Rachel Nichols ) hoping to get home on Christmas Eve for a family waiting on her is imprisoned in a parking garage by security guard obsessed with her , who has probably watched her through his vast array of cameras for quite some time , using this vulnerable time to act on his fantasy . Director Franck Khalfoun handles the rather clichéd script , which really presents nothing new , quite well thanks to solid lead performances of well cast Wes Bentley ( . . who could play this role in his sleep ) , as creepy no-nonsense psychopathic security guard , Tom , quite chilling as the wacko slowly unraveling ( . . but never resorting to high theatrics as many lesser actors might do ) as his quarry continues to evade him , and well-endowed Rachel Nichols as Angela , a normal gal thrown into a crazy situation , spending nearly 85 % of the film in a gown , breasts barely contained within . Often running for her life , trying to call for help when an opportunity presents itself , or simply hiding from her pursuer , the film often finds our heroine squaring off face-to-face with Tom once again . He just wants to be her friend , he professes , but we see a video recording of her unconscious as he presses his hand down her body . Quite the creep , we see outbursts of rage against a male co-worker who , while drunk , attempted to molest Angela in an elevator , a recording Tom shows to her before pummeling him , bound and gagged to a rolling office chair , before slamming the victim by a car into a wall . As expected , Angela finds a will to reach down at his level after 95 minutes of being chased and attacked ( . . Tom's weapon of choice , when Angela's unruly , is a taser gun ) , fighting back when cops , called by her when able to use a phone , are of no assistance thanks to Tom's clever methods at hiding her away . Tom , desiring to catch her , goes as far as flooding an elevator she was remaining in , and sicking his pet dog after her . I will admit that this film isn't all that original , but I must say that it sure held my attention , although I knew the outcome . The startling violence is a nice plus considering these films have been lacking in that department for years .
Miranda	Tinto Brass erotic dramedy which , I felt , embraces the joys of sex as Serena Grandi gleefully portrays Miranda , a sexually adventurous war widow , operating a café / bar in a little village with a lush countryside as a beautiful back drop to the film's seedy leanings . I can't recall a camera embellishing the female vagina as much as Tinto's lens hones in on Grandi's . Didn't care for the arm pit hair , but I chalked that up to realism . Various men Grandi's Miranda has bedded wish for hand in marriage yet she's having too much fun screwing to actually take those longings from her suitors seriously . I don't think there's an angle Tinto Brass doesn't try in capturing Grandi's crotch in all it's hairy glory . There's a whimsical score to the film which I feel also captures the spirited joy Brass had behind this film's merry naughtiness . Lots of sex and perversion . To give you a taste of what this film is like . . there's a scene between Miranda and her pal ( . . who lost her husband to the war , also ) where they interpret what men's asses look like behind their swimming trunks . . and Tinto Brass being the provocateur that he is , shows us . I must admit , though , that after looking at a vagina long enough , it was growing a bit tiresome , but I do realize that the director was operating without restraint showing the aspects of woman . . the curvaceous Grandi in this case . . he enjoys , spreading his love to us .
From a Whisper to a Scream	Southern Gothic horror anthology from director Jeff Burr ( Leatherface-TCM III ) starring the one and only Vincent Price as Julian White , relating four grisly tales of his town , Oldfield Tennessee's violent history to reporter Beth Chandler ( Susan Tyrrell ) , who had documented his niece , Katherine's ( Martine Beswick , in a cameo ) execution for serial killings . The first tale concerns a deeply disturbed , sexually repressed nerd ( Clu Gulager , with slicked blonde hair & thick bi-focal glasses , in a chilling performance ) whose obsession with a co-worker results in a strangulation when she resists his advances . He also snaps after finally having enough of his demandingly clinging sister . His necrophiliac sexual urge yields horrifying results . The second is about a greedy swindler ( Terry Kiser ) , who is revived by an " old timer " with powers of black magic that can grant eternal life . When Jesse ( Kiser ) obsessively seeks the potion that grants the ability of life over death , even going as far as threatening his savior , Felder Evans ' ( Harry Caesar ) life ( . . which is an impossibility ) , he will obtain the secret in the most unfortunate way . The third tale follows a carnival , whose owner ( Rosalind Cash ) has the power of voodoo wielding it against her hired help , criminals needing her shield of protection , with love thwarted as the " man with the ability to eat objects " and an outsider , Amarrillis ( Didi Lanier ) wish to have a relationship which is a no-no . When the couple attempt an escape , with the murder of a performer ( . . with an all-seeing-eye on his chest ) as a result , Snakewoman's ( Cash ) voodoo will be used with nasty results . The final tale , set at the end of the Civil War , shows three cruel soldiers who have the misfortune of coming across cannibalistic children who operate their own little community seeking council from the " magistrate " a shrine dedicated to their parents , lost to the war . . . the irony of this tale is that their community would the founding fathers of Oldfield ! Each and every tale consists of unpleasant characters and grim conclusions . The wrap around story regarding Price's revelations of his town's infamous history even has a fitting conclusion which states the point that Oldfield does yield an atmosphere of evil culminating in violence taking place . Except for the first tale , the others ' stories move at a quicker pace , often ending with unsettling violence , such as Kiser's fate ( . . the burn make-up is effective ) , and how a man whose unhealthy appetite used as a profession can come back to haunt him if his employer is displeased ( . . this one is especially bloody with poor Lanier getting a blood shower ) . I think the final tale comes out best , a parable of the madness of war and the victims left behind as a cause of it . Lawrence Tierney has a small role as a witness to the execution of Katherine . Price was the real draw for me and I enjoyed his moments on screen . It's appropriate that his last true horror film would be an anthology . The long list of producers ( . . and how long it took to make the bloody thing ) proves why " The Offspring " is rather uneven and only partially effective . I did have high expectations because of word of mouth , and this anthology , at times , looks rather cheap , but there's a flavor this film has that won over me even if most of the tales presented didn't quite overwhelm me .
2019 : After the Fall of New York	America , now a desolate wasteland from nuclear warfare that has left the remaining survivors of mankind infertile , yields two warring factions both seeking the answer for the plight of a dying race . The villains of this film are the Eurac corporation , experimenting on test subjects they pluck from the city of New York , hoping to find the answer to birthing a new nation on their own corrupt terms . Most of the Euracs dress like imitation Star Wars Storm Troopers , perhaps representing a Communist regime , setting up outposts and booby traps towards anyone getting in or out of New York . A desert racer , Parsifal ( Michael Sopkiw , playing a more sympathetic version of Snake Plisskin , except donning a bandanna instead of an eye-patch ) , is taken to a top secret outpost in Alaska against his will and asked by the hidden President of the United States to seek out a fertile female housed somewhere within the ruins of a ravaged New York City , buried under rubble and filth . Parsifal once worked under his command in the Pan American Federation , and now the President hopes to start a new race on another world , not corrupted with radiation or war , Alpha Centuri , and promises Parsifal a seat on the ship heading off of Earth if he fulfills the mission by finding the young woman and getting her to them . Along with two assigned operatives to accompany him , a secret cyborg with a rag covering his robotic eye ( . . quite a wiz when using his stringed set of steel balls often knocking his foes out ) and a hook-handed " human map " ( . . who lost his family to the evil Euracs and knows New York City better than just about anyone ) , Parsifal will attempt to infiltrate New York City , preferably the damaged Manhattan , to find the fertile woman . In his way are sewer crazies ( whose head is a nutty Asian played by Hal Yamanouchi ) who hunt rats as a food source , the prowling Eurac soldiers on horseback , and ape-men lead by the gargantuan Big Ape ( George Eastman ) . Luckily Parcifal will find an ally in a dwarf named Shorty ( Louis Ecclesia ) who knows the location of the fertile woman , but also runs into trouble with the bald Eurac Commandant ( Serge Feuillard ) and his lieutenant Ania ( Anna Kanakis ) . Parcifal also finds a love-interest in Giara ( Valentine Monnier ) , thought , at first , to be the fertile woman sought found wandering with the sewer , rat hunting pack . Plucking ideas from multiple sci-actioners , this post-apocalyptic tale , from director Sergio Martino ( . . far removed from his 70's giallo heyday ) moves along at a quickened pace , set to a cool rhythmic beat . Models are used for large shots of New York City and space ships . The outfits used to clothe the characters are mismatched scraps of this and that providing them with a hobo look ( . . or what I like to call , " junk-garb " ) while the Eurac officers often wear matching suits representing a type of totalitarian order dictating the kind of police state they're hoping to employ to the destroyed world ( . . which is perhaps why their purpose for gaining control over the fertile woman is essential ) . The heroes embark on their mission through flooded sewers , often containing red-eyed flesh-eating rats , bus-graveyards , and underground dwelling places for those with radiation burns , trying to hide from the Euracs . Good fun for non-discriminating viewers who accept the film's relatively low budget , burdened with rather cheap special effects , where the filmmakers try to bring to life an ambitious equivalent to films like " Escape from New York " and " Mad Max " . There's no doubt where " 2019 " gets it's inspirations from . . some scenes are directly aping near-exact moments from the aforementioned ESCAPE ( . . such as when Parsifal is stabbed in the leg , in practically the same spot as Snake Plisskin , or how both heroes face off with their foes , carrying a motley group of misfits ) . . but Martino knows how to add zing and zang to action scenes . The camera moves with the characters really well , taking off like a galloping horse during chases and hand-to-hand combats between our heroes and the Euracian forces . " Animal lovers " might take offense to the ways the sewer crazies hunt their rats . Only real problem I had was an abandoned plot resolution regarding Ania , who had taken control of the Euracian forces , yet you never see her again once she claims to take matters into her own hands regarding Parsifal .
The Reptile	Married couple , The Spaldings , find that the Cornish village they've come to live has suffered a plague of mysterious deaths ( . . frightened citizens call it the " Black Plague " ) , where the victims ' faces are black , their hearts stopped , with excessive foam from the mouth . Further research reveal that the deaths , thanks to pub owner's digging up a body , were caused by a snake bite on the back of the victim's neck . In a vast estate across the moor lives an oddly behaving Dr . Franklyn whose sheltered daughter seems weary of something as both have a guest with them , a mysterious Indian with a sinister gaze , often seen hiding in the shadows surveying everything from a distance , as if harboring an evil , suspicious intent . Harry Spalding ( Ray Barrett ) , with wife Valerie ( Jennifer Daniel ) in tow , receive the cottage of his late brother Charles ( David Baron , who we witness being bitten by a shadowy figure right after the warnings of Dr . Franklyn ( Noel Willman ) to get away , with his body later dumped in the moor by Marne Maitland's Indian ) finding a village of worried folk hesitant about outsiders / newcomers . Harry finds the cottage ransacked , with frustration and anger already setting in . Soon Harry would pursue the reasons behind his brother's mysterious death leading directly to Dr . Franklyn , who is rather wary of anyone drawing near his daughter Anna ( Jacqueline Pearce ) . Franklyn can often be a bit rude , shrugging anyone away who associates with his daughter , as if protecting her ( . . or them ) from possible danger . Soon , we learn just why Franklyn wishes for Anna to stay away from others , who the Indian is ( . . and his association with Franklyn ) , why so many villagers have died by the plague ( . . and where the plague comes from ) , and how Valerie and Harry's snooping will lead to possible harm . Interesting change-of-pace for Hammer studios offering an innocent inflicted with the " Snake People " curse and how the village is shaken with quivering fear because of it . Michael Ripper , a Hammer vet known for an extensive list of various supporting roles , gets perhaps the most fleshed out character of his career , as a pub owner who reluctantly joins Harry in his pursuit of the cause of the plague which is killing the citizenry . Noel Willman has the strongest role as a doctor whose travels lead to a tribe yielding a horrifying fate to his daughter . Willman plays him as enigmatic and vague , warning Harry about leaving but not necessarily specifying the danger he ( . . and Valerie ) might face if he doesn't . Willman is stern with Anna , even off-putting in how he orders around . I believe he successfully conveys a tortured man slowly but surely succumbing to the agony of watching the horrors beset upon his lovely daughter . Barrett and Daniel are adequate as the couple who come to realize just what Franklyn was warning about . I was a bit miffed at how Harry is able to survive the snake bite while others dies rather quickly . And , Daniel's Valerie makes some stupid decisions , like walking home alone with a plague killing villagers and actually intruding on Franklyn's estate and manor after her husband is snake-bitten . The make-up work for Anna is decent , but nothing mind-blowing . . although the snake-creature face does have a creepy quality to it with how those fangs protrude and the eyeballs bulge out so . I think it was a good idea to keep the creature hidden for most of the film . The lava pit underneath the house , made for Anna so that she could remain warm , was a bit hard to swallow , I must admit . And , how she drops merely being above ground minutes after leaving the lava pit , from the cold , also was a bit hard for me to accept . And , how the film puts Valerie in peril , thanks to Franklyn's unhinged behavior at the end , rather left me shaking my head as to why she'd be dumb enough to even go there in the first place .
The original Amityville Horror : A house possessed	An entire family is murdered , with no apparent motive , by the oldest son . The Lutz family , headed by George ( James Brolin ) and Kathy ( Margot Kidder ) , move in and are immediately greeted with supernatural occurrences . The house's evil presence doesn't like the company of anyone affiliated with the Catholic church as we can see by how Father Delaney ( Rod Steiger , whose hysteria's at a fever pitch ) is greeted rudely when he tries to bless the house . Kathy's Aunt Helena ( Irene Dailey ) is also given a unwelcome sickness which creates an unwillingness to stay in the house . Other happenings occur such as how the babysitter is locked in the bathroom while banging on the door in fear until her knuckles bled , a window slams on Kathy's son from another man , flies which plague Delaney and George , George's steadily declining physical and mental condition , and Jody , the ghostly best friend to Kathy's daughter . And , there's something fishy about that basement . But , the evil gives a considerable licking to Delaney who loses his sight and slowly , bit by bit , his sanity until he's just a formal shell of who he once was . And , George can not shake off the cold he gets when in the living room or his desire for keeping his ax sharp . The Lutz's marriage also is becoming effected by all of the torment brought on by the house . They soon find out through a friend named Carolyn ( Helen Shaver ) , into the occult , that the Amityville home is built where a Satanist , John Ketchum resided after fleeing Salem . Also located in the basement is an ancient burial ground . Lalo Schifrin's chilling score is the best thing about this flick which is essentially about showing supernatural effects such as walls that bleed , doors that explode open , etc . At times , the flick is unintentionally hilarious such as when Carolyn is taken over by another and tells , through someone else's voice that the " well leads to hell . " The film is a bit long-in-the-tooth and doesn't really ever quite get going despite building up an ominously declining Brolin who looks like he could snap any moment with that ax in tow . The score , however , provides a lingering unsettled feeling that gets under the skin . The house is also photographed quite well to bring chills particularly how the windows toward the top resemble evil eyes piercing at anyone who dares to draw near .
The Scarecrow reviews " Brainscan "	Michael Bower ( Edward Furlong ) is an alienated teenager who loves horror films , is still haunted by the car crash that left him with a limp & took his mother's life , and is in love with a girl named Kimberly ( Amy Hargreaves ) , for whom he records with his camcorder . Michael is also bothered by a business father who stays away from home for long periods . He has a horror buddy named Kyle ( James Marsh ) who informs him of a brand new terror game for the computer which is supposed to be a state of the art virtual experience . He decides to give it a shot expecting it to simply disappoint like other games he has played along the line . This game is called " Brainscan " and it has four different stages with the first having the person playing actually committing a crime of brutal murder . When Mihael partakes of this the whole game becomes all to real when murders in reality begin taking place . When Michael discovers the death of a suburban man to be the one he killed in the video game , he wearily wishes to discontinue the experience altogether . This becomes difficult when a character within the game named Trickster ( T . Ryder Smith really hamming it up ) makes life unbearable telling him about messes he needs to clean up . Each stage Michael has to play in the game becomes more difficult and it seems more deaths are a result . Actually , the film can be quite fun mainly because our hero keeps sinking further and further into quicksand with every decision to play the next game . Frank Lagella plays Detective Hayden . . a man is our source of tension for he keeps suspicion towards Michael always poking about . The film's special effects are hokey , but the idea works for me . . this poor kid decides for the ultimate experience and is thrust into a macabre world of his own doing basically because he likes escape through the horror genre often criticized for displaying mindless violence in the way of entertainment .
The Ape	Macabre tale with quite an interesting moral conflict at it's center regarding a small town doctor , Bernard Adrian ( Boris Karloff ) , who is also a brilliant scientist determined to create a serum which can cure paralysis . This driven desire is fueled by the loss of his wife and daughter at the hands of a crippling disease caused by a " paralysis outbreak . " His experimental subject is the darling Francis ( Maris Wrixon ) , a gentle soul confined to a wheelchair , with crippled legs . Francis ' auto mechanic boyfriend , Danny ( Gene O'Donnell ) worries about her well being disapproving of Adrian's methods because of how unorthodox they are . A carnival gorilla breaks free from it's cage after attacking it's abusive trainer , and both wind up at Adrian's home , one brought by the town's sheriff and other helpers , while the primate introduces itself rudely by ripping through the window of his laboratory . Adrian discovers the key ingredient needed to perfect his serum and it's spinal fluid . . fluid extracted from the dying trainer , mauled beyond help . After killing the gorilla , Adrian ( . . whose serum's flask falls to the floor shattering accidentally ) makes a very shocking decision . . in order to get the spinal fluid he needs , he'll don the skin and head of the slain gorilla , attacking citizens in order to get a supply to help cure Francis . Meanwhile , Sheriff Jeff Halliday ( Henry Hall ) and locals search tirelessly for the gorilla not knowing that Adrian is responsible . The film has an unnecessary sub-plot featuring a slimy , sleazy banker , Mason ( Philo McCullough ) , establishing how corrupt and vile he is ( . . he cheats on his wife without remorse , cares for nobody but himself , and hypocritically balks about how much a detriment Adrian is to the town , when his behavior is anything but harmonious ) . . his story is abandoned half-way into the movie and we never hear about him again . At the very least , Adrian could've killed this loathsome bastard , since the only good use he is to mankind is the spinal fluid which could help a far better human being walk again . The film presents quite a disturbing sub-text regarding the determination of one individual to find a cure which could rescue those cursed with paralysis , only to question his diabolical methods , while still maintaining a humanity about him . It kind of reminds me of the current debate of stem cell research . . in order to find a cure for some diseases , the ingredients needed often come from human embryos . And , fascinating enough , the results for Francis are positive , giving the audience a heart-warming conclusion . . the doctor's experiment is a success , but comes with a price : human life for a paralysis cure . Food for thought , for sure . Despite being typecast , Karloff shines yet again , creating a character we can sympathize with , while at the same time disagreeing with his ways for achieving success . . it's not an easy task to pull off . You can identify with his driven obsession for defeating the paralysis while also feeling mortified at his willingness to take human life in order to succeed . This was another film , made on the cheap , featuring a man in a gorilla suit challenging the viewer not to kind of chuckle . Karloff's sincere performance and a story-line that's anything but conventional , makes THE APE an interesting curiosity item . I'm pretty sure many viewers might find the whole thing appalling with a rather tasteless central theme of murdering innocent people for their spinal fluid in order to help one person walk again , with a finale concerning the person actually standing from her wheel chair walking to a fallen scientist beckoning / inspiring her to come towards him .
Grizzly	Entertaining " nature goes amok " tale { . . riding the curtails of the success of " Jaws " } about a grizzly entering a mountainous forest camp resort and subsequently eating poor tourists . The Park Supervisor , Kittridge ( Joe Dorsey ) is riding Forest Ranger , Michael Kelly ( Christopher George , who has a very likable , charismatic screen presence and was the best thing about Fulci's dreadful " City of the Living Dead " as far as I'm concerned ) , to fix the problem and get that bear . He calls on naturalist Scott ( Richard Jaeckel , a reliable veteran character actor ) , who lives with and understands the wild . Bears are a specialty of his and his vast knowledge for understanding them could come in handy in catching the grizzly . Another man to rely on is helicopter pilot , Don ( Andrew Pine , using a fine , believable southern voice ) , someone who seems to be very intelligent and seems to have this keen way of using common sense which brings forth realistic humor . This great cast , not to mention a solid , worthwhile script , lends a lot to what is essentially a backwoods survivalist thriller . The filmmakers have to use tricks because it's quite difficult to use a live bear and show it actually kill someone . Some of the tricks are using the camera as the eyes of the bear , when he strikes you see it's arm come across the screen , body parts land on the ground , blood collects on the ground and in the streams , and showing it's face as it appears from the brush . What seems to work best is the way the camera peers up at the grizzly at it stands in it's preparation to attack someone . The bear's threat looms over the film as innocents are bound to be harmed and / or slaughtered . When a child and his mother are viciously attacked , the film really gets serious and we know this monster has to be put an end to . There are several elements the film explores like how the bear reacts in his attacks . . the pattern he seems to be making . Scott wishes to down the bear with a tranquilizer dart , but the idea that this will drop that beast is doubtful . As in a lot of movies in this sub-genre , the animal seems to be one step ahead of the characters such as when he topples a outpost stilted high in the air or when he kills a cub that was supposedly a way of trapping him , or how he eludes Don and Michael when they believe they can corner him . The film does have some quality issues , specifically the choppy editing . Certain scenes seem cut such as two moments where characters have been killed and Michael finds them . It feels like some of the violence was lifted , but I can not understand why since the film's garnered an R-rating .
The Phantom Creeps	Fans of Bela Lugosi will be certain to enjoy THE PHANTOM CREEPS , a feature film version comprised of 12 episodes of the serial regarding a determined mad scientist often staying one step ahead of those out to stop his diabolical schemes to sell a deadly radioactive meteorite , while also using it's properties to create a vast array of gadgets and weapons . Lugosi is Dr . Alex Zorka , who , along with his dim-witted nincompoop assistant , Monk ( Jack C Smith ) , has created wonderful inventions which could benefit the American government , but he is not willing to hand over his research and experiments to others , as former scientist / colleague , Dr . Fred Mallory ( Edwin Stanley ) insists . Mallory is Zorka's nemesis , a scientist who wishes to see good use from the discoveries . . but Zorka doesn't want others ' hands on his hard work , and he has built a giant metallic robot , ray gun which renders victims unconscious , a homing device which attracts a mechanical spider that , upon explosion , can leave the victim paralyzed or dead , and invisibility ( . . a little belt contains a button which causes him to vanish and reappear ) . Capt . Bob West ( Robert Kent ) and newspaper reporter , Jean Drew ( Dorothy Arnold ) are on Zorka's trail , as a manhunt is underway knowing that the diabolical scientist perhaps plans to sell his meteorite to foreign enemies or , worse even , use it's power to destroy the world . I'm pretty sure many will watch THE PHANTOM CREEPS , point at the screen , and laugh uncontrollably at the primitive effects used throughout because the filmmakers were attempting to wow the theater-goers with lots of cool methods derived from Zorka's evil and brilliant mind . . this was 1939 , so many of the effects are positively dated , but I certainly was impressed with how they make Lugosi disappear ( . . a haze is created to often display a silhouette shortly after turning invisible ) . The ray gun blasts and giant robot ( . . which is too tall , a head too large , with long arms flailing around all over the place ) are not as impressive , but I'm pretty sure the kids attending the theaters at that time in 1939 were blown away . While Lugosi lets it all hang out , without much restraint , as Zorka ( . . gleefully proclaiming to his assistant about how he'll defeat those that oppose him ) the heroes of the film are all rather bland and less interesting . Lots of stock war footage , featuring explosions , are used to swell effect at the end , as Zorka drops bombs on ships and buildings below from a plane he commandeered with Monk . For most of this film , expertly edited from the serial into a stunningly cohesive format , has Zorka cleverly evading his foes time and time again , before finally succumbing to his own destruction and madness . Dora Clement portrays Ann Zorka , the mad doctor's beloved wife , who dies in a plane crash when one of his dangerous schemes goes awry . . this motivates Zorka even more to vanquish his enemies , those he blames for her death . Fans of Browning's Dracula will get a kick out of seeing Edward Van Sloan as a corrupt spy desiring the meteorite , sending his goons to fetch it before fleeing the country in a hidden submarine . The gags involving Zorka , while invisible , are obviously produced through the use of strings moving objects ( . . quite apparently in some cases ) . Animated lightning bolts and beams are used when Zorka fires his ray gun . Again , you must have an appreciation for what filmmakers were trying to do for the young audiences attending matinées at this time . . most will find this hokey and unintentionally hilarious . One does wonder why Zorka would allow such an untrustworthy birdbrain as Monk to remain an assistant after he tries to betray him multiple times . . this unfortunate mistake costs Zorka dearly at the end when Monk wishes to bail on him as a company of planes draw near .
Slugs-The Movie	The health inspector of a small town has trouble convincing the sheriff , mayor , and other city officials that the sewer systems of certain districts are contaminated with predatory mutated slugs which have feasted on buried toxic waste , hidden for decades under concrete which has been destroyed due to a new project coming soon which would increase the financial growth of the community . Mike Brady ( Michael Garfield ) will have to rely on Sanitation engineer Don Palmer ( Philip MacHale ) and a scientist at the town's local school ( . . who has concocted a possible weapon against these slugs using a chemical containing lithium which can ignite them thanks to their moisture content ) if he is to eradicate the problem which has a potential to threaten the entire community if the slugs aren't killed in a singular location . Meanwhile , the film follows how the slugs attack victims with our heroes attempting to convince the powers-that-be that the infestation is serious no matter how ludicrous it sounds . For those looking for nasty violence , this creature feature from director Juan Piquer Simón delivers . Lots of slugs burrowing under the skin . Blood squirting from places on victims ' bodies where slugs are eating away . And , we are treated to how certain murdered innocents ' bodies are covered by armies of these slimy blood-thirsty slugs , often whisking them away from our view . We even see a slug bite Mike on the finger ! Love the scene where a slug attacks a lab rat ! Oh , and you have to see what happens to a businessman whose wife unknowingly chops up lettuce containing a slug . . at a dinner meeting , after seeing the poor guy complaining of stomach cramps and head aches moments prior ( . . and shortly after eating the salad that night before ) , his face " explodes " worms ! Eek ! Anyway , this flick has delightful scene where a gardener has to chop off his hand with an ax after one of the slugs slid into his glove without his prior knowledge eating away . You get a chance to see the devastating effects of corpses after the slugs are done with them , often displaying faces eaten to the skull . Look elsewhere , however , if you desire strong performances and strong likable characters . The sheriff ( John Battaglia ) is a major @ sshole who always barks at his policemen and anyone else who rubs him the wrong way . . he's a complete curmudgeon , constantly ridiculing everyone that annoys him . Philip MacHale is perhaps the most likable of the central cast , for his family-man Sanitation engineer rarely bites anyones heads off . . something even Garfield's Mike Brady does frequently . As always the town superiors don't bother to listen to Brady's warnings despite the gruesome body count that is increasing . While the score is loud and obnoxious ( . . as is the hideous dubbing ) , the sound of slithering slugs sure make the skin crawl . With a movie titled " Slugs " , one should expect this kind of cheesy entertainment , and through New World Pictures , you get plenty of icky , unusual grue and some sex & nudity such as the scene between two young love-birds who are attacked by the slugs shortly after making it on her parents ' bed , their naked bodies penetrated by the nasty fiends .
Abominable	" I'm gonna need a bigger knife . " The Flatwoods Sasquatch terrorizes victims within the vicinity of his cavernous dwelling . Wheel-chair bound cripple , Preston Rogers ( Matt McCoy ) , still recovering psychologically from a tragic fall from nearby Suicide Rock which took the life of his wife , finds himself in quite the dilemma . Despite his wishes against returning to the cabin he shared with his wife , both rock-climbing experts who scaled Suicide Rock often , Preston is forced , thanks to his doctor who has assigned a smart-ass orderly Otis ( Christien Tinsley , who imbues his character with a smarmy attitude ) over his care , to confront what ails him . Instead , Preston helplessly watches as the rotund furry beast attacks a female group gathering together , across the way in another cabin , for a bachelorette party . Attempts at getting the police ( . . and Otis ) to help fails because no one believes such a wild story as a Sasquatch on a violent rampage . Somehow , Preston will have to take matters into his own hands . . but , how can he ? And , what if the Sasquatch comes after him ? How will he defend himself when he's limited by his disability ? And , how can a wheel-chair bound cripple ever help others in need ? REAR WINDOW is mined yet again for inspiration , but I felt the story-line was effective . . I thought there were some suspenseful moments thanks to the benefits of having a crippled hero , limited in ways he can help those in trouble due to his lack of mobility . Through Preston , we're helpless on-lookers towards those who are assaulted by the Sasquatch . The unrealistic Sasquatch , which looks like a costumed beast , can either be a liability or a gas depending on your mood . There's a sense of fun at work here if you can look past the limited resources director Ryan Schifrin has . . he delivers an entertaining little creature feature with plenty of gory carnage to satisfy gore-hounds . One victim's body is pulled through a small window , from the waste snapping her frame in two . One female victim is crushed under-foot by the Sasquatch . Another's face is completely eaten off . You get to see Tiffany Shepis completely nude , taking a shower . Recognizable faces , in small roles , populate the film such as the late Paul Gleason ( THE BREAKFAST CLUB ) as an ornery sheriff , Jeffrey Combs as a chain-smoking gas station employee with tubes feeding him oxygen from a can ( . . quite scraggly under frizzled hair , dirty cap and grubby beard ) , Dee Wallace Stone as a terrified wife who accompanies her husband outside finding their horses ripped apart , and Lance Henriksen as a cynical hunter who " just wants to kill something " ( . . he supplies a very funny " Darwin's awards " monologue ) .
No More Mr . Nice Guy	When Lt . Tim Blocker ( Ian Patrick Williams ) arrests Fred Kreuger without reading him his Miranda rights , the serial killer of several children is released from the court as a free man . The grieving parents and several concerned citizens threaten to assassinate Fred until Blocker does so himself by lighting the psycho on fire . But , it seems that Fred only becomes a greater threat as he haunts Blocker from his dreams . Slowly , Blocker's sanity is slipping with reality and his nightmares becoming a blur . Can he outlast the tormenting of Freddy or succumb to the nightmare monster ? Somewhat halted by the television medium , director Tobe Hooper tries camera tricks to make up for being restricted . . I wonder why he never directed a NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET flick . This was the opening of the short-lived series .
Return of the Living Dead 2	All hell breaks loose when a couple of stupid kids release " zombie gas " from a military cannister fallen from a truck . Before you know it , rain is dropping " zombie pollutants " into the graveyard soil , releasing the dead from their slumber to wreak havoc in the desperate search for brain consumption . A handful of characters are selected by the screenplay to combat the zombies with a child named Jesse ( Michael Kenworthy ) the protagonist who knows the two neighbor bullies that discovered - - and opened - - the container causing the catastrophic events that ensue . From the previous film , James Karen and Thom Mathews return playing different characters , who were at a mausoleum robbing loot from the dead only to consume the toxic gas changing them slowly into zombies . One of the bullies bothering Jesse , Billy ( Thor Van Lingen ) gets singled out as a possible source of conflict for our heroes later on as he too has breathed in the deadly toxic chemicals from the zombie container . Suzanne Snyder stars as Thom Mathew's girlfriend Brenda . There's an amusing homage to the first film when Mathews has a feeling of deja vu regarding their unfortunate situation . Nowhere near as gruesome as the first film in the series , this sequel follows a much more comedic tone , with Philip Bruns getting supplied the best zingers as Doc Mandel . While the make-up effects for this film are not up to the previous film's standards , they are still fine enough considering the limited budget . The film is really irresistibly silly with the director really using the dead zombies unfortunate situation of decay for lots of comedy bits . The ending is a bit of a stretch - - having our heroes using a power plant as a means to electrocute the zombies - - but the film , I felt , is entertaining enough to hold interest . It could've been much , much worse , and , at least , this has a game cast and fun-loving attitude .
. . And Now the Screaming Starts	A curse on the House of Fengriffen , due to an evil deed caused by Henry Fengriffen ( a devilish Herbert Lom ) , a descendant of Charles ' ( Ian Ogilvy ) , to woodsman Silas ( Geoffrey Whitehead , playing both men of the past and present ) . This dangerous scary deed , and the curse deriving from it , is discussed by no one as virginal Catherine ( Stephanie Beacham , whose ample bosoms wish so desperately to fling themselves on us ) experiences horrifying images of a man whose eyeballs are missing , who has a stump where his hand should be . About the Fengriffen house is a severed hand which crawls to and fro . . anyone who dares explain the curse gets strangulated by it ! On their honeymoon night , a terrifying occurrence may've happened to poor Catherine who is being held down by the very evil man she sees ghostly apparitions from . . she's also possibly impregnated by it ! As Catherine begs for answers regarding a mysterious woodsman who has a home on the land of the Fengriffen estate nearby , no one will provide them . . and who is this ghost , who may've raped her , that is terrorizing her ? Enter Dr . Pope ( Peter Cushing ) , a " scientist of the mind " called in by the confused Dr . Whittle ( Patrick Magee ) who can not help Catherine in her present state of hysteria ( . . she had sliced the portrait of Henry's to pieces while also falling down the stairwell ) . Pope begins finding the answers Catherine sought so diligently for and they produce an ugly history the Fengriffen family would soon forget . Despite it's ludicrous premise , the flick still remains watchable thanks to a strong cast . I felt the film really starts humming once Cushing's Sherlock Holmesian Pope enters the film because he can get to the truth with little the resistance Catherine faced time and time again . The " severed hand killings " is a bit much , but when you have such a strong cast backing you , bringing a sophistication and seriousness to the rather odd material , it can still make it out somewhat with a professionalism and class most films with this hokey story couldn't . I did feel Beacham overdoes it a bit with the whole " hysteria " act especially when she encounters ghostly haunts . Guy Rolfe appears briefly as Maitland , the family solicitor , and first victim who is killed before he can assist Catherine in her goal to find out what the mystery regarding the woodsman is all about .
The Curse of the Crying Woman	Amelia ( Rosa Arenas ) returns to her Aunt Selma's urgent request , bringing along her new husband Jaime ( Abel Salazar ) . She has been away from her Aunt Selma ( Rita Macedo ) for quite some time and informs Jaime that the childhood she remembers wasn't a happy one . Amelia has no idea , not one single clue what horrors awaits her and Jaime . Selma is a practicing witch holding on to the moment Amelia turns 25 because this specific point and time will supposedly draw a dead ( . . but dormant ) spirit of the " Crying Woman " back from the dead . You'll hear throughout the film about what Selma longs ( . . and is assured ) to receive , her omnipotence at the sacrifice of her niece of course . Obviously , this isn't great news to Amelia , but finding out that the " Crying Woman " witch is a blood descendant sure doesn't help matters . Selma lets Amelia know right away that her blood will force her will to remove a certain spear from the rotted corpse of the witch . . when this moment happens , she'll die . If grappling with this terrifying ordeal isn't enough , Amelia and Jaime have a monstrously scarred evil brute named Juan ( Carlos López Moctezuma ) to worry with as well . Another surprise for the couple is a caged monster up the stairs just waiting to get out ! Could this monster be Daniel ( Enrique Lucero ) Selma's supposedly dead husband , horribly mutated by witchcraft ? Despite hokey make-up effects and lame dog-attack sequences , director Rafael Baledón is able to build a tense situation amongst the cob-webs , dust and madness within this creepy mansion . It has that pure Gothic effect one craves when searching for atmospheric horror . The story itself is quite gripping as it follows the seemingly inescapable situation regarding our heroine who must somehow defeat powerful forces she hasn't prepared for . The film has a terrific setting with a marvelous climactic battle between Juan and Jaime as a bell in the tower of the mansion rings so loudly , the walls begin to cave ! The real star is Rita Acedo as the demented Selma who has this cold , crazed look that never leaves her eyes . The flick has an unusual make-up effect where we often see Selma's real face where her eyes are missing with this black void filling her sockets . All hell breaks at the end in the old style of the 30's Universal horror pictures where chaos sends the setting ( . . often a castle , in this film a massive , creaky , rat-infested mansion ) into rubble , while certain characters die .
The Devil from Akasava	The assistant of Professor Forrestor ( Ángel Menéndez ) is murdered after retrieving a special mineral encased within the stone walling of a cave in Akasava . It is a jewel of a find because this radioactive mineral can turn metal into gold . . a priceless item to have which obviously brings great wealth and power to the one who possesses it . Forrestor himself is infected by the radioactivity when he finds his assistant dead after someone entered his home where the man lay dying while he was out hunting a doctor nearby . In Akasava , Dr . Andrew Thorrsen ( Horst Tappert ) is quite a man of renown for his work with mysterious cases where men seem to have came down with some sort of disease that effects their sleep and skin . His wife , Ingrid ( Ewa Strömberg ) assists him . When Pro . Forrestor comes up missing , his nephew Rex ( Fred Williams ) comes to Akasava for answers towards his disappearance . This is where he meets secret agent Jane ( the lovely Soledad Miranda who has a magnificent body ) posing as an exotic dancer pretending to be the wife of Dr . Henry ( Paul Muller ) also an agent undercover . Sir Philip ( Siegfried Schürenberg ) is asked by a friend and colleague , Lord Kingsley ( Walter Rilla ) , a man of great wealth and power , to find Professor Forrestor as a favor . Kingsley has kept the clinic in Akasava going while also keeping Professor Forrestor's research project funded . Perhaps , Kingsley has a greater interest in the grand scheme of things than realized . His wife , Lady Abigail ( Blandine Ebinger ) is only all too eager and willing to assist her husband in all manners of business when it comes to benefiting financially . He also has a " valet " who assists him , a very gruff , quietly menace named Humphrey ( Howard Vernon ) . Meanwhile , Rex becomes acquainted with an undercover Secret service agent , Tino ( director Jesus Franco himself ) while slowly falling in lust with Jane . But , Rex is being shot at while those around him ( . . and Jane ) are being killed off by someone hidden away behind cracked doors with only the tip of a pistol sticking it's nose out . Not a bad little mystery thriller with spy elements that has the feel of a giallo . It's LOW , LOW budget does mar Franco's serious attempts at creating a good spy film . The film strip definitely shows wear and certain edits show unevenness as one scene follows another . The cast is decent enough , with Miranda's naked flesh the film's brightest asset . The dubbing is lacking in quality , but no more so that the quality of the presented product itself which time has not been kind to . Perhaps , it just shows that Franco was willing to make this film on whatever film strip he could get his hands on and with however much money was afforded to him .
Visiting Hours	Michael Ironside ( well cast ; intense , cold and calculating , scary ) wishes to silence talk show host Lee Grant , whose voice inspires women and others because she stands for non-violence ( this has a hint of irony when the ending comes ) among other politically charged subjects . He slices her repeatedly with a knife he carries around , but isn't able to kill her . As she stays in County General Hospital to recover , Ironside will try to get to her by any means possible . This film just doesn't follow Grant's recuperation and the inner ( and outward ) fear her traumatizing occurrence has caused , but also Ironside as we see what has led him down his violent path and how he goes about in planning to get his target . William Shatner portrays Grant's lover and producer / boss and Linda Purl is a divorcée nurse who is a fan of Grant's and future target of Ironside as well . We see the dogged pursuit of Ironside in the film , how he tends to his facially scarred father during visits to a ward where he stays , his collection of photographed pictures of those he murders , and those he victimizes along the way who might offer conflict in his goal of killing Grant . He is mentally traumatized by a childhood where his father abused his mother and may've sexually molested him . He ultimately wants Grant to hear his opinions ( we see letters he writes to all kinds of organizations expressing his hate towards everyone ) because she doesn't answer the hate mail she receives . The film isn't perfect , but there are enough intense moments to keep slasher fans satisfied . Ironside is good and creepy as the killer which is what a slasher film really needs to work , but Grant does seem to stretch the hysteria bit too much at times . Purl is quite good in what seems to be just as much a vital role as the one Grant has .
The Last House in the Woods	Sexually liberated Aurora ( Daniela Virgilio ) has tired of former boyfriend , Rino ( Daniele Grassetti ) , but he's in love with her and is able to coerce her into sex in his car out of the city . Three hooligans , Cesare ( David Pietroni ) , Ginger ( Geremia Longobardo ) , and Diego ( Cristiano Callegaro ) , on a trip , interrupt their conversation on continuing the bumpy relationship by beating Rino to a pulp and terrorizing Aurora , almost sexually molesting her when a couple , Antonio ( Gennaro Diana ) and Clara ( Santa De Santis ) pull up in the nick of time . The thugs warn Antonio to bugger off , but he has a gun and isn't afraid to use it . Able to shoo them away , Antonio offers Aurora and Rino a ride to their home for a moment or two of rest , and they accept . . little does Aurora know what plans they have for them . Alternating through the plot , a young boy is running through the woods to get away from a mysterious man who hit his mother with his van as she was attempting to flag him down ( . . their car run over broken glass , careening head-on with a tree , killing the father ) . Director Gabriele Albanesi mentions in the documentary for this film that his story and content was highly influenced by the 70's and 80's ( . . specificially Wes Craven , Tobe Hooper , Lucio Fulci , Ruggero Deodato and especially Dario Argento ) and you certainly see that here . Buckets upon buckets of blood and hideous gore . The film features cannibalism ( sharp teeth ripping flesh ) , nasty chainsaw activity ( an arm and leg are removed ; stomach is torn through with the intestines exposed ) , human freaks ( . . a child with shark-like teeth with a hunger for human flesh , along with his " brothers " , one with a large tumor-like growth on his neck and another with a hideous skin infection on one side of his face ) , other degrees of potent violence ( . . a large knife is stabbed multiple times into a torso , another gets his throat sliced open ; a gun is used to bash a victim's skull ; a bullet wound to the forehead squirts blood ) , and , to cap it all off , the shocking fate towards the kid we see running through the woods seeking help . The film works off the familiar premise of innocent couple falling prey to a family who appears on the surface to be a normal member of the bourgeoisie society . . although , anyone who lives so far into the woods most of the time is hiding a secret . The dinner table scene is memorable as poor Aurora , tied to a chair , must watch Rino's decapitated leg being feasted on , while also getting showered in blood as the chainsaw is used to hack away his arm . Also , the hooligans , who almost raped Aurora , were bound to return to confront Antonio ( . . although , Albanesi fashions a rather contrived way for them to find his home ) . The film is played completely straight , with a classical music score complimenting the serious tone . The film , at it's core , is a showcase for make-up / special effects artist Sergio Stivaletti ( . . who was , at first , confronted by the director and his producer Gregory J Rossi on issues regarding his opinions on their effects ) who takes the small budget his young unproven filmmakers have at their disposal , delivering an extravaganza of bloodshed and grue . It's neat seeing practical effects , not CGI , used again , even if some of the set-pieces are considered primitive by today's standards . As expected with an Italian horror film , the material presented is full of bizarre behavior and strange characters . My major beef is Albanesi's decision to shoot certain action and violent set pieces in that frenzied , shaky-cam method ( . . he called it " warfare " , a change from the more polished , fluid Italian style , the kind of style I thoroughly enjoy ) . Albanesi mentions that several bloody set-pieces were inspired by Argento's Tenebre ( . . particularly the final gory set-piece ) . For old school gorehounds , this might be entertaining . . for the squeamish , not so fun .
The Velvet Vampire	Lee & Susan Ritter ( Michael Blodgett & Sherry Miles ) , whose marriage seems shaky at best and plagued with problems , meet a mysterious and sultry woman , Diane ( Celeste Yarnall ) at an art gallery . They accept an invitation to her Mojave desert abode , and while traveling their car breaks down . While waiting for an ordered part , the Ritters remain at Diane's home . Lee succumbs to Diane's erotic advances while Susan helplessly watches her marriage dwindling . . yet , as the film continues , Susan seems to care less about her husband's adultery and even warms to Diane after a scare with a snake bite ( . . Diane sucked out the venom from Susan's leg before the poison could spread ) . Both Lee and Susan continue to have an erotically charged , surreal dream with Diane separating them from love-making in the middle of a desert . Meanwhile , Diane has her manservant Juan ( Jerry Daniels ) fetch up victims for their blood . . she's indeed an atypical vampire who can withstand amounts of sunlight ( . . although , she covers her body with lots of clothing when out in her dune buggy ) and her reflection indeed appears when looking in a mirror . Diane's daily ritual is to rest in her carefully preserved burial spot with her long dead husband ( . . through a unique Indian burial , Diane's husband's body is kept as it once was upon death ) ! Will the Ritters escape Diane's clutched before it's too late or wind up like those who once inhabited the desert countryside , now resting among the massive burial site where Diane often frequents ? Strange little vampire tale . This might have an appeal to fans of Drive-in type Midnight Movies . I think the main reasons to see it are Celeste Yarnall's seductive vampire and the desert setting which is quite an interesting backdrop creating a unique experience for the viewer used to the typical vampire locales . I think Blodgett and Miles ' couple are terribly uninteresting , I'm afraid , and nowhere near as fascinating and alluring as Yarnall , who could fit in quite well in the Euro-vampire flicks coming out at the time . Sherry Miles is atrocious as Susan , quite an irritating chick , with a great figure , who gripes and complains throughout most of this flick . Her naive bubblehead should've been killed quite sooner . . it's a stretch asking us to believe Yarnall's bloodsucker wouldn't have easy pickens with this idiot . Blodgett is merely vacating a male role for Diane to seduce . . he doesn't exude much of anything other than the horny husband whose wife isn't putting out , longing for Diane's embrace . The film might be a bit slow-moving for many . The final fifteen minutes picks up the pace considerably as Diane chases after Susan , desiring her for blood and sex . More of an interesting curiosity for vampire fans . . nothing mind-blowing , I'm afraid . This has a LOW budget , although I never found this a liability because the desert location really worked for me and the non-inhabited silence because of how Diane drank the area dry , is quite eerie . The screams from those attacked shriek a bit too loudly , though . Despite what you might hope for . . while there is nudity , the sex is mild and lesbian possibilities never reach their zenith .
Slaughter High	British imitation of an American slasher where a horribly scarred dork seeks revenge on the high school group behind a prank gone awry . The group responsible have grown considerably and meet at their old abandoned high school by invitation for a class reunion , not knowing that the very one behind their little get together has violent plans in store for them . Finally arriving to DVD , I was one of many who watched it on VHS as a teenager . . hearing about it's release on DVD , I was thrilled . While the movie is set up in such an awkward fashion ( . . the opening , setting up Marty , the nerd's tragic accident at the hand's of clown , Skip , shortly after his classmates embarrassed him in a sex trick , lasts for quite a considerable amount of time ) , once the violence erupts , the film takes off . SLAUGHTER HIGH is a typical example of the slasher films it imitates , specifically Friday THE 13TH , except the killer is a nerd dressed in a jester hat with jingling bells , and the setting is an old high school instead of a camp . There are logic inconsistencies ( . . how can Marty be in two places at one time when the school is locked tight where the characters couldn't get out , or how could he move around the school so effectively without being spotted ? ) which become plausible when the revelation occurs at the end . The acid bath which shows charred flesh and a face melting into a skull is certainly the grisly highlight as is the accidental hatchet to the face . One couple are fried while in the heat of passionate sex and another victim is lifted in the air , his head plunged into a coat rack hook so he could stick around . One victim takes a swig from a beer can laced with an acid that causes his intestines to burst from his stomach ! The cast are never reliably convincing as either American or teenagers , specifically Caroline Munro who is still quite sexy but certainly not a realistic 18 year old by any means . The characters are your typical obnoxious brood who gulp down the beer , smoke pot , and snort coke while horse-playing and cracking jokes with each other . When facing crisis , they split up and make moronic decisions which gets each person killed . One point , Munro's Carol Manning pummels Marty down with a bat , drops her weapon before making sure he was unconscious , then runs for her life ! Simon Scuddamore makes for a sympathetic mistreated character , and you understand why he'd desire retribution , and his tragic suicide adds something melancholy to the tormented nerd , Marty . Some really ghastly make-up for Marty's acidified face . The setting is quite effective with it's deteriorated condition , cob webs , darkened halls , and state of decline after being left to rot for years after closing . The score by Harry Manfredini sounds too similar to Friday THE 13TH which will often bring that movie back to your mind especially during the protracted final as Munro attempts the escape from the killer in pursuit . While , SLAUGHTER HIGH doesn't necessarily set itself from amongst the pack , there's a sense of fun to this that so many others lack .
A Demon in My View	Anthony Johnson ( Uwe Bohm ) doesn't know that the old tenant who lives on the top floor above him is the Kelbourne killer , a London strangler of several women on and off for 25 years . That tenant's name resembles his , Arthur Johnson ( Anthony Perkins , still quite able to convey torment , agony , and insanity ) and Anthony has no idea that this man is reading his letters from a married wife of a wealthy jealous husband . Having a secret contempt for their adultery , Arthur re-writes a fake letter to Anthony as if his lover wishes for their relationship to end . We also see what none of the other characters around him don't see . . inside his tormented mind due to a overbearing mother strict on his being a neat , mannered person , grilled into him as a child to the point where women seemed nothing more than a possible threat which could explain his emotional impotence towards them . . he also is quite repulsed at " loose " women , but if Arthur encounters other women alone on some dark , empty street corner at night , all gloves are off . Arthur's past childhood memories , not to mention his mother's burdensome forceful voice and barking face , often remind him of how he's supposed to behave . He's an emotional handicap . . a crippled mess of a man who only shows appearances of normalcy . When he kills the wife of a tenant in the building he lives , a police investigation seems right at his doorstep . But , he gets really sloppy when Arthur attempts the strangulation of what he believes is a woman only to find that it's a skinny , long-haired male in a fur coat . That man retaliates with striking blows to Arthur's face leaving marks and bruising . . even worse is that man has given a good identifiable sketch of his face meaning that the idea of his capture is a reasonable one . But , his life might even take another turn for the worse when the jealous husband of the wife who leaves him for Anthony mistakes him as the lover ! Okay psycho-drama with one of Perkins ' final performances can not escape similarities to PSYCHO and Norman Bates especially considering the angle of a man traumatized by his monstrous upbringing and father-less childhood where his mother's influence emotionally damaged him . The film works best when we see the dementia setting in and those frightened faces of female victims Arthur claims continually haunt him , sneaking into reality as the guilt of his crimes slowly overwhelm him .
Witchboard	An evil spirit , impersonating a little 10 year old boy David , begins taking over the body of the one who conjured him through a Ouiji board . That person , Linda ( Whitesnake babe Tawney Kitaen ) , doesn't know about the whole possession part of this and as she operates it alone begins to change . The one responsible for even introducing Linda to the board is Brandon Sinclair ( soap opera star Patch from " Days of Our Lives " fame ) , a former flame , at a party . In amongst a partner , this possession is not possible , but in the privacy of an individual it is more than reasonable it will take hold on the one in communication with the spirit world . We get our whole understanding of this through Brandon , who is atheist , but strangely believes in the spirit world probably because he found evidence . The one mostly effected other than Linda is her lover , Jim ( Todd Allen ) . Jim is very skeptical of all of the happenings . . that is until it takes place right in front of him . Friends and people he knew begin to perish and it is certain that something is killing people . In a scene-stealing role , Kathleen Wilhoite ( barely recognizable in her punk garb ) plays a very unusual medium named Zarabeth . Unlike Kevin Tenney's " Night of the Demons " , this film is straight-faced taking a more serious approach to this tale which many might find a bit cheesy . I remember when I was young that this was quite a popular horror sleeper . It is actually quite entertaining if a bit slight . Perhaps it lacks ambition , but it is polished and stylish enough to enjoy . Not great , but worth a watch . Probably near the top of the heap in the " Ouiji Board " horror sub-genre because of it's production values .
Bad Moon	One thing I can say about this trim , tightly paced flick . . in it's short running time , it certainly doesn't overstay it's welcome . If you blink , you'll be witnessing the closing credits . Michael Paré stars as Ted , a man attacked by a werewolf as he's making love to a woman in a tent as they are on a safari . The female companion is being viciously torn apart by the creature until Ted blows it's head clean off with a shot gun . Becoming a predatory monster himself , Ted heads home to a forest region nearby where his lawyer sister Janet ( Mariel Hemingway ) and her son Brett ( Mason Gamble ) live . The only one protecting Janet and Brett from possible harm is their 100 pound guardian St . Bernard Thor . Thor knows pretty much right away something's off about Ted , but when it finds a victim torn to pieces and scattered up a massive tree the " watchdog " kicks in . When ten victims of what appears to be a giant grizzly bear are discovered with police searching all over for clues , Ted finds it difficult to hide within the forest anymore and takes up on Janet's offer to park his camper near her home . Thor will make Ted's life even harder when it finds him , in werewolf form , hand-cuffed to a tree one night . Thor's fear for his family will provide motivation for parking outside Ted's camper before he steps out to partake in " night jogging . " Ted will have to rid himself of Thor and an opportunity arises when an annoying " flopsy " ( con artist who tried to fake a dog attack provoking Thor early in the film ) sneaks around Janet's house to kill the dog for botching up his chances at a law-suit , while also seeking revenge on the lawyer for spoiling his con-artist plans . The werewolf will destroy him and Thor becomes a possible suspect . Then Ted , seeing the opportunity to finally send Thor away for good , provokes the dog to tear into his arm . As Thor is sent off to the pound , Ted is found by Janet on the verge of hand-cuffing himself one night putting her life in peril . As the wolf emerges Janet may not be able to survive . . unless Brett , who escaped out his window to rescue Thor from the pound , can bring his guardian dog home to help Janet . Thor immediately comes to her rescue sending off the battle between dog and werewolf we expected . The werewolf is mostly filmed up close with the nasty attacks happening within quick edits showing the torn flesh and bodies being thrown around quickly . The morphing finale is rather less impressive compared to today's CGI oriented transformations , but on it's own staring down victims , it's quite a monstrous beast . There are some great make-up work in the film showing torn flesh wounds , particularly on Ted . The plot , about a dog's protective love for his family against a predator who is all too familiar worked for me even if I had to look past the silly idea that a canine could outlast such a ferocious monster .
Stigma	José Ramón Larraz ( Vampyres ; Black Candles ) directs this rather chilling portrait of a troubled youth whose thoughts of hatred , directed towards specific people who anger him , causes violent death . Once a person is murdered , Sedastian ( Christian Borromeo ; House on the Edge of the Park ; Tenebre ) bleeds from the lower lip , a stigma that represents a certain action that happened to him in a past life . Not being able to control his thoughts , Sebastian needs help and support from someone . His grades at school are suffering , his incestuous infatuation for his mother growing obsessively , and his detachment for everyone around him creates an isolation . Through his estranged brother ( Emilio Gutiérrez Caba ; In the Folds of the Flesh ) , Sebastian meets Angie ( Alexandra Bastedo ) , who works at a book store , and her friend , Olga , a clairvoyant . Olga's overwhelmed by Sebastian , ominous feelings and visions appear to her concerning him . Hoping to steer Angie away from Sebastian , Olga finds that she is drawn to him , wishing to help , but perhaps attracted to this rather remote young man , who buries his feelings from others . As Sebastian searches for why he has nightmarish visions of a girl he has never met , while also envisioning his own suicide , a hanging by a noose , Angie offers assistance , particularly when tragedy strikes within the family thanks to his volatile feelings towards a close relative who threatened boarding school . A hypnotism unlocks what evil motivates Sebastian's power . . a reincarnated spirit , who committed horrifying deeds towards his family , is provoking Sebastian to violently inflict harm towards those who " wronged " him . Angie perhaps endangers herself in getting too close , following him to a abandoned decadent castle which held the tragic events which torment Sebastian . . the answers lie within the walls of this spooky place , but is Sebastian too weak to control the feelings which come from beyond the grave ? This is quite leisurely paced ( . . a slow-burner , to be sure ) by director José Ramón Larraz , as he unveils the mystery at the heart of the film . . what causes Sebastian to kill with the power of thought ? While Sebastian's powers at causing a car crash seem rather preposterous , Borromeo successfully , I felt , achieves at creating a haunting character . . one that is cold and distant , weird and aloof . Almost anyone who attempts to wrestle him into any type of normality , often meet terrible misfortune . Through Borromeo , Sebastian isn't the kind of central character easy at all to embrace . . far from it . You just know , almost from the get-go , that he's a doomed character , whose fate will most probably end in tragedy . I think that director is so intent on telling the complete story that many viewers will have a hard time remaining patient . A back story regarding a family featuring an incest between brother and sister , a father demanding more from his son regarding his focus on studies , and the eventual bloodbath as a result of the sister's betrothal to her suitor and the father's decision to send his son to a boarding school , in a protracted sequence at the end as Sebastian relives it , perhaps removes any mystery , but leads to a chilling finale ( . . Sebastian's strangling of a victim , the body shown lying dead , eyes open , and his looking into a mirror that cracks from his mere thought as he looks at the distorted face that reflects back at him , add a great deal of impact to the rather grim conclusion ) . I think the use of authentic locations adds a great deal to the story and the alluring ladies which occupy the film , Bastedo and Helga Liné ( . . both shot by José Ramón Larraz provocatively ) , certainly will appeal as eye candy . Helga Liné has the role of Sebastian's mom , and one can understand why he'd be drawn to her . . . the woman is incredibly sexy , even if she's clothed within a sophisticated aristocratic role . The desire is very visible as we watch Sebastian listen to recorded conversations of his mom making love to another man , sniffing her undergarments , crying in agony at the spot on the bed where the imprint of their bodies were . The violence isn't gory as much as it's often ferocious ( . . the ax attack on an unsuspecting family ) or unsettling ( . . a female victim falling to her doom from a spier , thrown by mere thought ) . Fans of VAMPYRES might be disappointed with STIGMA because it isn't as erotic or graphic in bloodletting , although a beautiful naked body ( . . the actress who portrays the sister who seduces her brother ) is featured twice , the woman disrobing slowly revealing her impressive figure .
Werewolf of London	Botanist Dr . Glendon ( Henry Hull ) is searching for a rare " full moon " flower in Tibet when he is attacked by a werewolf ( . . he eventually kills the beast with a knife shortly after receiving a nasty wound on his arm ) . Once Glendon returns to London he realizes that he is a werewolf , but can not control the beast within and many female victims are slain in the process . Dr . Yogami ( Warner Oland ) is the man , from Tibet , who informs Glendon of his curse . . both have the same fate . Out of desperation , Yogami steals the two flowers Glendon brought back from Tibet , but they have no effect over his " illness " . It is conceived , however , that perhaps Glendon has found a way to grow one of these rare flowers through forms of experimental lighting . Yogami warns Glendon that the werewolf will attack the very person the human loves the most . This sets up the danger towards Lisa ( Valerie Hobson ) , Dr . Glendon's wife who is fighting feelings brought back to life when an old beau , Paul ( Lester Matthews ) visits from California . This little love triangle is a bit of spice to add to the tragic elements issued to the burdened Dr . Glendon who can not risk his wife's life , but in the act of avoiding her at night when the full moon is out , she feels he is just not interested in her as much as his work . But , the film's tension really comes from the fact that Glendon must be stopped . Either he or the lycanthropy that lives inside him ready to blossom at the first sight of the full moon . Hull , nowhere near as engaging as he would later be in Hitchcock's masterpiece LIFEBOAT , plays the doctor very cold and clinical . It's really hard to connect with the character for he's just not really anything one can latch onto and truly care for . I think that's what makes Chaney , Jr . much more effective in the later Universal film about a werewolf . Chaney Jr can portray Talbot as endearing and likable . . he's your humble everyman caught between a rock and a hard place . We really never get to see a true sympathetic character portrayed through Hull , who seems to be doing nothing more than going through the motions . He just isn't very memorable . The cast around him ( some amusing female supporting characters ) are much more interesting than he is . Yogami is stiff as a board and doesn't really ever require sympathy either . The film , I wouldn't say , is bad , but it just isn't that great . It's actually forgettable unless you consider the fine make-up effects when Hull is in werewolf form . I thought it was stylishly directed as well .
chud	Soup kitchen cook / reverend , voice-of-the-squalor , AJ ( Daniel Stern , wearing the same dirt and clothes throughout the movie ) joins forces with beleaguered Precinct Captain Bosch ( Christopher Curry ) in taking down a governmental conspiracy to cover up the creation of light-bulbed eyed , piranha-teethed , slimy monsters who prey on the homeless who live in the New York City labyrinthine Underground sewers . A major photographer , George Cooper ( John Heard ) , whose work with the homeless has garnered attention regarding their plight through his lens , will also witness first-hand ( . . as does his model-girlfriend Lauren , played by Kim Greist , whose apartment shared with him will be besieged by one of the monsters towards the end ) what these monsters are all about . Trying to get assistance from his superiors , regarding the disappearances of the homeless undergrounders who frequent AJ's soup kitchen for meals , falls on deaf ears until civilians above ground are vanishing with only traces of carnage remaining proving their demise . But , what truly motivates Bosch into action is when he wife comes up missing , with her decapitated head soon washed ashore . Soon a governmental suit , Wilson ( George Martin ) tries to keep his company's corruption under wraps , and Bosch will butt heads as plans to gas the sewers seems on the horizon . The close of the film has poor AJ and George trapped in the sewers as Wilson tries to hush anyone who might know the secrets behind the government's wrong-doing . Shrouded underneath the silly rubber monsters who attack are themes on the plight of the homeless and the mishandling of chemical waste . Whatever intent the director had regarding the themes is ultimately buried underneath the film's title . . who could possibly take a movie seriously with a title like " CHUD . " Also , the film's focus is on the homeless and most of the film is set around the sewers with such filth and sweat ( . . mostly on the characters ) sweat permeating that you'll wish to shower after it's over . . this flick is an ideal companion piece to " Street Trash " . Of course , for some reason , the " weaknesses " of the film seem to be it's charm . Crazy , isn't it ? How straight-faced the cast and movie seems to be might also work as part of the film's charm . The shower scene where Greist's model is cleaning her drain stabbing a monster ( . . in the eye I guess ) with blood spraying , one creature's neck extending for no apparent reason , & Graham Beckel's homeless , REVELATIONS-quoting nutso Val only add to the ludicrousness which draws people like me back time and again . Oh , and in the director's cut which I watched , the material regarding George and Lauren's being pregnant is added to bring an emotional weight to the film . Plenty of good gore sequences ( . . love those decapitated heads , especially the one with the earphones and mic of an officer whose task force was slaughtered in an attempt to find the CHUD creatures ) and , the cast , despite this film , is really good . I wonder how director Douglas Cheek felt , during the audio commentary , as his three male leads lampooned the film , tearing his film to smithereens with their hilarious zingers .
Maniac Cop 2	Embittered massive zombie cop Matt Cordell ( Robert Z'Dar ) is still carrying a grudge towards the police for those crooked few who set him up . The two who were able to survive from his clutches in the first film , cops Jack and Teresa ( Bruce Campbell & Laurene Landon ) , in true slasher sequel form , are the first targeted before the maniac cop begins anew , killing cops who are attempting to do their jobs by attending to criminals or civilians ( . . such as a man whose car was being towed for being parked in an illegal spot ) . This time he has a new " nemesis " in wily and street tough Detective Sean McKinney ( Robert Davi is perfect form as a noirish archetype , a man of few words who gets the job done ) who joins forces with police psychologist Susan Riley ( Claudia Christian of " Babylon Five fame ) in tracking down Cordell . Susan was with Teresa when she was killed by Cordell , understanding exactly what he looks like and how dangerous ( . . and powerful ) he can be . . she herself survives being handcuffed to a steering wheel , hanging outside the car , as the vehicle moves down highways often almost being hit by other motorists in an exciting action sequence . The film also shows how police are after a serial killer , Turkell ( . . a grubby , barely recognizable Leo Rossi , burying himself under a beard and scraggly coiffure , stealing every scene , without restraint , just immersed in this unpleasant wacko ) who targets strippers , and forms an unholy union with Cordell , who lends him escape from cops intruding upon his nearly killing another victim . Michael Lerner is Edward Doyle , the police commish who knows about the cover-up regarding Cordell , scoffing at the notion that an undead maniac cop is on the loose in his city . As usual , you have exceptional stunts and action coordinated by Spiro Razatos including the harrowing finale in Sing Sing prison as Cordell , engulfed in flames , going after those hoodlums responsible for scarring his face and killing him in the prison showers . In order to truly enjoy this , you have to look over certain rather ridiculous moments including the scene where Teresa comes at Cordell with a chainsaw and he's able to not only catch the spinning saw blade in his hand , but throw it to the side before snapping her neck . There's an amazing violent rampage through a precinct , reminiscent to The Terminator , where Cordell annihilates an entire police force . The film , despite Cordell's sickening violent acts towards the men and women in uniform , is considered a victim with the detective pursuing him , actually attempting to clear his name . For fans of The Chin , his departure is rather shocking , his role in the sequel a minor one .
Dr . Giggles	A lunatic , whose father was once a town doctor who lost his mind removing hearts from local folks for his beloved sickly wife , escapes from an asylum heading for Moorehigh where he plans to exact his revenge . Seeking hearts so that he can finish his father's work , psychopathic " Doc " Evan Rendell , Jr ( Larry Drake ) goes on a murdering spree setting his sights on Jennifer Campbell ( . . a pre-Charmed Holly Marie Combs , who was then a supporting actress on the Emmy award winning CBS series Picket Fences ) . Jennifer is a high school teen with a weak heart , a condition she inherited from her mother who died of the ailment . While killing neighbors living near Jennifer , Rendell removes their hearts planning to transplant one in her ! Rendell returns home , planning to practice in his own diabolical way . The town is under siege and doesn't even know it . Innocents standing in his path include Jennifer's father Tom ( Cliff De Young , wasted as the sensitive caring father with little to do ) , boyfriend Max ( Glenn Quinn ) , stepmother Tamara ( Michelle Johnson ) , Moorehigh police officers Joe Reitz ( Keith Diamond ) & Magruder ( Richard Bradford ) , her heart physician Dr . Chamberlain ( John Vickery ) and an assortment of high schoolers who happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time . The film is really a zany exercise in cartoonish violence , and even though the lead character and premise are sick , the whole slasher flick is made absolutely tongue-in-cheek . Most of the violence is of the off-screen variety which benefits the weak-hearted ( . . pun intended ) because some of the surgical weapons Rendell uses would be quite ghastly if shown . The film has Rendell delivering zingers after killing each victim , most concerning phrases often used by doctors and physicians ( . . " The doctor is in " , etc ) . A running gag has this medical bag Rendell carries around which must have no bottom because he keeps pulling an endless amount of medical instruments that he uses as weapons . The medical instruments often contain additional devices he concocted specifically to kill victims in gruesome ways . Director Manny Coto , I don't believe , ever frames him regularly opting to lens him in warped camera angles . . I think this works because such a warped character shouldn't be shown in a normal cinematic style . Drake always entertains and looks perfect for the part as a maniac popping up behind victims with his little giggles and crazy eyes . He also delivers his zingers with just the right touch . . the film can't be taken seriously if one keeps in mind that the title is even silly . The film will obviously offend those incapable of finding humor in such a macabre story-line as this wacko offing people , extracting their hearts , always popping one-liners , and planning to commit heart surgery to a teen . The more memorable sequences include Rendell as a boy cutting himself from the inside of his mother ( ! ) , Jennifer's nightmare of her chest being opened with her heart on display , the icky use of a sphygmomanometer ( . . high blood pressure meter ) wrapped around a victim's neck suffocating him , and the grisly removal of a bullet . If you approach this with the right frame of mind , " Dr . Giggles " might provide belly-laughs , even if you are rolling your eyes at the absurdity of it all . The finale goes a bit overboard after Rendell's house is ignited and Jennifer is taken in for surgery , but it only furthers the point that this film is to be considered a slasher farce . But , golly , doesn't this guy kill a bunch of people ! The waiting room inside Rendell's father's house containing his victims has to be seen to be believed .
Meat's meat and man's gotta eat !	Vincent ( Rory Calhoun , looks like just a good ole boy , but something sinister hides under those supposed kind eyes ) has the finest , most renowned meats in the county . Everyone loves that meat . Vincent is only so glad to furnish his crowd with what they believe is ham , but they have no idea of what they are really munching down on with glee . Vincent and his large sister Ida ( Nancy Parsons ) really put a lot of work and joy into their meat business . They feel they are not only supplying their community but doing a little part for the man upstairs . Well , that secret ingredient for Vincent and Ida's renowned meat is . . human flesh ! Oh , but Vincent feels he's justifiably doing a favor for God by replenishing his customers with human meat . Ida justifies their actions by following her mantra of , " Somebody's got to take responsibility for the planet . " Vincent also feels that there's too many people in the world and not enough food . And , Vincent sure enjoys setting up traps to catch his human meat . We watch as unwary travellers driving down the wrong highway run across bear traps and shotgun bullets piercing their tires . They then take the human beings they catch , bury their bodies up to the neck in fertile soil , sever the vocal chords so that they can only gurgle without being able to cry for help , and await certain doom . If the victims are lucky , Vincent and Ida might snap their necks . One mistake Vincent makes is taking the very sexy Terry ( Nina Axelrod . . interesting name considering it might describe a situation for a lot of males as they see her rack ) into their home . . while " planting " her boyfriend , who she is told is dead and buried , in the human meat garden . Sheriff Bruce Smith ( Paul Linke ) is the black sheep of the family as he doesn't understand that his brother and sister are cooking human flesh for jerky . Will anyone stop Vincent and Ida's dastardly deeds ? This is one sick puppy . Tongue definitely in cheek . How's this for casting . . Wolfman Jack plays a reverend ! And , John Ratzenberger ( you know Cliff the mailman on Cheers ) plays a heavy metal rocker who gets planted in the meat garden ! !
Frankenstein-1970	Baron Victor von Frankenstein ( Boris Karloff playing him mostly devious and wickedly amoral . . he adheres to no one's needs but his own ) is the last in the family line donning a scar on one side of his face ( drooping the eyelid ) and plagued with a lurch due to his torture at the hands of the Nazis . He wishes to carry out his great-great grandfather's legacy of giving re-birth to a preserved man-monster in his secret laboratory hidden within what seems to be a mausoleum . He has sold his family's expensive paintings to finance his machines and equipment , but in the desire to acquire an atomic reactor ( ! ) he must allow a film crew to shoot in and around his castle , quietly detesting them with every aching bone left in his body . In this film the film crew director , an energetic , unflappable Douglas Roe ( Don Barry ) will be delivering the atomic reactor himself as a promise for utilizing Baron's castle for atmospheric purposes . Now , how a film director can acquire an atomic reactor is anybody's guess . But , a minor squabble . Baron needs vital parts to bring his monster to life and gets jump-started when his butler Schutter ( a very hammy Norbert Schiller ) goes nosing around eventually finding out about the laboratory experiments and the secret location . Schutter's brain will be used ( as well as his heart among other parts ) , but Baron drops the jar with liquid-doused eyes splashing on the floor . He'll need a correct pair of eyes and focuses on taking Roe's . But , his eyeless monster will often kill members of the film crew causing Baron much strife in having to find avenues of escape regarding where the missing people have went off to . His cunning will eventually fail as his monster , often obeying Baron's voice , begins to operate on his own with the predictable results . To me , the film's main strength is Karloff's Baron . . an emotionally scarred wreck , having grown quite mad with an unstoppable demented desire to bring his monster to life by any means necessary . But , it was agonizing for me , being such a lover ( . . and fan ) of Karloff's work to see him in such frail shape obviously trying his best to mask the agony that is apparent when he attempts to just walk . Many are critical of Karloff here deeming him merely as hammy , but I reveled at seeing him playing Herr Baron concocting his schemes , playing his eerie organ , & working so passionately in his laboratory preparing for his creation's birth . Seeing him guiding the monster was entertaining as well because it brought back memories of the Universal classics with mad scientists ordering their monsters to collect victims for their experiments . Those that portray the film crew are not very interesting and aren't given much to do for the exception of being fodder for Frankenstein . But , sadly , the film is slowly paced and often dull . . it lacks the energy and enthusiasm of the films it is trying to emulate . The whole show is Boris . . his dialogue around a sheeted corpse doting aloud of his Frankenstein family is the highlight in my opinion .
Target	Ex-CIA agent , now operating a hardware business in Dallas , Texas , Walter Lloyd ( Gene Hackman ) finds that his wife Donna ( Gayle Hunnicutt ) has been kidnapped during her trip in Paris and must find her . Estranged son Chris ( Matt Dillon ) insists on joining him as they help keep each other stay alive in the midst of gunmen , working for mysterious sources , trying to kill them . His former partner Taber ( Josef Sommer ) , now the head CIA man in Paris seems only too willing to help an old pal out . Clay ( Guy Boyd ) is Taber's right hand man trying to find out who would wish to kidnap Donna . The film follows Walter and Chris on their Euro journey often escaping certain peril in some rousing action sequences and near-death escapes . The one responsible for kidnapping Donna might be seeking revenge towards Walter for a CIA operation titled " Operation : Clean Sweep " which led to a family being slaughtered of one Cold War target that got away . Popcorn espionage thriller following Hackman and Dillon I thought was entertaining even if I didn't believe what the plot was selling for a minute . Syrupy bonding sequences between Hackman and Dillon just don't seem to work . Hackman , always the versatile actor , plays the role of hero with ease . The climax when it's revealed who was really behind the slaughter of a family . . the one Hackman's Walter is being held accountable for . . doesn't hold up well . I do not think the one responsible for such an act , carried out the way it was , would make himself look so guilty at such an inopportune time . Crackerjack bomb-diffusing sequence at the end is quite suspenseful , though .
The Roost	Okay little creeper using the " more is less " approach with quite a wacky premise . . four young adults , on their way to a wedding taking a scenic route , meet a dangerous detour when they come across deadly bats ( who have formed a colony within the barn of a nearby isolated farmhouse ) which turn those they bite into zombies ! Character actor Tom Noonan serves as a type of creature feature host for this flick , even interrupting at one point when he found the whimpering ( . . at the seemingly hopeless situation they face ) of brother Elliot ( Wil Horneff ) and sister Allison ( Vanessa Horneff , whose lip sticks out in a pout for most of the duration , as she complains , gripes , moans & groans about this and that . . ) grotesque . The first victims to encounter an unfortunate demise at the teeth of the bats were the elderly couple who live in the farmhouse and a policeman the group need assistance from in order to reach their car which was wrecked when a bat crashed into their windshield leaving the vehicle's axle locked on a big rock . The film is shot , on digital , entirely in the night which probably makes the bats more effective . I think those killer bats were mostly CGI , but the director has them flapping past the screen and at victims at such a frenzied state , one can barely tell . When you get a good look at the bats on top of a roof window , they aren't as effective . . but as a collective swarming around their prey , I think the CGI isn't a detriment . The film really follows the characters as they try to remain out of the path of the bats , but when the zombies pop up out of nowhere that double threat really heightens the suspense . I like the disorienting violin strings as they get under the skin . . this is what the director also uses to keep the viewer on edge . Not a bad way to waste about 75 minutes . . looks like a little indie horror flick that might be featured within the " 8 films to die for . . " collection ( whether or not that's a compliment or insult depends on the mixed response those film so often receive ) . The gore , if you're wondering , comes from the zombie flesh ripping and blood spatter .
The Living Coffin	The remaining few citizens of a sleepy Mexican hacienda fear the restless spirit of a woman who lost her children in quicksand . A knife is buried in a grandfather clock's face at the direct moment this woman died . To keep her from returning to plague the town even more , the knife remains until the niece , María ( María Duval ) of the dead woman's sister , Aunt Doña María ( Hortensia Santoveña ) plucks it out releasing possible terror on them all . María's intentions were to free her very superstitious , guilt-stricken aunt ( . . she blames herself for allowing her sister's children to play outside where they fell into the quicksand while her back was turned ) of the anguish grieving her . A marshal ( Gastón Santos ) and his sleepy deputy , Coyote Loco ( Pedro de Aguillón ) happen to seek info on a small statue made by the woman whose death still culminates , like a thundercloud , on the township . What they encounter is murders to the hacienda's emotionally wounded alcoholic doctor ( Antonio Raxel ) who was still saddened by the loss of the weeping woman for whom he was to marry and Doña María , by a mysterious woman , with a ghastly complexion and sharpened claws which rip the faces of those she strangles , who removed herself from a tomb once María pulled the knife from the clock . But , our marshal believes that , in fact , there are mortals behind the murders and will stop at nothing to diminish the gloomy atmosphere of a hacienda riddled with fear , bringing a murderer to justice . We see towards the opening of the film that someone , in the bushes , shot Doña María's hired help in the back near the swamp where the quicksand is located and perhaps the restless spirit of the weeping woman wanders still mourning the loss of her children . Being a Casa Negra release , I was anticipating a Gothic western with supernatural overtones . Instead , director Fernando Méndez's film plays more like a western serial with shoot-outs , a bar fight , and even horse tricks ( . . like one scene where the marshal's rescued from the quicksand thanks to his horse bringing rope to his aid ; the horse also makes discoveries which assist it's master ) . Despite the appearances of a Gothic terror tale regarding a ghost haunting the inhabitants of a once thriving community , it's instead a western where the marshal , pretty much a cowboy sleuth with Alan Ladd matinée idol looks , cracks down on corruption regarding the ownership of the hacienda and a mine containing gold . There's a reason why he's interested in finding out more about the stone statue , depicting a weeping female , carved out of gold . Pedro de Aguillón , as the marshal's sidekick always looking for a bed to sleep on , is a bumbling clown , used for comedy relief as the film builds to the climax . " The Living Coffin " , in my mind ( . . and to other Casa Negra fans it seems ) , is a second tier release next to the upper echelon of films such as " Black Pit of Dr . M " , " Curse of the Crying Woman " & " The Witch's Mirror " , but I still recommend it . The fisticuffs are a bit flawed , but the film has it's moments such as when the murderess attacks her victims , and there are some neat little secret passageways and red herrings to keep mystery fans interested . I can't help feeling a bit disappointed that " The Living Coffin " doesn't pursue the supernatural elements , because the Weeping Woman myth sure excited me a bit . And , the idea that a restless spirit , which carries the appearance of an insane witch , is killing folks in a hacienda sure seems like a " can't miss " . The short length is a blessing in disguise , though , and the film doesn't outstay it's welcome . I would just suggest to Gothic horror fans hoping for another " Black Pit " from director Mendez , to keep their expectations low . He was aiming for the western / mystery crowd with this one .
John Carpenter's Pro-Life	An abortion clinic is besieged by an enraged activist and his boys because his pregnant 15 year old daughter wants her unborn demonic child ( ! ) killed before birth . Yep , Dwayne Burcell ( Ron Perlman , not overplaying the role , playing his character less intense , and more like a burdened father ) has been a nuisance towards the abortion clinic to the point that they got a restraining order against him . A religious man , pro-life , has a pregnant young daughter who wants an abortion . . certainly rife with irony and the true meat of this Masters of Horror episode's story . The daughter , Angelique Burcell ( Caitlan Wachs ) , was molested and impregnated by the demon whose hands rose from the earth to pull underground from a swing-set . Dr Alex ( Mark Feuerstein ) and his nurse / lover Kim ( Emmanuelle Vaugier ) are the ones Angelique confides in to kill the thing inside her . This episode also has another family with a grumpy father who shows his disgust towards his young daughter rather loudly . A monster movie with social commentary , much like the old days whether it was stopping nuclear testing or catching commies , John Carpenter's mini-film focuses on the issue of murdering an unborn child . I didn't find the story as a whole satisfying , but I liked the idea of having a film about abortion where both sides have their say . But , this episode goes a bit off the rails when Dwayne , believing it's God's will to save his daughter's unborn child ( . . it was actually a demon whispering to him in prayer ) , performs a similar abortion procedure on the head of the clinic , Dr . Kiefer ( Bill Dow ) . I found this rather unpleasant exercise a bit over-the-top in the examination of how the child might feel if it were eliminated by the hand of a physician . Not only does this exercise take an insane amount of time ( . . time he could be spending searching for his daughter ) , but it paints Dwayne , who seems rather reasonable , into a sociopathic monster . Perhaps that's the point , but it's awfully chest-pounding . Was it really God's will for Dwayne to torture and cruelly administer that procedure on Kiefer making him " see how it felt to be killed the way the unborn infants were . " That's an extreme example of how religious folks protesting against abortion must seem to the writers of this episode . There's one murder , Dwayne's weak son kills the father of a family for no apparent reason whatsoever , that should've been left out of the episode . . it serves no real purpose other than to show that the sins of a father can influence a son . The monster is quite nifty . Sure it's a demon creature suit with a man inside , but I was proud to see it in this episode . While the gore effects from gun shot wounds were clearly CGI , seeing a good old fashioned monster , not created digitally was a great thrill to this horror fan . The half-human / half-demon baby is obviously modeled somewhat from the spider-head of Carpenter's " The Thing " . . it's quite a wild concoction . The CGI effects consist of Dwayne blowing a hole through one victim's skull with brains splattering on the sidewalk , and a shootout resulting in one of Dwayne's sons getting caught in the throat opening a bloody wound . I found the CGI effects underwhelming , but okay . . I've seen worse . I'd say this is an entertaining , if flawed , episode in the series , with some great , and not-so-great moments . I do feel the message of the film regarding abortion comes across as muddled . . perhaps siding with the pro-choice crowd .
The Slumber Party Massacre	No big-breasted teen chick is safe when escaped driller killer Russ Thorn crashes your slumber party . The guys aren't safe , either . The film also focuses on two sisters who live across the street from the girls being terrorized . The film shows that these sisters may be the only hope for those being chased and surrounded by the killer . Made by women , I'm guessing they wanted to prove that the females can create a film as luridly exploitive and violent as their male counterparts . . and perhaps do it better ! They do depend on a LOT of false scares , and the plot is a bit cliché , but there are plenty of gory thrills to keep slasher fans entertained . One thing that is perhaps a draw is that the killer really gets his comeuppance . I'd say it's one of the better slasher films of the early 80's .
Hell Night : Pray for Day	Four college students , wishing to join the Alpha Sigma Rho fraternity and it's sister sorority agree to spend the night in the infamous Garth Manor which has quite a notorious mythic history with the gate locked . No escape until dawn and all that jazz . Peter Bennett ( Kavin Brophy ) the fraternity president and his pal Scott ( Jimmy Sturtevant ) decide to play tricks with them staging scare-pranks . May ( Jenny Neumann ) is the sorority pres and she comes alone for the ride since Peter is her beau . Gearhead Marti ( Linda Blair ) decided to give the sorority thing a try and will stay the night at the persistence of May . Love interest Jeff ( Peter Barton ) is a kind product of wealth joining the fraternity to please his rich father who was once a member himself . Seth ( Vincent Van Patten ) is the horny heavy-drinking student who wishes to bed uber-naughty hottie Denise ( Suki Goodwin ) who carries a number of drugs on her person . What all these guys and gals do not know is that there's merit to the Garth myth as a lurching Mongoloid mental-case , born deformed , comes out of hiding from his lair below the manor to stalk and kill them one by one . Will anyone be able to survive hell night ? No originality in sight , but stylishly directed by Tom DeSimone who keeps the flick surprisingly suspenseful doing what he can with rather mediocre material . There's the number of aspects associated with the slasher genre here . . car that doesn't start , killer who climbs to the top of the car as heroine tries to drive away from horror , character walking away alone , killer awaiting victims behind bushes and doors , and the super-ability of the killer to withstand pain & death . . while also breaking through doors with his bare hands . The castle setting is a particularly good setting for a slasher so that may give this flick some extra brownie points . The deaths are graphically tame by today's standards . Good , likable casting helps . I wanted to see it more for Linda Blair who is shown in hysterics trying to get away from this massive beastly man all over the grounds . The death toll . . one is decapitated , one's neck is snapped all the way around , one is tossed outside a window from high-up , and another is stabbed through the stomach with a reaper .
The Mummy's Shroud	Desecrating the hidden tomb of Kah-to-Bey , and removing his skeletal remains for an exhibit , those responsible for the expedition will face unspeakable danger as the preserved mummified corpse of his loyal slave , Prem , is reawakened by the Egyptian guardian , Hasmid ( Roger Delgado ) reading from the hieroglyphics of the Pharoah's death shroud . . a shroud with encrypted words which hold the power of life and death if the Pharoah's body and sepulcher are disturbed . The bank roll for the expedition is funded by unscrupulous businessman , Stanley Preston ( John Phillips ) , who craves the limelight , fame , and attention normally vested to those who make the discovery . Heading the expedition , renowned archaeologist Sir Basil Walden ( André Morell ) , his pretty language expert Claire de Sangre ( Maggie Kimberly ) , Stanley's son Paul ( David Buck ) , and photographer Harry Newton ( Tim Barret ) . They indeed discover the tomb , and it's guardian , the pernicious Hasmid who will seek revenge against those willing to invade the holy tomb of his ancestors . Hasmid has an accomplice in the Egyptian soothsayer , Haiti ( Catherine Lacey ) who relishes in informing those , who come to her for a fortune , of incoming death . It's very simple , those who entered the tomb will be visited by Prem , their destruction drawing nigh . . each individual are seen in Haiti's crystal ball , Hasmid prays to his cat idol speaking the words from the shroud , & the victims are targeted and executed . I think this mummy film , like CURSE OF THE MUMMY TOMB and The MUMMY preceding it , stays in formula . . basically those who invade a tomb must answer for it . Hasmid is the true villain for the mummy Prem can only harm when ordered from the shroud . . and the mummy's reign of terror can only be silenced when the shroud is taken from the one using it as a weapon . The sets and props ( . . the sepulcher of the Pharoah and the different artifacts found ) aren't convincing , but the superb casting helps keep it afloat . Morell , a very good , but under-appreciated actor who worked in other Hammer films ( Plague of the Zombies ; Hound of the Baskervilles ) , doesn't have a lot of screen time which was a shame . Phillips has the role of unkind , selfish businessman who orders others around , wishes to hog the spotlight , a proved coward when facing possible danger , willing to leave even the most loyal behind to save his own skin . . a really loathsome swine , the fat cat who gets rich off of the hard-working efforts of others . Michael Ripper has yet another substantial Hammer role when working under the direction of John Gilling ( . . such as THE REPTILE and PLAGUE OF THE ZOMBIES ) as the long-suffering , bullied , and improperly mistreated ( . . and ultimately tragic ) press secretary for Preston , Longbarrow , whose undying loyalty to his employer leads to a horrifying fate . Buck's Paul , who loathes / disapproves of his father's behavior , is the hero who , along with Kimberly's Claire , must find a way to stop the killing , as their colleagues die around them , with the police unable to stop the madness . Delgado is appropriately malicious as Hasmid , reveling in his duty to persecute those who robbed his ancestor's tomb with Lacey colorful as the demented witch with the crystal ball ( . . her wicked eyes and grin are quite memorable ) . Non-gory but startlingly violent attacks by the powerful mummy on victims includes a skull-crushing , acid bath ( . . with a subsequent fire set to the body ) , head slammed into a wall , and a body ( . . wrapped in a curtain ) tossed through a window bashing the street below . Great special effects sequence at the end showing the deterioration of the crumbling mummy .
John Carpenter Presents Body Bags	John Carpenter , as a dead man masquerading as a coroner , presents three gruesome tales from a morgue , provided with ample ammo of ghoulish zingers and sight gags . The first tale is , in my opinion , the weakest , but has many recognizable faces which add in-jokes for horror buffs to salivate over . A young woman , Anne ( Alex Datcher ) starts a gas station job and runs into trouble throughout her first night . Loose prowling Haddonfield ( hahaha ) a serial killer , who has been murdering women , might just pay Anne a visit . Anne has a sealed outpost where she remains locked in with no common way for anyone to enter unless she allows them to , yet she finds herself making trips outside when she shouldn't be . Wes Craven provides a cameo as a creepy customer , Robert Carradine ( Louis of REVENGE OF THE NERDS fame ) has an important role as a supposed gas station employee who assists Anne before she gets started , Carpenter alum Peter Jason has a amusing cameo as a lively customer , Buck Flower as . . guess what ? . . a suspicious looking bum , David Naughton ( American Werewolf in London ) as a friendly customer who forgets his credit card and might just be in the right place at the right time when Anne needs him the most , and Sam Raimi , providing a facial sight gag and . . cough . . corpse that gives this rather average slasher story an entertaining twist . The idea is that Anne is safe as long as she remains in her locked quarters and that we know that a killer is on the loose . Carpenter then plays with the concept of Anne leaving the safety of her confines , in essence toying with the viewer on when the expected confrontation will take place . The second tale is a dandy at getting under the skin ( . . hahaha , pun intended ) . Stacy Keach is perfect as a man constantly haunted by his thinning hair-line who enlists the aid of a hair-growth company through chair-man David Warner and nurse Deborah Harry who convince him to take their treatment . What Keach's Richard doesn't expect is what the long locks which sprout from his open bandages derive from . This is particularly creepy when we find out what the hairs are and where they come from . Special make-up effects master Greg Nicotero has an amusing cameo ( . . just because of his own long hair ) , & Sheena Easton ( . . yes , the singer ) is Richard's tenderhearted , but burdened girlfriend Megan who wishes he'd quit suffering about his hair-issues . The third tale is a grisly affair using " Hands of Orlac " as inspiration . Baseball player Brent Matthews ( Mark Hamill ) on the verge of escaping the minor leagues , has a serious car wreck which destroys his left eye . Through a delicate eye surgery , Dr Lang ( portrayed by horror classics vet John Agar ) restores the sight to Brent , but for a price . The new eye , from a dead psychopath who died in the gas chamber , provides unpleasant memories and killing methods Brent soon discovers . Brent becomes affected by the cruel images he sees , and the safety of pregnant wife Cathy ( Twiggy ) might be in danger . Lots of eye-violence in this particular tale . Roger Corman has a cameo as a physician who reluctantly offers Dr . Lang's assistance to Brent . Tom Arnold and Tobe Hooper pop up as the real coroners at the end with some business to take care of . . which might just have something to do with our host . Carpenter directed the first two tales himself and Tobe Hooper helmed the third . " The Eye " was my favorite , but " Hair " is probably the most original while " The Gas Station " is the most derivative . Yet , " The Gas Station " provides plenty of moments that brought a grin to my face .
Night of the Seagulls	Final film in the Blind Dead series features a general practitioner and his wife from the city desiring to set up a practice in a seaside village , not welcomed by the peasants who sacrifice beautiful female locals to the undead Templar knights who rip away the hearts from the victims ' chests as a sacrifice to their stone pagan god , drinking their blood afterward . This ritual occurs for seven consecutive nights so that the peasants can remain unharmed , but the doctor saves his maid-servant from being a sacrificial lamb with dangerous consequences as a result . The Templar knights , eyes still gouged , skull-faces , rotted robes , pursue those who ruined the ritual , surrounding the doctor's home , attempting to enter , with the goal of retrieving the sacrifice and killing those in the way . Victor Petit is the unwanted village doctor , Henry Stein , who only wishes to help those in need . María Kosty is his frightened wife Joan , who ( . . rightfully so ) wishes to leave the moment they arrive to immediate hostility by the rude and inhospitable locals . Sandra Mozarowsky is Lucy , the local girl they wish to protect , getting them into a heap of trouble . José Antonio Calvo is Teddy , a mistreated village idiot , often beaten by his bullying village locals , who finds sanctuary with the Steins , and is their voice into why the village behaves the way they do . The main meat of the film has these four barricading themselves in their weakly protected home as the Templar knights force their way in . I consider the undead Templar knights as creepy as ever , but question the decision making of the village people who'd remain so close to such evil , even sacrificing their own to such monsters for their own safety . That and how our heroes would remain in a village living amongst people who wish them to leave . And , the doctor's persistent desire to question the people who simply wish him to get out of their sights , with his wife in constant distress and fear . My mind boggled at his willingness to remain when warnings and signs of terror were all around him . And , when Stein does interfere , the village peasants in fact do leave throwing up the obvious thought . . why haven't they already left ? ! Why even remain in a village where evil is nearby sacrificing your own to them ? ! The home invasion and attempts at securing the building echo Night of the Living Dead . The Templar knights move slow , of course , considering their blind , but still manage to remain a major threat to much faster victims . This is more about presentation and atmosphere , which is director Ossorio's major strength as a filmmaker , than plot and characterization ( . . which have rarely been Ossorio's forte ) . I think fans will feel less bothered with my rantings regarding poor decision-making and plot contrivances because the Templar knights are so scary , marching towards their prey at night , swords in hand , threatening the lives of hapless victims who could not escape . Terrific Spanish location works wonders and Ossorio uses it effectively . The Templar leader plunges a dagger into the chests of the chosen female sacrifice . The seagulls , which cry at night , are said to be the spirits of those victims sacrificed by the Templar knights . Odd scenes of crawling crabs working their way towards dead female corpses left to rot by the Templar knights . And , as has been the case in previous entries in this series , the undead knights often ride horseback ( . . Ossorio shoots the knights on their horses pursuing their victims in slow motion , and we are treated to another sequence where the zombies rise from their tombs ) .
Ænigma	Bizarre , corny , but reasonable entertaining Fulci rip on " Carrie " takes the premise one step further . The unfortunate victim of a college prank gone terribly wrong when those who humiliated her caused poor Kathy ( Mijlijana Zirojevic ) to walk out in front of a moving car , she lies brain-dead in Intensive care on life-support . But , even in these terrible conditions , the need for revenge drives Kathy's vengeful spirit to possess the host of nervous-breakdown beauty , Eva Gordon ( the simply gorgeous Lara Naszinsky who I wished would never leave the screen she's so easy on the eyes ) into eliminating those who caused her harm . When each murder is about to be set-up and executed , Kathy experiences violent emotion which bewilders Dr . Robert Anderson ( Jared Martin , who many might remember from the short-lived , but great , " War of the Worlds " series ) whose in charge of her care . Kathy should not be experiencing anything in her worsening state , so when she , all of a sudden , shows signs of aggression after such states of silence it doesn't make sense in a clinical way . Meanwhile , we come to understand that the methods used against each victim stems from their own dreams , with unusual results . The gym instructor's own reflection attacks ( he's quite an egomaniac for whom Kathy adored and the major culprit in the dirty prank that went awry ) him , one student is attacked by snails ( ! ) , one girl is attacked by a Greek statue ( ! ) , another girl can not escape a room where the vision of her boyfriend beheaded remains on the bed ( she falls to her doom in a state of panic from the dormroom window ) , and Dr . Anderson himself experiences a grisly dream where his new lover , student Eva , chews chunks of flesh from his torso and mouth . When Eva is sent away after too many violent temper tantrums and rebellious-type behavior ( said to perhaps effect the other female students , in a negative was , that attend the St . Mary's Boston college ) , her lover Anderson starts a relationship with Jenny ( Ulli Reinthaler ) . The doc sure loves the student body . . yuk , yuk . So we see the wrath of Eva / Kathy , who escapes from her asylum home , as she confronts Jenny attempting to find Anderson's office . Will Jenny escape where others failed ? While I'll be the first to admit that this flick makes little sense whatsoever , it sure has the same visual energy Fulci had a talent for expressing even with the hokiest of story-lines . The bizarre nature of the crimes against the victims is enough ( . . although most aren't that gory ) to warrant at least one viewing . Good electronic score . Hilarious dated foot-note . . you'll notice lots of posters featuring popular heroes and movies at that time ( Tom Cruise / Top Gun poster , Sly Stallone / Rocky III poster , etc ) in the 80's , I'm guessing Fulci added to give his Italian flick a more " American feel . " Kathy's mother , the maid of St . Mary's , seems to have a red glow in her eyes and she plays a heavy role in either stopping the carnage or letting it continue . Either way , she understands that her beloved daughter is on the rampage .
Rape of the Vampire	A psychoanalyst tries to cure the ills of four young women believing themselves to be vampires from centuries ago . It seems they have been manipulated into this type of thinking thanks to an old man with a cane . The old man builds up animosity in a mob of villagers against the young women , and the psychoanalyst's friends , a couple named Marc & Brigitte pay the ultimate price getting caught within the violence of the attack . Soon the psychoanalyst realizes that in fact they were vampires , and this Queen has control over them . The old man was supposed to kill the three mortals who were interfering with her " initiation process " . The Queen also has a doctor , against his will , working within a hospital attempting to find a cure / antidote for their undead affliction . . the doctor will attempt to betray the Queen with the psychoanalyst and his vampiress lover's help . But , the Queen plans to have a " blood wedding " betrothing her doctor with his mortal fiancé , turned vampiress so that he'd work on the antidote . Well , this is the synopsis I tried to derive from the film director Rollin put together into two melodramas . I thought the first segment of Rollin's theatrical French vampire film , was rather surreal , but somewhat easier to follow . There were some very beautifully shot sequences using the allure of the vampire women , their decadent candle-lit home and the countryside ( . . and beach nearby ) I think which show Rollin's talent at capturing the visual image . I think MANY will find his sacrificing coherent story-telling ( . . and lack of acting talent ) for capturing surreal and bizarre imagery a bit difficult to swallow . I'll be the first to admit that I often voiced to myself , " Huh ? ! " & " What the . . ? ! " during this entire low-budget production . I was often quite bewildered at many moments and character behavior in this film . I truly felt that Rollin had these images planted in his brain and put them to celluloid , not worrying too much about whether they fit into any type of true narrative or not . I think he cast people who fit a certain type of image regardless of whether or not they had a remote shred of talent . I found myself personally in awe at certain shots ( . . like the amazing " death march " of Brigitte , walking across the vast space of unfarmed fertile soil towards the end of the first part of the vampire tales told by Rollin , or the four vampire women with candelabra's in hand walking in unison together throughout their home ; and the beach-front with the long row of logs which spring forth from the ocean for which Rollin would use repeatedly in other films afterward ) , while befuddled at other scenes ( such as the naked blind vampire reaching for a possible groom in the ocean with those who tricked her into doing this gone from the area , or the same blind woman feeding the dead Brigitte food , talking to her as if she were an infant ) . The actress who plays the Queen just has a field day in the role . She reinforces dutifully the joy of being the leader of her vampire cult , by either grinning widely , exploiting her fangs , laughing uproariously , or flamboyantly accepting her title ordering her slaves to do this or that under her command with quite the authority . This cult is in many ways operated as a totalitarian dictatorship , with her people robotically obeying each request . It's easy to see why she's eventually fall to even as small an uprising as the doc and Marc ( . . enraged at what the Queen does to Brigitte , after her corpse is stolen by a faux funeral procession , in an inspired set-piece from Rollin ; from a distance this looks like the typical Catholic family or mourners and pall bearers , until Rollin closes his camera in showing that they have fangs and the cross of Christ they are carrying is upside down ) because she's too full of herself and the organization built by her hand . Still , I think this will appeal to the Rollin faithful , while other fans of vampire Gothic chillers will be at their remote control eject button dying of boredom . Rollin has talent , but tells his films in a certain way which will alienate some , and please others .
Evil of Frankentein	Baron von Frankenstein ( Peter Cushing , trying his best ) weary from being constantly interrupted by religious folk when he's always on the brink of a breakthrough in his experiments , returns to where his château is in Karlstaad ( along with assistant Hans played by Sandor Elès ) hopefully to retrieve property that will pay for tools in to continue his work . Baron finds that a carnival is in town and that his nemesis , the Burgomaster ( David Hutcheson ) has confiscated the doctor's possessions . Having no place to hide once his cover is blown , Baron and Hans retreat to the mountains where they encounter a deaf mute girl ( Katy Wild ) who leads them to a cave before a storm hits . Inside the cave is Baron's monster encased in ice where he must've landed when a pack of hunters shot him with rifles in the head . You see once the police found out that Baron had created the possibly violent monster doing " devil's work " he was forced to leave Karlstaad . They melt the ice , but find that the monster's brain is severely damaged and will need a " life-spark " in order to function again . Enter Zoltán the Hypnotist ( devilishly played by Peter Woodthorpe ) who Baron will seek out to " accelerate a reaction " in the monster's brain . What Baron doesn't count on is that Zoltán will wish to use his hypnosis as a source of monetary gain and vengeance ( the Burgomaster and Chief of police had Zoltán kicked out of the carnival for operating without a license ) . So the monster will do as Zoltán says and Baron will have to make a decision . . end the monster or continue his experiments in cooperation with Zoltán getting " to use " him as well in a put-upon partnership . This is the source of conflict at the heart of this particular film in the third " Frankenstein " film from Hammer Studios as Baron must determine what is most important , the experiments or certain evil-doings by a very treacherous Zoltán . Very studio-set oriented with a lot of matte art work , a Hammer film to me is awfully hard not to like . The film still benefits from the presence of Cushing , but the monster in this film is merely a toy to be manipulated . I didn't really care for the whole " hypnotist angle " , but admire their trying to change things up a bit . Weak entry , but nonetheless has it's moments .
The Big Bounce	Jack ( Owen Wilson ) is a smooth wisecracking criminal ( mainly " small " stuff like breaking and entering , heisting super-cars from the wealthy ) pulled into stealing some cash from a crooked developer , Ray Ritchie ( Gary Sinise ) by the man's lover , Nancy ( Sara Foster . . the perfect object of lust ; she's barely shown anytime during the film in full dress ) . Jack was a former employee of Rays , fired because of his role in a protest against his employer's corrupt treatment of his workers . Meanwhile , Walter ( Morgan Freeman ) a judge offers Jack a job tending to the needs of his chain of beach bungalows , for reasons uncertain at the moment for the exception that he flat-out doesn't like the way Ray operates . Bob Rogers , Jr ( Charlie Sheen ) is a lackey for Ray who is putty in Nancy's hands . She wants Ray's dough and coerces Jack with her flirts and sex to get it . The film shows their planning , but no plan is perfect and as in films like this one , nearly everyone gets conned ( scammed ) one way or another . The film offers a plot regarding the theft of money , but it's merely an excuse to let Wilson toss quips in his cool manner as Sara Foster parades her luscious , intoxicatingly gorgeous body around to hold our attention . For the exception of Sheen and Freeman , everyone else ( including supporting bits by vets like Willie Nelson and Harry Dean Stanton ) is pretty much starring in cameos . Certainly Sinise's role is painfully short as is Bebe Neuwirth as Ray's alcoholic wife Alison who might even have her hand in the distribution of cash hidden by her husband in a safe guarded by the inept Bob , Jr . The film is breezy , laid back , and light . . the location of Hawaii and Owen's throwaway charm redeem this fluff somewhat .
Miami Vice	Sonny and Crocket ( Colin Farrell and Jamie Foxx ) go undercover to shake down a drug cartel . Their target is José Yero ( John Ortiz ) , but through him they also pursue the real major drug king Arcángel de Jesús Montoya ( Luis Tosar ) . Along the way Sonny begins a torrid love affair with Montoya's partner , Isabella ( the lovely and always great Gong Li ) . Also , they have an Aryan brotherhood , who work with the Latin American drug cartel within the Miami border , to deal with as well . Exotically captured cinematography and technically sound production values ( you can just see the money put behind this film ) with the vice police voicing elliptical " cop-speak " which adds flash to a basically typical " cops versus drug cartel " plot that has been worked over in films and television shoot-em ups for decades . Heavily laced with a rock soundtrack , that I liked , but the film seems to be missing that energy and fun the colorful , beloved 80's series had . Too long ( to be honest , a lot of Mann's flashy long takes of boats traveling the ocean and high sky-line shots do tend to go on a bit long ) and a wee bit pretentious . It says pretty loudly . . " Look at me , I'm pretty . " The final shoot-out at the end with the camera-work working through a shaky cam actually worked for me . This film ultimately depends on your tolerance level of self-important camera stylistics which I am able to forgive . But , if I'm honest , the leads did nothing for me and both Farrell and Foxx seem to be sleepwalking through it . Foxx certainly doesn't have that same presence in this film ( he seems held down actually ) as he did in the much superior Mann vehicle " Collateral . "
The Sentinel	An agent is gunned down by an assassin on his home steps . Secret Agent Pete Garrison ( Michael Douglas ) took a bullet for President Reagan many years ago and now guards President Ballentine ( David Rasche ) . He is secretly having an affair with the President's wife Sarah ( Kim Basinger ) . Someone has photos of this affair and it looks like Pete's in hot water . It only gets worse . Pete has a reliable source who tells him that there's a mole inside the secret service . Polygraphs are demanded and Pete fails because of one question and that is in regards to Sarah . He would not jeopardize Sarah and so he risked failing the test . Unfortunately someone using the incriminating photos plant Pete in the middle of a café located inside a major FBI stake-out of a cartel operation possibly implicating him as being part of the assassination attempt on the President . The President's Camp David plane is blasted by a missile which is also linked to Pete . His signature authorized certain documents that also add to his growing list of assassination implication . Facing trouble , Pete decides to go on the lam to find the real culprit so that he will be proved innocent of the many charges against him . Secret Service detective David Breckinridge ( Kiefer Sutherland ) is put in charge of not only finding the slain agent's killer , but when the evidence leads to Pete ( . . for which he has a troubled relationship with stemming from his belief that Pete slept with his wife ) nabbing him as well . Breckinridge is breaking in a new detective , Jill ( Eva Longoria ) who was referred to him by Pete . William Montrose ( Martin Donovan ) , the President's most trusted right-hand man , might be more involved with the ugly mess regarding the assassination attempt than anyone could have imagined . There is a setting for the assassination to take place . . a Toronto G8 Summet and Russians ( ex-KGB ) are involved with the mole in killing the President . Pete will have to race against time not only to find the source who provided the info about the assassination attempt ( . . and had Pete set up for being killed in a harrowing mall sequence ) , staying ahead of the agents chasing him , and finding the mole before the President is likely murdered . Slickly produced , fast-paced , and exciting , yet predictable , ordinary , and by-the-numbers . It follows the usual rules this kind of action film is set-up by . The veteran agent outsmarts everyone finding the culprit using his years of training . The " framed innocent fugitive on the run " has been used numerous times . . this film's strength lies in the fact that it's Douglas in the role as runner and Sutherland as pursuer . I'm sure many will find it hard not to compare Breckinridge with Jack Bauer as Sutherland plays similar characters in similar situations . . the government intrigue and assassination plot is very reminiscent of the television show " 24 " . The film even looks like " 24 " in how the camera is active with the action . There's a great scene where Breckinridge has chased Pete down and can take the shot , yet doesn't because , unlike what he told the cops at the scene of the crime regarding agent Charlie , he goes with his gut which tells him that perhaps this so-called guilty man may in fact be innocent .
Torture Garden	Okay Amicus production about certain individuals who entertain what could happen to them in the future if they follow the evilness in their heart . The host of their macabre possible futures is Dr . Diabolo ( Burgess Meredith ) who leads them into hypnosis by way of staring into a pair of shears held by what appears to be a wax statue of a woman ( though her face appears throughout the presented tales told to the possible victims of fate if they decide to follow their paths to destruction ) . The tales for the most part are rather lackluster compared to future anthology films like " The House That Dripped Blood " or " Asylum " , the final tale with Jack Palance ( . . and co-starring Cushing ) about Edgar Allen Poe is a masterpiece which could've been much longer than the the first two which actually outlasted their stay . The tale of the " jealous killer piano " is silly hokum that actually takes a lot of the quality of the overall production . The question is who Dr . Diabolo really is and how he has the ability to show his guests their supposed fates .
Perkins 14	A deeply sorrowful policeman , Dwayne Hopper ( Patrick O'Kane ) had a son kidnapped as did thirteen other families and the man responsible he discovers was picked up on a speeding charge . The man is Ronald Perkins ( Richard Brake ) , a pharmacist who's " friends with the judge " , but some particular comments he makes to Dwayne ( . . along with a missing finger ) throws up signals that he was the one who kidnapped his son . Pleading with an off-duty cop to investigate Perkins ' home , policeman Hal ( Dean Sansone ) hears noise in the basement and discovers a hidden room containing prison cells . . lifting a switch , the bars open and " they " are released . . those 14 kids , now ten years older , aren't remotely human as we'd describe . Hal is ferociously attacked and soon Dwayne , along with his prisoner , investigate for himself what lies within that secret room , and the horrifying discoveries will change the landscape of the sleepy town of Stone Grove forever . Craig Singer's PERKINS 14 ambiguously relates to us why these youths are such ferocious , cannibalistic , practically unstoppable predators . Through some collected recordings in Perkin's hidden room , Dwayne realizes that they were held prisoner , not allowed to talk , barely fed , and injected with drugs ( . . PCP is one such drug established ) . . being a pharmacist , Perkins may've even experimented with these kids , pumping their systems with only God know what . The killers resemble the fast-moving zombies of the modern horror era . . they move fast , their eyes are albino ( . . representing the loss of humanity , nothing visible ) , clothes tattered , and attack with feverish intensity . Victims who often encounter them have little time to defend themselves and the killers rip them to shreds , devouring their flesh like hungry vultures . The film is depressingly bleak and the story of the family of the Hoppers is quite a somber , tragic one . I feel like the film's strength is the effects on the Hoppers regarding the loss of the son and how happiness has eroded over time due to Dwayne's detachment from his loved ones and life in general . Before the killer youths are unleashed on the town , we see how Dwayne's obsession in finding Kyle has caused a friction between himself and his wife / daughter . Wife Janine ( Mihaela Mihut ) has been having an affair with a local stud , and daughter Daisy ( Shayla Beesley ) is enamored with a potential rock star . When circumstances pen the Hoppers inside the town sheriff's department , they will have to put aside their differences , and ban together . . but , facing the sheer thought of killing his son in order to save themselves is what drives the central emotional conflict , and Dwayne's plight draws enormous sympathy . It would be incredibly hard for a parent , once he's finally found the long-lost son everyone said was dead , to actually kill him . The hope that he can reach Kyle is what motivates the dread . . deep inside we know that Dwayne's outcome will probably not end well , but understand why he makes such decisions . While I don't understand why these kids attack humans with weapons , tearing into their flesh , and yet aren't able to determine any human emotion at all ( . . or understand that their actions aren't justified ) , they are a frightening brood . . director Singer displays their cruel methods of destruction ( . . such as the use of a champagne bottle to smash in a face or the off-distance shot of a flashlight bobbing up and down in the dark as we squishing sounds ) in devastating ways , while we also witness their nasty eating habits ( . . one victim's stomach is torn open as they remove his organs and intestines ) and determined pursuit for victims ( . . one female killer youth is so desirable for Janine , locked in a bathroom , her fingernails come apart as she rips up and down the door ) . The tragic fate of the Hoppers , at the hands of their own Kyle , is particularly chilling because a promise is broken . Most of the attacks are often cleverly disguised by Singer through camera movement , careful editing , and flickering light ( . . not to mention the darkness of night ) . Plenty of blood shed , though . The major problem that rather ate at me ( . . pun intended ) was the idea that Perkins planned all of this in advance , his imprisonment would set off the cycle of events that would ensue . . it's the " Saw " logic that everything would have to perfectly fall into place for his " revenge " on those who quit looking for their children ( . . his psychosis derives from the fact that those investigating the slaughter of his parents while he was in the house and could hear the whole thing gave up , just calling this situation a murder-suicide ) to be successful , with characters exactly behaving predictably as he planned it in his mind .
The Scarecrow reviews " 13 Ghosts "	The Zorbas inherit a home from a relative who " collected ghosts . " Cy Zorba is a museum director ( for dinosaurs ) strapped financially who receives news , just after his furniture has been repossessed , that he will be given a house housing spirits collected by his dead relative who was into the occult and communicated actively with the spirit world . The relative ( Dr . Plato ) traveled all over the world collecting ghosts for his home study . He leaves Cy Zorba with an unusual pair of shades which can see the ghosts . We find that Elaine Zacharides , who desires desperately to work for the Zorbas , assisted with Plato in his studies . She is a guise for the viewer into Plato's methods and madness , as well as a person who gives insight into the ghosts which live within the house . She also lets us know that Plato drained his savings and wealth from the bank oddly ( treasure as Buck sees the loot ) . Plato's lawyer , and most trusted associate , Ben Rush is the one who helps the Zorbas ( along with dating daughter Medea ) get moved in and lets them know about the house , etc . But , behind the smiles hides something quite sinister . Buck , the son , is the prototypical Beaver Cleaver type : all smiles and enthusiasm . The entire family would make for the prototypical Cleaver family . I think the novelty of William Castle's " 13 Ghosts " was quite fresh , innovative , and appealing in 1960 . But , unfortunately watching the film myself now leaves mostly a cheesy exercise I can admire in a " carnival freak show " sort of way . It's clear Castle just wants to entertain as a Hollywood type of PT Barnum using tricks ( Illusion-O , in this film ) to pull in the enthusiasm of youth who were frequenting the movies and shelling out the bucks for thrills . A person now would perhaps chuckle in amusement rather than the desired effect of jaw dropping awe that yesteryear's audience gave off . The idea seems interesting enough ( albeit a bit wacky ) with this family being fearful residing in a home housing spirits which relive acts from their tormented pasts . The " Illusion-O " process does seem to strain my nerves a bit , for the required glasses needed to see those ghosts as Castle intended are not in existence for my own personal use . There's simply an outline of ghostly apparitions and a blue - tinted screen to go by leaving me less thrilled than perhaps the droves of youths who participated in 1960 . Still , there's a goofy charm that remains leaving us a reminder of what profiteers with imagination like Castle could do in an industry which would progress in the use of technology to scare and delight visually .
Nightmare City	A plane lands at the airport of a big city unleashing hideously disfigured ( some hilarious make-up work ) , fast-moving , and intelligent " zombies " as they strike innocents with a quickened fury , drinking their blood and munching on their flesh . They seem to be unstoppable with no true goal , but to slice and dice . They use weapons and seem to have some sort of agenda as they attack military outposts , hospitals , etc . The film follows a slight few crusaders such as news-reporter Hugo Stiglitz and his doctor-wife Laura Trotter , and those military minds , Francisco Rabal & Miguel Ferrer who are trying to defend their lives and the society against the evil , hardworking " zombies " as they begin to swiftly decimate an entire city's civilization . The film is quite stylish and breathlessly paced by Lenzi . The film doesn't exactly garner inspired performances or decent dubbing , but seems to add to the mindless fun . The effects are gruesome and inspired , but the enthusiastic camera-work and fresh breed of zombie killer certainly brings this up a notch . It is not for the squeamish as one woman gets one of breasts removed by a machete , one woman gets a spike inserted in her eye , many receive knife-stabs to their torso . The film shows limited defense against the " zombies " other than they die when blood isn't added to their appetite . I think the film provides a minor ecological element giving these zombies an excuse to exist , but this film has no story other than these once-human monsters attack and kill innocents . . that and the gore that derives from their vicious behavior . I think the apocalyptic doom attached to the city's decimation really works actually because Lenzi has this great ability at showing bodies stretched all over the place . . we see the wreckage of such an unexpected attack with no opportunity to plan escape . The film's decision to allow zombies to actually operate as humans is cheesy and the way Lenzi's camera closes in on them provides many unintentional belly-laughs .
House of 9	Nine disparate characters ( priest , french composer & his dissatisfied wife , clothing designer , tennis pro , junkie-on-parole , wannabe rap star , chorus girl , & cop ) awaken to find themselves trapped in a small building . A voice from an intercom informs them that they will play his game . . one will live and walk away with 5 million dollars . We , as the man who voices to them that he has cameras and microphones everywhere , are onlookers to the moral collapse of this group as liquor , prejudices & strife lead each member to turn on the other . The film has a stash of stereotypes clashing with another and it's quite obvious the filmmakers were creating a " Saw " type of retread using reality television as it's motivation . I think one can see the influence of " Cube " as well . Despite the film's derivative trappings , this is still a well acted , intense , and fascinating thrill-ride as we wait for the madness and insanity to take over . Amusingly , the man who holds these unfortunates in the building , turns up the heat and only increases the food output when members are murdered . You can see the slasher design , though , because it's quite clear that the beautiful and sweet innocent Lea ( portrayed by Kelly Brook ) is the heroine we are to root for . Dennis Hopper goes definitely against type as the priest trying , along with cop Jay ( Raffaello Degruttola ) , to keep things civil and calm . Hippolyte Girardot lets it all hang out as composer Francis who slowly loses his mental capacity as greed sets in . Ashley Walters as the black rapper has no chance to gain our sympathy as he's the most glaring stereotypical loud-mouth punk who causes much of the uneasiness with his attitude . The twist is an doozy .
Castle of the Living Dead	Terror awaits a troupe of street performers , and a wandering sojourner accompanying them , when they accept an invite to the mysterious Count Drago's castle . They will receive quite a nice wage for their performances as they attempt to supposedly entertain Drago , a scientist who enjoys the art of embalming animals of all kinds as a way of capturing their eternal beauty . This unhealthy obsession yields a terrifying secret . . Drago wishes to add the troupe to his collection ! Drago has perfected a unique formula which , after injection , causes the victim to freeze instantaneously , forever as they were without the threat of old age removing their beauty and form . Like mannequins , Drago has a whole room enshrined with the bodies of victims he has froze ! Will our troupe be able to escape ? Drago has a sadistic henchman-manservant Sandro ( Mirko Valentin ) he uses to capture and kill victims . Donald Sutherland is a treat in dual roles . . one as an idiotic officer who bumbles through a sure crime practically right in front of him ( . . it's unclear just how many times Drago has duped him ) and a vengeful witch who seeks retribution towards Drago who once tried out his experiments on her . Gaia Germani portrays the lovely Laura , who Drago obsesses over due to her beauty . Phillippe Leroy is Laura's love-interest , Eric , a former soldier traveling the roads until he met the troupe as two of their group were into an altercation over wages from a street performance . Sutherland's witch forewarned the troupe against going to the castle , but they do not heed her warnings . She informs the troupe's dwarf that he would remain unharmed thanks to an amulet she gives to him . Okay little low-budget horror outing . To be honest , I found it unspectacular with a pace that drags a bit . . the film felt much longer than it actually was . But , the castle setting is quite well utilized ; I thought the premise was ghoulish enough . Lee was alright , but I thought Mirko , as his cruel lieutenant , stole this feature .
My Little Eye	Five young adults from various backgrounds accept an invitation to star in a reality show for a hefty sum if they , as a collective , can remain together for a specific length of time . What they do not know is that they are actually part of a secret internet based " snuff-game " recorded for wealthy clients betting on who will survive to the end . Also , one amongst the group isn't the innocent he / she appears to be . . Gimmicky concept was kind of hip around the late 90's / early millennium thanks to " camera films " like " The Last Broadcast " and " The Bliar Witch Project . " I found " My LIttle Eye " entertaining , with how the group slowly comes apart at the seams as unpredictable occurrences begin to unravel the group . Those mysterious masterminds who have created this reality show with their mice trapped in a maze as voyeuristic eyes gaze on them from their computer monitors , a select few with the financial means and morbid taste for this kind of " entertainment . " Essentially these five people are mice , with cameras hidden everywhere , from shower heads to ball point pens . There are no avenues of escape from prying eyes , even in their supposed " reality safe zone " where cameras are not supposed to intrude , the subjects of this game find no breaks . I think the idea of having the whole film shot through hidden cameras rather ingenious , and commend the filmmakers for what had to be a difficult process , particularly in the editing room . Pretty sure a lot of footage was shot , from various angles often on one particular person . I'm not sure the climax , where a policeman shows up as the killer is after the " final girl " , actually works , but overall I found this horror spoof of reality television rather satisfying . Others may not . The acting and characters are adequate , but I think the gimmick is the showcase here . . and this may very well be what turns many away .
The Blob	Within a small meteorite houses an alien gelatinous substance which consumes and absorbs humans , growing in size as it feeds on the citizens of a small town . It'll be up to teen couple Steve ( Steve McQueen ) & Jane ( Aneta Corsaut ) to get others , including the disbelieving police , to believe them or else the monstrous blob could threaten the entire country . One weapon our heroes might have to stop it's surge is cold , such as when the blob attempts to seize Steve and Jane in a meat locker only to leave the premises altogether . It's value as a classic questioned by many , there's no doubt that I've seen many homages and influences to and from " The Blob " . How many movies I've seen regarding a circular meteorite , cracking open releasing an alien menace of some sort . Is it schlock , no doubt , a blob monster eating humans and growing larger as the 50's teens speak their hip lingo , race cars , see " spook shows " and stay up all night with McQueen method acting as if he were in a Rebel Without a Cause attempting to portray a really confused and frightened teen trying to convince the olders that what he saw ( . . a doctor getting absorbed by the blob ) is not some false joke . McQueen was already cementing himself as a cultural icon right from the beginning , here in this film , as the young hero working the late shift trying to find traces of the blob monster he's sure he saw , with Aneta Corsaut ( . . the school teaching love interest for the sheriff on The Andy Griffith Show ) by his side as they race against time to halt the terror before it consumes an entire community . Like many films afterward , the theme of a generational gap between adults and teenagers regarding a type of cultural divide is displayed in " The Blob " as Steve spends an endless amount of time trying to get others to believe him . This is especially the case regarding the sheriff's deputy who firmly believes throughout that Steve is merely pulling their leg . The blob is a hoot , like an ever-flowing pudding which squeezes through cracks and crevices seeking man-food . Such as the blob's entrance into a matinée . There is a degree of the " ick-factor " in this film ( . . which will be further exploited to a superior degree in the remake ) regarding the creature's slow-devouring of the first victim ( . . we see how it starts with his fingers , covering his arm before we see the blob in complete form for the first time ) who cracked open the meteorite which got the community into the entire catastrophic mess . I think the remake , made in 88 , is better on practically every level , although Kevin Dillon is a rather poor substitute for McQueen ( . . not that anyone else could slide in that role and not pale in comparison ) . Just enjoy the campy nature of it all .
My Bloody Valentine . . 2	Harry Ward , a miner who gained notoriety for killing the men with him after a mine collapsed so that he could have further air , slaughters an entire hospital staff before returning to the scene of the crime , claiming the lives of partying teens , before being shot by then-sheriff , Burke ( Tom Atkins ) as he was about to murder Tom Hanniger ( Jensen Ackles ) . Ten years pass and Tom returns home days after his father's funeral ( . . the man who owned the mine ) on the verge of signing away the mine to outside contractors , in a sense selling the nearby town's livelihood in the process . Murders begin again , as a psychopath donning a miner's outfit and gas mask destroys victims with a pick-axe . Tom is an obvious suspect since the murders didn't start up until he returned from wherever he was at for a decade ( . . a great portion of this time is an important plot-point I won't reveal ) . A complicated love-triangle develops as Tom's former girlfriend , Sarah ( Jaime King ) , is now married to Axel ( Kerr Smith ) , the sheriff of the town . . Axel was in love with Sarah when she was dating Tom , and this unease that exists when all three are together after so long is of significance to the overall plot as this film continues . Formula slasher , extremely well made with all the Hollywood extravagances on display . I think the film lives and dies on it's 3 D gimmick and cashes in on the exhilaration of what such effects bring to an audience in search of entertainment . I don't , however , expect such a film to have legs once the gimmick is removed and those who left the theater experiencing weapons and body parts flying at them from the screen , will probably revisit it and realize that it isn't much more than that . I was certainly joyfully surprised to see such grisly violence on display , but the gore is mostly used during the 3 D process such as when an eyeball pops out of a head or a lower jaw is pulled apart . The film is essentially a series of chases between the psycho miner and victims fleeing for their lives . The costume and mask still delivers like in the original film and that pickaxe is used effectively . There are some hideous displays of carnage , the aftermath of the killer's attacks , with victims ' chests ripped open , and hearts in candy boxes . Startling sequence featuring Betsy Rue in full frontal nudity , reacting negatively to a trucker who taped them having sex in a cheap hotel . Many of the set pieces are expertly crafted such as the supermarket chase where the killer stalks Sarah and her check-out girl , Megan ( Megan Boone ; who is secretly having an affair with Axel ) throughout and a homage to the original film has miner outfits falling down as Sarah attempts to get away from the killer who follows her into a mine tunnel . I don't think many will be surprised at who the killer is ; you'd have to be pretty dense not to recognize it right away . The pickaxe is used as the primary weapon often in 3 D coming towards the screen . Great seeing vets , Tom Atkins and Kevin Tighe ( . . as old miner , Ben Foley , a good friend of Tom's father ) showing up in the movie , providing the film with memorable exits . I couldn't take Kerr Smith serious as a town sheriff , he's just a bit too young and heading a criminal investigation of a serial killer , Axel seems just a bit too immature and volatile for an old-school mining town to tolerate as a man of authority . But , the excellent bit of casting in my mind was Jaime King as the " final girl " . . her scene alone , awestruck at seeing her old beau , Tom , again after a decade shows the richness of such a performance . I think King is the glue that holds this cast together , and provides a dramatic backbone that gives credence to so-so dialogue . Some bizarre moments exist such as the memorable murder of a dwarf hotel manager and the use of a mattress spring bed frame as protection .
The Hazing	A group of college kids wish to join a sorority / fraternity , but must gather a list of items and hole up in the usual scary house where brutal murders took place . One of the items is this demonic book held in the house of a creepy professor named Kapps ( Brad Dourif . . an inspired choice if I might say so ) who has taken up a hobby of collecting victims he murders . Well , as two of the students , Marsha & Doug ( Tiffany Shpis & Philip Andrew ) attempt to steal the book , Kapps catches them . In the act of trying to kill the two thieves , Marsha accidentally " horns " Kapps through the chest . As Kapps lies close to death in the hospital , the students converge on the creepy estate not knowing that Kapps ' evil spirit would be allowed access to Doug's body when the idiot reads a passage from the book that will allow him to remain roaming on a balanced plain between life and death . Anyway , all this is set-up so that the demonic force can kill a bunch of college kids in various weird ways with the usual one-liners being tossed after each life is taken . One kid , in particular , gets his head chopped off by a detour sign thanks to Doug's possessor Kapps who seems to have an uncanny ability to work magic such as turning one girl into a mannequin ( I kid you not ) . There's a gateway open in the basement and Kapps will need someone in there after his body dies . There is a septor with a skull that can be used as a weapon to defeat Kapps if used properly . A silly premise doesn't take itself at all seriously . The cast is here to poke fun at themselves ( most play on their stereotypes such as the delicious Nectar Rose , dressed in a bunny outfit who seems to be bubble-headed , but it's all an act to bed a lust-interest ) , especially Parry Shen as a supposed nerd who has to correct others that he is not that stereotypical virginal video-game geek . Shepis and Rose both show their impressive cleavage and the film is rife with disgusting gore . Very reminiscent of NIGHT OF THE DEMONS .
Night School	Someone , dressed in black helmet , jacket and pants , is attacking students who attend the anthropology class of Professor Millet , an established womanizer bedding his students under the nose of his girlfriend Eleanor Adjai ( Rachel Ward , lovely , but lacking in performance , having trouble with the dialogue under her thick accent ) . The killer uses a curving knife as a decapitation device , leaving the severed heads in liquid , whether it be bucket , pond or aquarium . It's up to Harvard grad lieutenant Judd Austin ( Leonard Mann ) to find the killer , who leaves little-to-no trace of evidence , except the unorthodox methods of the crime scene . Okay psycho-thriller benefits from Fiedel's terrific score which is , at times , melodic , menacing & piercing . The music provides the director , along with his moody neo-noir photography of the city streets at night as the killer stalks his / her prey , to build good suspense even if the pay-off is less satisfying . The twist isn't much of one if the viewer is paying the least bit of attention . A certain waitress in a bar , for instance . . who would kill her in such a fashion ? Or , the method of execution on those who attended the class of Professor Millet . . who'd have a reason to use such a method and why place the heads in liquid ? You even get an answer towards the end , so the reveal leaves little impact . A good twist can work wonders , but this film suffers because of that , I felt . The film also is lacking in delivering really strong attacks , an essential ingredient in the slasher genre for which this belongs . We see the biker-outfitted psychopath , with his / her curving blade , slice at the victims , whose face displays the horror they find themselves with blood spread across walls , but nothing is ever elaborated , and practically everything happens off-screen . There are some moments of depraved kink such as a tribal sex sequence between Eleanor and Millet using bits of meat and blood while bathing . And , it's sleazy . . the lifestyle of Millet who sleeps with his female students or the night school's lesbian superintendent who attempts to seduce a conquest of her teacher's before the killer interrupts . The decapitated heads are hinted at , some discovered by surprised folks like citizens who find the severed head of an employee in a fish aquarium , or the bar owner noticing his waitress ' head in the sink , immersed in water . The film , typical of both giallo thrillers and 80's slashers has a a couple of red herrings , such as a peeping tom who works as a garbage man at the local tavern which yields the murdered waitress and Professor Millet himself ( . . for he's quite the authority in tribal customs and methods ) . There's a stab of black comedy at the very end regarding the lieutenant , who is the only one who knows who the true killer is yet can not prove it , and someone behind the seat of his car , which finishes this with a nice , tasteless touch . I think the low IMDb score is ridiculous . This may not be a shining example of cinematic grace , but it's got some fine elements that deserve better than a .
Reeker	Heading for a rave , Gretchen ( Tina Illman ) tells Trip ( Scott Whyte ) he needs to relinquish a batch of drugs he stole from illegal pharmaceutical chemist Radford ( Eric Mabius ) or else hitch a ride with someone else . This shortly after they leave a diner with various people having lunch . Gretchen , who has a kind heart , decides she'll give Trip a lift back to the diner so that his cell phone can gain a signal . Cookie ( Arielle Kebbel ) has a bladder problem and needs to urinate before their trip back to the diner . On their way back , Cookie notices a turned over SUV which looks similar to the one they are riding in . When arriving back to the diner ( . . and a little motel nearby ) , the group notice no one around . It's certainly suspicious because they had just left from there with plenty of people inside . Patrolling the grounds , the group begin to fall one by one to a mysterious hooded figure with a type of gas mask covering his ghoulish face who , before appearing , introduces himself with a foul stench as he arrives from this type of gaseous cloud . . could he perhaps represent " death " ? Other members of the group include blind Jack ( Devon Gummersall ) with an abundance of witty liners , often poking fun at his handicap and Nelson ( Derek Richardson ) , a turntable musician who has a gig lined up at the rave . In a peculiar group of circumstances , Radford emerges , and disappears , all throughout the characters ' terrifying ordeal . . what's his part in the grand scheme of things ? Another one of those gory " characters running from death " horror flicks , this actually has some entertaining moments . The characters are interesting and funny . . quite likable and nowhere near as obnoxious and annoying as these type of flicks often litter us with . Surprisingly , several gore scenes show body parts removed from unfortunate souls . . one poor fellow was stuck in a garbage bin with his entire lower body removed ! I'm not sure how I take the twist at the end . . it's awfully derivative of other films of it's ilk ( . . such as " Final Destination " ) . But , the flick sure is strange enough , with an unusual killer with unique abilities and arrives differently than the usual grim reapers this evil one clearly emulates . Michael Ironside has a small role as Henry , this awkwardly behaving man looking for his missing wife who Trip encounters when running from Radford , often clutching his side as if he could keel over any minute .
Not of This Earth	In this second remake of Roger Corman's ' 57 sci-fi classic , Michael York inhabits the role of Mr . Johnson , an alien sent to earth to send blood extracted from humans in the hopes of finding a cure for a dying race back home dying because of a virus sweeping their people . Johnson has hypnotic powers that force humans to do his will . He commands Dr . Rochelle ( Mason Adams ) to work on finding a cure while he hire nurse Amanda ( Liz Barondes ) to provide blood transfusions to keep him alive . He daily communicates with his leader , through the form of a blob monster whose tentacles work as a message link between Johnson and the boss . There's a method of travel , a type of wormhole which opens when Johnson needs to send " specimens " to his planet for " proper study " in his bedroom . He also has little creatures his digests inside this giant monstrous mouth in his stomach , for food . He wears sunglasses because his eyes always glow bright . He's a lousy driver so he pays a wise-cracking crook ( . . the always entertainingly witty Richard Belzer ) as a chauffeur and butler . Parker Stevenson is the cop whose nose sniffs something fishy regarding Johnson and doggedly pursues Amanda . . can't blame him for that , because Amanda is quite a tasty dish worth pursuing . Johnson's method of selecting human victims , burning their eyes before taking their blood leaving a shrivelled corpse , leaves a trail of bodies making him one of the worst serial killers . Johnson wishes to select the " waste " / dregs of society to supply his planet and Rochelle , but soon his ways will lead to his obvious downfall . There's also a sub-plot regarding an alien woman ( Julia McNeal ) who has departed from Johnson's planet with news as to what their government is actually doing with what is sent to them . Her tragic demise will yield a domino effect that Johnson will have trouble evading as he develops specific plans for Amanda hoping to renew life on his dying world . There are quite a many similirarities to the 1988 film , although this one is a bit wittier with a more polished screenplay , even often containing some thought-provoking dialogue ( . . such as when Johnson questions whether or not the virus , like AIDS , is a way of nature returning to humans what we ourselves have done to our own planet ) . There are more monsters in this one and the cast is more colorful with the humor more witty eliciting more chuckles . York plays the alien as straight as Arthur Roberts does in the 1988 film , but thanks to a bit more budget is given more of a chance to play off the " fish out of water " theme of an alien encountering us interesting humans . The way York apologizes before murdering the first female victim . There's no emotion attached to him ( . . well as far as extracting blood from us , obviously there's a deep care for his own " brood " , as the tear that trickles down his cheek at the misfortunate of such devastation would suggest ) in doing away with any earthling that comes between him and the collection for his people . While I found Lords incredibly sexy in the 1988 film , Barondes is so full of vibrant life , not to mention , she's incredibly charming , engaging , and just plain lovable ( . . not to mention she has a pair of legs to die for ) that she succeeds in certain ways the former fails . The 1995 film , however , has a rather weak finale , which pretty much duplicates the ' 88 film . . there's not much to differentiate the two . I think fans of the ' 88 film will enjoy this one , for the extra effort injected into it . Probably many's favorite scene will be the fate of a door-to-door Christian spreading the word , who happens to enter the wrong home when intruding on Johnson . I think one difference between this and the ' 88 film is Wynorski's low-brow sleaziness , which has it's own charm which fans come to expect ( . . and , perhaps even admire ) .
The Black Sleep	Basil Rathbone stars as a determined , and cold-blooded , brain surgeon , Dr . Cadman trying to figure out how to revive his beloved comatose wife . With help from his malicious thieving gypsy body snatcher Odo ( Akim Tamiroff ) , Cadman frames renowned surgeon Dr . Gordon ( Herbert Rudley ) for the murder of a money lender . Dr . Gordon , sentenced to hang on circumstantial evidence , is visited by Cadman , not knowing he was responsible for being sent to the gallows to begin with , takes an Eastern Indian drug nicknamed " The Black Sleep " , awakening to find he was pronounced dead . In Cadman's care , after convincing the court to allow the poor chap a proper burial instead of being dissected by the scientific community , Gordon is to assist him in his brain research . Gordon unravels the fact that Cadman works on live specimens , operating on their brains in the attempt to find a cure for mental and physical maladies which cause paralysis , comas , and tumors . Gordon , given a " new name " by his new associate , doesn't agree with Cadman's methods , challenging him , endangering himself . The drug itself , of the title , renders a subject lifeless , but an anecdote must be administered in 12 hours or they die . In his vast castle are examples of how his research has went wrong . Great veteran horror stars who are Cadman's " casualties " , include : Lon Chaney , Jr . has the role of a brute ( . . once a gentle and loving scholar and professor ) , with a rage problem when his daughter , Laurie ( Patricia Blair , who plays one of Cadman's assistants ) looks or talks in his direction . Bela Lugosi is the sad mute , Casimir , condemned to servitude , doing simple tasks for Cadman such as janitorial labor and answering the door ( . . well looking through a hole and speaking in sign to Cadman whose there waiting to be let in ) . John Carradine is one of several prisoners who Cadman sent into a dungeon after an unsuccessful surgery turned him into a lunatic . . he looks like a sheepherder ranting and raving prophetic gobbledy-gook repeatedly . Tor Johnson , with creepy albino eyes , is the money lender whose supposed death sent Gordon to the gallows . The movie carries a resemblance to Universal films from the thirties . . a mad scientist movie inside a castle with a secret passageway in the fireplace containing a stairwell leading to both Cadman's surgery room and the dungeon holding those poor souls who were turned into crazies when their brains were damaged through errors and miscalculations . A wrongfully accused hero who will work in secret with a young love interest whose father , once a genius , was now a monstrosity who only obeys Cadman's head nurse , Daphne ( Phyllis Blair , who presents a character as cold-blooded as her employer , dutifully carrying out his every wish despite the results that often occur ) to find out more about where Cadman's " experiments " are sent to . A greedy body snatcher ( . . we get a chance to see his fiendish work for Cadman , selecting specimens for his " employer " , when Odo sets up a poor woman on the street , with knowledge regarding the money lender and Gordon ) who brings Cadman victims for the operating table . A devoted husband whose obsessions with bringing his wife " back from sleep " , motivate the committing of unspeakable deeds to people . Scotland Yard detectives fishing for clues , following their scent which leads to Odo , and , obviously , to Cadman . I think that Lugosi and Chaney's problems at the time this movie was made , believe it or not , assist their characters ' plight . The weighted baggage of their alcoholic and drug related issues bring out a traumatic pathos that the characters in the movie cry out for . Carradine has to be seen to be believed . . his character , along with Tor ( who even scuffles with Chaney Jr at the end of the movie ) , is certain to arouse either pity or laughter . The film builds to a rapid climax where it seems the filmmakers run out of movie and rushed to get the story over with . I thought Rathbone was in fine form as the villain , willing to do anything to succeed in his methods , no matter the cost to others .
Yor , the Hunter from the Future	What if Conan invaded Star Wars ? The adventures of physical specimen Yor , a warrior with blond hair ( Reb Brown , with a ridiculous wig ) who desires to know where he came from , battling prehistoric creatures , nasty Neanderthals , and the Overlord ( John Steiner ) , a cloaked menace with a Robot army ( . . they strikingly favor Darth Vador ) who lives within the futuristic fortress hidden on an island . Along the journey , Ka-Laa ( Corinne Clery , who is smokin ' in her prehistoric garb ) , Yor's love-interest , and Pag ( Luciano Pigozzi ) whose village and people were killed by the savage Neanderthal tribe , join the hero on his quest to discover his identity . . and the meaning behind his odd medallion necklace . Yor soon discovers one of his own kind , the lovely Roa ( Ayshe Gul ) who is worshipped by crazed nuclear rejects with bad burns throughout their bodies . Soon , Yor will have to evade them , with Roa in tow , before having to fight more Neanderthals . Soon , Yor and company ( . . minus Roa who becomes a casualty of the Neathderthal attack ) will find a peaceful prehistoric tribe he saves from a dinosaur , before they are bombarded by laser fire . A running theme . . wherever Yor goes , death and troubles follow . Pag finds an abandoned radio with voices communicating across it , perhaps proving that someone is behind the laser attacks . Soon he , along with Ka-Laa and Pag , will take a boat , specially made by the nearly distinct tribe just attacked by laser fire ( . . coming from the " radio people " ) and head for the island where the diabolical Overlord awaits . What Overlord desires is to create a hybrid man-robot ( . . or " robo-man " ? ) race , perfect for conquering the world using Yor and Ka-Laa to " spread the seed " . But , Overlord wasn't preparing for a revolting mutiny of his own technical staff , tired of his tyranny ready for a new peaceful world to inhabit . Yes , as most will go out of their way to tell you , this film is just plain wacky , but so energetically presented , fast paced , with non-stop action . Margheretti's camera is in full zoom or constantly following the action , but never too annoying . The hokey nature of the film , blasted by most ( . . deservedly I guess ) , kind of stuck to me . This is the very definition of guilty pleasure . It plays , to me , like a comic book series with Yor going from one scenario into another , always fending off some fiendish group of people . Reb Brown is rather charisma-less , but the film constantly moves , moves , moves , I had a hard time really focusing on his presence on screen . The film isn't " Conan The Barbarian " or " Star Wars " , but the audacity to mix the two completely different themes makes for a rather jaw-dropping experience . Seeing Pag , for instance , shooting a laser at a robot after firing his bow and arrow at a Neanderthal , not too long ago , is almost surreal . The film explains that a nuclear fall-out caused a return to prehistoric times , with " survivors " infected spread throughout , and those few uninfected on the island . Overlord kept his people in the belief that outside . . on the mainland away from the island . . everything is radioactive and poisonous . Yor and his band prove otherwise . It's absolutely an insane premise , but I couldn't resist it . . it was like chocolate , or something . Just don't trust my feelings about it because seeing a space ship setting off for a prehistoric mainland is plain ga-ga . I'm even questioning my own taste this moment wondering why I enjoyed this crazy movie so much .
Friday the 13th Part 3	Steve Minor turns the notch up in graphic violence and cheese stuck with the gimmicky 3D to foil any chance of a true terror in this third film ( his second ) in the Friday series regarding a fresh crop of teens ( led by Dana's Kimmel's Chris who somehow survived a presumed attack by an unmasked Jason Voorhies at one point two years previous stating she blacked out ) who get butchered in numerous ways by Jason Voorhies , who goes without a mask at the start eventually placing the hockey mask ( taken from the porcine prankster Shelly , played by Larry Zerner ) on for good . The 3D gimmick really does the film no good as watching a yo-yo come towards the screen or juggling fruit aren't that awe-inspiring . Especially goofy is when an eye-ball pops towards the screen from a victim's face as Jason crushes his skull ( it's quite obvious that a string is pulling out a fake eyeball from a facial mask ) . Probably the best gag is the harpoon sequence that darts a spear into a victim's eye ( Jason has quite the dead aim ) . There's a motorcycle gang who are about to get even when Shelly nearly runs over one of them with a car . . they make perfect fodder for Jason to destroy . You have a pitchfork protruding a man's chest , a fellow who likes to walk on his hands who is stabbed by a machete then later seen above his soon-to-be dead girlfriend sawed in two , a girl who receives a blade through her throat , one man gets his arm chopped off , another gets his throat slashed , a woman who is stabbed through the stomach by a flaming poker , etc . Paramount studios surprisingly let Minor get away with some violence on-screen this time . The ending of course has poor Chris running for her life . . this is by far the best part of the film as it mostly abandons the 3D gimmick ascending into an act of survival . Chris will be driven mad as the ending toys with her and the viewer in fine fashion even incorporating a jump scare that worked so well in the original . Interesting element is that Jason's grotesque face is shown as an adult in all it's glory leaving an impact .
You Better Watch Out	Flat-out bizarre flick plays more as a parody on Santa Claus than a legitimate slasher . Harry ( Brandon Maggart ) is quite a disturbed man who fancies himself a modern day Santa Claus . A recurring memory of his mother having a sexual liaison with Santa ( his father in Kris Krengal dress ) haunts him and seems to be the chief motivator in his madness . He's so engulfed in the spirit of the yuletide season he sleeps in his Santa garb , creates his own toy soldiers , spies on neighborhood kids to see if they are naughty or nice ( he has two separate books where he catalogues the good and bad children by how they behave on a day to day basis ) , and paints the side of his van with an image of a sleigh . He will go out on Christmas Eve as Santa delivering stolen toys from his employ to a retarded home for children . But , there's also a rage that bears itself violently to those who mock and criticize his well-meaning example of St Nick . Three adults at the steps of a church poke fun to the point where Harry attacks them with an ax while also gouging one man's eye out with the sword of a toy soldier . He is greeted by a bar full of people who wish him to entertain their children and Harry pays a visit to a co-worker who tricked him into working his spot on the late-shift while he was out drinking with buddies ( the star of David on top of the Christmas tree will be his reward . . across his throat ! ) . There's even a homage to FRANKENSTEIN where a group , who know he killed those adults on the church steps , chases after him wanting revenge on this killer Santa . But , through all the silliness on display , there's a sad undercurrent of loss between Harry and his brother Philip ( Jeffrey DeMun ) who thinks his older brother is a pathetic excuse of a man who needs serious help . The ending is completely ridiculous with Harry's van flying away into the night as if it were a reindeer-led sleigh-ride . I think the film benefits from Maggart's amazing portrayal of the troubled Harry who is never in full control that it's so obvious he's needed help for some time . The signs are there yet most just looked down on him instead of trying to understand him . Despite five deaths , the film really isn't much of a slasher film , no matter how it appears marketed to be just that .
Nightmare Man	Ellen ( Blythe Metz ) is having some major problems . She cries out to her husband , William ( Luciano Szafir ) that a " Nightmare Man " , this type of evil ( . . or perhaps even a demonic force ) within her that won't cease since receiving a hideous tribal mask ( . . she was supposed to get a " god of fertility " mask , but was sent the wrong one ) in the mail . Their marriage is troubled due to her " intimacy issues " ( . . among others things : secrets that will come out at the end ) and William is having her committed to a hospital to correct her supposed paranoid schizophrenia . On the way to that hospital , their car runs out of gas , William tells Ellen to stay in the car as he goes after some more , and she is " confronted " by the Nightmare man . Running for her life in the woods , as he attacks her periodically , Ellen finds a cabin housing a group of people . The owner of the cabin , Mia ( sexpot Tiffany Shepis ) is having a " marriage celebration " for her friend Trinity ( Hanna Putnam ) and soon-to-be husband Jack ( James Ferris ) . Also present is Mia's young boyfriend Ed ( Jack Sway , who looks all but 18 ) . The film alternates between a revealing game of " Erotic Truth or Dare " with the cabin gang and poor Ellen fending off the Nightmare man as he playfully exposes his knife to her . Ellen will lose her medication ( pills which were supposed to keep the Nightmare man at bay ) and fight her way to the cabin , in tattered clothes and torn psyche . The middle portion of the film has Mia , Trinity , Jack & Ed trying to cope with a mentally tortured Ellen , talking out of her mind about an evil trying to " get in " and " take over " her body . Ellen claims that without her pills , the evil will take control over her body . The final portion of the film REALLY gets wacky as we find out who the REAL Nightmare man is , veering into " Night of the Demons " territory . The film is a bit this and a bit that : psychological thriller ( Is Ellen crazy ? Is there truth to what she is saying ? ) , slasher flick ( the Nightmare man outside the cabin picking off members inside one by one when he gets a chance ) , and demonic horror comedy ( . . when the evil takes control and runs rampant ) . I think if you get a group of kids or adults together with some beer and chips , " Nightmare Man " might be an entertaining ride . I didn't find an original bone in it's body , but I couldn't claim , with a straight face anyway , that I wasn't enjoying myself a bit . The first part of the film singularly focuses on Ellen , in a car terrified at out her wits , as she hears noises and the viewer sees a masked man running outside . . we are part of this nightmare , whether it be real or imagined . It loses control at the end , with rifle-toting Shepis , in a bonafide star vehicle ( . . tossing quips like this Millennium's Linnea Quigley ) , not knowing what she is facing not only outside her cabin but inside with Ellen all schizoid and babbling about evil . I enjoyed the revelation of Mia and Trinity's lesbian tryst in college ( . . how it is delicately mentioned between the two and finally revealed to Jack ) . . if only we were treated to a little of that action ( . . sigh , which would not be the case ) . The gore is of the low-budget variety and the acting is hit-or-miss . Shepis , shows the goods , of course , never failing to disappoint . . . how this movie finds ways to exploit Shepis ' willingness to do such things include the taunting of a striptease , how her top is supernaturally removed , and when her boyfriend gets an arrow shot through his mouth as it was open while she removes her panties exposing her bum to him . Richard Moll ( Bull of Night Court fame ) shows up in a cameo as the area sheriff . I thought the mask and demonic make-up was cool .
Killbots	Teens decide to have a little party in a mattress store of their local mall ( several work in there so access is in their control ) . What they soon find out is that this mall has installed three security robots which go berserk once lightning accidentally hits them causing malfunctions in their system turning them homicidal . One by one , they are subsequently slaughtered by the " killbots " as the machines use devices equipped in their arsenal to only maim . . but placed inside uncontrollable robots the devices are quite potent and deadly . They try weaponry from a local gun store but they doesn't even dent them . Will they be able to conjure up some sort of idea at destroying them ? Will any of them survive the onslaught of the killbots ? This film can not escape the Wynorski touch . . his hands always leave us with extra helpings of cheese . There's this delight I have , however , in the tepid dreadfulness of this 80's horror item . The atrocious acting , the really hilarious dialogue , the hideously cheap laser beams which shoot out at the victims , the stupid decisions several of the characters make ( . . such as screaming in an open space where they are perfect targets instead of getting behind something or one female's decision to go back into the store to " help her boyfriend " instead of taking the air conditioner duct to safety ) , and the explosions that ignite from gas canisters that should only cause minor fires . Wynorski just can't help flashing some tits in his movie and does so before several of the teens have sexual encounters . It's those damn laser beams that gave me the jollies . It's amazing how some of these laser beams can blow a young woman's face off while only leaving another with a minor scrape on her arm ! I wouldn't blame anyone for giving this film a , but I would lie if I said I didn't personally enjoy it . If you love 80's cheesy horror with all the fatty trimmings , this is a godsend . Others , stay farrrrrrrr away .
Nightmare Detective .	A socially inert , icy detective , Keiko Kirishima ( Hitomi ) working on her first assignment , recently , by request , sent to the streets after working at a desk , finds the task of finding the mystery behind a rash of mysterious suicides quite demanding . It seems that those who commit suicide , in such a gruesome manner with whatever sharp object is available to them , are in a state of nightmarish sleep influenced by another to enact destruction upon themselves . Seeing that these aren't ordinary investigations , Keiko and partner Wakamiya ( Masanobu Ando ) are to find a psychic of some sort who can aid them in uncovering the predator who preys on victims with a suicidal desire to end their sad , seemingly unimportant lives in a crappy world . It seems that the dead victims , under suspicious means , communicated with someone merely identifying himself as O ( . . director Shinya Tsukamoto , in another one of his many strange supporting roles ) . O , it seems , somehow hypnotically controls those on the opposite end of the phone and Keiko decides that she'll need the help of an infamous " nightmare detective " ( Ryuhei Matsuda ) who can enter dreams to assist those under duress by whatever is plaguing the restless sleep of victims . Keiko will voluntarily call O in a desperate attempt to stop his murderous reign , facing the horrifying consequences as he exposes her own mental / emotional problems . Despite a reluctant resistance & fear , the nightmare detective will assist Keiko in trying to find and stop O . Part police procedural , part psychological thriller , with a little Nightmare on Elm Street mixed in , leave it to director Tsukamoto to make it all come together . Like the best psychological thrillers , we get an understanding as to why the killer is committing such evil deeds , and the frailties of those whose job it is to catch them . Through the killer , the emotionally fragile detective ( . . and our nightmare detective ) faces the inner demons that haunt her . In other words , through the ordeal of this killer invading her vulnerable dream state , she must find strength with the help of her telepathic avenger , the only one who can truly stop the madman , to face the knife-wielding hunk of monstrous flesh which briskly moves at it's victims . We also see through the eyes of our nightmare detective . . the inner thoughts of others which yield ugly revelations , the dream of a catatonic he's supposed to save , how he " travels " into the dreams of others , and how he indeed can alter the path of the killer ( . . first stopping it momentarily from attacking Wakamiya who calls O with tragic results , and how he assists Keiko whose seemingly trapped in an enclosed room with little wiggle-room to move ) with possible harm / death to himself . We also see what happens to several victims who communicate with O and the nightmarish plane for which he operates and the grisly , bloody results . And , indeed we get a showdown between the nightmare detective and the killer as we learn what may've formed them into the men they've become . My only real complaint was the camera work which is the newly adopted steady-cam style where everything's always moving frantically . AS with most of Tsukamoto's work , this could be a bit difficult and challenging for many viewers . I think the most present theme in the film is the will to live when life seems the most empty , and the terrain explored of why we are the way we are and the certain situations from the past that have shaped us into the human beings we have become . The three main leads , the emotionally vacant Keiko , the numb & sad nightmare detective tired of a gift which has been more of a burden , and the killer whose hunger for human flesh ( . . the monster that represents him in the nightmares that entreat upon victims , " assisting " them in an act they supposedly desired to commit ) derives from a desire to at first die by his own hand due to a horrifying traumatic experience as a child ( . . seeing this in a flashback when the nightmare detective " opens " his mind , which also answers the mysterious girl's voice asking for help ) leads to the deaths of many who were to kill themselves with him in a suicide pact across the phone . SPOILER : This could very well be the first time I've seen a killer actually murder others with a cell phone in a catatonic state
Altered	Cody , Duke & Otis ( Paul McCarthy-Boyington , Brad William Henke & Michael Williams ) " capture " an alien they supposedly injured to the home of Wyatt ( Adam Kaufman ) . At first , we really don't know what's going on , but find as the characters converge that these young men were all victims of " alien testing " and Wyatt seems to be the token human who was able to outlast the experiments done to him . A dead friend's memory haunts the group as Cody was recently released from the pin for the wrongfully accused death of his brother Timmy . They take pride in capturing the alien , but have no idea that this was all a plan by the aliens to find the whereabouts of Wyatt for whom had been planted with a tracking device he had removed so that he could hide from them . So , the group will have to keep the alien silenced without killing it or risk the race of ET's exterminating the earth . Other problems that emerge . . Wyatt's girlfriend , Foki ( Misty Rosas ) who wants to get away and call the police and a sheriff who answers the call of 911 , Henderson ( James Gammon ) . We learn that if an alien bites you , a type of flesh-eating disease takes hold of the body and that Wyatt seems to have an immunity to it . One of the best " aliens attack " horror / sci-fi hybrids I've seen in ages . It's mostly confined to Wyatt's home as they fight to keep the alien trapped and quiet ( it has it's own tracking device implanted for which Wyatt will remove ) . Cody is unhinged because of being blamed for his brother's murder and holds Wyatt specifically responsible . The film amazingly remains intense because of the alien threat and surprisingly the creature is quite well created by the filmmakers . And , even more stunning is how director Eduardo Sánchez ( of BLAIR WITCH PROJECT fame ) uses dialogue to suggest what happened to these guys instead of showing flashbacks . . this saves a good amount of money , yet elaborates for us what these aliens did . The film has some gory make-up work as it pertains to the nasty flesh-eating disease that attacks one of the group who is bit by the captive alien .
The Attic Expeditions	Trevor Blackburn ( Andras Jones ) is an amnesiac told by his psychiatric doctor , brain specialist Dr . Ek ( Jeffrey Combs as eccentric as ever ) that he was an unhinged , hard-to-handle criminal who was behind the murder of his lover Faith ( Beth Bates ) . Ek sends him to the House of Love , supposedly a mental recuperation center for others with insanity issues . Ek wishes for Trevor to regain his buried memories and place his confounding images into their proper context . What Trevor doesn't know is that Ek has cameras throughout the house , set up to study him . He has also planted actors in the house to pose as mental patients so to increase Trevor's mental collapse . What's sad is that Trevor is really nothing more than a lab animal for Ek's experimentation . . tampering with his mind until he snaps . What Ek is really after is a book of magick for which Trevor only knows it's whereabouts . We also get a peek inside the madness within Trevor's mind where we see weird , often homicidal , images . We get visions of a reoccuring dream Travis has of an attic with a trunk . That trunk symbolically represents his mind . . inside it is what has been locked away from him . The mystery of that book is really at the heart of this crazy little movie . Call it what you want . Wacky . Quirky . Colorful . Dizzying . Director Jeremy Kasten keeps the viewer on edge so we can experience the same hysteria like Trevor . The film even offers up the idea that Faith's being has came to life within Trevor's mind to get that book using someone in the House of Love as a host to kill him . Supposedly in that magick book is a key to immortality , but Trevor and Faith had to die together . But , you're never quite sure what is going on which is either part of the fun or agony depending on how much the viewer likes being pulled on the tail . Lots of B-actors here like Combs as the doctor , Ted Raimi as a writer who bares witness to Combs ' madness and becomes threatened by him , Seth Green as " loony " Douglas who becomes a possible ally to Trevor . The film is really a visual marvel on such a low budget and a credit to imaginative filmmakers who really want to mind-screw you .
The Scarecrow reviews " Oblivion "	I'm pretty sure everyone has pondered just who The Tall Man is and what his ultimate goal really is . The first question gets an answer in Jebediah Morningside . . an inventor on the brink of a major discovery , a portal that can reach endless time and space . The answer to the second is a bit more difficult and easy . The easy part seems to be that The Tall Man's goal is to turn Mike into a sort of Tall Man creation . Why this is doesn't quite get a satisfactory answer . We have our own thoughts to question The Tall Man's motivations for allowing Reggie to survive . He tells him that the final game is about to begin so is The Tall Man's main motivation to simply manipulate and control Reggie and Michael ? Why The Tall Man allows any of this film's story to take place really is a deep mystery . I never could really understand why The Tall Man would need a cohort to join him in his " dwarfing business " , but perhaps he's lonely or something . . fact is we just don't get an answer because it seems like Coscarelli just wants to keep us head scratching . But , being an entertained fan of his previous three , this fourth entry seems to add a new puzzle to every answer . The one thing that seems to be a theme to the overall film is the past mistakes Mike made when facing The Tall Man . In his adult stage he seems to always try to escape The Tall Man , but lack success . We see in a past flashback Mike cut The Tall Man loose as he hung from a noose . This is an interesting piece to perhaps why The Tall Man took a liking to Mike . . he seems to desire a partner in his schemes and maybe in Mike's cutting him down this was the answer to his idea . Reggie is pretty much a non-factor in this installment which is a bit disappointing because he was the major character in the other two . He actually carried the series on his shoulders because most of the entertainment came from his quips and charisma . He does shoot up some dwarfs and has a brief scenario with a supposed drifter ( Heidi Marnhount ) . This little sub-plot provides a wild sequence where those metal balls come from an unusual location . But , Reggie still doesn't get laid and on his journey to help Mike he does encounter Jody . Jody's role in the film seems to be rather confusing . Which side does he work for ? It seems he tries to help Mike and Reggie , yet he does pose a threat towards the end . Perhaps he is torn . . Jody tries to help Mike stop The Tall Man , but is under control by the evil fiend . The story regarding how everything began with Jebediah is very fascinating , but a bit underdeveloped . Overall , the film has a " fly-by-the-seat-of-your-pants " kind of feel . This provides unpredictability , but also confusion . Still , the film keeps you guessing and has enough ghoulish gags ( like the zombie policeman who Reggie has a hard time killing ) to keep a horror fan interested .
She Killed in Ecstasy	A wife in mourning ( Soledad Miranda , in her final screen performance ) molds into a lady executioner out for vengeance towards those she holds responsible for not only destroying her husbands dreams , but being the reason for his suicide . Dr . Johnson ( Fred Williams ) is holding out hope that the medical council will grant him permission to further continue in his research and experiments in the altering of the human organism with the aid of hormones ( culled from animal and infant embryos ) . Deemed a charlatan by the four main voices on the council , Professor Walker ( Howard Vernon ) , Dr . Huston ( Paul Muller ) , Dr . Crawford ( Ewa Strömberg ) and Dr . Donen ( Jesus Franco ) he is scorned for an infringement on the Hippocratic oath . He will be discontinued from the practice of medicine and rejected by the medical community as a criminal for using human embryos from fetuses . He claims that his research is for saving lives and that their claims of his being such a monster are false . But , their voices are stronger than his and Dr . Johnson's career is finished which , within time , slowly drives him mad . The ringing of the medical council's hurling insults at his character rattle in his mind without ceasing . . to the point that even his wife ( Miranda ) , nakedly pursuing a sexual embrace , can not seduce him from his mental plight . With the rejection of his peers , Dr . Johnson sees no other alternative but suicide . Mr . Johnson's demise will drive his wife to seek retribution against those who took away her beloved . The film's rub is the exposing of those four founding members of the medical hierarchy where we see the cloak of their morality stripped away through the acts of seduction from Mrs . Johnson who is able to break down their barriers into hedonism . Mrs . Johnson's feminine wiles are too irresistible for the first three , with only Donen getting his comeuppance through other means . When Mrs . Johnson embraces a target , we see visions of her warm loving moments with her husband . . these memories add extra incentive towards finishing the kill . Tailor-made role for Soledad Miranda where she is center-stage as both seductress and assassin . The film isn't that violent . . most of the murderous acts are shot in a way to avoid explicit gore . But , Miranda shows the skin . . that's a guarantee I can give you loudly . Lingerie and naked , Miranda's lady-of-vengeance will do whatever it takes to bring her victims into a compromising position so that they can meet their maker . I thought she was good . Damn good . Great scene towards the end showing Miranda crouched in the corner of a couch going insane as she thinks about the memories of her husband before his being " put on trial . " And , no one is as sexy smoking a cigarette as she was .
Taste the Blood of Dracula	Okay Dracula effort from Hammer studios has Dracula ( Christopher Lee ) seeking revenge on the three wealthy aristocrats who murdered his Satanic servant . He uses their children as a means to destroy them . It's up to the son of Mr . Paxton , Paul ( Anthony Higgins ) , to stop him . Dracula cunningly is using young virginal Alice ( Linda Hayden , who is wonderfully endowed ) , Paul's squeeze , as his main manipulative tool to wreak vengeance . As he kills each man , he whispers their number until all three are silenced . This film really suffers because of Lee's lack of screen time . It's got a decent cast who puts forth an effort , but there seems to be missing something from this film . It takes a bit too long to get going , but Lee's Dracula is worth the wait even if we get just fifteen or so minutes of his sinister vampire . The film's certainly not hurting in the style department or period setting , the film still has wonderful atmosphere , but perhaps having us wait so long for the star of the film takes much away from this film .
Night of the Demons 2	Angela's ( Amelia Kinkade ) demonic spirit still lives within the dilapidated walls of Hull House waiting for someone to release her . Thanks to Shirl ( Zoe Trilling , quite the naughty , sexy raven-headed bad girl ) and her thuggish pranksters trick her Catholic school friends into going to a party at Hull House . Bibi ( the strawberry-blond bombshell Cristi Harris ) makes the mistake of lifting a tube of lipstick which she'll take on her person across the underground stream which forbids the demonic spirit to flee her " spiritual circle " . The lipstick opened by Shirl unleashes a snake-like crawler which enters her vagina while also releasing a " spiritual smoke " with Angela now free to roam . Perry ( Robert Jayne ) , a Catholic student whose passionate belief that demonic spirits still exist despite his feelings falling on deaf ears ( . . and annoying newly established priest , Father Bob ( Rod McCary ) ) , will find , through a type of ceremonial ritual , that Angela is alive and well . Melissa ( Merle Kennedy ) , a shy , sweet-hearted wallflower , an object of scorn by those who share sleeping quarters with her , is Angela's sister , an orphan terrified by dreams of her sister in demonic form . Angela desires to use her as a sacrifice for Satan within the hellish confines of Hull House . Those who entered Hull House on Halloween will face certain peril as Angela sets her sights on gaining the souls of each individual and it'll be up to yard-stick-toting nun , Sister Gloria ( Jennifer Rhodes ) and Perry , carrying holy-water-powered toy shooters and bombs , with the reluctant approval of a non-believing cynical Father Bob , to stop her before the unholy sacrifice is offered to Satan . The plot , as crazy as it is , services only as a means for incredible special effects . Director Brian Trenchard-Smith ( Dead-End Drive-in ) lets it all hang out with heads decapitated , holy water working as acid ( often melting those possessed into a goo-puddle of bubbling flesh and blood ) , the infamous lip stick tube releasing a computerized viper head , Angela's emerging as a demonic snake ( . . a fantastic creation whose fate regarding a cross baked to her chest as the sun rays shine through an image kicked away by Johnny from a boarded window , seems inspired by Hammer studios ' Dracula films ) , faces melting and steaming , boobs reaching to grab a victim's hand whose grasp burns , and ugly demonic make-up with those possessed attaining sickening , sharp teeth . Bare breasts are paraded for horror fans craving such images , and the cast Trenchard-Smith has available are beautiful / handsome . The Catholic church is skewered as Sister Gloria is lampooned thanks to her yard-stick which is always with her , almost an appendage , that third arm she needs as a moral crusader to keep the kids under her watch from sinning and partaking in lascivious acts . Her " preparation scene " resembles Rambo getting his gear and weapons together as he awaits battle with the enemy . There are even lip-locks between women , a very nice one between a possessed Sheril and Terri . . Terri , horrified at just seeing her potential boyfriend being beheaded , at first resists , only to slowly succumb to desire . And , Sheril , after the snake " enters " her , shares a kiss with Angela , who lifts her up in embrace . There are obvious homages to the first film like the lipstick's appearance , and another " dance of death " as Angela provocatively performs for the Catholic kids who were dancing away to rock music shortly after their stern disciplinarian , Sister Gloria stepped away for a moment . We even have a beheaded victim using his head as a basketball , dribbling and shooting hoops ! While attaining the same cheesy , gory , zany , sleazy spirit of the original , Trenchard-Smith has a far better cast of young adults , who aren't so annoying , with far superior special effects . And , the film isn't completely confined to Hull House , which separates it from being just a clone of the original . If you can accept this insane film's tone and aren't offended by the joyous swipes at Catholicism , then there might be some fun to be had here .
Blood Song	A lunatic , who watched his father shoot down his mother and her adulterous lover before putting a bullet in his mouth , escapes from a mental asylum after a sneak attack on his doctor who was attempting to retrieve a wooden flute , terrorizing an innocent teenager with a wounded leg who catches him attempting to bury a dead body . As Paul ( Frankie Avalon , in a startlingly effective performance ) was digging a burial spot for a woman he had recently strangled , troubled teenager , Marion ( Donna Wilkes ) stumbles upon him in the act . This confrontation was seemingly fated to happen because , strange enough , Marion had been having unpleasant visions / nightmares of Paul and his acts towards people along the way . . blood transfusions or not , the idea of being linked to someone mainly due to that is kind of feeble at best . Paul had buried a hatchet into the face of a driver who gave him a ride in his van ( . . this driver was absolutely tired of Paul's never-ceasing flute playing ) , picked up a sweet little loose honey who even slept with him ( . . only to criticize his loud flute music which bludgeons the ears of even the most patient of folks , with a necklace he had bought her used to suffocate her ) and plans the worst for Marion , stalking her everywhere she goes . Marion , before Paul entered her life , had been telling others about her frightening visions , including boyfriend / fisherman Joey ( William Kirby Cullen ) and school gal pal Cathy ( Noelle North ) , and the claims of seeing a psycho planning on burying a victim in a park near a beach without evidence causes them to worry about her mental health . Meanwhile , Paul awaits the moment where he will strike , and somehow Marion must convince somebody to believe her . The film is about as much a melodrama as a psycho-thriller with a sub-plot devoted to the ever-increasing estrangement between Marion and her antagonistic , bullish , drunk of a father , Frank ( Richard Jaeckel ) . Frank's drunkenness was behind the crash which caused Marion's damaged leg . He also is very negatively vocal against her relationship with Joey . Bea ( Antoinette Bower ) , Marion's mother , tries to consistently calm Frank and this tense drama makes up a chunk of the overall film . It all culminates towards the end as Paul attacks Frank with a hatchet in the film's most graphically violent scene which will lead to the maniac chasing after Marion into a darkened sawmill . There's an interesting psychological twist which provides a grim conclusion concerning Marion's state of well being . I think Frankie Avalon's clean-cut , matinée image provides a startling contrast to what hides bubbling under the surface . . I think he actually embraces the dark side of this part and with this new freedom , plays the killer to the hilt . I like how he's actually a wimpy child , his mania as a result of temper tantrums when people " hurt him . " Thanks to the cinematography which presents Paul in a murky manner , Avalon is often shrouded in darkness , his unsettling grin present until provoked towards violence when you insult him . See , Avalon has this kind and soft look about him , he seems very approachable and charming , and then you flick that switch ( . . even on accident ) with the monster released . . that's what I liked best about this little-known slasher . Many slasher faithful will find the home drama perhaps trifling and dull , but I liked the fact that the filmmakers attempted to flesh the characters out . I didn't think the " visions " angle worked , at all really , but the finale ( . . the chase through the sawmill ) was suspenseful and exciting . I have to say , I liked this better than I thought I would . I think it does have a lot to do , though , with the blue collar environment and that the lead actress is normal looking ( . . the 80's , unlike the films of the last 15 or so years , actually featured female leads which looked like someone you might have actually went to school with ) with her own mundane problems to deal with .
Satan's Little Helper	Lieberman's newest film is a doozy . . a macabre black comedy about a disturbed kid named Dougie ( Alexander Brickel ) who loves this game his dad bought him called " Satan's Little Helper . " He's so overwhelmed by the game that he finds a psychopath donning a Satan costume and asks to assist him in his duties ( Dougie spots this crazy man propping up a kill as if the corpse was Halloween ornamentation ) . What Dougie doesn't know is that this guy really is killing people at random and that this isn't a game . Dougie is jealous of his sister Jenna's ( Katheryn Winnick , who is a major hottie ) new boyfriend Alex ( Stephen Graham ) so he asks his master to kill him . What Dougie also doesn't know is that he has invited danger to his family as he brings the killer home making introductions to his sister and mom , Merrill ( Amanda Plummer . . I wondered how Lieberman could get a quality actress for such a type of silly genre film ) . The killer underneath the Satan costume outsmarts every character in this film and as he journeys through town no one is safe . From an old lady using a walking stick to a pregnant woman , if you are in the killer's trajectory . . look out ( even a blind man and baby in a carriage being pushed by it's mother aren't safe ) ! Operating tongue firmly in cheek , director Lieberman squeezes every drop of comedy from this twisted premise . Despite some disturbing elements as the killer attacks without remorse , Lieberman keeps the film pretty cheesy so that we , the viewer , won't take it too seriously . It looks cheap , but there's a surprising amount of suspense towards the end as Jenna must try and save those she loves as this psycho sets his sights aimed directly towards them .
The Bat	" No matter how clever you are , you can not hide murder . " A bank's president steals from the vault of his own company , hides it in a secret passage way safe within the room of his own house , rented for the summer by a popular crime novelist . Cornelia van Gorder ( Agnes Moorehead ) and her unflappable maid , Lizzie ( Lenita Lane ) occupy the residence of bank president John Fleming ( Harvey Stephens ) , during the summer season to write another novel , understanding that a series of savage murders by a killer known as The Bat have occurred inside this mansion . The Bat's disguise is a black mask over his head to make his face invisible , under a black hat , wearing a glove with claws that rip apart throats . . the killer lands a crushing blow to the throat of victims before using his claws . John Fleming is on a hunting trip with his friend , town coroner Dr . Malcolm Wells ( Vincent Price ) , and admits to stealing the money , offering a partnership . . the plan is to kill their hunting guide , use his body as a cover for John , and together withdraw the money from his safe . What John doesn't count on is Wells double crossing him , resulting in the corrupt banker's murder . . it's set up that Wells knows where the loot is and his criminal behavior might indicate that he in fact is The Bat serial killer . We even see that Wells experiments with bats in his laboratory . After her hired help leave out of fear that The Bat could return , Cornelia will have to rely on Lizzie and her chauffeur , Warner ( John Sutton ) as the only support while living in the mansion . Soon Cornelia and Lizzie are confronted by The Bat who attempts to find the hidden loot , and they seek the help of local police , led by Lt . Andy Anderson ( Gavin Gordon ) . Soon John's son , Mark ( John Bryant ) is murdered by The Bat after he uncovers his father's hidden blueprints which are a map to where the loot is located . Will The Bat be caught ? Who is the murderer ? Is it Wells , who we witness murder John in cold blood ? Is it the butler , Warner ( . . promoted from his chauffeur position ) who always seems to be away when The Bat is snooping around ? Could it be somebody else who might have a motive , knows about the loot , and could find opportunities to perpetrate the grounds of the mansion ? Entertaining , compact little " old dark house " chiller , aided by the star power of Agnes Moorehead and Vincent Price . I applaud the whopper of a red herring , even though I'm pretty sure others will call the bluff proposed by the filmmakers . Price is effectively sinister and sly , while the film doesn't completely isolate him as the only possible suspect . . his murder of John is a stunner , superbly executed . Moorehead is theatrical enough ( . . and seems to be enjoying herself ) as a deductive amateur sleuth , with Lane suitably silly as her often frightened pal . Elaine Edwards is Dale Bailey , the wife of an imprisoned banker who was indicted for John's wrong-doing , seeking comfort and refuge with Cornelia . . as does Judy Hollander ( Darla Hood ) , someone who is needed as an eyewitness for the trial and can provide testimony rescuing Dale's husband , Victor ( Mike Steele ) . The film's highlights include The Bat's constant attempts to infiltrate the Fleming mansion , his attacks on victims who are in the wrong place at the wrong time , and a particular scuffle in Wells ' lab where the killer's identity will be discovered . I think observant viewers can determine the killer judging by behavior alone , but there are several clues that also indicate who he could be . Nice use of the setting as our heroines attempt to survive , find the possible place where the stash is hidden , and catch the killer . Fans of Price and Moorehead shouldn't be too disappointed .
Two Orphan Vampires	" We are sublime disorder . We're from before their god . They made him say ' Let there be light ' to cut our night in half . But , their order is chaos . Our disorder is mad poetry . Our existence awakens and our night is clarity . The two orphan girls roar alone in the night , like flames . And so , no one can touch them . All others are puppets for our game . " Louise & Henriette ( Alexandra Pic & Isabelle Teboul ) are supposedly blind teenage girls living in a Catholic orphanage . In fact , they are female vampires who must feed from the blood of whatever is available , sneaking out at night to find fresh victims ( . . like an unfortunate dog roaming a nearby cemetery ) . Their convent mothers love them , believing these two are angelic lambs , sweet innocents when in fact they are cunning blood-drinkers who relish the taste as it enters their bodies , providing the nourishment they need to survive . They often ponder their identities and where they came from , likening themselves to Aztec goddesses , since they found them in a book within their Mother Superior's library . Once they are adopted by a kind eye-specialist , Dr . Dennary ( Bernard Charnacé ) , Louise and Henriette find freedom to pursue interests in Paris , finding suitable victims to drain at night when their guardian is asleep . An ailment that plagues the girls is daytime blindness , but at night they can see well enough . Night to them is shaded in blue ( . . which is why Rollin's nighttime scenes are colored blueberry ) and they thoroughly enjoy the sights they see . Most of the film displays Louise and Henriette's adventures , finding victims to drain , pondering their past and fates , worrying about potential threats that might lie ahead , and tiring of their predicament regarding the blindness they face and the lack of freedom due to their male guardian who likes to keep them from venturing too far from home . Not much of a plot which shouldn't be news to the Rollin faithful . This is different in that the female leads aren't lesbian lovers always fondling each other or walking around naked all the time . Their both 17 years old which removes certain aspects Rollin fans are accustomed to . He does shoot in a vast cemetery and we are introduced to a few " creatures of the night " like a She-wolf who recently escaped an asylum resting within a train station , a " midnight lady " cemetery vampire with giant wings , and a vampire who feasts on cadavers who the girls meet along the way . Like in a lot of vampire films , the feeding habits of the teenage vamps eventually catches up to them . Their facade of innocence is shown as quite a tool for the girls to use when they need to feed from potential victims ( . . like guest-starring Brigitte Lahaie ) . The dialogue mostly spoken by the girls seems like verse you'd read from a book of melancholic poetry . Rarely are the girls anything other than theatrical in their speech and point-of-view regarding their existence and life in general . The film offers a possibility that these girls are incarnations of others from past lives , returning to live on earth over and over , but it seems that this could merely be created stories from the girls who often let their imaginations run rampant . I think the rub of Rollin's film is just how much the girls enjoy killing and feeding . They do not look like the sort who'd speak so unemotionally about slitting a throat and draining a victim's blood . A riot of a scene has Louise and Henriette pondering just how to kill Dennary . The nuns are often presented as idiots to scorn , but in this film , they're merely naive as to how the girls really are . They cherish the two blind girls , feeling pity for them . Which makes the private scenes between Louise and Henriette so eye-opening and often funny . But , as always , Rollin brings to the screen images that form in his mind . . how to frame his girls using their surroundings as a way to paint a unique canvas . This is such the case when they enter the Paris cemetery or when they flee from their orphanage entering a wilderness path , Rollin visualizes how he desires to shoot his characters in the way they come to his mind as he writes the screenplay . The opening montage using postcards , photos & paintings set to such a moody score really sets up the nature of the film and it's characters . Understanding that the film is from the literary work of two books from Rollin makes sense considering how the girls go through a series of vignettes , meeting various characters before returning to the only real home they've ever known only to succumb to their bloodlust banishing them to eternal unrest knowing that the authorities would be after them for biting other innocent orphans . I thought the leads were lovely and handled the unusual dialogue rather well . They were of course a bit theatrical in their presentation but the words they spoke entitled them to be .
Premature Burial	An aristocratic painter , Guy Carrell ( Ray Milland ) , has this obsessive fear of being buried alive ( particularly , his seeing a victim of such a case , at the opening of the film , not helping matters ) , and those around his inner circle try to assist him in penetrating that which mentally weakens him . Emily Gault ( Hazel Court ) arrives on coach to coerce Guy into marriage claiming she loved him ever so dearly . But , we can see plainly that she has designs on medical student , the kindly Miles Archer ( Richard Ney ) , who clearly wishes to help Guy conquer his inner demons that plague his life , controlling nearly every move . The film's two best sequences , in my opinion , occur inside a specially made crypt , designed by Guy carrying various methods of escape if he were to suffer an attack of catalepsy the way his father ( supposedly ) did . . Guy insists he overheard his father's cries from the tomb , but sister Kate ( Heather Angel ) says that is false , merely a creation from a tormented mind . We see a nightmarish sequence where all his methods of escape ( Corman's way of enacting this with color tinting the screen , I thought was simply marvelous ) are damaged by rot and decay . Catalepsy is the method of near-death which freezes your body , even causing your heart to temporarily cease , while the brain ( . . and eyes ) still functions . When Miles finally gets Guy to unlock his father's vault , showing him that the result of his death wasn't catalepsy , a sudden shock ( . . in an earlier sequence , someone cloaked by dark off-camera snatches the key to the vault , offering the possibility of underhanded tactics ) sends Guy into a cataleptic state showing us that his fears were indeed realized . Will Guy be buried alive as he so feared ? I think PREMATURE BURIAL is an exercise in Gothic style , expertly executed by a master horror director . What it lacks in surprises ( I felt Hazel Court was the wrong choice to play the wife . . she's too much the vixen to ever pass as an object of sympathy , and if the viewer just pays attention to her mannerisms , the way the plot is directed to it's conclusion leaves little shock value ) Corman makes up for in sheer atmosphere . It also helps that Corman has an actor of the caliber of Milland as your lead , displaying intense strain and absolute horror without uttering a word . I got a special thrill during Guy's rage thanks to Milland's portrayal . I know many feel Price is the one most suitable for this role , but I found no problems with Milland . . right the opposite , actually .
Dead of Night	The late great Dan Curtis brings us three horror / fantasy tales from the pen of Richard Matheson , featuring a strong cast . Made for television , Curtis was one of the most successful producer-directors working in the field of horror during the 70's . A nice double feature this would make with his superior omnibus , Trilogy of Terror ( . . starring the incomparable Karen Black ) . The first tale ( Second Chance ) stars Ed Begley Jr as Frank , a young man with a knack for restoring older cars , with a knowledge and love for them . He restores a ' 26 London Playboy , understanding from it's past that a teenage couple perished as the driver attempted to pass a train . Driving the Playboy down a dirt road , Frank finds himself in the nearby town Crestwell , except in the 1920's ! This is a poignant tale resembling those time-warp Twilight Zone nostalgia episodes where an otherworldly journey back in time can alter the lives of others , a chance given back due to the particular care of someone towards a machine left buried under a tarp . The second tale ( No Such Thing as a Vampire ) features Patrick Macnee as a professor whose wife ( Christina Hart ) seems to be falling prey to a vampire , under his own nose , asking a colleague ( . . played by Horst Buchholz ) to assist him . Elijah Cook Jr . is Macnee's frightened , superstitious butler . This one has a twist regarding adultery and revenge . And , the third , final , and best tale ( Bobby ) stars Joan Hackett as a deeply traumatized mother who desperately longs for her deceased son , who mysteriously drowned ( Lee Montgomery ; BURNT OFFERINGS ) , going as far as using black magic , attempting to conjure him back from the dead . He does return , but it isn't the son she once knew . This one is stylishly executed and suspenseful as Hacket finds herself fighting for survival with Montgomery chasing her throughout their large house ( . . overlooking a cliff leading to rocks and ocean below ) , playing a game of hide-and-seek trying to kill her , as the thunder roars , power out , and the childlike voice proclaiming , " I'm gonna find you , MOMMY ! " Montgomery has this really boyishly innocent face that makes his character's emerging menace even more palpable . The twist , regarding who this kid really is , adds a nice sock to the senses closing the anthology nicely . The first two tales aren't very potent in the terror category as the opening narration would suggest , but the third tale takes up the slack of both of them , and then some . Interesting enough , DEAD OF NIGHT is quite similar to TRILOGY OF TERROR , structurally , in how the tales impact you . . the first is a mild opener , the second has an eye-opening twist , and the third packs a wallop ( . . quite a roller coaster thrill-ride where a heroine attempts to escape an unlikely malevolent presence bent on inflicting harm , brought to life by a magic spell ) . I think this will entertain fans of classic horror anthologies , but isn't quite as successful or memorable as TRILOGY OF TERROR , mainly because the novelty of starring Karen Black ( . . who displayed her incredible range as an actress ) isn't here . The first film better belongs in a TWILIGHT ZONE anthology movie than in a Dan Curtis production . I found it pleasant , written with heart and care ( . . one can see Matheson's yearning for days gone by ; this one felt particularly Bradbury ) , but not suited for what was supposed to be a " terror trilogy . " The second's draw is Macnee and Cook Jr , even if the result of the tale is only mildly effective . . although , Macnee's wicked grin leaves an unsettling feeling , closing the tale . I think most viewers will leave this movie , impressed with the final tale to the point that the overall product will have legs for years to come .
Snake Woman's Curse	The first 45 minutes or so of director Nobuo Nakagawa's " Snake Woman's Curse " displays the tragic circumstances of a small family's hardships under the tyrannical power of cruel landlord , his equally nasty wife Masae , and their wicked son , " young master " Takeo . A sickly elderly farmer , Yasuke , desperately wishes to pay of his debt for a small portion of land , and later dies after futilely attempting to persuade the landowner to give him more time . Yasuke's gentle wife and daughter , Sue and Asa , are left without a place to live , and are forced into hard labor under the ferocious iron hand of Masae , who immediately responds towards them with aggression and menace . Even the smallest mistake or miscue , and the women are dealt with the harshest punishment allowed . Takeo takes a shine to Asa , raping her multiple times , without any sense of regret or guilt over such actions . Even worse , Takeo knew of Asa's desire to marry local farmer , Sutematsu , and took her virginity so that they couldn't marry under the proper terms . It doesn't get any better for Asa , because her dear , innocent mother , Sue , dies when the landlord strikes her during an attempt to stop her master from killing a snake she was trying to save . Facing continual cruelty from Masae and not being able to see a possible bright future with Sutematsu , Asa will take her own life . Sutematsu , enraged , will seek revenge against Takeo , fated to end up such like the kind peasant family he loved so dear . The later portion of the film shows the Ônuma family falling prey to the ghosts of the three they wronged . The apparitions of Yasuke , Sue & Asa often appear to the Ônuma trio as a reminder of their roles in their tragic deaths . The symbolic theme throughout is the appearance of snakes and hallucinations of scales showing up on people's bodies , a method used to torment the Ônumas . The ghosts appear out of the blue , snakes popping up in bowls , out of the air , crawling throughout the rooms . . the Ônumas are now the subject of cruelty , attempting to rid themselves of the ghosts that haunt them and unable to do so . Are the ghosts really there or are the Ônumas merely falling prey to their own demons , their own guilt ? Takeo is tormented by the memory of Asa , her pleading against his sexual abuse ringing in his mind . The landlord tormented by Yasuke's begging to keep his property , even promising to eat dirt if necessary . Masae constantly plagued by the images of snakes , her actions towards Sue ( . . who always wished to protect snakes when others wished to kill them ) returning to terrorize her mental state . The film is quite black and white . The Ônumas are vile , unsympathetic monsters , who work their hired help day and night . Always barking and commanding , often never at ease with those who doggedly seek their approval . Yasuke's family , quiet , meek , soft-hearted , and hard-working . They just wish to work for their land and earn their keep . Their plight at the hands of the Ônumas is undeserved and ruthless . The film presents the ghosts in white face paint , a light introducing them to us and the Ônumas who are besieged by them . The score is eerily effective presenting a disorienting nature to the scenes where the ghosts appear to the Ônumas . The film presents the hierarchy as unlikable cretins who deserve the terror released upon them at the end , while the peasant workers slave , sweat , and work their fingers to the bone without much support / appreciation from those that rule over them . Director Nobuo Nakagawa's film isn't subtle ( . . neither was his more famous work , Hell ( Jigoku ) ) and loudly proclaims it's disdain for the mistreatment of the poor by the rich so many might be critical ( . . as they were with Jigoku ) of such a one-sided presentation . The good lower class trampled under the cruel boot of the evil wealthy , a theme that is preached from the pulpit of Nobuo Nakagawa without restraint . . sure to turn off a few who would rather the director paint a more complex portrait . I didn't mind the theatricality of it all and rooted my heart out for the bastards of this film getting their just desserts .
Progeny	An odd beam of light penetrates the bedroom of Dr . Craig Burton ( Arnold Vosloo ) and his wife Sherry ( Jillian McWhirter ) as they are making love . About two hours are unaccounted for as they embrace seemingly unharmed . Under hypnosis during a session with psychiatrist Dr . Susan Lamarche ( Lindsay Crouse ) , Craig discovers that his wife was impregnated by aliens . Sherry resists this notion as absurd and is quite happy to relay news to her husband that she is indeed pregnant . Ecstatic after their trying for ages to get pregnant , Sherry is frightened at Craig's persistence of the fetus not being his . . this stems from a check on his low sperm count with odds especially high that he could in no way have impregnated his wife . Awkward , troubling experiences with the fetus inside her leads Sherry to some scary discoveries . . her doctor , David Wetherly ( Wilford Brimley ) finds that the ultra-sound gives some unusual results of the developing infant's appearance , but it's Craig who notices that it resembles an alien ! Sparks ignite cutting out the electrical equipment , even shutting off Wetherly's pacemaker ! Through hypnosis , Sherry reveals the experience of her abduction , but Lamarche believes her problem is psychological not physiological . With no one believing his wife's alien impregnation theory , Craig turns to sociologist Dr . Bert Clavell ( Brad Dourif ) , whose work is in the studies of alien life and abduction . But , Bert is reluctant to help Craig who will go to the ends of the earth to save his wife's life from possible harm . Tragic results occur as Lamarche and others try to keep Craig from his goals of " cutting the thing out " believing he is mad . Craig will still pursue his task trying to drag Bert down this path with him . Grim , absorbing horror tale about one man's struggle to save his wife from the harm of beings no one else believes exist . Thankfully , Dourif's character isn't some quack nutjob but an intelligent doctor who wishes to learn more , but his pursuit of the truth of aliens isn't hostile . . he does hope to learn from Sherry , but isn't incredibly demanding in this goal . The story is told realistically . . it's easy to understand why others might deem Craig off-his-rocker . Vosloo doesn't take the character too far , but expresses the distress of his current situation . How can he save his wife from this hostiles and prove to others that he's not nuts ? McWhirter deserves credit for the demands of the difficult abduction scenes where her unfortunate character is naked on this table being probed and molested by these things . Crouse is fine in her limited , but important role as the voice of reason in a situation where her clients seem out of control psychologically . The monster effects are icky and effective . I think the film works quite well and director Yuzna deserves credit for restraining himself for this film at least . The final twenty minutes as Craig tries to perform his " removal surgery " with a scared Bert watching the crazy situation escalate is nail-biting . You know , fans of " Fire in the Sky " might dig this flick .
The Kindred	A group of geneticists gather at the home of a recently deceased scientist , Amanda Collins ( vet Kim Hunter ) who sent her son , John ( David Allen Brooks ) there to destroy all her journals and research concerning " hybridization " experiments splicing marine life with human cells . Mad scientist Dr . Phillip Lloyd ( Rod Steiger in one of his crazed roles ) , who worked with Amanda before they had a falling out ( . . and who later assisted in Amanda's demise ) , has been experimenting with hybridization for years but hasn't achieved the results his partner had . He secretly sends in an experimental hybrid of his , Melissa ( the lovely Amanda Pays ) who pretends to be an admirer of Amanda's and " marine researcher " befriending John ( . . while secretly falling in love with him which produces a problem for Lloyd who controls her thanks to his serum and pain medication that keeps Melissa human ) . While the group searches for answers regarding what exactly Amanda was doing at the home , a monster underneath the floorboards has come out to terrorize several of them . Could this monster be the " Anthony " John's mother was referring to as she cried out during a bad spell when ordering him to destroy all the evidence of her work ? Fun little late 80's creature feature has a good cast and pace . It gets silly at times particularly when the monster kills one victims by exiting a watermelon ! One scene has a certain character turning from human into a fish ! There's a hilarious ( . . and ridiculous ) scene where Hart ( Timothy Gibbs ) , one of the only survivors of the monster's attacks , who escapes from the hospital after being under heavy sedation over several days knocking people out of the way as if he were a football defensive tackle . The creature is shown in all it's glory at the end in the show-stopping climax where Steiger also makes his presence known in an explosion of anger towards the group's plan to kill it .
The Deadly Spawn	Alien monsters , with their mouths full of razor-sharp teeth , ride a " meteor " into the Earth harvesting in the basement of a nearby house . During the film , those who live in the house , unknowingly become lunch to the beasties when they enter the basement . The basement , however , will not hold them forever and we watch as many smaller alien monsters venture outside attacking a vegetarian dinner party full of older women gathering together . When the parents are eaten by the monsters , their sons , young horror movie fan Charles ( Charles George Hildebrandt ) and older astronomy student Peter ( Tom DeFranco ) will have to defend themselves or else perish . Pete's pals Frankie ( Richard Lee Porter ) , love-interest Ellen ( Jean Tafler ) and Kathy ( Karen Tighe ) come over and find themselves also in a battle for survival . 75 % of viewers who watch this flick will probably find it repellent and laugh at the rubber monsters , but this film is intended for a certain audience . I think , in essence , it's an old-fashioned " aliens attack " creature feature " except for the splatter-gore . The film is loaded with disgusting violence such as how we see the monster attack victims , often chomping down on their heads and flesh . I think creature feature fans , used to fake-looking rubber monsters from yesteryear , will embrace this flick for that's part of it's charm . For a LOW budget ( . . it was indeed a good idea to set most of the film in the central location of one house ) , the gore effects are quite impressive . Cheap photography might also add to it's charm . The cast is littered with no-names whose acting is adequate , but in a gruesome B-flick sci-fi horror , that doesn't much matter . The ending twist is wonderfully inspired .
Tales of Terror	Trio of visually lush supernatural tales from the genius of director Roger Corman , writer Richard Matheson , inspired from the masterful works of Edgar Allen Poe , starring the great Vincent Price in all three . The first tale stars Price as a sulking , boozing recluse , living in a cob-webbed life-less castle , whose existence has been haunted by the memory of long-lost love Morella ( Leona Gage ) . Dying adult daughter Lenora ( Maggie Pierce ) , sent away from her father because of reasons she seeks answers for , returns to the castle attempting to patch up their differences before it's too late . Lenora finds out that her birth was a reason behind Morella's death and finds her mother's corpse in father's room . Attempting to make amends will prove difficult as the vengeful spirit of Morella will rise to take revenge on those she holds responsible for her demise . Peter Lorre triumphs in the second tale as Montresor Herringbone , a belligerent unemployed drunk who pries away his wife's sewing money for more drink . A chance meeting occurs with a dollied-up , prissy , kindhearted aristocratic wine-taster Fortunato ( Vincent Price ) in a tasting contest , for which Herringbone persistently brought about just to gulp more vine-juice for free . What Herringbone doesn't realize is that his wife , Annabel ( Joyce Jameson ) , after tolerating his crap for years , has fallen head-over-heels for Fortunato , who has brought a romance and love to her life that has never existed before . Consumed with jealousy and wrath , Herringbone venomously poisons them , shackling their hands and burying them alive behind a brick wall , mortared by his own hands . What Herringbone doesn't count on is Annabel's black cat , an animal he despises , interfering with his diabolical schemes . A macabre comedy , this one is , with Corman experimenting with the lens by stretching the characters in a " head-throwing " nightmare sequence that plagues Herringbone , as Fortunato and Annabel explode from their walled tomb to get him . The third tale is especially chilling . . an evil mesmerizist , Dr . Carmichael ( Basil Rathbone ) secretly covets his wealthy employer's lovely wife Helene ( Debra Paget ) . Cleverly manipulating Valdemar ( Price ) , by relieving him of the agony of his incurable disease through hypnotic suggestion , Carmichael gets him to agree to a specific request for his duties . . at the moment of death , Valdemar allows Carmichael a chance to hypnotize him . Valdemar wishes for Helene to marry his good friend , medical doctor Elliot James ( David Frankham ) , but after Valdemar's death , Carmichael has other plans . Carmichael holds all the cards because Valdemar is trapped in a limbo state of darkness , unable to escape unless released . Carmichael desires Helene and is the only one who can give her beloved dead husband peace . But , when Carmichael threatens to harm Helene in a struggle , Valdemar's slowly deteriorating corpse will rise from his bed to protect the one he loves . As in most anthologies , each tale is completely different than the next . The second one with Lorre is more of a black comedy , while the last one presents quite the horrifying ordeal of being controlled by another even after death . I felt the first one was the weakest , but more akin to Corman's many other Poe productions , specifically in the " explosive climax " as the castle , in true fashion , crumbles with flame arising throughout .
Frontière ( s )	Harrowing , unpleasant , extremely violent French horror hit regarding four Parisians from the slums , who loot a bank during a tumultuous election in Paris where an extreme right governmental take-over seems on the horizon causing riots and unruly conduct by angry citizens plunging the city into chaos , with them taking the wrong turn on a dirt road landing the gang at a hostel containing a secret society of Nazi crazies who murder and rob unfortunate passersby , hanging the dead ( . . or sometimes , barely living ) bodies in storage for safe keeping . Father ( Jean-Pierre Jorris ) , the Nazi group's patriarch wishes for his son Karl ( Patrick Ligardes ) to take over as the leader with the rest of the group rather disgusted at the decision . Yasmine ( Karina Testa , in a powerful performance ) , the pregnant female of the four Parisians whose dead brother she left at a hospital in Paris , is chosen as a bride for Karl , after watching her ex-boyfriend , Alex ( Aurélien Wiik ) shot dead before her eyes . On her own , Yasmine will somehow try to break free from them , hoping to escape , but this will prove quite difficult since she's far from home and on hostile territory . I rented this based on some serious hype by others that it was brutal viewing , and I must agree . It isn't all that original , though , and clearly modeled after films like " Hostel " , where a group unknowingly find themselves in a den of lions far from help , with little place to run , with most of them dying in gruesome ways . As is common place in the slasher genre , the lone survivor against the dangerous brood is a woman . Like " Hostel " or " Wolf Creek " , we see what happens to those whose fate led them to this place , and where there possessions are placed . Prepare for the modern technical movie making of today's horror . . jump cuts and haphazard camera movements galore . Often the action is sped up and sometimes slowed down ( . . such as the rain coming down and washing the blood-soaked body of Yasmine ) . The pace is fast and the film rarely slows down . A major problem many might have is that the ones we're supposed to feel sympathy for are thugs , but I think we certainly can place ourselves in their shoes and grimace at their fates . Where to begin regarding the cringe-worthy violence : One poor victim's Achilles tendon is pierced with tongs by Father himself , grinning with pride at committing such a sadistic act , proclaiming that's what happened to slaves in Africa to keep them from running away . During a struggle one of the crazies forgets about the ax he was wielding , receiving the weapon into his foot before falling on a spinning table saw . One's head explodes from a shot gun blast . A victim's fingers are taken off by bullet fire . His throat is later slit while hanging upside down ( . . his feet are penetrated by meat hooks , and we see in a grisly sequence that the ability of a friend to remove him from them was almost impossible ) with blood collecting on the floor as the one who committed the act watches almost in a trance . One poor soul's skin is boiled while attempting to hide in a steam chamber . Not only does the film depict explicit violence , we are treated to the result of what these monsters do to people . Setting up in our memories are those corpses . . hanging from meat hooks were once living , breathing people with goals and dreams . That could very well be us .
The abyss	Copycat killings of a psychopath on death row named Shin Hyun ( Seung-woo Cho , creepy in a chilling role ) emerge as bodies of slashed pregnant women are found with their embryos forcefully extracted . Detective Kim ( Jung-ah Yum ) takes a special interest in this case because her fiancé committed suicide after accidentally letting Shin go before he murdered six women in a row . Interesting enough is Shin turned himself in . Wet-behind-the-ears Detective Kang ( Jin-hee Ji , very good ) becomes embroiled with the case desperately craving to catch those responsible for the murders , but his visits with Shin will alter his life forever . When interviewing Shin for answers as to whom might be responsible for copycatting his handiwork , he speaks in riddles never quite making himself clear . During the film , the detectives realize that Shin's therapist , Dr . Chu ( Sun-kyung Kim ) , may have important information regarding Shin and if he is actually masterminding the killings behind bars . If you are willing to accept certain unusual aspects that lead to killing innocent young women such as the possible angle dealing with hypnosis presented here , it might be much more compelling . The major tie in the film is the links to abortions carried out by several victims of Shin . Shin's past relationship with his mother is also a major source to the killings as well . Perhaps too slick for it's own good , this offering from Tartan Extreme is stylishly directed and quite well-acted . It could be seen as a bit contrived , but I found it fascinating from start to finish .
Creature with the Blue Hand	Klaus Kinski is the allure for this Krimi , another solid thriller with multiple twists and suspicious suspects , from director Alfred Vohrer concerning a series of murders associated with a wealthy family , & how they are in connection with an insane asylum whose psychiatric director is operating under the orders of a mastermind after an inheritance . The film opens with Kinski's character , Dave Emerson , who is sentenced to life at an asylum for the murder of his gardener ( . . a murder he insists passionately he didn't commit ) , and is released by someone who shortly afterward kills a nurse as he's fleeing the scene . Dave's twin brother , Richard , mysteriously vanishes upon his arrival at the family mansion . . Scotland Yard detectives , Inspector Craig ( Harald Leipnitz ) and Sir John ( Siegfried Schürenberg ) discover Dave's attempt to assume Richard's identity , but work with him to identify a killer , donning a black cloak and hood ( . . with a hole cut out to see through ) , using a armor plated arm with sharp steel claws that extend ( . . the blue hand , designed from blueprints drawn up by Dave who is a successful sculptor of mannequins among other things ) . The " creature with the blue hand " seems to be targeting Dave's family members , his brothers are killed and sister Myrna ( Diana Körner ) only escapes near death twice . Soon the asylum director , Dr . Albert Mangrove ( Carl Lange ) , a colorful villain with a monocle , has Myrna kidnapped , often talking over the phone with his boss behind an operation to retrieve a fortune left to the Emerson family by their deceased patriarch , attempting to force her signature on a document , with her refusal being possible death . . attempts to frighten her into signing include being thrown in a prison with dangerously violent lunatics and a padded cell containing a plastic cage housing an army of rats ( . . also part of the punishment includes the release of multiple snakes ) . Working with Dave , who temporarily takes Richard's place as he oddly remains out of the picture , Craig will attempt to uncover the killer and mastermind behind the kidnapping of Myrna . As any good Krimi film , there is an extremely convoluted plot yielding lots of suspects and red herrings , and some intriguing twists which reveal the complex scheme as it unfolds with our detective , Craig , getting to the bottom of the mystery . . who would want the Emerson kids dead and how is Mangrove involved ? There's another neat disguise and weapon for the killer , the intimidating armored arm with claws that often are buried deep into the chests of victims . You have any number of suspects who could be behind the murders such as Lady Emerson herself , a sneaky butler who is always spying on people in the mansion , the family's lawyer , and even Kinski's two brothers themselves . The film does take away doubt that Dave's behind the scheme as he works closely with Craig , but what about his brother Richard ? Lange's sinister Mangrove is as much a memorable villain as the " creature with the blue hand " , with his methods for disposing of those who get in his way such as a nurse attempting to expose his corruption or his torturous methods towards Myrna , trying to get her written signature . The monocle and his unflinching willingness to harm people certainly craft Mangrove as a slimy , cruel heavy wielding a lot of power thanks to his position and authority . Through his position as a director of an asylum ( . . and the authority to pronounce people insane even if they aren't ) , he indeed has methods at his disposal for dealing with folks others want out of the way . Thankfully Schürenberg's nincompoop Sir John doesn't figure prominently in this particular Krimi , a goofy source of comedy often standing in the way of the more reliable detective ( . . Craig in this case ) with a firm grasp on how to solve the difficult case in front of him . While Kinski has two roles ( . . although , Richard isn't involved in the movie that much , except in terms of the central plot ) , he is more of a supporting character assisting Craig in catching the culprits behind the highly complex scheme to get at an inheritance . The mansion has a nifty secret passageway which offers the killer a method of travel ( . . and this method of travel figures into how Dave was set up for the murder ) , and the asylum is established as a repellent and unnerving place where you certainly don't want to wind up . The story-line keeps you honest all the way to it's wacky conclusion . . fans might tell you that the Krimi genre is much like Scooby Doo mysteries as those responsible are unmasked as the detective gathers the remaining suspects , unveiling the mastermind to our amusement .
Gutterballs	The bowling alley is the setting for this sadistic slasher rape revenge offering from director Ryan Nicholson . Lisa ( Candice Lewald ) is sexually assaulted by an old boyfriend , Steve ( Alastair Gamble ) and his cohorts , Joey ( Wade Gibb ) , AJ ( Nathan Dashwood ) , and Patrick ( Trevor Gemma ) after an altercation with another group of bowlers escalated into a brawl . Lisa's current beau is Jamie ( Nathan Witte ) and Steve is fuming with rage and this uneasy coexistence turns violent . . protecting her boyfriend from serious harm , Lisa drops a bowling ball on Steve's foot which only infuriates his maddening desire for revenge . Hince the rape which occurs after everyone has left the scene with Lisa reentering the bowling alley to retrieve her purse , finding Steve and his brutes waiting for her in the arcade room . The next night , after the doors are closed to the public , the janitor ( Dan Ellis ) of the bowling alley , in an act to halt the fight that had broken out , allows the competing groups to square off in a game . On this night , a killer , donning a bowling bag on his / her head , in bowling uniform , black gloves , and a variety of bowling pins designed as weapons of destruction , will slowly execute members of each group one at a time in very imaginative ways . . does it have to do with the rape that took place only the night before ? Lisa remains missing for large portions . . where does she go ? Nicholson's Gutterballs is an obvious homage to 70's rape revenge thrillers and 80's slashers , except his film is far more explicit and detailed in sexuality and graphic violence . There's penis violence , an anal stabbing , a shot gun blast taking apart a head with gushing blood , a suffocation of a couple as they engage in the " 69 " sexual act , a head forced into a hot bowling wax machine with the face removed , face destroyed by a sharpened bowling pin as it stabs into the victim's eyes , a strangulation of a woman using the tied shoelaces of bowling shoes ( . . as her breasts press against a window as the victim struggles to get free ) , a head is crushed by two bowling balls leaving her brains splattered on the floor as the body twitches , a face bashed in with a bowling pin , a throat slashing which spouts rivers of blood , and a bowling pin stuffed into a victim's mouth and down his throat . Lots of blood shed in this one . It functions as those 80's slashers in that the characters dwindle in number as the psycho comes from behind them as they are engaged in other activities , after separating from their packs . You also have the " body room " sequence which shows you where the victims were stored . . pretty grisly sight as those who were murdered have extra mutilation committed after their deaths . The dialogue in this film , preferably from Steve and his tribe of cretins , features non-stop vulgarity and profanity . As far as the characters , the Steve jerk is an obvious antagonist meant to stir your anger . Most of the obnoxious characters in the movie , Ryan explained , were purposely wrote this way so that they can become disposable victims . To me the film was pretty much mean-spirited with rambunctious and obscene characters all the way through . I think this is okay to slasher fans , but I just don't think this will apply to anyone else . I have a hard time finding many other than slasher fans enjoying this one , unless you like really creative , but sickening gore . I love the setting and the use of blue neon ( Nicholson calls this eye candy ) , and the electronic disco score ( . . put together by Patrick Coble with composer Gianni Rossi's work supplied by his family ) seems quite appropriate for such a homage as this one . Also , the murders are indeed potent and shocking , delivering to gorehounds ( . . like myself ) exactly what you often sought in slashers of the past and found lacking . Ryan doesn't pull very many punches and pushes the envelope in Gutterballs , which is why it didn't achieve the kind of release remakes often do . There are plenty of penis and tits , even oral sex , which rather startled me to see such explicit content present in a modern horror film . Slasher buffs should enjoy this one more than the average horror fan .
Terror by Night	Sherlock Holmes and Dr . Watson are on the case assigned to guard a precious jewel ( . . on a necklace ) on a train from London to Edinburgh , when a series of murders occur by those wanting to secure it for it's value is substantial . Of course , a variety of suspects emerge , particularly those who have cabins around the murder scene . The owner of the necklace is Lady Margaret Carstairs ( Mary Forbes ) , and her son is killed while in her cabin by someone in possession of a special gun which injects a poison in the neck like a hypodermic would . Lots of mystery and intrigue as suspicious characters come and go until the major culprit ( s ) are uncovered . Holmes discovers that the mastermind behind stealing the jewel has a number of accomplices , such as the stunning Vivian Vedder ( . . the striking Renee Godfrey ) who agrees to have a special coffin made presumably carrying a relative with a compartment the size to hold the body of a hidden thug . Scotland Yard detective Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) is on board also assigned to watch over the safety of Carstairs and her diamond , assisting Holmes as they pursue the ones responsible for the murders as the moving train heads on it's destination to Edinburgh . As the investigation ensues , threats to Holmes ' and Lestrade's life , and murders to several train employees prove that someone will go to any means to get the diamond . Other suspects include the curmudgeon math teacher , Professor William Kilbane ( Frederick Worlock ) who has contempt for the investigators ( . . particularly Watson , in an amusing exchange of words ) barging into his cabin , and Major Duncan-Bleek ( Alan Mowdray ) , a gentleman club chum of Watson's who seems to have gained their trust , even discussing the case with them . Being a big fan of mysteries and thrillers on board trains , it was especially fun watching a Holmes / Watson installment in such a setting . While the list of suspects is small , there's still some entertainment to be had and seeing Holmes snuff out the mastermind , interfering with the devious schemes of a well orchestrated plot is always a joy to behold . There's certainly one particularly crafty move made towards the end involving a Scottish detective Inspector MacDonald ( Boyd Davis ) and two policeman that is quite an eye-opener . But , as always , Holmes and Watson solve the case . This one exploits Watson's inefficiencies as an investigator in fine comic fashion . . especially when an attempt to interrogate Professor Kilbane falls flat . Renee Godfrey is a mighty delectable dish as a sophisticated partner-in-crime , willing to offer a ride in her relative's coffin for some mongrel in exchange for 100 pounds , knowing who the mastermind is , but keeping mum . . even Holmes has to gaze at her beauty . Rathbone and Nigel Bruce excel as you'd imagine , even if their characters are confined to the cable cars of a train ( . . thrilling scene shows Holmes almost kicked from the train , just hanging on with an inch of his life ) . The jewel sought after is the Star of Rhodesia .
Sherlock Holmes and the Deadly Necklace	Professor Moriarty will do just about anything to acquire the diamond necklace once wore by Cleopatra including murder ( . . by using other hoods to do his dirty work , of course ) but he'll have to contend with his arch nemesis , the Baker Street detective , Sherlock Holmes and his associate Dr . Watson . As a horror buff , this was a dream come true to see such great names associated with Sherlock Holmes . Terrence Fisher as co-director , Christopher Lee as Holmes ( . . his only time as the sleuth which in itself is noteworthy ) , and scribe Curt Siodmak ( The Wolf Man ; I Walked With a Zombie ) as the scenarist all contribute to SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE DEADLY NECKLACE . While I recognize that others didn't find this movie very good ( . . or found it rather lackluster / mediocre ) , I thought it was fun , particularly enjoying the psychological duel between Holmes and Moriarty ( . . who , at one point , attempted to kill Holmes with a mechanism in his cane's handle which fires a blade ) . This may be the only film with Sherlock Holmes which might figure into the Krimi genre as it is mostly produced by a West German company . One major disappointment was not having Lee's authoritative voice dubbed for his Holmes character , which is quite a shame ( . . and a missed opportunity for us who love the idea of seeing Lee as the character , portrayed with his voice , matching his mannerisms and performance ) . It would be ill-advised for me to leave out a wonderful performance from Thorley Walters , a Hammer veteran , as the clumsy , often naive Watson , who must be fed knowledge of Holmes ' activities because he's unable to often add 2 & 2 together on his own . But , Watson , of course , often lends a hand ( . . even playing Holmes ' chauffeur when the sleuth goes undercover , in disguise , to infiltrate Moriarty's home and gang in order to keep the necklace out of the diabolical and dangerous archeologist's hands ) when Holmes so needs him in order to combat Moriarty's plot to steal the necklace by any means necessary . It's a delightful game of cat-n-mouse ( . . or it was to me ) and we are participants . Often , Holmes has to use rather illegal methods in order to retrieve the necklace , stooping to his enemy's level of theft , but it's not officially Mortiarty's property anyway , adding intrigue to their battle over such a desired object of great worth . I think Hans Söhnker is Lee's equal as Moriarty , portraying confidence and arrogance , believing he will accomplish his scheme , using loathsome criminals to carry his orders out , with an ability to manipulate important public figures , even The Queen of England ( . . it's mentioned at the beginning , when Holmes is scolded by Scotland Yard's lead detective , Inspector Cooper , played by Hans Nielsen , that Moriarty is to be knighted ) . It was really cool seeing Lee as such a treasured character , conveying a believable wisdom , always expressing , effectively , Holmes ' abilities to outsmart his adversaries , remaining one step ahead of not only Moriarty , but Scotland Yard as well . I especially loved one sequence where Holmes attempts to stop a planned assassination by Moriarty , outside London where a thief is holding onto the necklace , fearful of his safety , and happening upon the crime scene of a failed murder attempt where Inspector Cooper must be assisted by the sleuth in discovering all the facts , coming across concealed truths only through our beloved detective's guidance . It's a masterfully staged scenario I enjoyed immensely .
The Car	A small town desert community is terrorized by a demonic black car with no driver . . it's mission / objective seems mysterious as it runs down citizens and those who stand in it's path . While the plot seems rather silly , I think it has too many pluses in it's favor including the good . . no great . . cast , great use of Utah locations , and intense scenes where the car chases after innocents . The car itself has no door handles , can not be damaged by bullet-fire ( . . not to mention , it crashes over the top of cop cars leaving little damage after flipping several times in the air ) , has no real distinct features , and a grill which glistens with evil intent . In most scenes , right before the car enters the picture , an ominous wind picks up and the car often unleashes loud horn honks announcing it's arrival . We get an idea of what the car might represent when , after teachers and school children are chased from a parade rehearsal in one harrowing sequence and enter an old graveyard , that it can not trespass on hallowed ground . One major plot hole that I couldn't figure out was why everyone is fair game for the killer car , yet heroic lead Wade Parent ( James Brolin ) , who has to take over as acting-Sheriff after the man in charge , Everett ( played by " Faces " & " Deathdream " eccentric character actor John Marley , who always brings something quirky to even the most average character he portrays ) is run down by the hell-on-wheels , gets a " get-out-of-jail-free " card who stands right in front actually shooting bullets into it . What makes Wade immune to what others receive ? It's one of those screenplay indulgences where the hero is exempt to what others , much more unfortunate ( . . and , ready for dismissal ) , receive . Probably the most shocking sequence comes when a major likable character is mowed over when the car explodes through the house ! Kathleen Lloyd , I thought , was delightful as Wade's love-interest Lauren and a young Ronny Cox stars as Wade's emotionally distraught deputy trying to keep his wits in check . Also , RG Armstrong plays his usual mean sonuvabitch character , except in this particular film he's a wife beater who has something perhaps useful at battling the car when few options seem available to the deteriorated police force being slowly picked off by the evil automobile . The ending is something , I'll tell you , when we actually see what the car really is . If you can look past the film's flaws , it's quite a wild ride .
Castle Freak	John Reilly ( Jeffrey Combs ) has inherited a huge castle from a duchess who , everyday regular , would go into a certain prison chamber to whip and bloody her son . This abuse derives from what her American soldier husband did to her , leaving the duchess for her sister . This adulterous couple bore John who is carrying some personal demons that torment him so . John , who was an alcoholic , was responsible for a car wreck which killed his son and left his daughter with damaged , blinded eyes . His wife , Susan ( Barbara Crampton ) hates him , but has traveled ( with their daughter Rebecca portrayed by Jessica Dollarhide ) with him to the castle . I'm guessing that Susan has remained married to John for the sake of their daughter who would be crushed by a divorce . But , what John doesn't understand is that the brutalized man is still down in the prison tomb and now resembles a monster . He is able to free a hand from a shackle when he breaks off his thumb ( Ouch ! ) and remove the door that has closed him in for decades . Able to roam free , the monster ( Jonathan Fuller , under a latex suit and heavy make-up ) takes a liking to Rebecca , but remains hidden in the 150-room castle often watching the others from behind furniture , sheets , etc . The monster has a massive gash on his mouth and chin which may've resulted to a severe gash from the whip his mother often bludgeoned him with . John really wants to make his marriage work again , but Susan's suffering is too overwhelming for any form of forgiveness . . he was driving drunk and because of that their son is dead and daughter blind . When John finds his marriage at the peak of disaster with Susan pretty much stating she wished he had dies in that wreck instead of coming away without a scratch , he heads for the bar and finds a prostitute only eager to take his cash . Drunk and sneaking the prostitute in the castle unbeknown est to his wife and daughter , John realizes after a little graphic foreplay that he is making a mistake and stops . The prostitute , however , doesn't make it out of the castle . . the castle freak wants to have a little foreplay . When his advancements are turned away in horror at his grotesqueness , the freak will eat . . her ! John was the last to see her alive and will face possible murder charges which only grow worse when the freak kills the cook / maid ( Elisabeth Kaza ) as well . Really well made horror item during Stuart Gordon's tenure with Charles Band's Full Moon Pictures . Good , creepy setting for the freak to run rampant . One might feel some sympathy for this freak because the only reason he is acting so monstrous is because of decades of torture and abuse . The idea of having that created freak opposite a tormented Jeffrey Combs ( . . playing the most normal character I can think of to date ) dealing with guilt over the trauma he has caused his family gives this a lot of serious clout . One thing missing from this creature feature often seen in most of Stuart Gordon's work is the humorous bits . This is a very serious picture and there's just not much room for laughter . These characters are dying inside . . one's a freak on the inside ( Combs ) , the other is on the outside ( Fuller ) . The photography , music , performances are all first-rate . . everyone did a commendable job . Despite Gordon's various ways of clothing the freak in darkness , at times he just looks like a man in latex . Still , Gordon does frame him in some gruesome , freakish ways such as blood dripping off his snarling teeth when his face rushes at the screen . But , most of the time Gordon tries keeping as much of the monster hidden as possible ( at one point during the film , the freak robes himself with a sheet he stole off of a chair ) .
13 : Game of Death	Dark , often somber ( . . while also being quite outrageous and comic ) psychological parable of what man , in a state of unrest and distress , would do to become rich . Chit's ( Krissada Terrence ) life is in a state of turmoil . He has been fired from his musical instrument salesman job , lost his girlfriend to rock stardom , and is tormented by a past with a horrible , abusive father . Holding unpaid bills in his hand and seeing his car towed away , Chit is faced with quite a crisis . A call from an unknown source proclaiming to be a reality show game offers Chit a chance to make millions if he agrees to participate in a series of challenges , phoned to him by the network behind the reality show . Each obstacle becomes increasingly more hostile and amoral , as Chit's actions make him a wanted man , his face on the news and the police looking for his whereabouts . Eventually , Chit will have to make a harrowing decision if he wishes to win the big bucks . Either decision will change Chit's life forever . While a bit far-fetched , Chukiat Sakveerakul's tale of desperation exploring the boundaries we are willing to go to achieve fortune sure grips hold thanks to fascinating subject matter . I doubt that Chit could've made it as far as he did , because the screenplay ( . . how this game show's network is able to always have everything in place by the time their contestant gets there without fail ) depends a hell of a lot on coincidence . And , one wonders if anyone ( . . of course a few numskulls would in this day and age of greed and corruption ) , let alone poor sap Chit , would continue down such a dark path . This film is a lot like SAW in that a character runs through a series of obstacles where his decisions have great repercussions and everything that occurs from the moment he starts is based on being at the right place at exactly the right time . This is above all things a movie and obviously Chit will make it through every single scenario regardless of how unbelievable they are ( . . like his unlikely escape from a police force after him in a hospital ) . Sakveerakul and company ask for a leap of faith . . . are you willing to take it ? The same question would be asked to those who watch SAW and it's endless supply of sequels . " 13 : Game of Death " has a voice , though , and isn't just an elaborate puzzlebox with endless death traps and gory murders . It has something to say and , despite a series of violent actions and aftermath of the game Chit's playing ( . . what a clothing line does to traveling motorcyclists and the vicious attack on ex-girlfriend's abusive beau with a steel chair ) , this film isn't really gory . I'm not sure why it's part of the Dimension Extreme label . There's some blood , and the allegory on display is a wicked one with an ending that will depress the hell out of you , but " 13 : Game of Death " isn't that extreme . The most warped sequence would have to be when Chit must go into a well , emerging from it with the corpse of the elderly cripple inside it while calling his uncaring relatives after he reaches the top ! The film is clever , paced extremely well , with stunning camera-work , well acted , and exhausting . But , boy , does our hero get run through the ringer .
Billion Dollar Brain	Our Man Harry ( Michael Caine ) gets suckered back into espionage thanks to crooked pal , Leo ( Karl Malden ) who wishes to make a big pay day off of some virus-infected eggs . Leo takes commands from a robotic device that is merely an extension of a much larger brain located in Texas under the supervision of Commie-hating oil magnate General Midwinter ( Ed Begley , just a house-of-fire exploding MW's furious patriotic pride against the Russian commies and their stranglehold over Latvia ) . Leo's in love with the mysterious Anya ( Françoise Dorléac ) whose motives seem to be at servicing her man his every corrupt desire . Meanwhile , the British want Palmer back working for them . In an interesting stab at irony , the enemy actually lend Harry a helping hand through various problems by the way of Russia's own Colonel Stok ( Oskar Homolka ) who warns Harry that he should get out of this situation while he's still out of danger . Yet , Harry needs that flask which contains the virus eggs and will have to coerce Leo into helping him infiltrate Midwinter's computerized compound in Texas so that not only can he see what the mad general's overall plans are , but to catch his " pal " in a moment of weakness . The Harry Palmer series is clearly an alternative to the James Bond saga with Harry often finding himself stuck in the middle of a few very difficult situations with the filmmakers taking creative license in order for him to escape without real harm . It is quite far-fetched , but these spy thrillers often are . The cast is great with Begley just playing Midwinter over-the-top bonkers as the leader of men he believes will rise up against the Soviets and their Communist regime . Malden is good at playing the smiling con-artist and Caine is quite fun at playing Harry reserved and calm despite the chaos and horrifying possible circumstances that might derive from a crazed patriot with way too much money and technology . Dorléac is sexy in a rather limited role and the always-smiling Homolka is a hoot as the Colonel who knows a lot more than others realize thanks to secret connections .
Ricco	A young man named Ricco ( Chris Mitchum ) gets a year off his sentence after serving two years in prison , and quietly sets out to even a score against mafioso king Don Vito ( Arthur Kennedy ) , the man responsible for murdering his mob boss father so that he could have control over the entire city . What erupts is a blood feud where many tragic casualties , innocents whose blood are shed , lie in the wake of Ricco and Vito's rivalry . Ricco finds an ally in an old friend of his father's niece , Scilla ( Barbara Bouchet ) . . Scilla , at first , participates for kicks , but soon finds that she's in love with Ricco and realizes that his feud with Vito will only leave a lot of innocent people dead . Once Ricco gets mixed up with a crooked partner of Vito's , Cyrano ( Eduardo Fajardo ) , once a pal of his father , there's no turning back . Diamonds , and collected dues of those benefactors for whom Vito " protects " , soon play into matters as does Ricco's old squeeze , Rosa ( Malisa Longo ) now " property " of the Don . Vito cherishes Rosa , and anyone who dares even attempt to touch what is his will inherit a trip into his vat of acid . The climax is a shoot-out at Don Vito's factory with Ricco seeking revenge when those he loves are slain in horrific gang-land style fashion . Ultra violent crime thriller with Christopher Mitchum walking tall , saying only what needs to be said . . like his father Robert , Chris doesn't overexert himself . He's quite the cool customer , approaching even the most violent situations with a laid-back calm staring down possible death at every turn . Kennedy inhibits the sadistic Don Vito as if born to play him . . having portrayed villains in westerns with ease , playing the heavy in " Ricco " is a piece of cake . The true star of this film , besides Barbara Bouchet who always knows how to make a scene , is Malisa Longo as Rosa , who takes you completely away from the film immediately casting your eyes towards her . She's quite a feast to salivate over . . the kind of sex kitten who would have you turning cart-wheels and barking like a dog . She's " to die for " and one does , but I certainly understand why one would risk the chance to bed her . Whether walking around in lingerie or bathing top-less , she's a tasty dish . . no a gourmet meal . Matter of fact , she's the best part of the meal . . she's the desirable dessert . I found that Mitchum and Bouchet had good chemistry and that both knew the wattage they carried on screen . Mitchum carries that effortless cool and Bouchet is so damn sexy , and knows it , I never questioned why I liked watching them together on screen . Bouchet even performs a nice little strip-tease for the viewer . . thanks dear for providing another memorable scene ( . . like Bouchet hasn't provided ample memories already ! ) I can carry away into my fantasies . Getting away from the babes , I have to mention the castration scene . One fellow , Tony ( Manuel Zarzo ) can not resist Rosa's sexual advances ( . . given the situation , I can see why he succumbs to her wiles ) and is caught by the Don . Tony fights three of the Don's goons before getting his privates sliced off with a knife . . he then gets his penis and testicles shoved down his throat before being tossed in Vito's acid vat ! If the opening scene where Ricco's father's face is shot in point-blank , then this gory sequence of events does . When it comes to subtlety , you'd better look elsewhere because the Italians always go for broke .
Long Live Walter Jameson	Professor Sam Kittridge ( Edgar Stehli ) is concerned about the man his daughter plans to marry . Sam has known this man ( History Professor Walter Jameson , played very understated and serious by Kevin McCarthy ) for twelve years and yet he hasn't aged at all . He even finds an old Civil War photograph with a soldier who looks exactly similar to Jameson . . wearing the exact same ring with a certain mole in the exact same place on his face ! Sam probes Jameson wondering if it was quite possible that he has the secret to immortality . Sam gets his answer and wishes to know how he can have the same immortality for he fears death greatly . Jameson explains that he is in fact 2 , 000 years old and that the secret of his eternal life through the centuries was from an alchemist who was gone with the money that paid for the procedure . That was during Plato's time ! But , we later find as Jameson discusses immortality that there are plenty of reasons against the very idea of having the ability to remain ageless forever if no bodily harm comes . Jameson explains that he has seen many wives and children grow old and die while he stays the very same age . There's a melancholy in his voice that speaks against taking his option of having immortality , but he admits to cowardice in not being able to simply commit suicide and end it all . An elderly woman , having followed Jameson to his new residence , has ties to him and may be the key to his ending it all . The film is really a treatise on living past your acquired time . We all have a time to live and die , but the idea of living beyond your years for centuries shows disadvantages such as seeing so many of those you love fade away as you yourself are left alone with the same face . Towards the end , there are some great " age " make-up sequences describing Jameson's fate .
Dark Portals / Vidocq	We watch in the opening of the film a detective named Vidocq ( Gérard Depardieu ) in battle with what appears to be a supernatural being with a glass framed face buried within a black cloak . It looks as if Vidocq fell to his doom in a fire-pit in the guts of a glassworks factory . His " biographer " Etienne ( Guillaume Canet ) wishes to pursue his hero's case and the film follows him from lead to lead learning about the killer called The Alchemist who is a mythic ghost whose glass face is said to steal the souls of victims . How Vidocq took the case was through a Chief of Police trying to figure out how three prominent members of Paris society wound up dead , two of them being burnt by lightning ( the two who are actually burnt are an arms dealer and chemist ) . We find as Etienne dig deeper and deeper that these three only had love in their hearts for themselves and would do anything to preserve their youth . . even making a deal with The Alchemist by supplying him pure virgins from poor families they pay so that they can receive a serum for not aging . All this revolves around a tumultuous political climate ( . . which might become an upheaval ) as King Charles is threatening the suppression of the press and dissolving of parliament . Also , Paris in 1830 is quite a lurid , perverse place where any vice of anyone with wealthy means could be satisfied . We see this as Etienne continues on his journey to find answers to Vidocq's demise . Director Pitof's in-your-face style may be jarring or unnerving for some viewers because the camera suffocatingly closes in on the actors faces . We get all close and personal even with the ugly sorts with rotted teeth or vile expressions . The film's special effects almost look purposely unrealistic and surreal creating a Paris so bizarre it's almost otherworldly . The Alchemist is quite a creation as he can do so many acrobatic and supernatural things . Another thing I found stunning was how Pitof's camera moves . It rotates around , following the characters and action . Pitof also likes his camera shooting upward from the ground . We rarely see a simply , ordinary shot of characters . . everything seems unorthodox and unusual . And , the twist that comes at the end turns your usual detective story on it's head . I certainly didn't see it coming .
Macumba Sexual	The mysterious Princess Obongo ( Ajita Wilson ) of the Canary Islands , who may or may not be dead , and her erotic ( . . and perhaps evil ) effects on a vacationing couple . Alice ( Lina Romay ) is a real estate agent and her lover ( Antonio Mayans ) , a writer , are overcome by the passionate dreams featuring Obongo and the film follows their submission to her lustful will . What are Obongo's motives ? More importantly , who is she and what does she symbolize / represent ? What is her purpose and / or objective for Alice and her lover ? While the film is essentially another VERY stylized and evocative porno , Franco uses imagery of voodoo , African statues & tribal objects , along with the stunning locations of the South of the Canary Islands and dream-like sequences between Obongo ( mostly relishing her acts towards her quarry ) and her prey , to create an otherworldly experience . I don't think one ever truly feels the film is grounded in reality , and I do feel that's what Franco was going for . The film is really about Franco's love affair with the Canary islands and Romay's naked flesh . . the director's camera embraces both . I do think the setting , and voodoo imagery layered within , are crucial for the atmosphere produced in this film . I didn't particularly find any of the characters attractive , so the other strengths worked more for me that the multiple sex sequences . Ajita Wilson is quite a presence on screen , if the others in the film do little to assist her . Romay looks rather ridiculous in that wig , but she is basically in the film to move and twist her naked body in a bed , or being seduced by Wilson and her hideous , dog collared entourage .
Fiend Without a Face	Get a load of this premise : A scientist , whose studies on psychic phenomena are well renowned , has developed an apparatus that drains the atomic power from a US Airforce base radar which provides him with the ability to detach thought from his conscious giving it a separate entity . This entity becomes a monstrous fiend that drains intellect ( ! ) from human victims in a nearby town Winthrop attaching to the base of the occipital region of the neck ( by drilling two small holes ) , penetrating to the medulla obolongata where the spinal cord meets the brain . Now get this , the fiend sucks out each victim's brain while also removing their spinal cord ! Here's the kicker . . they're invisible and need brains to survive and multiply . The scientist , Professor Walgate ( Kynaston Reeves ) , didn't have a clue of what he unleashed on the earth . . all he was wanting to do was test his theories and prove that thought materialization was possible . The town , at first , blame the Airforce base for the deaths of the citizens due to their atomic radar experiments ( they use atomic power to increase the proficiency of their radar range to spy on the Russians ) , but when Major Jeff Cummings ( Marshall Thompson . . many might recognize him from " It ! The Terror from Beyond Space " ) begins snooping for answers they lead right to the Professor , whose physical condition has worsened due to his mental experiments . The climax is just fantastic . . the creatures gain such strength through the growing atomic radiation ( now that the fiends have multiplied , they destroy rods within the plant that control the ability to cut the reactor off ) they appear visible . They look like giant brains with the spinal cord guiding their movements . . they literally move around like snakes up trees and dart through holes at poor victims holed up in the Professor's house ! As Cummings heads for the base nuclear plant , a group of characters try to fend off the fiends . To stop them , the nuclear plant will have to cease giving them the atomic energy they need . The special effects are stunning for a film made in 1958 . The film really consists of amazing stop-motion effects . What's really cool is when the Airforce guys still alive within the Professor's house begin riddling the fiends with bullets . . this strawberry jam like goo pusses out ! I guess it's supposed to resemble blood , but I still thought it was well done under the circumstances of the low budget . You do see the brain creatures attach to victims at the end . The effects for the fiends both invisible when they move on top of ( . . and through ) objects , and the ending where they are visible and move around ( . . one cool sequence has one of the fiends using it's spinal cord to grab a chisel hammer ! ) , I thought were just superb . Consider me quite a fan of this movie . I don't know why it has such a bad rep . For 50's sci-fi monster movie fans , this is a must .
Evil Dead Trap	Toshiharu Ikeda's " Evil Dead Trap " seems to start out as an effective , ultra-violent slasher . One can clearly see where the Saw franchise may've gotten a few ideas . But , once most of the victims have been eliminated , this film takes a Mondo Bizarro turn and definitely left this viewer's jaw dropping a loud thud to the floor . Television station late night talk show host is sent what appears to be a snuff video recording where a female victim is mutilated by a knife blade , ripping her flesh , stabbing into her eyeball . Nami Tsuchiya ( Miyuki Ono ) wishes to pursue the one responsible ( . . she doesn't take the recording as serious , actually making funny to her director about boosting rating if she were killed by the psycho on assignment ) , who left a way of travel on the recording to an abandoned military installation , fallen to ruin , but her employers haven't the budget to fund such an expedition . So Nami's television crew , opt to join her , not knowing that a serial killer lies in wait , ready to butcher them in various ways , setting traps they'll unfortunately walk into . Nami meets a mysterious , handsome , quietly enigmatic man who tells her to be careful as he pursues his brother Hideki . This man knows more than he's telling and will meet up with Nami once again , after she loses her friends , who fall to the killer one by one . The major twist which is certain to floor a few folks if they haven't read up on this film is exactly who Hideki really is and how he will effect her life forever . As I mentioned at the very start , Ikeda sets up the film following the usual patterns well established in the slasher genre . A group of young adults enter into the hunting ground of a hidden psychopath , dying in gruesome ways . The first to die had just finished having sex with her boyfriend , who was the show's assistant director . Eventually , the characters separate , converge together , then walk into traps set by the killer . Like in numerous slashers , dead bodies surprise victims who only realize just what their up against after witnessing them . Wooden spikes stab through a female victim . One female victim , who actually makes it out of the warehouse , is attacked by the killer's servant , who subsequently sexually molests her while gripping her throat , strangling her just enough to keep her at bay as he forces himself in her as she struggles mightily to escape . Before he's executed with a metal pike rammed through his face and out his mouth , this deviant informs her ( . . but , more importantly , us ) that the two killers are actually one . She hopes to free herself , but is dragged over the roof of the company van by a wire noose slamming head-first to pavement . Another is bound by tape , as Nami trips a wire which sends a swinging blade into the side of her face . But , these elaborate death sequences ( . . including the opening snuff kill which certainly informs the viewer what you're up against ) pale in comparison with Nami's introduction and on-going battle with Hideki . That is certainly the show-stopping finale ( . . including what happens to Nami at the very end when she believes she had finally rid herself of Hideki forever ) I never saw coming . The very definition of " the rug being swept out from under you . " For the exception of Ono and her mysterious assistant , the rest of the cast ( . . like in your common slasher movie ) are disposable victims .
Black Friday	A scientist is about to be put to death via the electric chair and before this occurs hands a written diary of the events leading to this grim fate . A renowned brain surgeon , Dr . Ernest Sovac ( Boris Karloff ) decides to save his pal , professor George Kingsley ( Stanley Ridges , the true star of the film ) whose marvelous brain is damaged in a gangster shoot-out passing through when notorious mobster Red Cannon crashes into him . Sovac sees that his friend will die unless he can perform a delicate brain procedure using transplantation as a key to any degree of success . Red's spinal cord is broken so Sovac decides to use parts of his brain to save George . That's all well and good until Sovac notices that Red had $500 , 000 hidden away somewhere in New York City ( Sovac sees an opportunity to build a proper laboratory using Red's cash as means to build it while also paying for equipment he might need ) for which he summons that dormant personality inside poor recuperating George's brain . It's quite obvious that Red's personality is stronger that tender , gentle George and he soon starts bumping off those gangsters who betrayed them through strangulation . Marnay ( Bela Lugosi , effective with a rather minor role ) is the mobster who convinced Red's bunch to turn on him taking the top position . Sunny Rogers ( Anne Nagel ) is Red's former moll who is quite shaken with bewilderment when this older gent springs on her claiming to be her old gangster love . Sunny , however , is working behind Red's back with Marnay hoping to get a piece of the action if they can retrieve the $500 , 000 from him when he least expects it . Meanwhile , Sovac tries his best to keep the Red personality as dormant as possible just wishing to find out where the large cash box is . Unfortunately for Sovac , the Red personality can be triggered at the sound of police sirens . Jekyll and Hyde variation using gangster elements .
Night of the Comet	Cheerleader Samantha ( the gorgeous Kelli Maroney ) and her older sister , cinema employee / arcade wiz Regina ( the delightful Catherine Mary Stewart ) find themselves in a bit of a difficult situation . . the entire civilization as they knew it was wiped out by an apocalyptic comet hinted at as the possible reason behind the extinction of the dinosaurs . All that remains of their friends , neighbors , and city dwellers is dust marking the clothes they wore before the comet disintegrated them . Those that didn't receive immediate exposure to the radioactive comet ( . . and weren't lucky enough to have been inside a metallic structure like Regina and Sam ) are slowly dying by a plague slowly turning them into zombies . Regina and Samantha make it for a radio station believing the voice across their radio is a survivor find that it was a recording but do meet Hector ( Robert Beltran ) . Hector is a kind truck driver who was in the back of his truck trailer with a female hitcher when the comet came across the sky . Trying to reach out for other possible survivors across the air waves are heard by scientists ( including cult fave Mary Woronov and character actor Geoffrey Lewis ) slowly dying from the plague . The scientists believe ( well not Woronov who has accepted her fate as the plague has accelerated causing loss of memory ) that blood from those not effected by the comet can create a serum . This is probably false hope stemming from desperation as the scientists are losing their memory and becoming not only for irritable but dangerous as their plague is taking over . Certain peril often comes Reg and Sam's way as they pursue some sort of life outside of the apocalyptic situation probing a mall . In that mall is a pack of dying , nearly turning ( into zombies ) , and insane gang of thugs who wish to kill Reg and Sam . They will square off in a gun fight . Also , Reg will have to deal with the scientists wanting to extract blood from her while they believe Sam ( due to her scratching around the neck because of bad nerves ) has received the plague . Hector will return to San Diego for a short spell to try and see if his mother was a victim . Returning he'll have to rescue Reg from possible doom as those scientists also plan to extract blood from a couple of healthy kids found . Irresistible genre mixer combining elements of zombies , Valley Girl satire , apocalyptic sci-fi and counter-culture humor . It all works surprisingly well as this film is quite entertaining . But , the female leads are so wonderful to watch that they overcome some of the film's shortcomings . There's nothing funnier than seeing Sam firing off a semi-automatic at a car as her target for practice . To explain how these girls are able to escape some scruffy situations is that their father was a Vietnam vet who finally figured out that his children were girls . Not gory at all as zombie films often are . The film plays up the apocalyptic angle more and is successful at that . I think the 80's nostalgia factor is what makes the film so easy to like because the females are a product of yuppie consumerism .
Intruder	A psychopath , possibly cashier Jennifer's ( Elizabeth Cox ) recently released boyfriend who wants to rekindle their broken relationship , is murdering the employees of a grocery store on the verge of being sold . Outrageous gore film runs the gamut of bloody ways to kill these poor folks who have no idea that some madman is behind them . The numerous methods of this slayer include a person's face being destroyed by a box crushing machine , a face being split apart by a meat slicer , a person being hung on a meat hook through the throat , the trusty butcher knife stabbing into chests & into the back of one man's head , not to mention the unfortunate fellow forced eye first into a desk letter spike with blood trickling on a fallen lamp bulb painting the ceiling red . A meat cleaver is used effectively to halt a killer's attack on Jennifer , trapped in a fallen telephone booth , turned over by the psycho . And , to top it all off , the killer uses the decapitated head of a victim to throttle a man unconscious ! I think the grim conclusion , where innocents may be considered the ones responsible for the killer's carnage , puts a damper on the film's overall tongue-in-cheek tone ( . . of course , some may see this as tongue-in-cheek ) . And , I'm not quite sure the identity of the psycho and his reasons for butchering the grocery employees , holds up well . One might say that when the killer explains his bloodlust to Jennifer , why he continued to kill long after punishing his desired target , the slasher flick falls right in line with how over-the-top the movie is . Horror buffs should enjoy watching director Sam Raimi as a meat man and his brother Ted as a nerdy produce manager ( . . with a penchant for watermelon ) . Elizabeth Cox is cute and adequate in the role of " final girl " trying to escape the clutches of the serial killer , trying to find an exit from the store . Bruce Campbell is wasted in a small , unimportant cameo as an aggressive policeman at the end . Dan Hicks lets it all hang out as Bill , the grocery boss who resists the idea of selling the store he built from scratch , who seems to be a soft-spoken , kindly employer to his hired help . David Byrnes looks thuggish as the red herring ex-con boyfriend , who bullies those who attempt to pry him from Jennifer . Some slasher fans might feel frustrated with the film because it takes a while before the violence ensues , with director Scott Spiegel trying to bring a style , through every kind of camera angle imaginable , using reflections of faces ( bouncing from a lifted butcher knife , from mirrors or swinging glass doors ) , shooting from the inside of shopping carts , through empty spots ( . . between merchandise items ) on store shelves , from high above explaining the vastness of the killing grounds available to the psychopath . . if there was a way to shoot characters unusually with off-kilter camera angles , Spiegel does so . Obviously , Spiegel knows that the material he has isn't much , but by bringing an unorthodox style to this slasher flick , he keeps you entertained before the murder spree begins . An 80's sleeper and perfect Midnight viewing .
Blood Car	Sick-in-the-head , foul-mouthed , crude-humored comedy satire on the obsession of fuel about a quiet , scrawny , geeky vegan kindergarten schoolteacher , Archie Andrews ( Mike Brune ) who discovers by accident that his wheat-grass engine in fact works on blood . Through trial and error , Archie creates a metal fan chopper which he sets up in his trunk for animals with a long plastic tube that feeds blood to the engine . . but soon Archie finds that people make his car's engine run longer . What ultimately motivates Archie to commit such atrocities like dumping the carcasses of a dead old woman neighbor , war vet with plastic limbs ( . . he actually beats the poor guy into the trunk with his own plastic leg ) , a bubbly hot brain-dead blond ( . . he goads her to his trunk by proclaiming that puppies are back there ) , and black gangster ( . . and a gas station owner who wishes to know why the black gangster was in Archie's trunk ) in his trunk body smasher is the fact that profane and slutty Meat Stand operator ( ! ) Denise ( Katie Rowlett ) will perform all kinds of sexual acts just to have the pleasures of riding in a car ( . . she has a superiority complex deriving from the idea that those who ride in cars are simply better than those who can not afford to ) . The relationship between Archie and Denise is a tool for an endless parade of homosexual gags . . you'll find out as you watch it . Lorraine ( . . cutie Anna Chlumsky , of " My Girl " fame who is so short and nerdy , but so darn likable ) , the Vegan Stand operator ( ! ) carries a torch for Archie even creating perverse artistic renderings between them . But , most of the film shows Archie escaping endless threats by government suits who wish to commandeer the vehicle so that his blood car can be studied and mass-produced for the marketplace since gas runs 33 dollars a gallon ( . . this warped comedy is set slightly in the future ) . Most of the comedy is dead pan using skinny , weakly Archie , who bores his poor students to tears reading from novels that mean nothing to their rather young ears , as this vessel of parody . . he's often " showcased " in various sexual scenarios with Denise who may be " more " than she appears ( hint : during their first sexual confrontation , she has him wearing his own shirt over his face ) . Chlumsky , who doesn't appear in that many film since her childhood days , is just adorable yet carries this wanton sexual desire for Archie that culminates in a less-than-enthusiastic ( . . for her , it is , but Archie , no ) sexual episode on his bed ( . . not elaborated , so sorry for those who are curious about what Chlumsky might look like naked ) . Also , a running series of gore-gags concern the government agents who always seem to foul up either capturing Archie or his car , often ending up as fuel . For the most part , this film isn't for the easily offended , because most of the " funny " jokes and gags are really rather in poor taste . For instance , what the government agents do with all those who know Archie , so that they can erase his existence . SPOILER Or , the final gag where Archie , now perhaps President of the USA , holding an infant , does something with the newborn so that good ole America could still run those cars . While , the dialogue doesn't always tickle the funny-bone , there's enough outrageous moments of grue and blood splatter , along with the equal doses of wicked gags to sustain interest . But , this will undoubtedly ruffle a few feathers .
Flower and Snake	Aya Sugimoto is one of the most beautiful Japanese actresses I have laid eyes on . And , she gives a daring and courageous performance , prepared to do whatever her director , Takashi Ishii , desires to bring an authenticity and dramatic depth towards a female character treated with the utmost hostility , sexual degradation , rape and bonafide humiliation through some shocking acts of indecent behavior towards her by a powerful 95 year old Yakuza king whose stoic , deeply serious lieutenant assists in continuing the success of a underground establishment , known as The Coliseum , where they service a secret society of the most wealthy and elite with sex & torture shows . Sugimoto portrays a popular tango dancer , Shizuko Tôyama , whose weak , alcoholic husband , a president of a business going under , has sold her to the elderly Yakuza boss to pay off serious debts . Her husband regrets this decision and plans to bring her home , but discovers that Shizuko seems to be enjoying the depraved and violently sexual conduct performed in front of a costumed crowd . The film before Shizuko is kidnapped , displays how her marriage is quietly dying and that she has been having recurring S & M fantasies . So , in a dark sense of irony , what she had often dreamed is coming true . Her kickboxing female bodyguard , Kyôko Nojima ( Misaki ) , is also kidnapped and sexually molested and mistreated . While the old man and his lieutenant look on from a room through a wide screen at the shows presented for their " entertainment " , Shizuko is put through a rigorous and highly exhausting series of " performances " , her life in possible danger if she doesn't cooperate . Any attempts to escape seem futile . The ending opens a possibility that the torture shows and those behind them may not be what they seem . The film seems built to shock , but is incredibly well made and probably the most artistic representation of S & M mistreatment ever made . Or , one of the best . While Ishii doesn't exactly wallow in the fine details , there's enough indecency and deviant behavior to satisfy the kind of crowd yearning for so . The acting by the cast , especially from Sugimoto who is superb , is quite good . But , prepare for a lot of startlingly unpleasant sequences involving Shizuko , including a disturbing " reinactment " of Christ's crucifixion between two thieves , and our heroine's decision to make love with the very old Yakuza sleaze bag who uses his tongue to caress throughout her rope-bound body . A definite signature of torture in this film is how Shizuko , and Nojima , are often bound tightly to wood by rope . . . you can actually hear the sound and see the expressions of pain which really sell these scenes which are certain to make a few wary viewers squirm . There is a LOT of nudity , and Sugimoto often is featured naked , her fantastic physique put to the test often . It takes a committed performer to put herself through what this role demands .
Tourist Trap	Absolutely bizarre thriller regarding a nutcase with telekinetic powers who traps tourists making what they believe is a routine stop , resulting in him turning them into mannequins ! This nutjob has quite a large house where he has stored a BUNCH of mannequins which means quite a few unfortunate passersby fell into his supernatural clutches . We follow a motley group of people whose jeep breaks down and needs repairs ( we see the nutjob's telekinetic skill at work when he kills one of their members as he was attempting to find help with a low tire ) . Each member falls prey to the nutjob , dressed in an ugly , plastic mask and matty wig . Those who attempt to fight back , survive , or escape come to realize that the nutjob's abilities are just too powerful . The nutjob takes a personal interest in Molly ( Jocelyn Jones ) who resembles his wife from time past . Most of the film consists of each person stumbling into the killer who sneaks from the darkness " capturing " their will and seizing control . They have no choice but to be plastered ! Molly , because of her lucky resemblance to his wife , might be the only one with a chance to escape . Mannequins , along with dolls and clowns , are just creepy . They are blank , emotionless figures which represent the outside of a human being . They are put to great use thanks to this twisted , unusual premise . Shrouded in darkness , they seem to be alive and when their mouth fly open , a moment of harmony breaks out . It brings quite a delirious tone to the film as they lunge forward at their master's command . Notable for a flat-out bonkers role from Chuck Conners and eye-candy from Tanya Roberts before she became a Charlie's Angel and Bond girl . Not an overly violent film , but one that has a strange vibe that leaves you unsettled . Probably director David Schmoeller's best film to date .
The Witch	I had just recently revisited Wise's The Haunting , starring Richard Johnson in a role as dedicated , wonderfully humane " ghost hunter " , so I realized just what kind of talent the man really has seeing him in a completely different role as a successful ladies ' man , always moving from one sexual relationship to another , being pursued by a batty old former beauty , Consuelo ( Sarah Ferrati ) living within a ramshackle mansion which seems modeled after her . . both setting and owner have lost their luster , beauty now deteriorating . Johnson is Sergio , a " historian " ( . . he has a profession , but it plays second fiddle to his ongoing duties chasing tail ) sought by Consuelo for more than his skills at translation and setting her husband's old library , falling to waste and crawling rats , in order . Sergio is the kind of male used to getting what he wants until growing tired of whoever he's dating . But , Sergio , who doesn't seem that interested in the job , and less so with Consuelo who is hideous and ugly to him , finds a reason to remain when he meets Aura ( Rosanna Schiaffino ; a stunning Italian beauty of the 60's , with perfect curves and soft skin ) who seduces him by merely walking and moving around a room . . she has that effect on people , and would me as well . Sergio would be taking the position of Fabrizio ( Gian Maria Volontè ) , a slightly off-kilter man who seems a little distraught , absolutely obsessed with Aura , almost to the point of quiet madness . Very protective of her , Fabrizio wishes for Sergio to leave , but seems awfully distracted with her designs to perhaps release him for the new man who presents a threat to their relationship . Sergio , quite a caveman desiring to snatch Aura away and have her for himself , will soon come to blows with Fabrizio , with tragic results . With a cover-up ensuing thanks to Aura and Consuelo's threatening not to absolve him for an accidental murder , Sergio will find himself at the mercy of them . . he desires Aura to the point that he'd do anything to embrace her , a blissful passionate union results , but Consuelo doesn't wish for their happiness to last . Sergio finds that Aura is controlled by Consuelo , a form of witchcraft she uses to enslave men and he is caught in her web . Will Sergio ever get to have Aura when that horrifying wretch controls her comings and goings ? Or , will he remain in an emotionally tortured state awaiting Aura's return , at the mercy of Consuelo ? I watched a rather bad quality print , and believe the film is definitely worthy of a proper transfer . To see this in a pristine form , with quality sound and properly enhanced visual quality , " The Witch " might capture a wider audience . Director Damiano Damiani ( Amityville-The Possession ) crafts quite a tale of obsession and desire with quite a cast at his disposal . Johnson delivers in spades regarding a direct change during this film going from confident , manipulative male , quite able to conquer the beautiful supply of female populating the city , to a shriveling worm , weak-in-the-knees and pleading for his Aura . . completely controlled and under his paramour's spell . Ferrati looks like a witch , and has all the right features at creating an older jealous woman yearning to have the looks that would attract the men that were once cowering at her feet , making life miserable for those who now wish for Aura , a goddess manifested from her dark power to bring those like Sergio to a place of disquiet and agony . Interesting idea that Schiaffino's beauty is used as a weapon against men for they are overwhelmed by her outer qualities than the person herself which might just be the moral of the story . . being eclipsed by a Helen of Troy and willing to go to any lengths to inherit her , we find ourselves heading for a downfall . The film like Schiaffino's character is quite a tease , not giving us what we truly desire . That in itself also works within the story , men want Aura , but never truly have her . Volontè has a much smaller role , but he is incredibly vital to the story because he represents what Sergio will soon become once he has taken Aura to bed . He's our example of what Aura's power will slowly do to any man who finds themselves in her trap , swept away by lust . I think this is where Damiani's true strength lies , establishing Schiaffino as a ravishing creature , only available to the men in her circle when Consuelo decides so . Schiaffino is often shown disrobing ( . . Damiani never shows her nude flesh to my chagrin ) with the director just giving us a taste of her smooth skin , the camera often moving away as her clothes come off . We are carried away like Sergio because Schiaffino has that kind of on screen allure that draws you to her . Damiani wisely often closes his camera in on Aura as she works her magical grip over her victims . Schiaffino has that kind of face that enchants and a body to match . The film is what I'd definitely call a sleeper , probably will often be discovered either by chance or word-of-mouth . The director takes his time so this film might not work for everyone , but the use of darkness ( . . for which Aura often appears in and out of ) within the dying setting and the psychological elements within the story might just compel those willing to hang in there . My favorite scene would have to be when Aura makes Sergio unbutton / undress her with his teeth , no touching with the hands . This is a good example of achieving an erotic response without divulging actual sexual occurrences .
Whore	The night of confession for one " that walks " hooking while trying to dodge a homicidal pimp , Blake ( Benjamin Mouton ) who she wishes to abandon if he doesn't find & kill her first . Theresa Russell portrays Liz as bluntly honest , no-nonsense about her job and what comes with the territory of being a hooker . She seems a bit uneducated and a tad obnoxious , but , at the same time , you can't take your eyes of her because you never know what is about to come spewing out . Antonio Fargas portrays Rasta , a street denizen for whom becomes someone for Liz to lean on and eventually her protector as it seems Blake could kill her at any time . We see in one of several past vignettes explained to the camera ( us ; a device director uses to optimum effect . . this will either be a charm or annoyance to the viewer ) by Liz what violence can happen when an " employee " of his gets out of hand . . a hooker gets her stomach slit open and nearly bleeds to death . We also see that even having a friend to chat with seems forbidden as Liz has a forming relationship with a bi-sexual named Katie ( Liz Morehead ) for whose life is threatened by Blake . Blake is such a mean , cold-blooded bastard he threatens to hook Liz's son when he comes of age . The film is set up as a means for a hooker to speak candidly about what it's like being a " whore . " We see Liz working those who stop off to check her out and even see one or two possible clients getting a chance at a " good time . " One client gets so worked up his heart stops ! The film doesn't seem to judge Liz , but the profession and it's disadvantages . Be warned : the film is sexually explicit and profane from the moment we're introduced to Liz until the fade-out . I think either you will find Russell's performance grating and terrible or very watchable . I think Theresa is terrific , capturing a character who really fell off the side of the tracks and is trying to confront what her choice of profession has done to her ( loss of her child to adoption , the joyless task of getting men off , etc ) . I will agree with many that Ken Russell's film is a mixed bag often drifting from comedy into tragedy , but I myself just don't see how a woman like this ' story could be told any other way .
The Thirteenth Guest	Nifty little whodunit , featuring a young Ginger Rogers as an heir to a fortune , targeted by a hooded killer who hides in a hidden room behind a book case electrocuting those who answer a wired steel phone once he purposely triggers it to ring . Rogers is Marie , the daughter of a wealthy father who arranged a will reading with twelve guests at the family's dinner table , only to drop dead before getting to announce who got what . A thirteenth chair was open and her father left his entire fortune to the absent occupant . The only option to securing that fortune is to get rid of everyone in line to receive it . Marie was left with a peculiar letter which worked as some sort of code , perhaps to a hidden safe . The killer obviously wants the inheritance , but another mystery arises . . on the night of her 21st birthday , someone shot at Marie , with her narrowly escaping , and a person , with extensive plastic surgery to resemble her was electrocuted on accident . The complex case is under the investigation of private dick , Phil Winston ( Lyle Talbot ) , a dapper detective who is often called on by Police Captain Ryan ( J Farrell MacDonald ) when he needs special help solving a difficult murder . Ryan must endure the ineptitude of his partner Detective Grump ( Paul Hurst , the comedy relief of the film ) , who falls asleep on the job and isn't very reliable in following instructions . . Ryan must tolerate his stupidity because Grump is the relative of his superior . Meanwhile , the relatives of Marie's father arrive and are under suspicion . . there's a murderer among them , yet the innocent among them must be protected . We , along with Winston , realize upon their joining together that Marie's family loathe each other , constantly , through clever and vicious ways , insulting one another . Winston somehow must put aside his distaste for these greedy vultures and find the killer , while also uncovering the mystery behind the " substitute " for Marie who was electrocuted . Clocking at little over an hour , this mystery has all the interesting trappings associated with pulp crime novels . The number of suspects and red herrings . The rising death toll as the race to solve the case becomes ever so important . Adding the clues up one by one and soon discovering ( . . through a mistake by the killer who left the switch on with the result being another accidental murder ) where the hiding place of the murderer is located . The damsel in distress . The intelligent , wise detective with a knack for getting to the bottom of things no matter how complex they might seem . The identity of the thirteenth guest may not be that mind-blowing , but getting to that point is a lot of fun . Hurst is injected into the plot as a way to ease the morbidity of the material , his bumbling antics on display to rile up poor MacDonald who just wants to strangle him sometimes . The eccentricities of the suspects , and their treatment of one another add much to the entertainment of this little-known gem . Rogers , who isn't in the film as much as her top billing would surmise , still shows the spunk and charm that would later become so visible in her films with Fred Astaire . Talbot fills the William Powell role of classy , sophisticated sleuth , liquor always at his disposal , and a way of dealing with situations when they get out of hand . I'm guessing this flick is not particularly well known and could be of certain value to fans of these types of films . Some of the comedy is a bit dated , but I will admit to be amused for the most part .
Night of the Creeps	" Thrill me . " Events that occur in 1959 come back to haunt a campus of college kids , in 1986 , when a cryogenically frozen body with alien crawlies inside his brain is accidentally released by pals , Chris ( Jason Lively ) and JC ( Steve Marshall ) trying to fulfill a fraternity prank . An escaped lunatic / ax murder in 1959 , killed by young cop Ray Cameron , will haunt him years later as he has progressed into a much older , bitter , alcoholic Detective ( Tom Atkins , in one of the signature roles of his career ) called on the case to solve the mysterious deaths of open faced corpses which explode the alien leeches after their incubation cycles have completed . Once these alien crawlies enter into the mouths of their hosts , the human ceases to live , only becoming a host for the leeches to grow within the their brains . It's love-at-first-sight for Chris who falls head-over-heels for Cynthia ( Jill Whitlow ) , quite a virginal cutie , currently dating the head honcho of the most renowned fraternity , Brad ( Allan Kayser ) . Brad , of course , is a real jerk who never planned to allow Chris and JC to join their fraternity anyway . Soon the campus and neighboring town will be crawling with these alien leeches and zombies will be on the horizon , specifically after a serious wreck leaves many dead . And , a certain ax-wielding corpse will rise from his burial spot to strike again . The young leads of Lively , Marshall & Whitlow are likable , but this is certainly Atkins ' show . He has the best lines and delivers his performance with gusto . Obvious homage to 50's sci-fi horror and zombie flicks , this is derivative because of the the themes represented . . but this film emulates those past flicks lovingly . Dick Miller has a very amusing cameo as Walt , the man who operated the weapon exchange for the police department . I'd lie if I didn't admit that this film is special to me , like many other fans , for nostalgic purposes . . you know the 80's sensibilities and the way it spoofs past influences . This deserves an appropriate DVD release . . it does have quite a fervent following .
Tower of London	Roger Corman directs his vision of the William Shakespeare story about the humpbacked evil conniving brother Richard III to dying King of England Edward IV with a unique spin . Vincent Price ( quite animated ) plays the mad Richard to the hilt with theatricality ( I could also use the description , hammy , but he's still a joy to watch ) as he murders those who stand in his way to the throne . Whether it's to whip and stretch the limbs of Mistress Shore ( Sandra Knight ) , merely a handmaiden to the young princes of the throne , the suffocation of dead Edward's young sons , the accidental choking of his wife believing she was the ghost of Shore , placing a hungry rat in a head cage holding the Earl of Buckingham ( Bruce Gordon ) , or stabbing his brother in the back . . we see in Corman's surprisingly violent way ( . . hardly holding back . . we see Richard , and his right-hand man , smother the children in the Tower as one drops a puppet ) . But , the difference Corman brings to the story is the ghosts who haunt Richard's guilty conscience . Most of the story's layout remains . He will gain his crown , but run into a battle unprepared against an enemy whose smarter and more levelheaded since it's clear Richard should've never been King to start with . He gains the crown , but doesn't have the brains or know-how to fight a battle against a superior enemy . I loved the angle Corman adds to the story regarding the ghosts haunting Richard as it adds a flavor to the picture . . a ghoulish , entertaining element played with such macabre relish by a director with grand style in spite of limited budget and means . And , Corman's camera-work is stunning . However , I do feel purists will be turned off by this version of Corman's towards the story by Shakespeare . . the dialogue is dumbed down to where it can be easily digestible .
Missing in Action	MISSING IN ACTION ultimately marked Chuck Norris as an action hero and proved Joseph Zito could direct outside the slasher genre . Norris , in his minimalist acting style ( . . often earning him the scorn from many a critic often claiming he had nothing but " nonperformances " ) is quite a formidable adversary towards the Vietnamese enemy , more of a symbol of the Great American Soldier than an actual character , larger-than-life , certainly a more realistic example than Stallone's Rambo . Norris is a haunted soldier , motivated to find and rescue missing POWs from a Vietnamese compound , who'll do whatever it takes , and that includes killing everyone that challenges him , to save those men . James Hong , in a limited amount of screen time , always could provide a memorable Asian villain , in this one a leader of the new Vietnam a decade after the conflict had ended , accusing Norris of abusing innocent citizens , war crimes he didn't commit . Hong , as Tran , only fuels his desire to save those men from captivity . The film follows Norris ' journey to find them . Lots of action , including Norris choking the life out of Vietnamese soldiers , including jungle warfare , lots of ammunition fired from machine guns , exploding guard posts . It's essentially Norris against the enemy , tapping into the scorn that was continuing to permeate after so many American lives were lost in a conflict that went on far too long including a cost that left emotional scars , gaping wounds that continued to bleed . Norris is a hero that those scorned soldiers could root for , and MISSING IN ACTION would provide a victory they didn't receive during their tours in Vietnam . As you'd often see in 80's action films , the enemy can fire rounds upon rounds of ammunition , never hitting Norris , yet his Braddock can blow away a vast number of Vietnamese with limited gunfire . Zito's direction places emphasis on the threat to Braddock's life , and he always points out that there are dangerous individuals all around . But , you always had faith that Braddock would be successful because he was a cool customer that fully understood his mission , and his survival in Vietnam before this movie's current plot provides us with an idea of his skills as a soldier , his courage and intelligence . Braddock's a one man army with eyes in the back of his head , who can combat those that threaten his life , and is a dedicated professional with a goal he plans to see through no matter what it takes . Braddock's dogged determination is unwavering and those that stand in his way are mincemeat . I'm pretty sure these types of films infuriate the activists who cried out in unison against the returning soldiers , because MISSING IN ACTION is a pro-military movie painting the Vietnamese enemy as completely villainous , worthy of execution ( . . while also recognizing that innocents often get caught in the crossfire , such as one scene where an attempt to blow Braddock to smithereens results in locals being seriously injured ) . M Emmet Walsh shines in another memorable supporting role as Braddock's dependable old army buddy , Tucker , who smuggles goods in and out of Thailand . . his connections really help equip Braddock with what he needs , in order to combat the enemy , along with transportation in and out of those Vietnam jungles . Some tense action sequences include Braddock's quietly moving from his guarded hotel room to Tran's palace to retrieve the whereabouts of the POW camp , and his return . . while rather unrealistic , it's still quite thrilling . Also , Braddock's return to ' Nam , infiltrating the camp , methodical in his approach to slipping in without their noticing , and the result as he eliminates the enemy while getting those imprisoned out is quite an action-packed , suspenseful finale . Most notable for Norris rising from the water to blast three laughing Vietnamese who gleefully ( . . and briefly ) enjoy their handiwork of toppling over Tucker's Kevlar-equipped raft .
Born for Hell	A deeply troubled American Vietnam soldier , enters a violence-plagued Belfast from Saigon , where he encounters a house with nurses who share let , besieging them at night , binding their hands , gagging their mouths , promising not to hurt them . Cain ( Mathieu Carrière ) a cold , dark-hearted man , whose wife was impregnated by a soldier pal of his , is haunted by a terrible upbringing thanks in part to his mother . So the central female members of his life wronged him , and adding the weight of Vietnam and being left with next to nothing , no monetary means to sustain him , finding it difficult to get home , an unstable Cain is bound to snap , and the nurses will feel his quiet rage as he sexually humiliates them , while also often plunging his switchblade knife into their bodies . The film , while not as violent as it could've been , is extremely unsettling and depressing . The innocent victims do not deserve their fates and Cain removes each woman one by one , seeming harmless , only to run them through a series of emotionally and physically damaging acts . His methods are cruel and demeaning . Carrière presents his homicidal sadist with a calm exterior , trotting his pretty lambs to the slaughter as the other nurses await their doom in a bedroom , tied and frightened . While we perhaps aren't partakers to actually seeing the knife sticking into the bodies of his victims , the actions themselves are just as chilling , as is Cain's ways of conducting them . It doesn't seem to bother him . He orders the nurses to commit embarrassing sexual acts , either with him or each other . He strangles one female nurse with his belt when she wouldn't beg for his sexual embrace . One nurse , so distraught at what has happened to her friends and associates , uses Cain's knife to stab herself in the chest . . watch his multitude of reactions to her collapsing body , it's a very unpleasant sight . Cain has " Born for Hell " tattooed on his arm and he proudly shows it off to the nurses . At first , it seems , he merely wants their money , but as he remains it's obvious that Cain succumbs to the sick , depraved desires that are going through his mind . " Born for Hell " ( Also known as the " Naked Massacre " ) is in the same mold as " Last House on the Left " , " The Night Train Murders " & " The House at the Edge of the Park " , a twisted psycho with uncontrollable urges lashing out against vulnerable women . This film plays completely straight with no humor whatsoever creating an even more distressing tone . The environment of the setting where the killer commits his deeds only adds to the overall impact of this unflinching tale of hopelessness , despair and savagery . Despite being both powerful and haunting , I wouldn't call it entertaining , and I will probably never watch it again . Many will find it hard to sit through because the killer shows no mercy , leading his victims to certain death .
Dr . Cyclops	Okay little sci-fi horror effort about Dr . Thorkel ( Albert Dekker ) , a scientist who has discovered the way to break apart the molecular structure of humans shrinking them to diminutive size . Dr . Rupert Bulfinch ( Charles Halton ) wishes to know what a once prominent professor is doing in the Amazon and asks Dr . Mary Robinson and Bill Stockton ( Janice Logan and Thomas Coley ) to come along to find out what Thorkel is up to . Through the assistance of Steve Baker ( Victor Kilian ) , an owner of mules who only lets them use the animals if he can tag along , they soon find out the disturbing details of what Thorkel has been experimenting on . He had a pupil who called on him to assist when he had discovered a certain ore which might be the major biological link to changing molecular structure . As Thorkel began his experiments , he developed a " god-complex " which motivated him because with the power to shrink humans he could rule over them with a mighty hand . This group find out what Thorkel was up to , and along with his servant aid Pedro ( Frank Yaconelli ) , they are tricked into his " shrink tank " . How will they survive at such a small stature as even roosters and cats are much greater size than they are . They will have to climb chairs they normally sit in and even the smallest books are of such a heavy weight . They will all have to even brave the wild at one point in the movie or find themselves due to be exterminated when Thorkel finds that they are only small for a short time and will revert back to their normal size in time . If they are to remain alive would be detrimental to the threat of others finding out what Thorkel has been dabbling with . The film starts out kind of slow , but the visual effects are quite impressive if you consider the time they were utilized ( 1940 ) . We watch as they scale books to open a latch on a locked door , climb chairs to steal Thorkel's glasses ( his Achilles ' heel is that he can not see regularly without his glasses and also that he is also quite sleep deprived due to overwork ) , and fend for themselves against animal attack . Dekker plays Thorkel as a quietly mad intellectual , understanding what he is doing is evil , but quite unapologetic about what he wishes to do to keep his experiments from discovery .
Jack Ketcham's The Lost	Ray Pyke ( Marc Senter ) is a narcissistic developing psychopath , whose volatile nature is sure to eventually meet a crescendo of violence as his drug habit and infantile fits of rage represent a volcano on it's way to eruption . Ray's friend Tim ( Alex Frost ) and girlfriend Jen ( Shay Astar ) bare witness to his gunning down two girls camping out , and must carry such a burden out of fear for their safety ( . . that , and Ray has a control over them ) . This depraved act of violence works as a reminder to us that Ray is a ticking timebomb , as we watch his life slowly spiral out of control as Detective Charlie Schilling ( Michael Bowen ) hounds him over the murders , knowing that he's the one responsible , just without proof . Ray is the kind of dirtbag who dresses like a country stud , with boots ( . . with crushed bear cans to make him look taller ) , black jeans and shirt ( . . with additional slight touches of eyeliner ) & hair slicked back right in place . Sparta , as we soon realize , is a small blot in Texas where dreams are elsewhere and the pretty girls who live in this place have few options in regards to male suitors so Ray is one they flock to . He's merely an assistant manager of his mom's " Bates Motel " , but carries himself as if he ruled the world . Just charismatic enough to attract the local female , but it's merely an endless parade of humping and dumping , with the girls returning because there's nobody else it seems . Three particular female characters which have the misfortune to have ever found themselves locked into Ray's radar are Sally Richmond ( Alice Hirson ) , a young woman , temporarily working as a maid for his hotel , who wants nothing at all to do with him , recognizing the kind of sleazoid he really is ( . . that , and she is involved with a 60 year old retired detective portrayed by screen vet Ed Lauter ) , Kat Wallace ( Robin Sydney ) , a wealthy babe , her mom a schizophrenic , whose obviously attracted to the danger and mystery he presents ( . . that , and she's bored and craving excitement ) , not knowing how obsessive and juvenile he really is , and , of course , Jen who would do anything to please him , always on the receiving end of neglect , ridicule . , and abuse . Somewhat holding himself together , while abusing drugs and liquor , it's only an amount of time before Ray snaps . The fuse is lit by Katherine who Ray longs for in every possible way , as she backs away from a possible relationship . . it's realized that Ray was a fling for her , and she wishes to move on with her life . Also adding to this is the discovery that Tim and Jen have slept together ( . . and that Tim has been taking hash from him ) . We have come to the understanding that Ray's sanity is hanging by a thread and it won't require much for him to crack . Sivertson's disturbing portrait of decaying youth bent on destruction , given commanding treatment thanks to how developed the story is , and how it will end . Ray is the kind of character just looking for an excuse to terrorize somebody , and Senter does a good job of displaying the many facets of his troubled character . . someone attracted to the spotlight , addicted to a neverending stream of girls and drugs , also carrying serious homicidal tendencies , whose anger fits and outbursts serve as a warning of things to come . Robin Sydney is quite a find , a stunning bombshell whose quite photogenic and seductive ( . . the camera loves her ) . . you can see how such a gal would cause Ray ( . . or many a man ) to get all out of sorts . Astar is appropriately pathetic , and sympathetic as Ray's much maligned squeeze , deeply in love with him no matter how emotionally he abuses her . . Ray doesn't even hide his sexual excess from her , yet Jen remains loyal to him . Frost is the buddy who probably wishes to be Ray , to have the girls at his feet , the charisma to approach people the way he does . This setting is rather depressing in that we see a cast of characters with little to do but embrace the drug and sex culture available . Ray's fury at the end is rather unsettling and shocking , once he decides to go on a shooting rampage , killing anyone he so chooses ( . . this has been on the horizon for some time , and Kat's rejection of him finally sends him over the edge ) , gathering up the girls who infuriated him the most . We also follow Schilling's dogged determination and on-going interrogation to bring Ray to justice , getting what he has so longed for with the unfortunate price of lives . Sivertson's skills as a visual filmmaker are proved here ( . . and in I KNOW WHO KILLED ME , although that one is ridiculously convoluted and silly ) with how he captures the events and characters , building them to the eventual climax . Carefully , Sivertson details what will bring Ray to the breaking point , and those characters who are effected by his rage . The climax takes place in the cabin where Ray discovered the guns used on innocent people , and is appropriately chilling , as he collects the girls who caused his psychological trauma together . . completely unglued , Ray has become lost to madness ( even besieging a couple there to clean up the place ; his violence towards them is truly unpleasant , to say the least ) as Schilling grills Tim for his whereabouts .
Cecil B Demented	Hollywood's aging star Honey Whitlock ( Melanie Griffith , who seems like she was born to star in a John Waters flick ) is kidnapped by " cinema terrorists " with director Cecil B Demented ( Stephen Dorff ) head honcho behind the whole ordeal . Honey is to star in his underground film which is shot on the streets completely devoid of the studio system . The whole point behind the anarchy of Demented and his group is to pointedly bitch-slap the establishment in the face , by any means necessary . Unfortunately Baltimore will be the target of their crusade and Honey becomes a cult hero as a media circus develops . The police make it their mission to bring down Demented . The crew of this film range from a porn star ( who claims she was molested by her entire family underneath the Christmas tree ) to a Satanist ( who gulps down goat urine ) , but they are extreme fans of cinema and believe the system Hollywood is backing needs a revolution . Demented's film is aimed as the start of the evolution of a new artform . Soon violence erupts as a result of his raw film-making style ( they attack a theater showing the director's cut of PATCH ADAMS ; and a stand-off with police during a riot of a Maryland Film Commission luncheon ) . As the film continues , Honey has a change of heart regarding her captors once she realizes that Cecil is behind her new rise in popularity . Grows more and more absurd as the Waters ' film continues ( Honey leaps off a building landing on her feet below ; Honey sets her hair on fire for Cecil ) such as Demented and company raiding the set of a FORREST GUMP sequel starring Kevin Nealon ( ! ) resulting in a gunfight with teamsters ! There's an inspired chase into a porno theater where Cherish ( Alicia Witt ) gets seats for her group in a film starring her as the remaining teamsters find themselves against an army of pervs ! There's even a chase into an action flick where Demented calls on the fans of the theater to assist them against a pack of spiteful mothers from a grocery store ( ! ) who hate what the cinema terrorists are doing to their youth . The film is as demented as the title character who is willing to burn himself alive in a wheelchair for his film !
The Night Stalker	Chain-smoking , liquor-swilling homicide detective Sergeant JJ Striker ( Charlies Napier ) and his loyal street-wise tough partner Charlie Garrett ( Robert Viharo ) are after a massive , nearly unstoppable serial killer ( Maniac Cop's Robert Z'Dar ) , whose Asian ritualistic practices ( . . chanting gibberish , snapping victims necks and painting the faces white , inscribing ancient symbols on their bodies with black ink ) render his body impervious to bullets . This psycho , Chuck Sommers , is an unhinged ex-mercenary , forgoing proper psychiatric methods , opting for " self-healing " and it seems that when he kills , he gains a power over death ! Striker's alcoholism is a major problem that continually plagues him throughout the film . After his partner is killed by Chuck when happening upon a fresh crime scene involving a recently murdered hooker he's checking on , a more sober , determined Striker pursues his adversary . Michelle Reese stars as Striker's long-suffering , ridiculously dependable lover , Rene ( . . once a call-girl gone straight ) and the absolutely beautiful Katherine Kelly Lang ( . . a veteran soap opera actress ) is her " surrogate daughter " Denise , who he will not , come hell or high water , let sink into the business of prostitution no matter what proposals sleazy pimp Julius ( James Watkins ) offers her way . Just guess who Chuck will eventually target ? You bet , Rene and , especially , Denise . It'll be up to Striker and the police to somehow stop this killer or else his murder spree may never end as long as his power continues to progress . It was a thrill to see The Nape in the starring role , even if for a cop action drama with serial killer undertones . Many of the traits associated with cop actioners are in this film . The usual liquor store shoot-out spilling into an exciting chase throughout the streets of gritty Los Angeles . The lead cop's partner being killed . The lead cop seeking revenge , motivated to find justice for his fallen comrade . The film has the usual seedy elements of street prostitution and cop stake-outs looking for the killer . As often is the case in these thrillers , the killer often stays ahead of the police , with a help coming from another source , Chuck's former psychologist . You have the usual friction between Striker and his superiors . And , we see a great number of policemen blown to smithereens in the climactic shoot-out as Striker himself must stop Chuck , who captures Denise prisoner equipped with a machine gun having taken a cop car from the film's department ass , Vic ( Gary Crosby ) who remains a thorn in our hero's side throughout . But , I was so jazzed about The Nape , intense as ever , squaring off with the menacing Z'Dar that despite the film's very standard presentation , I couldn't help but embrace this thriller . Sometimes it was hard seeing Napier in such a drunken , pathetic state , but when he gets his act together , the film builds up to a action-packed close inside a warehouse . I found the plot , regarding Z'Dar's ability to withstand bullets a bit silly , but he cuts a very monstrous figure , silhouetted in darkness . And , his ferocious attacks on victims , hoisting them in the air , breaking their necks with such a vicious snap , certainly leaves an impression even if these murders aren't gory . But , this is The Nape's show all the way and there is a span of time when the killer isn't even present in the movie as director Max Kleven ( . . known more for his stunts , which isn't surprising due to the well-choreographed action sequences in this film ) focuses in on Striker and his story . The film really seems to build around his relationship with Rene and Denise , his daily consumption with alcohol which hinders his duty as a cop , and the important friendship with partner Garrett ( . . Nape's camaraderie / chemistry with Viharo is an asset to this film , I felt ) . A useless sub-plot has Denise growing close with a young pup detective , Buddy Brown ( Joseph Gian ) .
Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things	For the first hour this plays like a warped comedy , as it regards a theatrical troupe whose ego maniacal , " carrying a few screws loose " leader Alan Ormsby , ruling over them with an iron fist ordering his employees around holding up their acting jobs as collateral for they are to resurrect the undead on this island graveyard off the shore of a big city ( New York ? ) using witchcraft . Unbeknownst to them , it works and the final 20 or so minutes cashes the check you zombie fans were waiting to receive . Boy , the closing of the film as the zombies unearth from their tombs ratchets up the terror considerably . I don't know if it's the low-budget photography , the unsettling sound effects , or grungy make-up effects ( not to mention , the choice of skin tone color . . sure seems to increase the foreboding quite a bit ) that makes the final half-hour so intense and disturbing . It could be Clark's in-your-face style or that feeling of helplessness as the characters run out of options as the zombies close in . I think this would make an interesting combo with Fulci's ' Zombie 2 ' . The first of Bob Clark's 70's Horror Trilogy . Not everyone's cuppa tea ( MANY hate the characters / cast of the film ) , but I'm a fan of this flick .
Hatchet	A group of New Orleans visitors take a ride on a con artist's swamp tour with the guide crashing the stolen ( ! ) boat into a rock at the shore near the infamous home of an undead zombie killing machine , Victor Crowley ( Kane Hodder ) suffering from Elephant man's disease , seeking his father who died from a broken heart after accidentally murdering his son with a hatchet to the face while trying to break down the front door as the house was set on fire by stupid prankster kids throwing firecrackers on the porch . Members of this motley group of unfortunates include a love-torn Ben ( Joel Moore ) who hasn't recovered from his girlfriend's cheating ways , Ben's pal Marcus ( Deon Richmond , the token black guy with all the one-liners and comic facial expressions ) who wanted to see more titties at Mardi gras but decided to stay with his depressed bud , Marybeth ( Tamara Feldman ) whose haunted by the disappearance of her redneck gator hunting father and brother ( . . portrayed at the opening by Robert Englund and Joshua Leonard ) who were last seen heading for the off-limits swamp where Crowley lived , Mr and Mrs . Permatteo ( Richard Riehle and Patrika Darbo ) as your typical cheerful and vibrant tourists , " Shapiro " ( Joel Murray , Bill's bro ) a would-be director who suckers two gullible , idiotic models , Misty ( token hottie Mercedes McNab ) a bubbly bird-brained blonde and Jenna ( Joleigh Fioreavanti ) who was stupid enough to fly from New York to New Orleans for " the part " into thinking they're starring in a film , and the tour guide who gets them all in a heap of trouble , Shawn ( Parry Shen ) with multiple accents and little common sense . The film follows these poor folks as they run around a swamp trying to find an exit out as Crowley , an unkillable deformed maniac with a plethora of weapons and startling power , hunts them down one by one . Trying to dissect the film to make sense of how Crowley lives and has the abilities he has to inflict such damage to victims is a waste of time . If you are looking for a film based on the nuances of characters or their plight , look elsewhere . . this is a film made by a slasher fan for slasher fans . Crowley is little more than a variation on Zombie Jason from the latter Friday the 13th sequels , brutally destroying these people in grisly fashion . The story actually derives from Adam Green's 8 year old mind at summer camp and there's little depth . A backstory of a son supposedly dead whose restless spirit returned to find pops killing everyone in his path because he's scared and lonely . That's not much but Green is catering this flick towards a crowd he knows lives and breathes for this type of entertainment . He delivers the gore in spades . All practical effects from John Carl Buechler's company which give us an array of nasty make-up grue . The violence in the film range from a woman's head being pried apart from her mouth to a victim's lower jaw being rearranged by a gas-powered belt sander ! The belt sander victim gets finished off when Crowley plunges her body into a shovel handle ( . . the shovel spade was used to remove one poor victim's head ! ) . And , slasher fans get plenty of boobies and lots of blood spray . McNab and Fioreavanti both display their nicely shaped breasts for the film and we get a chance to see blood splattered and spewing throughout the trees of the swamp . Crowley even removes limbs and organs from victims ( . . one victim gets his heart ripped from his back . . ouch ! ) tossing them away once they are removed . One victim gets thrown up against a mausoleum after his arms are plucked from his body ( . . obviously inspired by the sleeping bag kill in Buechler's own directorial effort , Friday the 13th Part VII ) ! The film was infectious for me because it's so enthusiastically made and there's a level of fun , carnage & chaos about the whole movie . . the beast is turned loose to prowl and strike and we witness this collection of disparate characters scared out of their wits not knowing where he's liable to pop up next . The cast is dandy and each actor / actress gives all to their characters and there's some witty banter between the bunch of them . The film plays it mostly tongue-in-cheek regarding the humor ( . . often the character archetypes are slasher clichés Green is poking fun at ) , with gory violent spurts intruding upon the characters . This film will attract a certain crowd and is also equally certain to repel others ( . . those who hate or dislike the slasher genre as a whole will not embrace this flick , I don't imagine ) . I do hope this film's exuberant following will allow Green to return to the director's chair . . while I think this film is entertaining , he's liable to create even more enjoyable films as he directs more and more .
Sugar Hill	Southern Crimelord , who doesn't take no for an answer , Morgan ( Robert Quarry ) desires the popular club of a black businessman , Langston ( Larry D Johnson ) who wouldn't sell and is beaten to death by his thugs . Diana " Sugar " Hill , who was his fiancé , vows revenge and gets help from Voodoo Priestess Mama Maitresse ( Zara Cully ) and the summoned spirit of Baron Samedi ( Don Pedro Colley ) . Samedi offers to assist Sugar on one condition , that she gives her soul to him . Sugar , whose love for Langston provides a burning , thriving hate for those who murdered him , accepts . The rest of the film shows how Samedi , and his undead zombies , eliminate Morgan's men . Morgan still persists in buying the club from Sugar but has no idea that she has much more in store for him . Meanwhile , detective Valentine ( Richard Lawson ) , once a boyfriend of Sugar's , begins to find a scent leading towards Sugar regarding the ritualistic ways Morgan's men are found murdered . Tame blaxploitation revenge voodoo horror flick , has lots of attitude and colorful characters . I really enjoyed Colley's outrageous Baron Samedi with his demented eyes , plated teeth displaying a wicked grin enjoying " playtime " with his victims , and giant top hat . Quite a flashy character , played to the hilt with gusto . I couldn't get enough of him . . a real hoot . He's always present when Morgan's men are about to meet their impending doom . Marki Bey , as Sugar , is tough-talking , foxy and fine . . a representative of the Pam Grier model . You mess with her and there's hell to pay , that's for sure . Bey has an authority to her and I think that's an essential ingredient in a film such as this . Nothing wimpy about this chick , and she doesn't cower to nobody . Quarry is terrific as her arch nemesis . . . a real , slimy , racist bastard who treats the men under him like cattle . Betty Anne Rees is Celeste , Morgan's mistreated lover . Despite how he pushes her around , talking down to her as if she were swine , Celeste isn't a sympathetic character . Nope , she a rude , crude smart-Aleck , who is just as racist as the one she pampers . I loved Celeste's reactions towards Morgan's attractions to Sugar . There's even an amusing little fight between Sugar and Celeste for our enjoyment . . guess who wins this skirmish ? Cully is also quite a memorable character as Mama Maitresse , a voodoo queen you don't want as an enemy . Along with Samedi and Maitresse , Morgan never has a prayer . And , those zombies . . aren't they a creepy brood ! Covered head to toe in cob-webs , with pale skin , eyes of silver , and long hideous finger nails , these zombies are often photographed coming directly towards the screen . . quite an eerie sight . If you are not a demanding viewer , accepting that " Sugar Hill " is simply a film about supernatural revenge , then there's fun to be had . The murders , quite imaginatively set-up and executed with tongue-firmly-in-cheek , aren't graphic , but seeing Morgan and his men squirming and pleading for their lives as Samedi and Sugar smile with glee , is grand . The title song , Supernatural Voodoo Woman , is out of sight , baby !
The Conqueror Worm	Matthew Hopkins ( Vincent Price at his sadistic best ) and his partner John Stearn ( Robert Russell , just as sadistic as Price , but a bit more animated and primal ) seek to do the Lord's work for Parliament under Cromwell rule . They torture and murder an innocent priest and two females of false witchcraft in a nearby village . Sarah ( Hilary Heath ) a servant for the priest ( while also engaged to Ian Ogilvy's soldier Richard Marshal ) tries to use her sexual wares to manipulate Hopkins into saving the priest , but is soon raped by Stearn which raises the ire of her returning soldier / future husband Richard Marshall who will vow vengeance against the fanatics and their sadistic means of torturing innocents they say consort with Satan ( obviously , their " great work " comes with a handsome payday ) . The film shows how vicious witch hunters can be and how their methods are sometimes unlawful ( the priest doesn't confess , but Hopkins persuades two witnesses they had better agree he did ) . We also see how Hopkins expands his killing methods from hanging to burning witches at the stake . When Marshall and Stearne quarrel in a tavern , Hopkins will have to devise a unique scheme to rid himself of any possible annoyance and danger of vengeance-seeking soldier ( shown in the film as a courageous warrior in battle who saved his leader from certain death ) . The film is quite violent , though doesn't dwell on the torture methods for too long . We get a clear picture of what lengths these men will go . Seeing Hopkins barely twitch or show sympathy is Price's point of showing you a unique kind of sophisticated monster who knows how to earn his pay ( and into the panties of certain women put in difficult situations ) one way or the other . The film ends rather abruptly , but with enough brutality that those who committed their terrors against innocent people get the proper punishment for the inhumanity and suffering they caused .
The Curse of Frankenstein	As he awaits his execution , from a prison cell , Baron Victor Frankenstein relates his story to a priest regarding the monster he created from the dead with his own hands and the consequences that derived from such actions . Along with Van Helsing , the diabolical scientist Frankenstein was one of Cushing's iconic characters . Unlike the Universal series which veered somewhat away from the creator towards the creation , Hammer studios remain completely focused on Cushing's scientist and how , time and again , he'd oftentimes succeed in his experiments regarding the reanimating of dead life , only to be thwarted by events out of his control . I have never cared much for make-up artist Ashton's work because often the monsters ' faces created from Frankenstein's hands look like putty . Unlike Karloff's monster , Lee's creature is basically an uncontrollable killer , strangling anyone in his path . Lee , as always , cuts an ominous figure on screen , but his performance of the monster makes him pitiful , homicidal , and confused . The true evil creature is Frankenstein himself , and we see the lengths he'll go to see his work go unharmed , and will do whatever it takes to achieve in creating a superior being . . whether it's killing an elder genius for his brain , pay a penniless sculptor for his hands , or murder a jilted lover / maid-servant when she threatens to expose him . In this first Frankenstein film , Cushing's scientist doesn't have a demented hunchback assistant . . a constant in the Hammer series , unlike the Universal features that inspired it , is that Cushing often works with ideologically minded young men eager to gain knowledge by assisting Frankenstein . But , almost always , despite the breakthroughs Frankenstein achieves , his creations fall apart / are destined for failure due to various problems such as miscalculations , public / law enforcement / scientific & religious community , and fate . He continues on despite the wreckage left in his wake towards others . Robert Urquhart is Paul Krempe , Frankenstein's tutor , who collaborated with him for many years on a series of experiments regarding the reanimation of the dead , only to question his pupil's morals and lack of emotions in regards to his methods to gain success in creating life . The voluptuous , well-endowed , and lovely Hazel Court is Victor's cousin / fiancé Elizabeth who always plays second fiddle to Frankenstein's experiments , wishing to spend time with him as the scientist remains in his laboratory endless hours . Paul considers his pupil mad and believes Liz could be in grave danger due to Frankenstein's willingness to achieve at any cost . Paul is privy to Victor's activities . The Frankenstein series fluctuates in quality from film to film , dividing Hammer fans on which is best . Whether other films in this series are better , " The Curse of Frankenstein " was the first and we have benefited thanks to it's success . Cushing ably portrays him with different facets of emotion . . he's determined ( . . too determined in fact ) , strong-willed , confident , stubborn , unapologetic , cruel , cunning , intelligent , and even cocky . Perhaps the major flaw of the overall series is how Cushing's Frankenstein often changes from film to film . He's actually friendly , considerate and sad at times , while purely evil and vindictive as well . Cushing shifts his scientist to fit whatever story his character is plunged into . I'd say the Frankenstein series was far more imaginative and daring than the Hammer Dracula films , which could become familiar and repetitive . Similar to the Universal series , the monster is often used and abused , despite Lee's menace , there's still a degree of sadness we feel for him , particularly when his brain has been tampered with again , barely able to walk upright or understand Frankenstein's instructions clearly . The monster's treatment in the series might be a weakness for major fans of the Universal films with Karloff , since barely , at any time , do those under the make-up and costume , have a chance to express the pathos needed ( . . except maybe " Revenge of Frankenstein " where a new creature is developed at the request of a hideous hunchback desiring an Adonis ' body only for the experiment to fail , as always ) .
Baby Face	Escaping the life of being pimped by her father ( . . and the speakeasy waitressing ) who dies in an explosion , Lily Powers ( Barbara Stanwyck , who is simply ravishing ) sluts her way through the branches inside a bank business in big city Gotham . When a possessive lover murders who was supposed to be his next father-in-law ( and Lily's new lover ) , the sky's the limit for Lily as she has written down her various relationships in a diary and subtlety makes it known the papers will receive it if certain pay doesn't come into her hands . Newly appointed president to the bank , Courtland Trenholm ( George Brent ) , sends Lily to Paris instead of forking over lots of dough , but soon finds himself madly in love after various encounters with her in the City of Love . This makes Lily's mouth water as now she'll have reached the pedestal of success seducing a man of wealth and prestige bring riches her way . Though , circumstances ensue which will bring her to make a decision that threatens her successful way of achieving those riches . . Trenholm , now her husband , is being indicted with jail certain and has lost the bank . He needs money Lily now has in her possession or he'll have absolutely nothing . Stanwyck is the whole movie despite that usual Warner Brothers polish . Being set in the pre-code era gives the filmmakers the chance to elaborate on taboo subjects such as a woman using sex to achieve success and how that can lead to tragedy . Good direction from Alfred E Green shows through subtlety hints in different mannerisms and speech through good acting from the seductive performance of Stanwyck how to stage something without actually showing the explicit act . Obviously the film shows that money isn't everything and all that jazz as love comes into the heart of Lily's dead heart . That ending having Lily achieve the miraculous metamorphosis into someone in love didn't ring true to me . She's spent all this time to get to that platform only to fall for a man who was essentially no different than others she had used before him .
Face	A facial reconstructionist for the police department , having turned in his resignation due to stress and a sick daughter whose lost her smile , is receiving visitations ( . . as does his ailing daughter ) by a dead woman's spirit urging him to pursue the face of a skull that will lead to the identity of a serial killer surgically removing hearts from young women for a doctor who doesn't question where the donated organs come from . A certain twist in " Face " is gonna take a leap in logic for folks to accept it . The film shows our hero , Lee Hyun-min ( Hyeon-jun Shin ) , being plagued by a demanding ghost and an " assistant " , Jung Sun-young ( Yun-ah Song ) motivating him to continue his work . He first believes his mission in finding the identity of a skull will lead to his daughter's health rejuvenating ( . . the film points out the possibility that the ghost will not let his daughter's heart function properly unless her killer is apprehended ) . When our facial reconstructionist desires to know the identity of the donor whose heart resides in his daughter , the master heart surgeon's resistance proves that there might be a corrupt means of obtaining these organs . Soon the surgeon is found hung by a noose and the whole film takes on an even greater hunt for the killer whose identity still remains unknown . An assistant shows up at our hero's door step claiming she's to help him put the face on a specific skull . When that skull isn't of the woman he was hoping , a vision leads him to yet another one , buried under sand , rotted partially . Whose identity of the skull this entails is yet another twist that'll have you going , " Huh ? ! " The whole film is really this building of a mystery . . who is killing these poor girls , and who is the ghost haunting Hyun-min . The pay-off certainly is a stunner . Like I said , this twist might be a bit too much for some viewers to accept . I liked this film , myself . I thought it built the story along nicely , with a lot of heart behind such a grisly premise . Not that violent as you'd expect . Does work more as a hunt for a killer with Shin and Song working beautifully together on screen as we witness their characters ' blossoming love for one another . And , I thought the film's following a facial reconstructionist was a great idea . . it's rare that we get a film designed from this character's point-of-view . Too often it's the detectives and forensic teams , yet this film significantly focuses on the importance of a man who can put the face to a damaged skull . His role is even more important because the killer melts the bodies after removing the hearts . There's enough spooky ghost stuff ( images of the female ghost pop up around Hyun-min as she appears in mirrors , her shadows on the floor , coming towards him , crawling on the ceiling , etc ) to hold viewer's interest , I believe . . that is what draws the audience into checking out the film and it's plot .
Deathmaster	Enigmatic vampire , who arrived oddly on the shore of a beach in his casket , whose arrival is introduced by his enforcer / guardian , Barbado ( LaSesne Hilton ) playing a flute , masquerades as a philosophical leader , whose language regarding life and love casts a spell among the aimless hippie youth in a quiet little town . Only young Pico ( Bill Ewing ) , who resists his power of influence , can stop vampire Count Khorda ( Robert Quarry ) who plans to sacrifice his girlfriend Rona ( Brenda Dickson ) in a Satanic ceremony . Pico will have to rely on the only help he can depend on , an aging hippie , Pop ( character actor , John Fiedler , who is one of the most recognizable faces in Television history and the voice of Piglet in Winnie the Pooh ) to help defeat Khorda who has turned all their friends into vampires . Rarely seen Quarry vampire picture that , according to the great actor , was purchased by Sam Arkoff and buried into obscurity . Thankfully , Fred Olen Ray's DVD company Retromedia was able to get the rights and , not only that , but have audio commentary for DEATHMASTER with Quarry , which is quite a rewarding experience for fans of the horror icon . The print is fantastic and the director of the film , Ray Danton , has a very distinctive style where the camera follows the action , but in a very sophisticated way . The film is definitely of it's time , quite dated , but a fascinating curio for Quarry fans who are very familiar with his Yorga character , but not Khorda ( . . this film was sandwiched between the Yorga films according to Quarry ) who is dressed in elaborate robes , jewelry , and long hair carrying the appearance of some guru or oddball prophet . . Quarry admits in the audio commentary that his look is fashioned after Charles Manson and that the film itself regarding the hippie youth was modeled after his followers . Not incredibly violent , with Khorda's neck attacks shot in a non-offensive way , and DEATHMASTER still follows the basic vampire principles established in filmdom ( . . the cross effects them as does a stake through the heart ) that we're accustomed to . By and large , this film benefits almost entirely from Quarry's charismatic presence alone , even if what he has to say to the hippie kids is basic mumbo jumbo ( . . Quarry admits that he ad-libbed much of this dialogue ) often used at that point and time while these youth were stoned or spaced out on acid . Quarry even gets to pay homage to Lugosi with the close-up of his sinister eyes multiple times as Khorda uses his power to hypnotize victims . Barbado is about as imposing as his master , a bulky statuesque type of security who towers over everyone he comes in contact with . His face never changes , always distant and cold . Ewing is a very unlikely hero , a kid out of his league against a far superior foe . . but the film allows him to become a worthy adversary , because of the very fact that he's not particularly your prototypical knight-in-shining-armour . The beach is a stunning location as is the cool tunnel underneath the hippie commune house where Khorda keeps his resting place ( . . it also leads to the beach and has a submarine door ! ) . Only real beef I have ( . . despite the now silly hippie-speak ) is the title . . this kind of vampire movie needs a more credible title .
Raw Meat	Devious little nasty nugget about a cannibal in the abandoned " rabbit warren " Underground tunnels who has started to surface into the public subways for walking human meat , those unfortunate souls who happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time . When a certain wealthy aristocrat , with a penchant for kink and sleaze , comes up missing , a couple who were the last to see him alive , Alex ( David Ladd ) and Patricia Wilson ( Sharon Gurney ) go to Inspector Calhoun ( Donald Pleasence in a terrific role cracking wise with witty , very funny , acid-tongued crudely delivered dialogue , often aimed at his always-smiling detective Rogers , played by Norman Rossington as if he's just able to keep from bursting into laughter while often firing right back at his boss ) hoping someone can help him . Patricia is a kind soul who found the man laid over the steps of the station in incredible fright . When she and Alex find a copper to assist the man , believing his either drunk or sick , they are shocked to find his body gone . We find deep in the inner-workings of a darkly lit tunnels , the cannibal ( Hugh Armstrong ) with his lady-love ( June Turner ) on her deathbed as he weeps mournfully over her . In a long camera-shot , we see his lair as body parts lay throughout with partially eaten corpses hanging on the wall . When she dies , the cannibal , with nasty infected wounds showing signs of the septicemic plague he's contracted from rats , seeks out a mate and kidnaps Patricia ! With Alex in a frenzied state of panic , he informs Calhoun and takes off into the dark tunnels seeking his lover no matter what harm might befall him . Meanwhile , Calhoun and Richardson themselves will pursue their suspect in a desperate search for the missing aristocrat's body hoping to stop the killing . Delicious ( pun intended ) macabre tale with a demented sense of humor and creepy photography inside the killer's lair . Often also quite disgusting when showing the killer's unfinished lunch , not to mention , all the sores throughout his diseased body . The script gives Pleasence lots of sharply written barbs to fire at people with a nice touch regarding his tea , delivered to him also accompanying the bag still in it . The cannibal can only say one sentence , he repeats add nauseum , proclaiming to Patricia as he chases her in the tunnels when she's able to flee his grasp , " Mind the doors . " Christopher Lee has a minor , but effective , cameo as a MI 5 agent who has told Calhoun to stay away from the case of the aristocrat ( who seems to have been committing naughty deeds against his government ) or else .
Cat People	Long ago the ancestors of Irena and Paul Gallier ( Nastassja Kinski & Malcolm McDowell ) sacrificed their children to the leopards . The souls of the children grew inside the leopards until the leopards became human . They were gods then . They are an incestuous race and can only make love with their own . . otherwise they transfer . Before becoming human again , they must kill . This is explained in a dream sequence to Irena because she is falling head-over-heels for Oliver ( John Heard ) , the main man at a New Orleans zoo . His assistant is Alice ( Annette O'Toole ) and they have to tranquilize a leopard that has almost killed a hooker in one of those sleazy hotel rooms . That panther is actually Paul having succumbed to lust he must needs kill somehow . Unfortunately his wish comes true when Joe ( Ed Begley Jr ) , another one of Oliver's assistants , gets his whole arm ripped out of the torso when he is trying to calm the cat down . Paul's sole desire is to mate with Irena so their torment will end regarding that change that occurs when one strays away from their own kind . But , Irena is so attracted to Oliver that Paul doesn't stand a chance . There in lies the conflict . Oliver deeply desires and wants Irena and vice versa , yet she is caught in an unfortunate situation thanks to her bloodline and heredity . If they partake in wanton sexual activity , she will turn and have to kill . I think the film looks great . Special thanks for the film's visual style goes to Ferdinando Scarfiotti . Director Paul Schrader said that if the powers-that-be would've allowed it he would've added Scarfiotti as co-director . His ideas behind the zoo lab ( how it is set-up is quite original and unique . . it really gives Schrader a chance to be creative with his camera and how he lenses Heard's zoologist walking throughout it ) and the sandy landscape of the ancient sequences at the beginning where we see the leopard sacrificial ritual are stunning . Splashes of color and how Irena sees are flavorful to the eye . Though , despite how wooed I was with how it looked , I thought the story was a bit corny . It's quite lurid and sexually free . Kinski really gives herself over to the part and Schrader's camera hypnotically embraces her . She must expose her beautiful nude body frequently . Though , one might call the film unabashedly sleazy . I mean , I'm not about to complain regarding seeing Annette O'Toole's nice breasts , but one could make a pretty good argument that it was unnecessary . This film only has really one relation to the original film too many people tried to compare it to . . the pool sequence where O'Toole's Alice is possibly threatened by Irena . The transformation sequence isn't too shabby if quick . What's funny ( . . this is how I felt anyway ) was that the film feels so sophisticated it seems to come off less perverse than it really is .
The Abandoned : Death Never Runs Out of Time	Marie ( Anastasia Hille ) , a movie producer , born to a mother who dies under suspicious circumstances in an impoverished part of Russia , returns to the motherland of her birthright when a lawyer explains that her identity regarding her parents has been discovered . Her past in Russia is a black hole and Marie's desire to search for any clues regarding the mother she never knew will bring her to a decrepit , creepy farmhouse . The driver , Anatoliy , who brings Marie to the location vanishes and she takes it upon herself to find the place of her birth , hidden in darkness behind trees . Marie meets a " ghostly double " of herself , with these spooky dead albino eyes and wet body , which obviously freaks her out . In her decision to run like the wind , Marie almost drowns , but is rescued by a mysterious man , Nicolai ( Karel Roden ) who claims to be her twin brother also searching for the truth regarding his past . Both encounter creepy images while searching throughout the house and slowly uncover the past regarding their mother . . and something about themselves they wish remained buried in time . They realize , when the past yields what occurred that day a husband decided to turn on his family violently , that fate is awaiting them as Midnight approaches which will announce their birthdays . Trying several times to escape the farmland , Marie always seems to wander back as if she's not meant to leave , while also often encountering that same zombie double of herself . Eventually we see that Nicolai's fate is similar , except his double has a devastatingly torn torso prescribing a grim fate . It seems Nicolai has faced the idea that they can not return to the lives they once lived as Marie doggedly continues to find some route of escape . Are their fates sealed ? Will they ever be able to leave ? Will they be able to escape their father's clutches a second time ? This is some kind of twisted film , I'll tell you . It can be frustrating , but I found rewards in it after sitting through the entire film letting the story and it's pieces come together . Understanding each mind-boggling event ( or events ) ( the " dopplegangers " and their roles in the grand scheme of things , the house's important role at the end , the father's major impact on the entire story , fate and what it deals the two main characters who made their decision to pursue the mysteries regarding their parents , etc ) as the entire story comes together makes the film surprisingly entertaining . I imagine many will have their problems with the supernatural mumbo jumbo regarding how a certain character could orchestrate such a " gathering " to settle unfinished business , but this didn't bother me . The ending's gloomy twist actually brings more truth to the title of the film when you find out who the narrator ( who opens and closes the film ) is . Spooky house , mostly set at night where mere candle-light or flashlights lighten one or two rooms leaving an opening for something evil to pop from the darkness ( and the cob-webs and rotted walls ) . Lots of eerie noises and ominous sounds , also .
Torso	Lesser Sergio Martino giallo still has a lot to recommend from it especially a very suspenseful finale . The film works best as a building mystery with one story ( Daniela and Stefano ) actually being a diversion from the true story arc thanks to a twist that comes out of nowhere . A psychopath , donning a ski-mask , strangles college girls with a red-n-black scarf and sees this recurring image of a child's fingers poking the eyeballs out of dolls . When a couple are both killed after passionate love-making , the police make it known that there is a possible killer targeting college kids . Couple that with the murder of a well known slut ( the scarf is dropped and shown to the college kids as evidence providing everyone something that might trigger a possible suspect seen wearing it recently ) . The film points loudly towards Stefano who shows signs of being possibly homicidal as he almost strangles a hooker ( with his hands , mind you ) and obsessively stalks Daniela . Daniela is a key character in the film for she seen who was indeed wearing the killer's scarf , and she thinks about one that Stefano was wearing that looked eerily similar . Her uncle convinces Daniela to take a trip with two lesbian friends to his château to get away from the trauma for a couple of days . The château is way on this massive hill apart from a village below . The other key character is visiting American Jane who is a friend of Daniela's and excepts an invite to come stay at the château herself . Before leaving , Jane has a possible love interest in art professor Franz . The killer doesn't just use a scarf to kill , but often cuts certain later victims with a knife ( he runs over a scarf vendor with his car when said vendor tried to blackmail him ) . In the final 20 minutes , poor Jane , who suffered a twisted ankle after tripping down the stairs , is stuck in the château as the killer is down-stairs carving up bodies to bury away . She will have to find help or some way out of her bedroom towards the top of the stairs without the killer's knowledge in order to survive . A key element in the film is a village doctor Daniela and her friends meet on a train coming to the village who later attends to Jane's badly twisted ankle . While the story is much weaker than other Martino gialli , the finale delivers the macabre goods in high order . The violence isn't as effective as others in the genre which does hurt in a way because the effects used in the murder sequences look quite unconvincing . The two leading females , Suzy Kendall as Jane and Tina Aumont as Daniela are gorgeous creatures . . this is always a constant in Martino's gialli . Also , the film submerges with female nudity with Martino's camera luridly crawling up the bodies of beautiful women . I believe this film does influence later slashers just in how the murders are set up and how the killer looks .
5 Dolls for an August Moon	A wealthy industrialist , George Stark ( Teodoro Corrà ) , invites various couplings to his palatial island beach house with the goal of needling a " scientist " , Prof . Farrell ( William Berger ) into selling a formula that could lead to millions . Several of the men who show up to George's shindig are business acquaintances also desiring to purchase the formula . One by one , the visitors ( the wives who came along as well as their husbands ) fall to a quiet killer using various methods while others ' backs are turned . Playing off the oft-used " Ten Little Indians " concept , someone ( . . or more than one ? ) amongst the group is bumping the others off . For macabre humor , director Bava has George store each fallen victim in his freezer wrapped in plastic followed by some music to commemorate being among the death-list . Before long , they are dropping like flies until a mere three or four are squabbling over who is sneaky and slick enough to pull off the killings without being noticed . That is what Bava toys the viewer with setting up a possible killer , and then subsequently upping the ante by pulling the rug from under us a good three times at the end . For a film Bava was forced into making , the twists that come at the end are quite inspired . I especially enjoyed his pokes at the wealthy . . it's kind of a satire on just how greedy , vile , and back-stabbing the upper-class yuppie types can be . The desire for more and more wealth is played to it's zenith at the end . It seems that Bava doesn't give us anyone to care about , providing us with a list of unlikable , selfish cretins to root against . We are perhaps given a character with humanity in the scientist , but , as the film continues , even he is corrupt and exposed . Not violent at all for a psycho thriller / mystery . It features an attractive cast with a bevy of beauties wearing skimpy outfits . I think it comes off better because Bava seems to have contempt for these people which might explain why the scenes in the freezer seem much more absurdly amusing than a normal reaction might extract from the viewer . It's typically stylish , but Bava surprisingly holds back ( . . this might be considered a weakness from Bava's avid fanbase who like it when Bava lets loose a visual frenzy often making up for the story's lack of bite ) allowing the mystery to take center stage .
The Head	Eerie little thriller regarding the deranged antics of a mad scientist who keeps a renowned professor's brain alive even after having to decapitate his head once the weak heart stopped beating . His plans include removing the head of a hunchbacked woman ( . . a crippled spine , but beautiful face ) , reapplying it to the luscious body of a stripper . Horst Frank is the cold-blooded scientist , Dr . Ood , who perfects the serum of Professor Abel ( Michel Simon ) and uses it to keep his head alive while disposing of colleague Dr . Burke ( Kurt Müller-Graf ) who threatened to stop him . Ood's a brilliant plastic surgeon having performed on the face of Lily ( Christiane Maybach ) who poisoned her husband and needed an escape . Lily's sexy figure is perfect for a crippled patient , Irene ( Karin Kernke ) , who has been waiting for delicate surgery on her spine for some time , and Ood is only happy to oblige . Ood was once a guinea pig himself , his brain experimented on , his intelligence increased along with an accompanied madness that is starting to cause him to become more dangerous to anyone that threatens his happiness with Irene . Meanwhile , a paralyzed and mortified ( . . and tired ) Professor Abel attempts to talk some sense into Ood , discovering that he's beyond reason . Dieter Eppler is a sculptor , Paul Lerner , who becomes involved with Irene as she attempts to leave Ood ( . . Lily was a model for Paul and a birthmark exposes Ood's crime to Irene's dismay ) . Helmut Schmid , as Bert , is a loyal assistant to Abel ( . . and eventually , albeit reluctantly , with Ood ) who becomes an adversary of Ood's when he uncovers his secrets involving the professor's unfortunate situation . As other user comments have elaborated , and rightfully so , it's hard not to think of THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE when watching THE HEAD because both films deal with a victim's severed head left alive , their demands for death gone unanswered as the ones responsible have other disturbing plans in store . . . and both share the link of an attractive model being chosen to as a host body for the titular head . What separates the films is mood and tone . Director ( . . and writer ) Victor Trivas is able to create an unsettling atmosphere that is ever present and Frank's reserved approach ( . . until the end where Ood is finally overwhelmed by his insanity ) to his obviously cuckoo scientist add a quality woefully missing in THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE . Plus , THE HEAD is more focused and far less corny , clearly exploring implications from a series of devious , coordinated procedures by Ood whose sole purpose , it seems , is benefiting his own twisted agenda , obtaining the prize that is Irene , his creation . Kernke , once operated on , has quite an alluring sex appeal ( . . her figure finally revealed after wearing a robe covering her body , bent and hunched as she walked ) which calls to our attention just why Ood desires her to the point of violent obsession . The visual effect of Abel's head , absent a body , is impressive considering when the film was made . . I mean , you have an idea of how it was pulled off , but still , I've seen far worse effects in the past ( . . even regarding the use of CGI ) . Effective score also adds much to the macabre behavior of the film's protagonist . A bonafide sleeper I think is worth a look .
Tower of London	A Universal Studios take on the rise of the cunningly evil Richard III to the throne disposing of those who stand in his way as the film continues . Basil Rathbone ( deliciously mad ) is perfectly cast as Richard III while Boris Karloff portrays his evil executioner and loyal henchman Mort . Stylish , but melodramatic . Does have good tense moments as heroic John Wyatt ( John Sutton ) will work behind-the-scenes the try and take Richard III down ( . . though at one time is captured and subsequently tortured by Richard and Mort for he has lead a successful operation in stealing the king's treasure ) . Some battle sequences and a wonderful supporting performance from Vincent Price as the wimpy Duke of Clarence .
Psycho III	Psycho III has taken it's share of beating from critics and fans of the first two films , but I firmly stand up for the fact that there are some great things that derive from this sequel even if it doesn't work as a whole . I think the macabre humor is the stand-out plus for the film with two or three sequences very inspired . And , I was one of those who liked the possible love angle for Norman . Norman ( Anthony Perkins , still very good ) has been living quite a quiet existence until numerous things begin to take shape that will only result in tragedy . It starts with the whole fact that Mrs . Spool's disappearance is a constant reminder in the film . Her ghost looms over Norman as certain characters may possibly uncover what he did to Spool in the last film . The three most important characters in this second sequel change Norman's life , all for the worse in many ways . First , he hires Duane Duke ( Jeff Fahey , perhaps overdoes he role ) , one of those pretty boy-white trash types with his " all-smiles " charm that wins over many a lady unless you're the type that sees through all that for what he really is . We see , though , a nasty streak permeate in certain situations that recognize that Duke is anything but the nicest guy in the world . He gives Diana Scarwid's Maureen Coyle a ride when she wishes to escape from a horrible occurrence and we later see the monster inside Duke as he tries to molest her when he pulls over because of a severe down-pour . When she slaps him for not stopping , he says adiós leaving her to stand in the rain . Later , he takes on a temporary job for Norman who needs an assistant to help around the Bates Motel ( In an inspired moment , Duke tells Norman , " I just won't be staying around too long . " Norman , with that stuffed owl and it's wings spread behind him overhead , answers , " No one ever does . " ) He picks up a dame at a local bar , and after she puts out , throws her out of his room with nothing but a shower of insults down-grading her . Second , a reporter working on a piece about psychopathic behavior and if they should be released from prison , named Tracy Venable ( Roberta Maxwell ) will not go away . She actually hires Duke to spy on Norman since he could probably notice strange behavior or other unorthodox types of behavior which might yield guilty suspicions of dangerous activity . She begins snooping around Mrs . Spool's life and is always trying to probe into Norman's life one way or another . If anyone will sniff out what Norman might do wrong , she will . The third character in the film is Maureen Coyle who looks like Marian Crane ( the scene in which Norman spots " MC " on her suitcase , and his horrified reaction , are golden moments of jet black humor ) and is so shaken in how her life has turned out she tries to commit suicide while staying at the Bates Motel . Duke , not knowing that Room # 1 is a " no-no " to hand out to just anyone , gives that room to Maureen only adding to the macabre joke that Norman's psychological baggage is carrying yet another heavy bit of luggage . When " Mother " decides to put an end to Maureen " she " finds that the young , tortured woman has already slit her wrists . In the most fascinating sequence in the film , Maureen is looking up at " Mother " , but she sees through her crazed mind , The Virgin Mary . After surviving the suicide attempt , thanks to Norman who just happened to stop by in order to drop off clean towels , they start a warm , friendly relationship which doesn't go over well with " Mother . " This is a film that is unlike the other two films because it is effected by the slasher genre ( this is an example many users have already pointed out , but I just wanted to reiterate it ) . The violence that occurs to several people is much more potent and bloody . Perkins , as director , has a heavy religious sub-text within the story that shows how disillusioned poor Maureen is , and after accidentally killing a nun in a bell-tower , is searching for her own private island . She freely admits to a priest / psychiatrist that lust was mainly why she couldn't fully become a nun and that might just end in bad results for her because of the location she winds up at . The Bates Motel seems to be a place that attracts people trying to get away from something . I think the mystery of who is killing is more than obvious . Sure , Perkins shrouds the person in drag with shadow , but the figure is more than recognizable if you look hard enough . Not to mention , there only a few possible suspects since very few characters frequent within the story . I can't tell if Fahey is just badly acting or if this character is trying to put out the charm loudly placing outwardly this facade of " Mr . Nice Guy " until his more sinister side comes out . . specifically towards women . He might identify with Norman more than we think , and Perkins often photographs him as a disturbing type of fellow who might have homicidal tendencies . I feel he's a scumbag just out to make a buck , and always looking to bag a dame . . he's your heel that you just know will eventually clash with Norman . But , as I pointed out earlier on , I think the love angle was an important step , even if it was merely inevitable that something ( mainly , " Mother " ) would cease it from forming into something amazing for Norman to shift his existence into the norm .
Return of Dr . Mabuse	Director Harald Reinl ( The Torture Chamber of Dr . Sadism ) helms this solid , complex Krimi , another entertaining entry in the Dr . Mabuse series starring Gert Fröbe ( . . the great Bond villain , Goldfinger ) as an inspector , Lohmann , investigating a case in regards to several murders connected to a crime syndicate . Lohmann soon discovers that the murders are connected to a prison ran by Warden Wolf ( Fausto Tozzi ) with certain prisoners , hypnotized and operating at another's orders , willing to kill for the mastermind over their control , that being Dr . Mabuse himself . Along for the ride are Lex Barker , as a double agent , Joe Corno / Nick Scappio and reporter Dahlia Lavi ( . . as Maria Sabrehm ) . As the mystery unravels , Maria is actually daughter to a brilliant chemist unjustly sent to prison , Professor Julius Sabrehm , who has reluctantly provided the chemical agent which removes the humanity of prisoners , which conditions them to follow orders at the will of their controller . Werner Peters is Böhmler , whose responsibilities are to keep the prisoners in line , and secretly reports to Mabuse . Rudolf Fernau is Pfarrer Briefenstein , a suspicious priest , who may also be part of Mabuse's network , operatives using his church as a base . The movie's plot stays busy , keeping your mind occupied , as Lohmann attempts to tear apart the syndicate with Mabuse quietly orchestrating a plot to attack an atomic power plant using the zombie prisoners . Characters like Joe Como and Maria have their own agendas , so the film often keeps you guessing as to the characters ' motivations and who Lohmann can trust . It was neat seeing Fröbe in the detective role , trying to uncover the truth as to where Mabuse is located ( . . if it is even Mabuse ; he's supposed to be dead ) and how to stop him . Lavi is just to die for , positively gorgeous , with those wonderful curves . . what a fine specimen . I thought RETURN OF DR MABUSE was quite atmospheric with a fine detective story that maintains interest , even if you can figure out the mastermind of the operation . I liked the mad science aspects as to how Mabuse commands his zombie soldiers and watching Lohmann's response to the diabolical criminal . . the cat-and-mouse between the two always keeps the plot interesting . I also liked how Lohmann isn't the most perfect inspector , sometimes outwitted by Mabuse ( . . of course , he does put together the pieces of the puzzle , but Mabuse , at times , gains the upper hand ) . Intriguing idea regarding Mabuse's use of criminals , his main base of operations being a prison . . talk about thumbing your nose to the police !
El Vampiro	Casa Negra sure blessed Gothic horror fans with some very atmospheric offerings including Fernando Méndez's ambitious , Universal Studio's flavored Mexican horror classic , El Vampiro , a film which certainly wears it's Dracula inspirations for all to see . The story isn't that difficult or original regarding a vampire's desire to gain control of an age-ravaged ( . . and sadly neglected due to a lack of hired help who moved off in fear of being vampire victims ) hacienda needing the proper ownership in the possession of Marta ( Ariadna Welter ) , a visiting relative from afar called at the behest of her sick aunt , María ( Alicia Montoya , wonderfully made up to look completely bonkers , hair frazzled and grey-streaked , face wrinkled and worn , cross with an emblem of a crucified Christ held tight to her chest ) . María supposedly died before Marta was able to arrive , but the situation is not as it seems . Marta would get off her train and discover that a method of transportation to her destination was remote at best , befriending a kindly traveler , Dr . Enrique ( Abel Salazar ) who would join her in a trip to the desolate hacienda , finding it practically abandoned and cob-webbed . We later find that Enrique was called by Marta's uncle , Emilio ( José Luis Jiménez ) to see if María was in fact loony , or if her ravings about a vampire was true . Aunt Eloisa ( Carmen Montejo ) is in league with vampire , Count Karol de Lavud ( . . who has taken the alias , Duval , Lavud spelled backwards , perhaps echoing SON OF Dracula , when Lon Chaney Jr's vampire took the name of Alucard ) who wishes to own the hacienda and assists in keeping an eye on Enrique , attempting to persuade Marta to sell off her portion of the place , given to her by María after her moment of death . Count de Lavud plans to resurrect his fallen brother , desiring to join forces to drain the blood of all the living across the country-side . Will Enrique and Emilio discover de Lavud and Eloisa's dastardly plans ? Or , will this fanged duo of evil conquer the hacienda , having a place of refuge after blood-sucking innocents who live nearby ? Germán Robles is effectively cast as a handsome Count , very much in the Lugosi tradition , except he has sharpened fangs and is often shown burying them into necks , including a ferocious attack on a peasant boy walking home in the wilderness . The hacienda is an ideal setting , perfectly morbid and decaying , with a marvelous mausoleum , and the usual secret room hiding María away from those who wish to gain control of her home . Some of the low-budget effects , stringed bats , objects lifted invisibly in a mirror ( . . Marta is looking into which is where Eloisa is supposed to be standing ) , scenes where the vampires appear and disappear , are a bit hit-or-miss , but director Fernando Méndez understands how to create decadent locations for his vampires , bathing them in shadows . And , even though the strings are apparent , I love his ideas for having the bats flying towards the balcony of a bedroom , entering the place of rest for a potential victim . And , Robles has the right amount of menace and quiet evil needed to properly present a cunning and cruel vampire . All the film really needed was a charismatic and worthy adversary and unfortunately Salazar is too much the charming , romantic type . . more of a Harker character than a Van Helsing .
Warlock	Warlock ( Julian Sands , perfectly embodying his witch with just the right amount of confidence and joy in his evil activities ) , granted access through teleportation from 1619 to the 1988 by his Satanic Master , is on a mission to seek the Grand Grimoire , a specific bible which holds the " lost name of God " , when uttered can " undo " creation plunging the world into chaos . Christian Witchhunter Redferne ( Richard E Grant , cast against type and surprisingly successful in the heroic lead ) , who followed warlock into vortex , travels to the same year , also hoping to find the book , but is surprised to know that his church folk split the book into three pieces , with pages secretly hidden across America . Redferne will need the help of someone who understands this new world and enlists the reluctant aide of Kassandra ( Lori Singer , given the spunky modern 80's gal role , cracking wise . . has great chemistry with Grant ) , a young woman whose friend's home the warlock exploded into from his vortex . She initially joins forces with Redferne because of an age spell the warlock cast on her . . a bracelet of hers , in his possession , will need to be retrieved or she will die . But , as these film tend to work , a friendship will form as the threat of our very world lies in danger , if our heroic duo fails in their mission . Miner's snappy direction keeps the film at such a quickening pace that you do not have much time to see the flaws . I think the leads bring a great deal of fun to the proceedings , inhabiting their roles with gusto . There's some religious mumbo-jumbo Grant's witch hunter uses to counteract Sands ' warlock's black magic which many might roll their eyes at , but I thought it added to the film's charm . I actually liked the special effects . . they're " primitive " by today's standards , but I think the f / x are handled rather well , particularly the flame which rises from Sands ' warlock . Some tongue-in-cheek humor , with many of the gags deriving from the appealing " fish out of water " concept of two men from 300 years ago in the late 80's , which I found enjoyable . Also , Sands seems to be having a blast in the role as an evil warlock , seemingly relishing the chance to play a character with a chance to " dethrone " God . Grant , using a heavy Scottish accent , plays his character straight to Singer's jokey quips . Good fun to non-discriminating viewers . Macabre gag of the film . . Sands achieves the ability to fly thanks to the off-screen skinning of a non-baptized child using his cooked fat as magic ( . . we often revisit Sands drinking the lard ) . Mary Woronov has an amusing cameo as a would-be spiritualist Sands uses to contact his Master . Many , including me , might actually consider this one of Miner's most entertaining films .
Perry Mason : The Case of the Lethal Lesson	A law student , Ken Malansky ( William Moses ) , in a class taught by the respected and admired attorney Perry Mason ( Raymond Burr ) is framed for the stabbing murder of a fellow student , the brash , cocky and good-looking Frank Wellman , Jr ( John Allen Nelson ) who had assaulted and almost raped his girlfriend , Kimberly ( Karen Kopins ) . Kimberly and her brother Scott ( John DeMita ) are also in Mason's class studying court law . After convincing Mason of his innocence , Perry finds the case troubling due to who the murdered student's pops was . . his friend from the past , successful , financially influential , and incredibly wealthy businessman Frank Wellman , Sr ( Brian Keith ) . Despite Wellman Senior's urgings to remain off the case , Mason agrees to represent Ken , whose life takes a roller coaster ride when a flame from the past pays bail , filthy rich , feisty , sublime , and beautiful fiancé Amy ( . . the yummy Alexandra Paul ) . Soon Amy is playing amateur sleuth attempting , like Ken , to find out answers as to who was in that locked room the night Wellman Jr was killed . That night is important . Only those in the classroom knew of Frank's late-night studying for a mock trial to occur the next day . Kimberly's fellow student and roommate informs Ken of what Frank did to her . Enraged Ken storms out to confront Frank . His knife was stolen two weeks prior to this specific night . As Ken's leaving Kimberly's friend is smiling , that's because she was actually the one behind Frank Junior's success , writing and preparing everything for him . . when he dumped her , revenge ( . . Ken beating him up ) caused that smile as Ken was leaving angrily . Once Ken makes it to the classroom ( . . not seen is a stop by a cop who writes him a ticket , important in the case later on ) , he lifts the key ring from the security guard , bursting in and finding Frank lying dead on the floor , his own knife in the murdered student's back . The real killer , silhouetted in the darkness , brushes Ken aside framing him . A major important piece to the puzzle is a video geek , Eugene ( Brian Backer , of " The Burning " fame ) who might have evidence or knowledge of something important to Mason's case . . Amy's pursuit of the truth for her man will possibly reap results as she sets her sights on catching Eugene . But , ultimately , Mason's skills as an attorney will yield the best results as he moves towards Frank Junior's past which may cost a life-long friendship , even calling pops to the stand regarding how he helped his son get ahead in law school . One more twist comes from Ken's roommate Travis ( Charley Lang ) who mentions that he witnessed him rummaging through his dresser drawer finding his knife , possibly endangering Mason's case . I grew up watching these Perry Mason movies as a child and loved them . Of course , Mason isn't the imposing towering presence he was as a character actor in his classic Hollywood days , so a great deal of the field work which yields results in his case come from snoopers Moses and Paul , who you just know will end up together by the tele-film's end . What I always appreciated most was Burr's resolve and charisma , even as a much older Mason , who moves much more gingerly , you believed in his wisdom and nose for figuring out the details not yet revealed . Paul is delightful and lights up the screen and Moses , trying to deal with a case that could send him to jail and juggling two female relationships at the same time . Moses would later join Mason as that budding lawyer , working on the field for his boss pursuing leads , putting himself in danger . Barbara Hale also returns as Mason's confident Della Street . They have the same eternally wonderful chemistry from the old television show . The movie , as the others would continue to provide , unravels clues and other suspects emerge . And , as expected , Mason rips to shreds those who threaten his case finding the real culprit in the process .
The Scarecrow reviews " The Relic "	Every once in a while I like to watch a good old monster movie . Hyams has helmed a film which delivers the goods with a creature which resembles an ancient monster of Brazalian myth . Miller is the evolutionary biologist who finds that something is not quite right with some kind of mineral ( which covered Brazilian leaves and looks a bit like berries ) and learns that this is a major source in what caused a beetle to become QUITE large . Miller desires ( along with Linda Hunt playing the museum curator ) funding for her research and operations . Chi Muoi Lo plays a sleazy butt kisser who desires the grant money as well to seek his own employment and escape being under the leadership of Miller . Tom Sizemore plays a superstitious detective trying to uncover the deaths of fisherman whose ship was found operation-less on the shore . They were killed by something which removed the hypothalamus from their brains . The museum ( set in Chicago as a " Natural Arts Museum " ) soon starts to become a killing grounds as well when we see a security guard get killed right in the middle of smoking a joint . Sizemore soon loses officers as they seek out under the tunnels of Chicago ( which would be an accurate place for the killer to travel ) the responsible killer . Soon Sizemore and Miller become acquainted as he tries to figure out how the security guard ( whose death resembles the dead shipping crew ) and the shipping crews deaths are linked . Meanwhile , the museum is setting up a great gala which will feature many prominent members of Chicago society such as the mayor and grant suppliers . Sizemore has his hands full with pressure to allow them to open the museum up despite knowing that it's possible the killer is still present . He decides to allow the top floor open as he searches down below to find the killer . Soon , Sizemore discovers ( as we do ) that the killer responsible is a giant monster . The screenplay writers make very sure that many will perish as this museum is so elaborate it has a grid security package which locks down steel doors and lights when something appears to go wrong . What no one is in store for is a creature which tears the system to shreds causing the whole museum to lock down trapping many inside . Soon , many will become tasty morsels to the huge monster and somehow Miller & Sizemore must stop it . The film is expertly photographed in shades of dark only allowing us to see a little . He creates a creepy atmosphere here with a museum which has many corners and a monster which explodes from the darkness with much fury . Stan Winston's monster effects are outstanding and the film provides many well made gore effects . It's a thrill ride and moves at rapid speed . The film tries to provide scientific jargon to explain how such a monster could exist ( or provides insight into the DNA and reasons behind how the monster exists ) into the mouth of Miller . Whitmore has a good supporting role as Miller's confidant and elder statesman .
Answer Me	I can understand why others reacted rather unpleasantly towards the climax yielding a twist that really is hard to take seriously . I think , though , that the build-up to it works rather well . The music , quite menacing and spine-tingling , really provides a spooky aura matching the unforgiving sound of a constant ringing telephone that is driving struggling English actress , Joan Matlin ( Jean Marsh ) bonkers . She's borrowing a pal's nice apartment while attempting to jump-start her career in New York City ( . . the city buildings outside the window look about as realistic as David Letterman's ) and is unceremoniously welcome by a noisy telephone which rings quite a bit , followed by loud slams against the wall . Searching for answers regarding the one responsible for such disregard towards her sanity , Joan discovers that no one rents that room , and that a former tenant had in fact strangled herself . Without help from the manager , Joan will decide to find out for herself who is causing her such anguish . Joan discovers the room empty and the phone with a particular female voice which will haunt her . The episode , I think , is a tour-de-force for Jean Marsh who is a one woman show . She's the only actress visible and we follow her through the crisis which slowly erodes her , the phone and the banging from that other room causing her much distress which grows into fear . Instead of leaving , Joan remains , so shaken by the noise and to the breaking point where she just wishes for the phone ( . . or whoever is ringing ) to stop . The episode provides a possible answer as to who is plaguing Joan and why . A character named Beth comes into the story rather late as Joan struggles to find out whose female voice it was across the other line who knew her name on that dreaded phone she discovers in the room across from hers . The fate of Beth might just tell the viewer why Joan is being traumatized . I think this episode is an exercise in spooks instead of credibility ; some didn't particularly like it , but I certainly did . I will admit that the phone , as a physical menace " crawling " towards Joan is hard to take seriously , not to mention it's attack on her , but I thought the intense opening twenty minutes before this were suitably chilling enough to make up for it .
Awakening of the Beast	Well , I just finished watching this Coffin Joe entry on IFC and got a kick out of it . Crazy movie where talking heads converse over how " Brazilian " society is under a moral collapse due to drugs and how the use of such provokes depravity and sadism . A series of stories , or various ways taboos can be tap-danced on with relish , alternate how characters do immoral things to each other . . such as these sweaty men paying for a prostitute's method of defecation over a pot , how a group of hipsters fondle a school girl before murdering her with a stick in an act of indecency , a movie producer giving an actress seeking work the " casting couch " treatment whacking off as his pal rapes her , an act of adultery where the cheating woman alternates between pleasure and guilt over what she's doing as the grinning male has his way with her , a wealthy wife looks on as her black butler gives her daughter oral sex , etc . While not explicit , these stories are still lurid enough , photographed in B & W , and used as examples at moral decay with drugs being labeled the culprit . We have a psychiatric doctor interested in what actually provokes such behavior and seeks four volunteers for taking LSD recording their reactions using the image of Coffin Joe as a catalyst in tapping into the subconscious . The first hour is that collection of stories , and the final thirty minutes is the madness that is Coffin Joe running rampant in the nightmarish realm of these four selected " victims " . The " hallucinations " are filmed in experimental colors and feature some pretty bizarre visuals like women being subjected to embarrassing ordeals , Joe often appearing and disappearing blowing flame from his hands ( ! ) , with those " invaded " by Joe baring witness to the frenzy of deranged images which pop up . My favorite image was of the women being knocked silly by Joe , landing at the feet of one volunteer as they kiss his feet . Another bizarre image I found memorable was the one volunteer ( . . the girl who defecated in the opening of this film ) who is " bombarded " with marks of blood , smidgens here and there until she is covered . Oh , and there's this " game show " where Marins , as himself ( . . although the media and panel tend to refer to him as the evil character of Joe , perhaps a statement that some critics can not separate the creator from his creation ) , is subjected to a panel who question his art . This is witnessed by the psychiatrist who is inspired to run his " LSD test " using the character of Joe in his experiment . The group discussing the effects of drugs on the people also includes Marins , which makes this rather odd . The climactic scene puts everything into perspective , and is a nice sense of irony . I think , also , that this was ahead of the curve in that one might look at how the media and public at large indict horror and music , in this day and age , as channels for evil which only encourage those to commit crimes and perversion . Perhaps Marins film will actually thwart that . . we ourselves are behind the things committed in the movie , not some created character in a film or a comic book .
Don't Look into the Basement	Nurse Charlotte Beale ( the lovely Rosie Holotik ) has arrived to Dr . Stephens ' clinic for the insane prepared for a new job . What she doesn't expect is to find another supposed doctor in his position after Stephens is attacked by axe-wielding maniacal " judge " Oliver W Cameron ( . . in a running gag , anytime he confronts a situation out of his control , he retreats to repeating his name ) . That doctor is Geraldine Masters ( Annabelle Weenick ) who isn't sure about whether Beale is a proper fit for their establishment . After a long discussion about the position ( which is quite an awkward scene as the two debate about Beale's being sent a letter by Stephens getting a job at the clinic with Masters often reminding her that he is no longer in charge ) Masters agrees to let her work in the nursing position , but the good Doctor may not be who she seems . . The assortment of loonies includes Sam ( Bill McGee ) a simple-minded child-man who was Stephens ' last victim of lobotomy , Jennifer ( Harryette Warren ) a woman who needs an adult to comfort her as she wallows at Masters ' heel like a puppy , Danny ( Jessie Kirby ) a trouble-making annoyance often trying to steal the fake baby of disturbed Harriet ( Camilla Carr ) , Allyson ( Betty Chandler ) a sexy nympho who just wants to be loved and hops at any man she sees , & " Sergeant " Jaffee ( Hugh Feagin ) your typical case of soldier who hasn't escaped the madness of war . The film shows Masters ' unorthodox methods of running the clinic with allowing the patients to roam free with the doors to all rooms without locks calling into question . . and , not to mention , the fact that Oliver is still allowed to walk around despite just chopping Dr . Stephens with an axe . And , what exactly happened to Dr . Stephens ? Ah ha . . Tacky 70's drive-in trash is a lot of fun if you are into a warped brand of cinema . I'm attracted to bizarre flicks about mental rejects because of their unpredictable nature . . you just never know what the hell might happen , especially in this case where they are allowed to roam often unattended . Some consider the low budget a liability , but in the case of this film , I think it enhances the experience . With the cheap photography and weak production values ( being shot for peanuts in a run down house in some awful location ) it seems creepier and I felt like a voyeur peering into insanity through a camera lens on the outside looking in .
The Initiation	The lovely Kelly ( Daphne Zuniga in her first performance ) is troubled by this recurring " nightmare " regarding her mother and " father " making love when a man enters the room enraged . A little girl , she believes is herself , has a bloody knife in her hand . A mirror reflecting the little girl and the enraged man being burnt alive by the " father " also are very potent images in this nightmare . Later we see that a facially burnt man is attending to the grounds at an insane asylum about the same time as patients are released from the place and a nurse is brutally stabbed while attempting to crank her car . Kelly and two other college girls , Marcia ( Marilyn Kagan ) and Alison ( Hunter Tylo , better known for starring on the soap opera THE BOLD AND THE BEAUTIFUL ) are challenged , via pledge , by sorority sister Megan ( Frances Peterson ) to steal a security uniform from her " father " Dwight Fairchild's massive mall . Megan plans to prank the girls and keeps the back door locked when Kelly hands over the keys to the building . Megan also invites three college boys : Ralph the comedian ( Trey Stroud ) , Chad ( Christopher Bradley ) & Andy ( Peter Malof ) , Megan's beau . What none of these characters know is that a psycho is inside the mall with them as we see this person kill the security guard before the girls entered the place . Kelly seeks help from teaching assistant , Peter ( hunky James Read ) , whose special interests and skills lie in understanding the logic of dreams . He hopes to unlock those mysteries and expose them to Kelly so they will quit plaguing her . Film vets Clu Gulager and Vera Miles get top billing as Kelly's parents . The facially burnt man named Jason Randall ( Robert Dowdell ) has a major role in the grand scheme of things as does the nightmare and it's mysteries on how they effect Kelly . The twist is neat and the characters ( my favorite is Tylo who uses her Southern drawl and charm as the beautiful nympho Alison ) are likable . The various slayings come mostly from weapons stolen within the mall which creates a foreboding atmosphere all it's own when the killer continues every now and then to turn the lights on and off . The mall is also a really expansive place where a killer can hide fairly well .
Midnight Movie	Theater-goers attend ( . . and the hired staff of the establishment host ) the midnight screening of an old 70's drive-in slasher , The Dark Beneath ( . . written , produced and directed by a psychiatric nut case who slaughtered a hospital's staff with the bodies , and himself , missing from the scene of the crime ) featuring a skull-masked psycho in overalls , whose homemade weapon is a cone-shaped , cork-screw blade , who attacks a group of hippies with the misfortune of blowing a tire nearby his loony hick mama's decrepit farmhouse . Those in the cinema will understand the characters ' dilemma all too well as they become prey to the killer who seemingly has the ability to remove himself from the film into reality stalking them , following their fear , he has a nose for this emotion . When the victims fall to the stalking supernatural killer , their bodies are carried into the film , and into his dungeon of rooms , a veritable prison for those whose fear he cashed in on . Rebekah Brandes is Bridget , the young manager of the theater who takes care of her brother , Timmy ( Justin Baric ) ; both were a victim of fatherly abuse so their emotional wounds are still rather fresh . Daniel Bonjour is Bridget's very honorable and courageous boyfriend , Josh , who comes to her aid as protector when the situation grows more and more terrifying and the death toll ratchets upward . Greg Circulnick is Josh's obnoxious buddy , Mario and we see how much of a cowardly jerk he is when the killer has his girlfriend Samantha ( Mandell Maughan ) trapped with her hands pinned in a window seal . Jon Briddell is Detective Barrons , at the midnight screening in the hopes that it's creator might show up . Michael Swan is Dr . Wayne , the one who witnessed how bloody his hospital was at the hands of an escaped patient , and hopes that the lunatic will return to the theater where his film is playing . Also attending the show is a biker couple , Harley ( Stan Ellsworth ) and Babe ( Melissa Steach ) who are annoyed at the teen audience for talking during the movie . Rounding out the cast , Brea Grant as Rachel , the candy-popcorn counter girl with a lousy attitude , Shaun Ausmus as Kenny , wishing to improve his status in the theater begging for Bridget to allow him managerial duties so that he can show how responsible he can be , and Michael Schwartz as Sully , an opinionated hanger-on who wishes to join his teen peers and instead causes much disturbance when his body doesn't react too well to the popcorn and raisins . Arthur Roberts has a chameo role as the escaped crazy who made The Dark Beneath , quite memorable in his brief screen time . Surprisingly brutal supernatural slasher with a sadistic killer who buries his corkscrew weapon deep into the bellies of victims . One victim gets the blade slammed into his face , while another receives it into her back shoulder as the killer twists it ripping deep inside . Brandes is quite a cute little lead actress establishing pretty much right away that she's sensitive and guarded due to past trauma and Bonjour's Josh is exactly who she needs , a person sympathetic towards her . . Bonjour has that kind of " knight in shining armour " role . Ellsworth is fun as foul-mouthed , hulking Harley and his gal is the very sexy Steach ( . . her screen name , Babe is quite appropriate ) , who stands by her man always no matter how inappropriate his behavior can be at times ( . . ultimately , though , Harley has a heart , revealed when he finds out what Bridget has been through upon seeing scars on her arm ) . . he is certainly someone you'd like to have on your side if being chased by a maniac . I think if you dwell on the film's wacky plot , determining logic , then this will be certain to alienate you . . it's more for slasher fans anyway , who can dispense with logic , embracing the loving nod to psycho-thrillers which appeared in Grindhouses . The killer's look is really effective , as is his weapon . The killer often dissolves in and out of reality , returning to the film to assault the characters . The theater setting has an ungarnished , archaic look representing a relic on it's way to being condemned . I'm not sure anyone will find the film on screen ( . . where the killer comes out of ) a realistic example of 70's exploitation , however . Startlingly grim conclusion .
Invasion US	Norris stars a retired agent who must save American lives threatened by Russian terrorists led by Richard Lynch . Another bonafide star vehicle for Norris who scored a box office hit with his director Joseph Zito in MISSING IN ACTION . It was obvious that Zito and Norris would collaborate again , and INVASION USA ups the ante in regards to violence , weapon-fire , and explosions with lots of dead bodies as a result . As usual with 80's Chuck Norris actioners , there was plenty of bait for critical hate . Set during Christmas time of all seasons , with Lynch , at one point , actually using a rocket launcher , attacking half a suburban neighborhood ! One action sequence has Norris interrupting a terrorist attack inside a mall full of innocent shoppers ! While it's established that the terrorism is sweeping across the nation , Zito keeps the film mostly inside Florida . Norris is a one-man army , eliminating one scum bag terrorist at a time . Lynch has always been a marvelous heavy and his over-the-top villain here is a fine antithesis to Norris , a minimalist action hero who has always been quietly intense and rather impassive when facing his adversaries . Lynch's motivation is simple . . wreak havoc across America , turning people against each other , causing chaos . Norris , in order to stop this , must hit the group at it's source by finding Lynch and destroying him . It's fairly predictable of course because you know Norris and Lynch are gonna have that final confrontation with the expected result . As was often in the glorious 80's , there was no shades of gray . . it was black and white , good guys against bad guys . Despite how well organized the terrorists are , Lynch's weakness is Norris and in attempting to ambush him , a trap is set up . The premise is rather preposterous . . how could Lynch get this many men into the United States , past our well guarded boarders and government ? How can Norris be at so many places at such opportune times ( . . before a church is detonated or removing a bomb from a school bus of kids , killing the enemy with their own devices ) ? And , how could Lynch be so inept in following Norris in what was obviously a planned entrapment ? Let's just be honest , the premise itself services Norris with a chance to defeat a number of vile , despicable villains who prey on the innocent with logic thrown out the window in favor of lots of machine guns shooting a majority of people . I'm afraid the filmmakers set themselves up , though , by having it an incredible invasion because Norris is still only one man with no way of completely eradicating the enemy . You'd think Lynch , if he were a multi-dimensional terrorist leader , would steer clear of Norris , remaining in hiding , allowing his army to devastate the country because that's the kind of revenge which should seem sweeter . . if Norris can not find him , then Lynch truly could bask in his victory . But , this is a by-the-numbers action flick which gives the target audience what it wants , the hero saving the day for American kind . Lots of ammunition is fired before it's all said and done with the military shooting it out against Lynch's large number of terrorists . Melissa Prophet is a reporter Norris comes in contact with when searching for terrorist activity in Miami . Alexander Zale is Lynch's sadistic lieutenant who attempts to convince his leader to abandon the crusade to find Norris . This is the kind of action film where endless gaping plot holes and illogic breed contempt and scorn . . but for this very reason , I can not help but lap up a Chuck Norris movie pitting him against terrorist slime . You know bullets fired in his direction will miss , the enemy will always be outsmarted , and that the main baddie is gonna die something horrible .
Into the Night	Ed ( Jeff Goldblum ) , an insomniac who just found out about his wife's extramarital affair , is greeted by a frightened woman , Diana ( Michelle Pfeiffer , who is simply beautiful ) running from Iranians who just killed her friend . Come to find out , she had confiscated some foreign priceless stones from oversees and quite a few dangerous types , besides the Arabs ( one is the director of the film John Landis and they often work collectively even eating peanuts at the same time , sitting at the same time , etc ) , such as a Frenchman named Melville ( director Roger Vadim ) & his psychotic , all-smiles hit-man named Colin ( David Bowie ) . Diana has recently , supposedly , had a falling out with her sugar-daddy , Jack Caper ( Richard Farnsworth ) and hasn't nowhere else to turn once her Elvis-worshiping brother , Charlie ( Bruce McGill ) kicks her out of his apartment . The rest of the film has Ed and Diana stuck together , as fate would have it , going through one unusual situation after another always fleeing danger and trying to figure out how to relinquish the stones while also staying alive . . and , especially from being caught by the police . There is a woman of great means , Shaheen ( Irene Papas ) who might be interested in the purchase of those jewels . . and just might be behind those Iranians that always seem bound to wreck another apartment or home in search for those precious stones . Unpredictable and bizarre , this film provides Landis and company an opportunity to string the viewer along with gags regarding Hollywood . The film is riddled with famous Hollywood directors in cameo roles , but my favorite scene is where Goldblum's Ed has a problem finding a place to rest up against when he awaits Diana ( whose in a trailer talking to a friend ) constantly crashing through props that look real . You see the setting is LA and Landis just has a field day allowing his characters to run headlong into mishap and danger at almost every turn as they slowly fall in love . What makes it work also , for me anyway , is how Goldblum dead-pans as the chaos surrounds him . The chemistry between Goldblum and Pfeiffer surprisingly gels and there's the typical Landis violent carnage that explodes in the airport towards the end . I'm sure those who know directors that were buddies of Landis , but they are the ones that'll enjoy the endless cameos .
In the Folds of the Flesh	Absurdly convoluted thriller with an insane amount of twists ( . . the rug gets pulled out from under you so many times you'll suffer a skull fracture ) regarding a family of misfits , a troubled mother and her equally warped son and daughter . Lucille ( Eleonora Rossi Drago ) is burying the body of her husband supposedly while an escaped convict , Pascal ( Fernando Sancho ) is being sought after by the authorities . Pascal catches her in the act and is caught , but will return with an idea of blackmail . Falesse ( Pier Angeli ) is a deeply psychologically damaged young woman who believes she decapitated her father , after he had raped her . We watch a series of men stop off at the villa where these three live , attempting to seduce and ravage Falesse as her brother achingly watches from afar , trying to stop the act before it escalates . Those men all fall victim to Falesse who always hearkens back to that decapitation of her " father " before stabbing a back with a dagger or lopping off the head of another with a sword . Once Pascal arrives , the film spends the center section devoted to his terrorizing the trio , ordering them around with a gun waving at them , demanding for blackmail money , forcing the son to dig up the surrounding area for the remains of the decapitated father . We watch as Lucille concocts a scheme to end Pascal's interference in their lives ( . . in a bizarre turn of events , Falesse actually is drawn to Pascal , a foul , blubbery brute who rapes both her and Lucille ) . When Pascal is dealt with ( . . his departure is inspired by a startling episode that occurred to Lucille in a Nazi concentration camp as she watched her family suffocate in the gas chamber ) , yet another man , claiming to be Andre , the actual father of Lucille's children , returns , throwing their lives in turmoil . This is when we learn of a third child named Esther , and a beautiful blonde patient in an asylum whose relationship to this family is of great importance to the truth regarding the opening scene's decapitation and burial . I firmly realize that this film will have many viewers rolling their eyes in disbelief at the events that unravel , a bevy of lies weaved by Lucille , and her constituted effort to deceive over the years is hard to process fully . After a while , I almost threw my hands up at the non-stop revelations which just kept coming . . it's incredible that a screenplay could feature so many twists and turns . You read others describing the movie as sleazy , but , in actuality , there's more suggestion than actual action on screen . Such as Pascal's molestation of Lucille and Falesse or the obvious , brother-sister , incest in the family over the years . Kudos to director / co-writer Sergio Bergonzelli's editor , Donatella Baglivo , who had the overwhelming task of establishing the complicated developing story as it unfolds . I mean one wonders how in the world an editor could piece together a film that throws everything at the viewer but the kitchen sink before the screen fades to black . Sergio Bergonzelli parades a number of fake decapitated heads for the viewers over the course of the film . Quite a demented little movie that will cause a lot of head-scratching and aggravation , but I enjoyed it's audacity to throw out all the stops in order to bewilder and surprise . As expected such a film with a lot of material , and so little actual violence or depravity on screen , IN THE FOLDS OF THE FLESH will bore and alienate many who watch it . I didn't think this was a traditional giallo , and wouldn't really consider it one , for the exception of the convoluted story and general bizarre behavior of the characters . The film , before it starts , actually quotes Freud . . he'd have quite a challenge with the trio of oddballs in this film .
Succubus	Tourists and their bus driver must stay overnight at a château because of travel complications . What they don't know is that a succubus plans to prey on their innermost desires ( each character preyed upon represents one of the seven deadly sins . . an intriguing ingredient in the film's success ) taking their souls from them , leaving the mark of Satan as they perish . The succubus ' main desire is the conquest of a man studying to be a priest . . if she can win his soul , a man of God , then her goal is a successful one . The succubus is played by the evocative Erika Blanc who only shows her true face ( one quite hideous truly representing her evil ) when she is about to vanquish her victims . Amonst the victims is the bus driver who likes to gorge on food , a wealthy woman who desires the supposed gold of the château's Baron von Rhoneberg ( Jean Servais ) , a crusty old curmudgeon who thinks he knows it all and never ceases to insult others , etc . There's no doubt that this film unfortunately suffers from a shoe-string budget , but director Jean Brismée really has a creepy château to provide an eerie sense of dread as each character walks unknowingly unto certain doom . Erika's " ugly make-up " representing her true face is quite creepy and the actress succeeds in her role as this soldier for Satan who relishes taking souls from those who harbor lusts of this world . The ultimate question is will the " future " Priest be able to survive the advances of the succubus , or fall prey to lascivious wanton fleshly desire ?
Honky Tonk	Well acted little western about a smooth talking con man named " Candyman " Johnson ( perfectly played by the always dapper and charming Clark Gable who has never been better ) who wishes " to take over " a town of his own and finds one in Yellow Creek . He's head-over-heels for Elizabeth ( Lana Turner , her beauty is angelic ) , a Boston girl who is the daughter of a former con man he once knew and now the judge of Yellow Creek ( justice of the peace , played by a wonderful Frank Morgan ) . The Judge is a bad drunk who doesn't like it all that his daughter is so in love with a trickster who has the uncanny ability to never find a way to stay in any town too long . Claire Trevor has a marvelous scene-stealing supporting part ( it seems she's always in these parts , owning the scenes she's in ) as a former " colleague " of Candy's who is a professional bar girl always working the gambling tables . Marjorie Main has an entertaining supporting role ( another character actress who always steals her scenes ) as Mrs . Varner , a woman who was to teach Liz about the ways of being a proper woman ( cooking and such ) . Varner often is quite a fixture in town business whose voice is often heard loud over the others . Albert Dekker is Brazos , the corrupt sheriff of Yellow Creek who is automatically the arch nemesis of Candy's when it becomes clear that our con man has worked the town against their current " lawman " ( it's stated by one of the townsfolk that Brazos just put the star on one day and began barking orders ) . Liz wants Candy to change and boozes him up so that when he wakes , he'll find that they are married . The film's melodrama stems from this unusual courtship and the different ways Liz changes instead of Candy . Bottom line is that Candy is intoxicated by Candy and can not resist his charms . What we later find , as corruption seethes within Yellow Creek as Candy is voted in as sheriff when Brazos is dropped like a bad habit , is that Candy's life has changed in that he loves Liz , but his taking from the town certain profits ( 60 % of the town's earnings seem to fall into his pocket and buy lots of nice outfits for Liz and a nice fancy place to live ) will soon upend him . And , the drinking judge hates Candy enough he'll try to use documents of the con man's corruption against him as the town grows restless at what their lawman has swindled them out of . The film starts out really entertaining with great dialogue as Gable works his charm on everyone around him . Seeing Gable work tricks on unsuspected victims like Dekker's Brazos and the townsfolk with fancy words is also a hoot . Eventually , though , the melodrama is laid on a bit thick and the film bogs down towards the end . Still , the film has such an amazing cast with good leads it's hard not to recommend to western fans .
The Scarecrow reviews " Best of the Bad Men "	Robert Ryan is Jeff Clanton , a newly released Yankee Calvary hero , who is falsely imprisoned by carpetbagger Matthew Fowler ( Robert Preston who always had the skill to play a mean sonofabitch ) who has manipulated and bought his way into territories left dry by war . Fowler runs a " detective agency " which pretty much is an organization of hoodlums always ready for more power and prestige . Clanton had round up a renegade group of confederate refugees lead by Cole Younger ( Bruce Cabot , a fine western character actor often appearing in John Wayne films ) and was about to swear them into civilian life when Fowler smelled millions when his right hand man , Joad ( Barton MacLane who has always played characters you'd like to punch in the face with a brick ) , saw Clanton ride those soldiers in . Several members of these refugees included the notorious James brothers and horse thief Doc Butcher ( Walter Brennan , who is always a blast to watch ) . . plenty have nice , fat price tags for retrieval . When Clanton refuses to hand them over to Fowler , the carpetbagger enlists a large sum of men to swarm up trouble . One man tries to pull a gun and is killed by Clanton . Fowler finds out that Clanton had been released by the Army and therefore could be tried for " murder " , though clearly Jeff was right in pulling his gun . Thanks to the disgruntled wife of Fowler ( a quite dependable Claire Trevor ) , Clanton escapes , but is shot in the leg and could pass out any minute . Being found by Doc and Cole's younger brother Bob ( Jack Beutel ) , Clanton is rescued from certain grim fate . In a little town called Kint , Clanton prepares revenge on Fowler . . his obsession is the meat of the true drama of the story . This film might have been routine if it wasn't for a stellar cast who seem inspired . The film is wonderfully shot in Technicolor and Ryan's hero against Preston's villain is fun . The added storyline of John Archer's treacherous Curly Ringo , Trevor's Lily trying to keep her identity as Mrs . Fowler secret ( only Clanton and Ringo know ; Ringo's knowing provides some added suspense . . how long would he conceal her identity from Cole and the gang ? ) , & Clanton's growing bond with Lily provide much needed help to a rather unsatisfyingly weak ( and actually a bit far-fetched ) ending . Something happens between Cole and Clanton and this doesn't get a follow through one might desire . The audience get what they want though . . a final showdown between Clanton and Fowler . I guess why I'm a bit disappointed is because I feel this could've been great for we had all the makings of a solid conclusion , but instead we're left with not knowing what truly came of Cole and his remaining gang .
Forbidden Photos of a Lady Above Suspicion	Pill-popping , alcoholic wife of a struggling businessman , Minou ( the foxy bright red head Dagmar Lassander , often covered with heavy facial make-up ) is being tormented by a sexual deviant / sadist ( Simón Andreu ) who has her listen to a cassette tape that might just possibly link her husband the killer of an investor who was recently found dead . Minou adores her husband and even if he's a killer she's willing to give up her body to this cretin if it saves her beloved from being implicated in a crime of his own doing . What Minou doesn't realize is that the blackmailing sicko photographed their sexual activity and now threatens to expose pictures to her husband if she doesn't allow herself to becoming his sex slave ! The blackmailer is quite elusive and any trace of his identity seems hard to come by . . Minou's husband Peter ( Pier Paolo Capponi ) and Police Commissioner Frank ( Osvaldo Genazzani ) believe it's quite possible she's having a nervous breakdown or a collapse in sanity . Only her nympomaniacal best friend Dominique ( the VERY sexy Susan Scott who is wardrobed to show the goods and figure she's blessed with ) seems to believe Minou's cries that there is a sadistic fiend threatening to kill her if she doesn't comply with his demands at sexual servitude . But , is the blackmailer REALLY the mastermind of the degrees of mental anguish bestowed upon Minou ? Crazy giallo has a few twists and turns , but this is a psycho-thriller where we know the heroine is voicing the truth although he's cagey and able to hide away from capture . The film puts out everyone as a suspect , even Dominque at one point . As in the very best gialli , the success of the plot depends on how the viewer is fooled . . if you can see the twist coming a mile away ( . . and I did ) then perhaps it fails . As far as the fashions . . this is a gay fashion designer's wet dream . The film's a practical run-way of Italian fashion dressing Lassander and Scott in various styles . Plenty of sleaze for the average giallo-lover .
Sexual Story of O	Odile ( Alicia Príncipe ) is a young woman just writhing with the desire of sexual embrace . It's only a matter of time before someone ( . . or multiple someones ) would offer their services to her . Often freely sporting her naked flesh , soon a couple discover her from their own hotel bedroom and a sexual rendezvous will commence . What Odile doesn't expect when she takes up an offer to join the couple on a trip to an isolated island estate is the Count Von Karlstein ( Daniel Katz ) and Countess Wanda Von Karlstein ( Carmen Carrión ) a wealthy elite who are also into kinky sex with sado-masochistic tendencies . Odile's mistake in trusting in Mario's ( Maura Ribera ) ' s bi-sexual wife ( Mari Carmen Nieto ) who is the culprit behind her seduction . . what Odile does not realize is that when you travel down the road to passion and ecstasy , embracing the sexually free lifestyle she soon excepts with open arms , comes a dangerous price when associating yourself with the wrong person . To be honest , I felt Jesús Franco's " Sexual Story of O " is ultimately about sexual awakening and the dangers of embracing a sexually free lifestyle with just anyone . . often is the case , there are repercussions if you have passionate relations with just anyone . In Odile's case , she is " selected " by a woman searching for another without inhibitions or restrictions . . some woman who is yearning for the touch of another , whether it be male or female . Odile lets her guard down , because of this attraction and free-spirited delight towards Mari Nieto's seductress . Franco successfully builds their scenes , starting with the eye-contact between Odile and Mario's wife , while we also see that Odile ogles Mario , from their hotel windows . . an opportunity is presented , and we watch as Mario's wife makes the first move . Odile could very well turn her down , yet a heart-pounding desire inside both women drives them to accept the passion that awaits them . An three-way commences , as well as a heated lesbian encounter , where Mari Nieto's seductress enters Odile's room ready for action . The last portion of the film has us entering the world of the Count and Countess , where we see how Odile's life will be threatened when their masochistic appetites emerge . Mario , his wife & Odile meet them , there are dinners , and soon Odile is unconscious on a bed as others ( Mario's wife and the Count ) disrobe and molest her as the Countess looks on , so moved by what she sees that an act of masturbation soon begins . Franco's camera really likes to move in on characters ' faces as sexual acts take place showing the pleasure of watching . My favorite sequence , the lesbian encounter in Odile's hotel room couch between her and Mario's wife . . Franco's camera really moves in close and both actresses seem to be into the moment , especially a long kiss as their tongues slide and caress . I do feel that " Sexual Story of O " is just that . . her sexual experiences which soon leads down a dangerous path .
The Red Shoes	In 1944 , rivals for a man's affections , Keiko and Oki , ends tragically with a pair of pink ballerina shoes as a sort of prize for the victor through a tragic act of violence . 60 years later , the pink shoes are found by an embittered wife , Sun-jae ( Hye-su Kim ) who happened upon her husband having sex with another woman , on a subway train ( . . in the opening of this movie a girl removes the shoes from the hands of another dying horribly when her feet were somehow removed from her legs ! ) . Moving to a rather modest , depressing flat , with daughter Tae-soo ( Yeon-ah Park ) in tow , Sun-jae possibly finds a new love with a kind , handsome , charming young architect , In-cheol ( Seong-su Kim ) constructing a new building she plans to work in . But , the shoes have such an allure so volatile that Sun-jae finds herself at odds with her own daughter over them . . and there's a history ( . . and , especially baggage ) that follows them which will truly cause nightmarish complications Sun-jae could never possibly imagine . Like a lot of these kinds of films , there's a complete backstory behind the shoes . They symbolize the tragic repercussions of adultery which will ultimately parallel Sun-jae's own story . But , more importantly , the director establishes , subtly , the results in taking what isn't yours . In this horror tale , when one takes the pink shoes from another they literally lose the feet they wear them on . This correlates with a mistress taking a husband from a wife . In the back story , it's shown that through treacherous Oki's removal of the shoes / husband from Keiko , she prospers and succeeds , but ultimately pays the price for her thievery . Circa 2004 , the same goes for how the husband allows his mistress to wear Sun-jae's shoes while making love . But , there's another interesting twist that occurs between Tae-soo and Sun-jae regarding the fulfilling of roles with the shoes as a supernatural catalyst . This is a downer of a movie , I must tell you . We see how the tragedies of the past come back to haunt characters in the present . The ending , regarding the fates of those at the hands of Sun-jae , motivated by another , certainly left me stunned . Perhaps , it'll have the same effect with you . It seems that this film is interpreted by people differently , so I could be absolutely wrong with my assessment with this film . Some believe that Sun-jae is one of many characters . These theories give me a head ache , so see for yourself .
Plague of the Zombies	Sir James Forbes ( André Morell who was Dr . Watson to Cushing's Sherlock in Hammer's version of " Hound of the Baskervilles " ) is a renowned physician with a respected name that travels , decides to take his daughter Sylvia ( Diane Clare ) , who easily persuades him to break a planned fishing trip , to see her friend Alice ( Jacqueline Pearce ) , the wife of a burdened doctor , and Forbes ' prized pupil , Peter ( Brook Williams ) in a Cornish village overrun by a mysterious plague taking lives without a proper diagnosis being handed out due to his not being able to conduct autopsies ( . . the village is set in their old traditionalist ways against doctors " cutting up " their family members ' bodies ) . What Forbes and Sylvia notice is Alice's frail condition and erratic behavior and Peter's weariness at finding a cure for the deaths overtaking his town . Peter informs Forbes that Squire Clive Hamilton ( John Carson , playing him as sophisticated and seemingly hospitable with a hidden dark-side that allows itself shown in hints during slight moments of outbursts ) is judge and jury of the village . . his power weighs a heavy hand over the townsfolk . Forbes is informed that Squire spent a considerable amount of time away while his family dies off leaving him with debts that get paid . . Sergeant Jack Swift ( Hammer vet Michael Ripper ) informs Forbes that he doesn't right know how Clive gained his wealth . We see what others outside the home do not . . that Hamilton does in fact practice voodoo and uses this gift he learned in Haiti to raise zombies from their crypts at night when the remaining townspeople are asleep . Tragically Alice has been chosen by Hamilton as a sort-of sacrifice that goes awry when a zombie supposedly kills her with Sylvia seeing it first-hand as she followed her friend worrying about where she was heading off to at such an awkward time at night . Soon , Hamilton will select Sylvia as his sacrifice and it will be up to Forbes and Peter to figure out the devious , conniving Squire's secrets or else . . Hamilton's motives for raising the dead is having them work as slave labor in his " mineworks " lifting tin from the rock underground in the mines . Thanks to the use of the Vicar's ( Roy Royston ) library , Forbes learns and understands the acts of voodoo having to accept that witchcraft indeed is real . Squire collects blood from the victims he chooses placing the liquid on a doll which provides his methods of control over them . Interesting endeavor into voodoo practices provides many suspenseful sequences with Carson an inspired villain . The zombies are less exploited by Hammer as this film uses them much more as victims to the villainy of the Squire . They appear , sadly briefly , although the make-up can be quite creepy , especially in the film's best sequence . . Peter dreams that zombies rise from the Earth trapping him in the graveyard . The zombies ' eyes are eerily albino . . quite unsettling as they come towards the screen . The climax in Squire's burning manor is a bit chaotic , and the film is quite talky , but I still recommend it to fans of Hammer studios . Considered by many to be one of Hammer's finest films , I'm less inclined to agree , but still good fun for horror fans .
Friday the 13th	In 1957 , a young retarded boy supposedly drowned in a lake . The next year , someone murdered a boyfriend / girlfriend camp counselor couple in the throes of making love . Whoever committed the act must've been acquainted with this couple for their reaction is of complete surprise . . they respond as one would to an authority figure bursting in on a couple making out in a room or car . Anyway , in present time , a young man , Steve ( Peter Brouwer ) has spent a year trying to re-open Camp Crystal Lake , the very place where the murders took place and we see that he has a group of young recruits who will assist him in his goal to get it up in an appropriate time . Alice ( Adrienne King , our singled-out heroine of the film setting the standard for future 80's slasher flicks . . well , Jamie Lee Curtis was essentially the first , but , oh well ) is undecided if she'll remain at the camp very much longer , but Steve talks her into staying one more week . She should've got out while she had a chance . Not very long after the group of counselors arrive , one by one each member are killed in various ways when the mysterious psycho corners them individually catching them off-guard alone . Most receive the throat slash , but the killer also stabs one poor girl in the skull with an ax and another ( . . just guess who if you can ) receives an arrowhead thrusted through the throat . Eventually , Alice will find herself in the midst of a game of survival with this demented soul with little room to escape . You know , I have no idea what else to add that hasn't been said over countless years . . thousands upon thousands of threads have been dedicated to the franchise on this board . What could I possibly add ? Well , one thing that interested me was that Cunningham often shoots through the killer's eyes and tells us something about he / she just by the opposing character's reaction . Whoever is killing must look rather trustworthy or friendly . How else could so many walk upon death so blindly ? But , also , besides a few gory slayings early on , the film is rather tame . Like many slashers that come after , the violence happens mostly off-screen . . only when Alice comes upon them after the fact , do we see the carnage by the killer . Even the ax-kill happens rather off-screen with us only seeing the blade into the face to let us know her death was grisly . The final show-down was rather lame . . let's face it , has their ever been a more dull battle ? Only the beheading and the person's speaking in two voices give it a stronger impact . . and even then , I rather giggled at the whole ordeal . Still , the film's influence is undeniable , whether you love it or hate it . A decade of slashers came afterward , for good or bad . Despite my groaning , that ending still kicks ass . I realized how much I enjoyed Harry's score despite how often it's been used in all the other sequels .
Macabre	Jane Baker ( Bernice Stegers ) , a housewife and mother of two children , has been participating in a torrid affair with Fred Kellerman ( Roberto Posse ) at a house owned by blind Robert Duval ( Stanko Molnar ) and his mom . Jane's psychotic daughter Lucy ( Vernica Zinny ) , who knows about mother's affair , drowns her brother in protest to the adultery . Jane , in a state of turmoil when she finds out about her son's supposed " accidental drowning " , hurries lover Fred to get home as fast as they can resulting in a horrific car crash . Fred is decapitated by a steel rail that smashes into the window sending Jane into a maddening shock with her being institutionalized . After spending some time in the crazy-house , Jane returns to the place once shared with lover Fred and separates from husband Leslie . Robert falls in love with Jane , but begins to notice passionate noises of pleasure sounding from her room ( she decides to move in the room where her and Fred shared such fond memories ) . When Robert hears who she's " making love to " , he begins to worry a bit . We also find that Jane is keeping something locked in her fridge freezer . Every night , Jane shares passion with a specific person no longer living and the curiosity of this tryst drives Robert into some sick discoveries . Meanwhile , Lucy continues to play mind-games with her mentally fragile mother still secretly protesting what Jane done to her father . Lucy will also find out mommy's little dark secret which results in a disturbing , violent conclusion . Geez , this is one warped little flick , being Lamberto Bava's theatrical debut . Poor blind Robert has no clue what psychotics he would be dealing with . The film plays with the novelty of " what is in the freezer ? " to the hilt , but I'm guessing most intelligent viewers will guess instantly . Still , this premise is just sick and . . dare I say . . macabre , you can't help but credit Bava for playing it for all it's worth . I think the final minutes of this horror tale will widen eyes . The child violence isn't restrained . Stegers really carries her character Jane , whose sanity is flimsy at best , to the brink . . it's a tour-de-force performance . Zinny , as one of those evil kids you just want to strangle , also brings chills to her role as Lucy . I have to say that I think this is a bit underrated . Oh , and that final freeze frame is just golden . . Bava puts a final stamp to the madness of the whole ordeal .
The Gravedancers	" O Fool , O Lout , O Fortunate one The Dead now mocked , their time has come . Heed these words for souls do roam , And though be dead follow you home . It's rage will swell as nights grow bright , Despair and fear , this fatal plight . From moon to moon , you'll have this guest , To seal thy fate and lay you to rest . " Three college pals mourning a recent chum's passing , dance around graves reciting a poem left at his grave-site while heavily drunk to champagne . What they do not realize is that each individual grave danced upon while reciting that poem unleashes their vengeful , evil spirit . The poem declares what they can do to those who free them and this flick shows it as Harris ( Dominic Purcell , the star of the hit Fox series , PRISON BREAK ) , Kira ( the lovely Josie Maran ) , Sid ( Marcus Thomas ) are haunted as the spirits grow stronger from day to day . The three ( actually four because Harris ' beautiful , tenderhearted wife Allison , played effectively by Clare Kramer , is haunted as well ) enlist the aid of parapsychologist Vincent ( Tchéky Karyo , a welcome veteran presence in the cast ) and his assistant Culpepper ( Megahn Perry ) to find the clues about who each ghost is terrorizing them and how to properly outwit them before death becomes the only other alternative . Kira , found wounded and bloodied by Harris and Allison , has already found out all too well what her ghost can do . . she awaits in a hospital trying to recuperate , but can not when even there she is attacked while a nurse is thrown across the room for just being around her . Harris and Sid show Vincent what grave each danced upon and through some heavy research each dead person is identified . Harris danced on the grave of a school teacher who killed her lover and his wife with an ax which might explain why Allison is being haunted as well . Kira's grave holds what appeared to be a church-going judge , but instead he was , behind closed doors , a sadomasochistic torturer with a dead body in his basement . Sid's grave was of a little boy who loved playing with fire . . he wasn't an innocent , however as the boy burned his entire family alive with the fire consuming him , also . So the rest of the flick shows how Harris , his wife Allison , Kira , and Sid try to survive the onslaught of supernatural attacks that come their way . It is found through documentation from a past case where one survived their encounter with such a resurrected evil ghost through re-burying the bones of the one whose grave was danced upon . You see , the gravedancer has one month to outlast the ghost he brought back , and through the reburial of bones will halt the curse . But , for some peculiar reason ( . . found out tragically later ) , the new burial of the bagged bones of each body doesn't work with each person still receiving attacks by the spirits . It will all come to a head when they hole up at Vincent and Culpepper's massive mansion compound , set up to capture supernatural phenomena . This very professionally made ghost tale , competently directed by Mike Mendez , works more in the vein of THE HAUNTING . It shows spooky goings-on and saves the real grisly violence for the climax in the mansion at the end . The cast is decent . The cinematography is top-notch . Rather derivative with a whiff of deja vu , but works surprisingly well despite all that . Builds and builds until the special effects-laden showdown when the characters try their best to escape the mansion which is sealed off by a steel gate forced into the compound by the powerful spirits who can also cause the chosen victim to hallucinate ( . . not to mention , they are stronger than those they haunt often tossing even the beefy Purcell across the room as if he was light as a feather ) .
Queen of Blood	Cold , but intelligent sci-fi horror flick from director Curtis Harrington made on a shoe-string , using special effects from a foreign source to save money . Harrington depends on the scientific aspects of the story while keeping the look of the film ( for the exception of the marvelous alien sets , closer to the decade's previous horde of sci-fi horror flicks keeping elements in tighter confinements meaning the ship in which a small crew ( including John Saxon , Dennis Hopper , Judi Meredith & Robert Boon ) have brought on board an alien queen vampire who uses a hypnotic ability to " freeze " men so that she can feast on their blood . Her people were supposed to come to earth as " greeters " , but instead wind up on Mars ' moon . Only the Queen survived . They do not know of her mental telekinetic powers and each fall prey to her . The ending is quite rewarding and inspired ( . . and influential ) . . it has an apocalyptic quality that feeds into how science can perhaps lead to total destruction of the human race . Can desiring to learn and study alien life outside our own lead to the threat of complete distinction ? Such a powerful question from a low-budget , no-money sci-fi horror .
Circus of Fear	A superb opening to CIRCUS OF FEAR features a well orchestrated heist , meticulously planned and designed obviously , yet doesn't factor in the main plot surprisingly . A member of the heist , Mason ( Victor Maddern ) , shoots a driver who wouldn't halt when he told him to stop and must deliver a suitcase featuring a quarter million pounds to the mastermind of the operation , located at a circus . Mason is stabbed in the back by the person , who must be a professional knife thrower , and the suitcase somehow winds up in the possession of lion-tamer Gregor ( Christopher Lee ) , a stern-voiced and serious circus star whose head is covered by a balaclava to protect his facial scars . He works with his niece , Natasha ( Suzy Kendall ) , whose father we are informed had escaped from a South African prison after killing a man associated with another circus . But , as we will soon discover , Gregor and Natasha are hiding a secret and ringmaster , Carl ( Heinz Drache ) , whose carried personal animosity towards their relative for quite some time ( . . Natasha's father , Otto , killed his father ) and awaits his return to see them . He has quite a surprise in store . Meanwhile , knife-thrower Mario's ( Maurice Kaufmann ) fiancé , Gina ( Margaret Lee ) discovers a set of knives ( . . with the distinctive characteristic of a silver triangle ) with one missing that may very well be the weapon used to kill Mason . . it's a person she's been sexually active with , and his arm is hairy . After one murder attempt on her life , the killer succeeds in silencing her the second time , right under the police's nose , with Scotland Yard detective , Inspector Elliot ( Leo Genn ) working with Manley ( Lawrence James ) of local police to find the stolen money and solve the mystery as to who is behind the series of killings . While most of those involved with heist are either dead or in prison , Manfred Hart ( Klaus Kinski , with limited dialogue , but still quite effective thanks to his fascinating face ) is snooping around in search of the loot hidden away by Gregor . Other characters include Barberini ( Anthony Newlands ) , owner of the circus , Eddie ( Eddi Aren't ) , his assistant who desperately wants to have an act as a clown , and dwarf , Mr . Big ( Skip Martin ) , another who works as a hand , blackmailing Gregor in keeping mum over an important fact unknown to the rest of the group . Very plot-driven crime thriller , with quite a gallery of interesting suspects and a terrific cast . Lee , even behind the black balaclava impresses as does Genn as the delightful detective who seems at ease despite the difficult case he's stuck with . Heinz Drache as the determined ringmaster out to get revenge for his father's death , with colorful characterizations from Aren't as the goofball , Eddie and Martin as the midget he's always playing practical jokes on . The mystery that unfolds is a dandy , with quite a surprise revelation of who the killer is . I'm really happy I had a chance to see the remastered and fully uncut Blue Underground presentation , in color , as it really should be seen in a quality transfer . The setting of a circus only adds an extra dimension to the mystery and seeing an early crime thriller featuring the likes of Lee and Kinski certainly provides CIRCUS OF FEAR with an extra allure . And , in the capable hands of underrated director John Llewellyn Moxey , you can expect solid camera work and an effective film-making style . Probably one of the more recognizable Krimi thrillers to come out of the genre , even if this particular film was actually shot in London with German monetary backing . Well produced by Harry Alan Towers . . a real winner if you like a good mystery and interesting characters . The film itself , however , doesn't quite live up to that humdinger of an opening heist which is excellently staged .
Steel and Lace	A brilliant scientist , Albert Morton ( . . renowned character actor Bruce Davison , providing his usual solid performance ) resurrects the memory of his dead sister , Gaily ( Clare Wren , cherubic when she isn't giving her victims the cold stare of doom before executing them ) who committed suicide after her rapist attacker , Daniel Emerson ( Michael Cerveris , perfecting the confident scoundrel ) was found not-guilty by a jury due to " insuffient evidence " thanks to the scumbag's four best friends , who testified on his behalf ( . . and were actually the ones responsible for holding the poor girl down as Daniel molested her ) , by creating a cybernetic killing machine modeled after her . A sketch artist , who worked Gaily's trial , Alison ( Stacy Haiduk , balancing a mousy but hot sex appeal ) is coerced by her agent , Duncan ( Nick Tate ) into returning to her old job , a project dedicated to the ones involved in the trial of Gaily . Alison attempts to rub elbows with old flame , Detective Dunn ( David Naughton ) hoping he'll help her get close to those who were sketched by her during the trial of Gaily , soon discovering that the ones responsible for the rape are being hunted down and murdered in grisly , unusual ways . Driven and determined , Alison will become obsessed with the case when Duncan is killed during an encounter with Gaily . . we come to understand that Albert is behind the scenes commanding her to kill and no one is allowed to interrupt the mission of destroying those responsible for that suicide from five years ago thanks to injustice . Meanwhile , bodies start to pile up with Daniel and those that remain grow more concerned and restless . Can Dunn and Alison stop the blood shed or will Albert complete this cycle of revenge in the memory of his beloved Gaily . I'm a sucker for the " human cyborg " sub-genre , and this little movie suitably entertained me . The practical effects might seem primitive next to a film like Steven Spielberg's AI , but I admire the imaginative methods of destruction such as a spinning drill that cuts a hole all the way through one victim while another's head is removed from his body . The funniest death isn't really overly gory , but appropriately tongue-in-cheek as one victim's body is sucked dry through his pecker . Fans of Romero's DAWN OF THE DEAD should enjoy one victim's skull getting split apart by a helicopter propeller . As many of these movies used to be , the villains ( . . Daniel and his cronies , now businessman in suits swindling good people of their property in criminal ways to plant malls where they live ) are loathsome and lecherous as you root for their destruction . The pace is excellent , even if the story's formula is familiar ( . . five thugs , behind a heinous crime they got away with , facing violent death for their actions in bloody fashion ) . . director Ernest D Farino keeps the film moving , with emphasis on the revenge story wasting no time of needless filler which doesn't contribute to the motivations of the characters and the situation . It's no surprise that this is the kind of film , having a visual effects background , Farino would make , because the story involved hi-tech ( . . for 1991 ) devices used on victims . Many would watch STEEL AND LACE now and probably criticize the effects because they don't necessarily hold up to the advancements of this modern age , but if I had watched this as a kid teenager I would've been thrilled . The story is far-fetched ( . . could Albert really pull off such a concocted plan , and wouldn't Daniel have a security force around him as protection ? ) , but the audience gets to see slime annihilated in very creative ways . . a classic story of revenge with a robotic twist on who is conducting the series of murders , a genre movie all the way . Kind of a tragic and sad conclusion that doesn't allow Albert to get away scot-free , and interesting development showing the cybernetic version of Gaily evolving , desiring to understand emotion and feeling . My favorite visual effects sequence would probably be when Albert is opening up the skull of his cybernetic creation , with the director allowed to show off his skills regarding her robotic brain and the inner workings involved with making her function .
Rooms for Tourists	Four females in search of an exit . Four young women , on route to Trinidad for an abortion , become confined within a creepy bed'n'breakfast in some small , hostile impoverished town of San Ramone where a preacher , Horacio ( Oscar Ponce ) has a religious hold over . His iron fisted fanaticism has the town in his grip . This might play into the ultimate plot where these girls find themselves closed within the dark of the hotel as they pursue an escape route as some psycho with a meat cleaver chases after them . The main protagonist is Theda ( Elena Siritto ) , crippled with guilt . . it seems she was plagued with premonitions they are now facing even before the train trip . The film follows these girls as they travel throughout a house where booby-traps and benevolent figures hide in the darkness ready to appear at any time . The film uses the Hostel premise ( poor souls away from home and stuck in a situation where no one of merit can hear them scream or know where they are ) and ratchets up the suspense thanks to the brilliant idea of lensing this in B & W photography . Granted the film is shot micro-budget , but the idea of B & W photography brings an uncanny dread to the proceedings . You might ask : why shoot this in B & W ? Simple . . because the darkness for which the characters are caught engulfs the screen . Man , is it claustrophobic , also . There's an amazing scene where director Adrián García Bogliano pulls the camera back as three of the girls become merely a white circle completely overtaken by darkness around them . . it's absolutely stunning . The director drains every ounce of terror he can from the simple plot and doesn't hold back on the grisly unpleasant violent attacks . He shows the killer slicing open the skin of several girls as the wound opens slowly . One poor girl gets her face blew apart by a shot-gun blast . The B & W photography might remove the red blood , but the violence certainly is potent enough to garner a reaction , that's for sure . The ending , when it is revealed why these girls are being slaughtered , has a dark sense of irony . Keep an eye out for this director . . he's going places .
Before I Hang	A scientist devoted to solving the process of aging is convicted of a " mercy killing " and due to hang , granted permission to continue his experiments with colleague Dr . Ralph Howard ( Edward Van Sloan , of Dracula fame ) in a prison laboratory until his sentence is to be carried out . After developing a serum , and with only a few hours left before facing his hanging , Dr . John Garth ( Bortis Karloff ) decides to inoculate himself with the use of blood deriving from an executed murderer , with tragic results . Granted a reprieve by the governor with his sentence reduced to life-in-prison , Garth finds that he's actually getting younger , but the blood from the murderer used in the serum which was inoculated in his veins contaminates him with an uncontrollable urge to kill which places innocents in danger . In fact , Garth strangles Howard before a thief enters the lab , with a scuffle killing the man . Garth is considered an innocent harmed in that scuffle when in fact he was the man behind both deaths . Released a free man , his old friends he wishes to inoculate become targets thanks to the inner desire to kill , one by one victims of handkerchief stranglings . Garth will hope to pass on knowledge to his daughter's fiancé Paul ( Bruce Bennett ) before turning himself in to the proper authorities . But , will he be able to do this before the urge to kill actually threatens the life of daughter Martha ( Evelyn Keyes ) ? Meanwhile , the police suspect Garth might be behind the stranglings and investigate accordingly . Nice little 60 minute B-movie programmer with a fine performance from Karloff as the tragic victim of corrupted blood , an experiment gone awry . Many will find similarities to many films he was making at the time , playing scientists who meant well , falling prey to unforeseen circumstances regarding unusual experiments often rejected by the medical community at large . The " victim of science " theme isn't fresh by today's standards considering so many films have been made since this film concerning scientists / doctors and their attempts to advance the medical field / life through unorthodox means . I think Karloff's sympathetic performance reels in the viewer and the film is nicely produced adhering to the typically blessed Columbia Pictures studio system where even low-budget offerings carried a polished look and style ( . . see " Cry of the Werewolf " for further proof ) . Karloff was always adept at portraying characters far older than he was and this ability is used here where he starts out as a man perhaps 60 or so , looking younger as the film continues . You expect nothing less than excellent when Karloff headlines your movie . I relish the fact that there many of these less heralded films in Karloff's resume still left for me to discover . So often we back his career into a corner where he's known for his Universal and Val Lewton films , when there's a plethora of little underrated titles ready for the viewing public .
Frankenstein Must Be Destroyed	Baron Victor Frankenstein ( Cushing never more sadistic or cruel as the Baron ; he's completely evil ) forces an asylum Doctor , Karl Holst ( Simon Ward ) assist him in his efforts to secure a certain formula from the insane mind of a patient , Frederick Brandt ( George Pravda ) , once a great doctor driven crazy essentially from his own experiments with brain transplantation . Baron had eavesdropped on Karl's conversation with his lover Anna ( the beautiful Veronica Carlson ) about robbing his asylum of certain medical items and uses this corrupt info for black-mailing purposes . In other words , Baron has Karl caught between a rock and a hard place for the asylum doctor just was helping Anna's sick mother due to their lack of monetary funds in retrieving medicine . Baron first has Karl steal various equipment so that he can re-start a lab in Anna's hotel cellar while also planning to kidnap Brandt from the asylum . The kidnapping goes awry when Brandt reacts violently trying to escape Baron and Karl's clutches as another mental patient , who sees hallucinatory spiders crawling on her skin , roars with terror which can be heard very well . During their struggle to regain Brandt , he has a heart-attack leaving the body severely damaged and dying . So Baron decides to kidnap Professor Richter ( Freddie Jones ) , a renowned medical mind who often sought after for advice regarding the mentally handicapped , and transplant Brandt's brain to his body . . which means Richter's imminent death . Burying the corpse of Brandt in the flower garden outside , they are successful at transplanting his brain to Richter's skull while also eliminating the insanities pressuring proper function . Things begin to unravel as Frederick's wife , Ella ( Maxine Audley ) will not cease to search for her husband's body , Inspector Frisch ( Thorly Walters ) gruffly pursues the person responsible for a series of crimes in his district by following Baron's trail to his new locale , the water main near where Frederick's body was buried busts , and the sleeping body of Richter's awakens while Baron is away . Sadistic , cruel sequel in the Hammer franchise leaves a rather sour taste because Baron is presented as a cold-hearted bastard . Seeing Cushing's Baron viciously attack poor Anna , subsequently raping her , is quite horrifying . Not only that but just watching Baron torment Karl , constantly forcing him to do his bidding . We see Baron's twisted obsession to retrieve the secret formula at all costs . Anna's tragic fate at the hands of Baron leaves a foul feeling of distaste where you just hearken in disbelief that the man portraying him is the same person that was the heroic Van Helsing in the Dracula pictures . Freddie Jones is terrific at displaying the haunted person behind the new body . . seeing Brandt in anguish at what Baron has done to him , and later confronting his wife only to be threatened by her as well , he shows so much in his limited screen time . You have the tragic helpless victim , Karl Host , portrayed by Simon Ward as weighed and burdened with guilt of what he's been a reluctant part of . The film itself is quite well made , and paced . . but so harsh and vile , many might be dismayed at it .
Two Thousand Maniacs !	A group of " yankees " from " up north " are driving on the highway when they are purposely diverted by detour signs into a small " backwoods " Southern town where a joyful local gathering invites them in with welcome cheers to be their very special , " selected " guests for a Centenniel celebration commemorating past history not revealed . Two different cars , one carrying two married couples , another with pretty Connie Mason ( . . as Terry Adams ) and her hitchhiking passenger , William Kerwin ( . . referred to as Thomas Wood in the film's credits ; portraying Tom White ) , whose car broke down as he was on his way to a teacher's convention , are removed from their vehicles pretty much against their will , set up in a hotel with food free , not knowing that they are actually to be the entertainment for their celebration festivities , victims of gruesome games arranged as a " blood revenge " for a dark period in Civil War history . This Southern town , Pleasant Valley , was actually slaughtered by Union soldiers and the vengeful spirits of those killed participate in the celebration of destroying yanks . While the other northerners are unable to see what horrors lie ahead , Tom is suspicious almost immediately and coerces a confused Terry into planning an escape . . it won't be easy with hick crazies all over the place . Considered by his beloved fans as director Herschell Gordon Lewis ' masterpiece , TWO THOUSAND MANIACS ! , his second film , is much better than BLOOD FEAST , in that the black comedy works to a greater extent , and he's operating completely tongue-in-cheek . While the camera work is still suspect , there are some overhead set ups early on which are effective , and the film doesn't drag as much as in BLOOD FEAST , where scenes would often linger tediously . The non-actors in the film are not as dreadful as in HGL's previous flick , and the cast portraying the " rednecks " really get into their roles , particularly when the victims are about to be executed . Jeffrey Allen , as the blustery mayor , is memorable as the overseer of his town , really relishing along with the folks over executing the yanks one at a time , mocking each victim as they are about to die . The gory set-pieces are certainly shocking such as one poor soul whose limbs are pulled apart from his torso by four different horses going in opposite directions , a woman's finger ( . . taken off by a knife ) and arm ( . . chopped off by an ax ) being removed , another victim bound as contestants attempt to drop a boulder on top of her by hitting a target with a softball , and one victim is rolled down a hill in a barrel with nails hammered inside . The twisted imagination for coming up with such grisly set pieces , HGL deserves credit for setting a standard others would soon surpass as demand for such movies increased with talented make-up artists and production values emerging . Still , the film features crude photography and bad sound ( . . sometimes , the dialogue is a bit drowned out by bluegrass music ) . . and I wouldn't say the acting is of superb quality , far from it . But , there's an irresistible energy and a method to the madness , with some terrific bluegrass numbers to entertain as well . In order to appreciate a sick gore comedy such as this , you must gloss over HGL's inadequacies as a filmmaker , still learning his trade , but the man has a knack for repulsive murder sequences . As a gorehound , I admire his contributions to the artistry of graphic violence , even if I find his cinematic prowess lacking .
Doctor Blood's Coffin	Peter Blood ( the dashing Kieron Moore , perfectly conveying the drive and determination of a scientist with paranoia and madness brewing inside ) returns to his small village home of Grenville after extensive schooling in Vienna . What his father Dr . Robert Blood ( Ian Hunter ) , the beloved , hardworking village physician , or nurse Linda Parker ( the lovely Hazel Court ) , his possible love interest , neither know is just what Peter is capable of in pursuing his goal to make a living , beating heart revive a dead body . Peter takes it upon himself to choose the lowest of village folk to paralyze with a poison that removes their ability to move much or talk , enabling him to surgically remove their hearts while they remain alive , with horrified eyes revealing the only cries of help available to them . Peter has a secret " lab " in a small place within tunnels underneath the ruins of an abandoned mine . Opportunity arises for Peter to gain control of human subjects when his father must leave for nearby Plymouth , out of town , as he works in his place with access to tools , equipment , and space . But , it'll only be a matter of time before Peter will make that ultimate mistake which will reveal his evil ways . He wholeheartedly believes in what he's doing . . scientists must be " ruthless and unafraid " of what the critical majority as a whole thinks , Peter feels that important people should live in place of the " inferior " beings who merely occupy space , when their beating hearts could thrive in those better suited to make the world a better place . This was actually a pleasant surprise . I thought the premise was grisly enough and the idea that Peter has trust from those in the village , creates much in the way of suspense . There's this masterstroke of a scene where this poor soul , given poison , makes his way , painstakingly , out of Peter's cavernous lair outside to an ocean embankment only to face the fact that the village is using as their physician , currently taking Robert's place , the very man who committed the sickening act to him . Hazel Court is the voice of reason , using Peter's attempts at being God against him to no avail when she suspects , and is right , that he's doing inhumane things . Kenneth J Warren is the village Sergeant Cook , who is investigating missing citizens and unusual deaths . An important scene comes in the middle portion of the film when Peter is first caught by the village's elderly coroner , attempting a surgical heart removal on a citizen in the morgue . Interrupted by coroner Morton ( Gerald Lawson ) while in the process of removing the heart , Peter kills him accidentally setting off a chain of events will lead to his downfall . The body he was working on dies , so he'll have to seek a second victim . Peter has to somehow hide Morton's body , take over as coroner doing autopsies which have the poison he put inside them , trying to evade curious eyes seeking answers to odd occurrences . You see , through Moore's performance , a man squirming to correct mistakes he himself made trying somehow to stay one step ahead . I'm a fan of " mad scientist " movies , and this does follow the Frankenstein model , but I liked the performances . The film is ultimately about life and death and how Peter wishes to prolong those important with the hearts of those who waste them on drink or lost dreams . I also felt director Sidney J Furie uses the ruins and tunnels effectively . I think this is so story-driven , that the low budget doesn't harm it . Only one real puzzling occurrence for me was the ending when Peter is actually successful only for the one revived from the dead ( . . a real nifty twist is who the corpse revived is and how they relate to Linda ) to turn on him violently . . I guess it follows Frankenstein in that regard as well because when one tries to play God he will reap what he sows .
Rogue	A boat captain , Kate ( Radha Mitchell , perfectly cast ) and the tourists riding in her tour-boat encounter a giant crocodile after invading his territory looking for the one responsible for shooting flares . Finding a boat sinking underwater ( . . obviously the boat carrying the one casting the distress signal ) , the tour-boat soon is blindsided by the monstrous croc , causing a gushing leak putting them on an isle with the tide slowly creeping in . Kate's company will not send a search party until the following morning as a rule . Kate finds a little help in an old flame , Neil ( Sam Worthington ) whose boat , carrying a pal soon to be lunch , is also capsized by the killer croc . With a crew of tourists slowly emotionally unraveling , Pete ( Michael Vartan ) , a magazine traveling article writer , will attempt to capture the croc ( . . with two dead quarry killed by Neil and his bloke , and an anchor hook ) after an idea regarding a tied rope from one tree on the island to the other on the mainland for each individual to escape above water fails . With the croc trapped , tugging on the anchor ( . . whose rope is tied to a giant rock ) as Pete holds guard , the others will hopefully swim across to the mainland shore , but all of them might not make it in time . A more mainstream effort from " Wolf Creek " director Greg Mclean , pits various individuals from all parts of the world in a difficult spot with a huge menace in close proximity . In making a decision to find out if someone needed help , fate puts Kate in an awful predicament . The croc moves really fast , often snatching up humans before any of the others even realize they're gone . One main character is even caught in the " death roll " ( . . this person's fate is a bit of a stretch in credibility , I must admit ) while trying to swim to the mainland . Unfortunately , those seeking gory human murders will be sorely disappointed . One is lifted and thrown , then carried underwater , and we actually see the aftermath of what can happen when you are caught with the teeth of such a beast , but as far as seeing the croc munching on a human victim , this film opts to stay away from that . There is a particularly grisly fate for Kate's beloved dog Kevin , so maybe that will satisfy those gore-hounds seeking carnage of some kind . The film builds some incredible tense sequences such as the failed attempt to travel by rope from the isle to the mainland when the first who attempts to go across freezes in fear as another goes ballistic , adding too much weight when he insists on sending his child ( . . and himself ) immediately . The intense climax inside the killer croc's lair with Pete fighting for survival , while also worrying about another whose fate lies in his hands is quite a doozy . Mclean decides to shift his film from unpleasant violence associated with " Wolf Creek " , instead choosing to go the " suspence " route , having our innocents in constant fear of a very large creature who could pop up at any given moment . For creature feature fans , this is a must . It's quite a roller-coaster , but , honestly , for the most part , Mclean plays it safe this time , giving his characters much more room of escape than he did those poor young people in " Wolf Creek . " I thought the f / x work for the croc was superb . It actually does look scary instead of corny and fake .
Friday the 13th-The Final Chapter	For those who have seen The Prowler , it will be of no surprise that Friday the 13th Part IV is one of the most savage entries of the series . Joseph Zito seems to be a director born to helm a Friday the 13th film as Jason resembles the psycho of his past film . Unlike past installments , Jason Voorhies seems more of an unstoppable killing machine , able to withstand great punishment despite suffering blows and wounds that'd easily finish off most human beings . He seems hellbent on eliminating anyone who stands in his way . . those who live on his turf die , simple as that . A group of teens arrive at a cabin nearby Crystal Lake where 10 people were executed at the hands of Jason Voorhies . Voorhies , presumed dead , kills a nurse and coroner , escaping the hospital on his way home to take up where he left off . This time a brother of a murdered girl is preparing to meet Jason , Rob Dyer ( Erich Anderson ) , and finds a potential love-interest along the way , Trish ( Kimberly Beck ) , who lives with her young brother Tommy ( Corey Feldman ) and divorcée mom ( Joan Freeman ) near the cabin where the group of teens are spending the summer . While the teens meet twins from another cabin not too far from them , Jason is around somewhere ready to attack anyone in the vicinity . Zito effectively uses Manfredini's familiar musical score , and Jason seems more menacing than ever , plunging his knife into the bodies of teens who have no idea a killer is among them . Groups hook up and engage in sex and shenanigans , dying not long after . Memorable death sequences abound as Tom Savini expresses through his bloody great gore effects how he has evolved since working on Cunningham's Friday the 13th . We seen a chunky hitchhiker stabbed through the throat while eating a banana . One victim not only is stabbed in the hand with a bottle-top corkscrew , but is struck in the face with a knife . A female victim is pulled through a window , tossed off the balcony and directly into the roof of a station wagon below . One poor soul , taking a shower , gets his face crushed in . Another gets an ax driven into her chest . Even a dog is thrown threw a window . Rob's fate , as a helpless Trish watches , as he screams , " He's killing me ! " packs a horrifying wallop . And , a painful use of a harpoon to the crotch ( . . the harpoon is a weapon Jason has used over and over again effectively to kill his prey in one way or another ) leaves a lasting impression . But , the climax hums best as poor Trish must fend for her life , while attempting to protect Tommy , as Jason comes at her without restraint . The one portraying Jason this time , Ted White , actually has the killer moving more urgently / aggressively which ratchets up the terror for Trish as she must think fast and not let up or else . Of course the addition of Corey Feldman ( . . as a weird kid with awesome custom-made masks and toys who finds a way of communicating with Jason ) and the great Crispin Glover ( making the most of a " teen victim " role as the nerdy and extremely shy Jimmy who just wants to get laid ) who is the very symbol of rejection ( . . before his exit , Jimmy does get respect from his stoner pal , Ted ( Lawrence Monoson ) who ridiculed him for being such a lousy lay ) adds weight to this particular installment . Glover's dance deserves all the accolades reaped upon it . . it's a think of beauty . Beck , as the final girl , really stands her ground against Jason , a resourceful gal who even lunges through a window , onto a balcony , landing hard to the ground just so she could escape an even more grim fate . The machete damage to Jason at the end just shows Savini's prowess as a supreme effects man . A lot of love to Judie Aronson as Samantha , for her uninhibited nature gave us lots of eye candy to digest .
Night Gallery	In " The Cemetery " ( . . directed by Boris Sagal ) , a loathsome money-hungry nephew , Jeremy Evans ( Roddy McDowell , playing him as a really slimy scumbag ) ready and willing to horde on his Uncle's inheritance , just waiting for the old timer , William Hendricks ( George Macready ) crippled and ravaged by a stroke that has taken his means of movement and communication , to croak . His Uncle was once a painter obsessed with death . . his works often evoke that . Osmond Portifoy ( Ossie Davis ) has been under employ to the old man for many years and Jeremy relishes in reminding the butler who will be dipping their hands in the money jar . To show you just how virulent Jeremy can be , he points out to Portifoy ( . . and for extra slander , he uses " Portifoy " nearly every sentence with a sneer ) how his mother worked her fingers to the bone without ever asking Uncle for a dime and that he always desired to live the good life , but needed the means to do so . McDowell is in command carrying this heavy smell of pomp and greed ( " I'm a black sheep nephew with an itch " ) . . you just love to hate him . Jeremy finds out that he'll receive his Uncle's inheritance due to the fact that his mother is dead and her share will go to him thanks to a clause in Hendrick's will . So Jeremy locks his Uncle's wheelchair next to an open window allowing the draft to kill him ( . . while also letting his Uncle peer at the family graveyard as a reminder of where the old man is about be heading ) . Oh , but you know Jeremy's got his comeuppance coming to him , yes sir ! Jeremy notices a painting on the wall ( Hendrick's portraits line the wall of the stairwell ) and the freshly dug grave where dear dead Uncle was buried begins to change every time he looks at it . Watch as Jeremy slowly unravels as he sees Uncle's casket appear , then open , then show someone rising slowly walking to the front door of the manor . But , all is not what it seems . I do think McDowell's tour-de-force performance approaches high camp but I just enjoyed it immensely . . he's such a blood-sucking leech , a real weasel . Watching Jeremy squirm and ultimately become frightened out of his wits was a ton of fun . The ending is a bit silly ( . . and rather logically unsound ) , pointing out another schemer out for a payday , but overall I think it's fun , if derivative somewhat . The idea of the ever-changing portrait is a cool idea , I thought . The second tale , " Eyes " ( . . directed by Steven Spielberg ) stars Joan Crawford as an acid-tongued , rich , blind woman , Claudia ( who has built her own apartment complex in New York and lives as it's only tenant ) , who blackmails a surgeon , Dr . Frank Heatherton ( Barry Sullivan ) into performing a dangerous and unorthodox grafting procedure transplanting the central optic nerves of an obsessive gambler's eyes , Sidney ( Tom Bosley of " Happy Days " fame ) needing 9 grand to pay off a debt from a bookie threatening his life . Although the procedure will only grant her 11 hours of sight , she's willing to have that for just the precious moments to see color and objects always darkened to her . But , in a nasty bit of irony to match her own behavior towards others like Heatherton , New York City goes through a black out ridding her of those precious moments she has so longed for . This tale has that Rod Serling intellectual banter between characters you remember from stage-like episodes of " Twilight Zone " as fates are contemplated and discussions are batted around . This also has the " coming out " stylistics of a future filmmaker . The third tale , " The Escape Route " ( . . directed by Barry Shear ) follows a Nazi named Strobe ( Richard Kiley , with a scar covering one eye for extra impact ) hiding away in South Africa , haunted by memories of his war crimes and constantly looking over his shoulder worried about being caught by agents who specialize in hunting " his kind " out . He becomes pre-occupied / transfixed with a museum painting of some fisherman on a mountain lake . . his desire is to enter the painting as a means of escape from the torments of running . He tries to shake an old Jew , Bleum ( the marvelous Sam Jaffe , whose frail , wrinkled body , offers a terrifying example of what torture , imprisonment & death can do to one who had seen it all ) who seems to recognize him . A creepy crucifixion painting depicting one's suffering leads us into Strobe and Bleum's first meeting . . and , for a reason you'll find later , is as important to this tale as the fisherman painting . A chilling exploration of a tired monster with few escape routes whose wish is granted . . just not the way he thinks . As expected ( considering the title ) each episode features within it's plot the importance of a portrait . All three tales bear Rod Serling's distinctive writing style with the usual " gotcha ! " twisting irony one grows to expect . I guess the first one is closest to the " Night Gallery " series , but this film is much better than what comes after it because of Serling's strong involvement in every tale presented . He is also the host introducing us to each macabre tale .
Red Siren	A young girl named Alice ( Alexandra Negrão ) calls on Inspector Anita ( Asia Argento , playing a normal person . . seems to be going through the motions ) to help put her assassin mother Eva ( Frances Barber . . one evil bitch ) away because of the torture / execution of a maid recorded on disc . The killer , however , had a mask and the voice was mechanically altered . Even worse , Eva is a wealthy , powerful woman no matter how cold-blooded she is . Alice will go on the lam as Eva's goons are in hot pursuit . Luckily for Alice she hides in the car of Hugo ( Jean-Marc Barr ) , a freedom fighter for a assassin group called Liberty Bells , who we saw in the opening accidentally kill a child he thought was a soldier . Hugo will assist Alice in the search for her boatmaker father Travis ( Johan Leysen ) while Eva draws on her lover , the Colonel ( Carlo Brandt ) and his top mercenary Sorvan ( François Levantal ) to find their whereabouts . Meanwhile , Anita will be given leave by her boss to go on the road to find Alice herself . It will all lead to a final showdown in the secret location / residence of Alice's father . . that is if Hugo can get her there in one piece and if he's even alive . While , like many of it's kind , this polished , ultra-stylish Euro-actioner asks the viewer to accept a lot of improbable situations ( such as the bullet-ridden hotel sequence where several of the Colonel's soldiers attempt to flush Hugo out from hiding resulting in lots of hi-tech gunplay ) and coincidences ( Alice just happening to choose a talented , top-notch assassin's car to hide in while running from Eva's goons ) . I enjoyed it even if logic is completely thrown out the window . I liked Jean-Marc as the hero Hugo and thought Barber was effective as the reptilian Eva .
Popcorn	Film student with recurring nightmares she records on audio cassette for a potential movie , Maggie ( Jill Schoelen ) joins fellow classmates in a project to raise money so that they could fund future projects of their own . This project is a theater due to be put to rest in a matter of weeks , which the class will use to show three 50's B-movies using gimmicks to entertain the movie-going public who buy a ticket for the overall night . But , a killer will secretly plot to murder several of the students , and teacher Mr . Davis ( Tony Roberts ) as the movies are being projected while Maggie and boyfriend Mark ( Derek Rydall ) work together to find her possible father , a supposedly dead cult director , Lanyard Gates ( Matt Falls ) who murdered her real mother , not the woman who has been raising her since childhood , Suzanne ( Dee Wallace Stone ) . The nightmares which are actually memories surfacing bringing to light what happened to her mother and that her father was indeed the eerie face talking to her , raising a sword to stab her . Is the one responsible for the series of murders actually Gates , or is someone else ( . . a fellow film student with an ax to grind ? ) behind the killings ? A film Gates was making , which reflects almost exactly the nightmares Maggie has been experiencing , is found within the theater by fellow student Toby ( Tom Villard ) . Responsible for all the technical and gimmick equipment for the 50's horror theme night is Dr . Mnesyne ( Ray Walston ) , once in this line of work at shocking the audiences while they watched cheesy low-budget romps . The films shown are " Mosquito ! " a 3-D flick where a puppet mosquito is sent down in front of the audience by a remote control device , " The Amazing Electrified Man " ( . . where buzzers on seats shock the asses of customers ' theater seats ) & " The Stench " where smelly fumes are released into the theater . The tame deaths include one wheel-chair victim being electrocuted , one exploding in a bathroom stall when a chemical agent was dropped into the the toilet , and two nifty murders by the puppet mosquito whose proboscis stabs into two victims . The one responsible for the murders wishes to finish what was started on Gates ' unfinished film , The Possessor , putting Maggie in danger . The most disturbing aspect of the film is that the psycho is heavily burned , wearing prosthetic masks taking the faces of victims . This film attempts to put an imaginative spin on the dying slasher genre ( . . before it's rebirth with Craven's Scream ) while also paying homage to classic B-movies and William Castle .
Forced Entry	At Joe's Friendly Service gas station is an attendant who was traumatically scarred from the Vietnam war , enacting his rage and anger on unfortunate female victims who come across his place of employment , the directions to their home scribbled on paper with him using an excuse regarding the credit card machine's not working properly . Following the address written down , this man ( Harry Reems in a chilling performance ) , seething with disgust towards all manners of women , will wait for the right opportune time to force his way into their apartments , either with a gun or knife as a weapon , making his desired targets commit whatever sexual acts he so chooses , threatening death . We follow three particular cases where Harry Reems ( . . whose name is absent , which really doesn't matter , for he's simply a forgotten casualty of a war that left so many soldiers without an identity or place ) follows his prey upon meeting them at the gas station where he works , watching until each female victim is at their most vulnerable ( . . mostly when they're naked and alone ) , seizing upon them , offering little hope for their survival . The first victim ( Jutta David ) has a knife to her throat and must provide lengthly oral sex to Reems as he mouths off hideous insults , degrading her in every possible fashion . At the finish , he removes a curved blade from an art piece on her wall , slicing the poor girl's throat . The second victim ( Laura Cannon ) just stops by asking for directions to her home , lost within a large city , not knowing that giving her address to Reems signs her death warrant . He catches her in the moment of a very satisfying shower , frightening her obviously , before grabbing the girl , tossing her on the bed , forcing her to commit oral sex , before penetrating her from behind . This is particularly devastating because Reems embellishes in the pain he's causing the girl as she cries and whimpers . What makes Reems ' actions so horrifying is the way he uses words to disgrace his victims while forcing them to do embarrassing sexual acts . After Reems is through with victim # two , he stabs her multiple times , burying the knife deep , with unflinching cruelty . This maniac thrives on their misery , enjoying the control and command he has . . the war left him an unbearable fiend , wallowing in psychosis . The next selected victims are a couple of dope-smoking hippies , high as a kite , a representation of those who scorned / shamed him upon return . Unlike the other two instances , however , he doesn't have control because these girls do not fear him . They are oblivious to his warnings of serious death , and even offer to pleasure him . . this , coupled with the non-stop barrage of Vietnam memories bombarding his mind and soul , cause a psychological break that ends in him quieting the torment haunting him once and for all . Now , I gave this a glorified synopsis regarding what Vietnam does to the men who fought in it , returning to find themselves just as much a victim as those who died there , but FORCED ENTRY is above all a vile , sickening portrait of a madman fulfilling his grotesque desires , forcing his prey to participate in pleasing his destructive , misogynistic ego . The oral sex scenes are long as the women must obey Reems ' command , listening to his commentary on how their " performance " is . The first two sexual attacks are arduous exercises which will only please those who enjoy seeing women demeaned and mistreated . There is an opening sex scene between Jutta David , the first victim , and her lover ( . . the director of this film ) as Reems watches from outside the window , and a lesbian encounter between the two hippie girls ( . . Reems , his teeth clinched tight , watching with a mixture of revulsion and desire ) that differ from the two forced rapes . The film-making style cooperates with the sleazy subject matter and the ugly , raw nature for which FORCED ENTRY operates is appropriate . While I wouldn't recommend this to anyone I know personally , I do believe director Shaun Costello achieves what he set out to accomplish . . the film is teeming with a progressive amount of suffering and hostility , and the war footage interspersed within the actions of Reems pack a wallop , I felt . It's rare that you see a sex film with such animosity , with a central character so entirely twisted and cruel , presented in such an unapologetic way . The camera goes in all places , shooting sexual acts from all angles associated in hardcore pornography . Reems is unforgettable . New York City , in this film , is presented as a very appalling , filthy trash heap , just the right setting for the lead character and his despicable activities .
À l'intérieur ( Inside )	A deeply bitter and depressed pregnant widow , Sara ( Alysson Paradis ) whose husband died in a car crash ( . . who she indeed crashes into is of major importance later on ) is greeted by a sadistic female psychopath ( Béatrice Dalle , incredibly effective ) who desires to retrieve her unborn child . The film displays a fight for survival as anyone who enters Sara's home , whether it be her mother , friend / associate , or police , is destined to face the dangerous " la femme " who murders without restraint . For a good portion of the film , once La femme attacks her with scissors ( . . this is a weapon La femme uses frequently on many victims ) , Sara barricades herself in the bathroom behind a rather flimsy wooden door . But , as expected , Sara can not remain inside the bathroom and the inevitable confrontation will transpire . . but , not before the walls are painted red with blood , the house strewn to and fro with the bodies of those who had the misfortune of a fateful meeting with La femme . This could very well be retitled , " The Christmas Eve Massacre " as La femme , strikingly akin to The Shape of " Halloween " with how she moves in the distance / darkness and appears from the shadows as if the Angel of Death , slaughters a number of people who intrude on her mission to retrieve her prize . While I didn't find it as grisly as it's reputed to be , the film paints the screen red . Blood squirts and sprays throughout , although ( . . like a lot of slashers from the past 20 some odd years ) about 95 % of the violence occurs off-screen or out of frame . The fact that this film is proclaimed as a godsend to gorehounds , I found it a bit lacking . The scissors , which La femme uses as her basic weapon , is mostly shown rising into strike position with the film going to the next scene as her hand comes down . Like a lot of slashers , we get more of the aftermath of Le femme's carnage , than weapons penetrating flesh . There's one scene , quite memorable , where a sewing needle is stabbed into the neck of an innocent from Sara's own hand , which shows blood gush , but this is one of a choice few scenes that really shows the violence in detail . I consider it a success for directors Alexandre Bustillo and Julien Maury , because their film is heralded as the " ne plus ultra " in graphic bloodletting yet so much of what happens to victims is handled away from the eyes of the viewer , leaving the ultimate effect to our imagination ( . . such as the scene where La femme catches her quarry in a vulnerable position , when Sara's arm is reaching through a hole in the bathroom door trying to free herself so she can escape . . La femme sticks Sara's hand through the wall with scissors , yet we never see the act , just the result ) . I like how the film photographs La femme as a lurking unstoppable menace . . I do think she resembles The Shape in this regard , especially . Yet , the agenda of La femme's is cleverly executed . . what motivates her rage is told to us right from the get-go . There's a striking image , my favorite of the film , where Sara leaves the comfort of her hideaway , as a police officer ( . . with a prisoner handcuffed to him , as if a mutt on a leash ) looks for the circuit-breaker after La femme turns out the power , where she lies on her bed , with hair completely open , bloody face , and bloody stomach . . it's the way the scene is lit and how she appears to have finally surrendered to fate . Of course , like most protagonists in slashers , Sara will defend herself in various ways against her pursuer . I particular like how she uses aerosol spray effectively against La femme , who is a cigarette smoker . Since I mentioned " Halloween " and how La femme ( . . interesting how she has no definitive name ) favors The Shape , I also found similarities in how the French directors use a singular location , the claustrophobic confines Sara finds herself , eerily similar to the home invaded by Michael with Laurie Strode trying to hide the best she could . . and in " Halloween " there is an effective use of a sewing needle against The Shape . I have noticed that the film's main criticism is the use of computer graphics for the infant , but , in actuality , this didn't bother me that much . There were certain situations , artistic and otherwise , that needed particular elaboration , for story-telling purposes , and I think this perhaps could only be accomplished through CGI .
Whoever Slew Auntie Roo ?	Rosie Forrest ( Shelley Winters ) , as the film presents in the opening singing to her daughter who is a rotted corpse , is pretty mad you could say . The mansion she lives in was obviously constructed at her late magician husband's command since the daughter's room is so well hidden within secret passageways , if ( . . and when ) the police were to search for someone ( or two , to be precise ) it's nearly impossible unless you know the right button to push and the specific door to enter . We are presented with two orphans , Christopher and Katy ( Mark Lester and Chloe Franks ) notorious for their constant attempts at running away and misbehaving ( they give their " den-mother " the silent treatment out of protest for having to return to the orphanage ) . 10 children , the kindest of the orphanage , are selected to spend Christmas with Rosie , and Christopher & Katy are NOT on that list . Yet , they take it upon themselves to hide in the luggage cart of the carriage anyway and are invited into the bosom of Rosie . Rosie often sees a corrupt con-artist , Mr . Benton ( Ralph Richardson ) who pretends to be a medium who can contact her late daughter Katherine . A child's voice claiming to be Katherine is actually the maid conspiring with the butler scamming cash from Rosie when Benton separates their cut . Albie ( Michael Gothard ) presents himself quite the loyal butler attending to Rosie's every need until that right moment when he can get a big payday through some sort of blackmail . Albie knows Rosie is bonkers and buys his time . That time may've arrived in the luggage cart for Christopher believes Rosie is a witch and that he and Katy are to be stuffed in an oven and eaten when she's gets a chance ( Christopher compares their situation to the dark fairy tale , Hansel and Gretel . . an aspect the film tries in every way to exploit throughout even using Christopher's narration parlaying excerpts from the story ) . What does happen is that Rosie sees Katherine in Katy and really wishes for her to stay . . without Christopher who becomes Rosie's arch nemesis . Both scheme against one another as Christopher finds the room where the dead daughter is locked away and sees Rosie singing to her . The final thirty or so minutes is Christopher trying to rescue Katy ( . . and himself ) from the clutches of Rosie who keeps the entire house locked away . Katy is kept locked away in Katherine's old room while Rosie forces Christopher to assist her in everyday chores once Albie and the maid exit the premises with a nice fat check through blackmail ( Albie threatens to expose Katy's whereabouts when Rosie informs the orphanage that she must've disappeared ) . The ending is quite twisted . . if you have an understanding of the dark fairy tale mentioned throughout , then you might have an inkling what I'm talking about . I'll be honest , this is really a sick little number . It exploits a mentally woman for comedy using the death of a daughter as the catalyst . It also is quite disturbing as a misunderstanding through the paranoid mind of a boy leads to a horrible tragedy . Even more so twisted is that Christopher understands where Rosie keeps her expensive jewelry and steals it , burying them in a hole within this teddy bear Katy insists on getting ( it was Katherine's ) . If you want me to tell the truth the boy protagonist isn't the kindest , most pleasant kid in the world . . anything but . He's just a smaller version of Albie . But , poor Rosie is used by everyone in the film . Everyone preys on her mental weaknesses . The really crazy part is this film plays Rosie's madness for snickers . I think this film works best for those with a macabre sense of humor . Not for all tastes , that's for sure .
The Undying Monster	The House of Hammond is burdened by a family history of suicides at the supposed sight of a monster . When a nurse . . and Oliver Hammond ( John Howard ) , who now owns the current estate of his family . . is attacked at the edge of a sea-side cliff next to the lane traveling to the Hammond estate , Scotland Yard science detectives Curtis ( James Ellison ) and his unflappable assistant Christy ( the delightful Heather Thatcher ) are called on to solve the mystery that has shrouded the family for centuries . Also left mangled and torn at the scene of the attack is a dead cocker spaniel dog . The troubling aspect of this crime scene , where it appears as if a savage animal of some sort committed the carnage , is that there are no footprints leaving a trace of what caused such a violent rampage . With the nurse unconscious in a coma and slowly withering away from a severe brain hemorrhage , amazingly Oliver is recuperating well despite some nasty cuts and bruises he supposedly suffered at the hands of whatever caused the attacks . When asked about what committed the attacks , though , Oliver's muddled story leaves little for Curtis and Christy , and the village police , to go by . Ruffling the feathers of the Hammonds and their hired help , it appears that secrets are being held from Curtis and Christy as they pursue the truth behind the deaths that have plagued this family for so long . Also acting suspiciously is the village doctor , Jeff Colbert ( Bramwell Fletcher ) who seems to be deliberately making things difficult for Curtis such as muffling the footprints left on the floor of a secret locked room , or his taking the Hammond family history book from a library before the detective could retrieve it . And , curiously , why would a renowned brain specialist leave London for a small village position ? Would it be that he has designs on marrying Helga Hammond ( Heather Angel ) who would be sole heir of her family estate if Oliver was out of the way ? Curtis and Christy will have to use their scientific methods of spectrum DNA analysis , which has solved cases in the past , if they wish to figure out what monster , or possible human murderer , is behind the death of the nurse who would succumb to her injuries . Before directing " The Lodger " , John Brahm does what he was commissioned to do . . bring an atmospherically crafted mystery , shooting from all sorts of fantastic angles , with his cunning abilities using the camera , fluidly expressing a sense of style that would later cement his legacy as a quietly underrated genius . You can see how Universal inspired other studios in just how " The Undying Monster " opens . I felt the " bending trees " which populate the surrounding areas of the Hammond estate , and the massive studio sets representing the inside of Hammond castle ( . . and the mausoleum housing the Hammond ancestry ) , resemble " Frankenstein " more than " The Wolf Man " , the model obviously for the werewolf theme in " The Undying Monster " . You can certainly see what skills director Brahm had in the studio system such as the opening shot where the camera eyeballs various Hammond staples in the living room of the castle , and the nurse running for her life down the lane as the camera follows her from a distance . I loved one particular shot where Brahm's camera captures a conversation behind the rising flames of a fireplace . The monster itself , certainly a werewolf style which resembles the iconic Jack Pierce standard , only makes a major appearance at the end . . only do we get a good look at it's face , with the director using the usual dissolves from hair to face when we find out who is plagued with lycanthropy . A good portion of this film , though , is the unveiling of a mystery , with Curtis discovering what secrets this family might be hiding , while also utilizing the new methods of investigation to find about about strange evidence in order to find out what caused the attacks that lead to an unfortunate death . The script has the family's past as sordid with supposedly a member selling his soul to the devil . That kind of reputation only fuels the idea of a monster , with the family's name continuously remaining notorious . As each suspect is ruled out , Curtis , a scientist who scoffs at the notion of the supernatural , will discover , through science no less , just who his culprit actually is . Lycanthropy , in this film , is looked at as an affliction of a diseased mind , passed down through the generations . Thanks to Brahm's sure hand , and an interesting script , this film rises above being just a Wolf Man rip-off . But , this was just a stepping stone to greater triumphs , with " The Undying Monster " serving as a template where Brahm would lay the stylistic groundwork for what was to come later .
Texas Chainsaw Massacre-The Shocking Truth	Fascinating documentary detailing the behind-the-scenes development of the cult favorite Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE , with telling interviews from cast and crew . You learn about all facets of the film's beginning to end , and the aftermath regarding it's popularity , featuring interesting comments about how difficult it was to shoot in the Texas heat , how certain aspects of it's design came about , and open discussions regarding many of it's most important scenes , acted and presented . I found art designer Robert Burns ' comments most fascinating as it is obvious his disdain for director Tobe Hooper , and his negative reaction to the movie itself . Also brought up are the hostile feelings of several cast members towards Paul A Partain who stayed in character ( . . he was the whiny wheelchair bound crippled brother to Marilyn Burns ' Sally Hardesty ) really getting on their nerves , and how Robert Burns went about his duties at creating such an incredible atmosphere regarding animal bones . We find out about how nearly all involved were paid little for their services despite major box office gross . We listen to how Marilyn Burns was physically abused in her role , such as when she's hit across the head with a broom ( . and especially when she leaps through a window reluctantly ) . I recommend this documentary to TCM die-hards for you're provided a wealth of info on the film . The interviews are quite candid , with few holding anything back . You can sense that the film's shoot was a very difficult experience for many people . . the infamous dinner table scene was particularly grueling for those who were participants . Also brought up are the subsequent sequels , and how they were managed badly by studios , none able to match the intense and harrowing original masterpiece .
Pulse	An electrical force ( possibly alien , although the director , who also wrote it , doesn't specify exactly ) terrorizes The Rocklands ( Cliff De Young & Roxanne Hart ) . Bill Rockland's young son David ( remember Joey Lawrence ) comes to stay in LA for the summer . The entire family begin to notice their appliances and mechanized systems are malfunctioning often effecting even their water . Soon violence will erupt with scary results . The director Paul Golding does a good job with showing us how the force takes over mechanical devices with starling effects . We see this mechanical fungus-like evolution forming . . I've never seen anything quite like it . Golding also enforces our dependency on electrical appliances and machinery as we have moved into a more modern age . It's a set-up " what-if " scenario with the force working almost as a virus moving from house to house effecting those who live within each place one at a time . Obviously , those on the outside look at the victims of the pulses as crazy . . that is until it happens to them next .
Justine	Sisters raised in a convent , Justine , naive & virtuous innocent , and Juliette , wholeheartedly prepared for any wiles of carnal desire the world has to offer , are sent out after the loss of their parents and finances run out . While Juliette dives in head first without a second thought into a wicked world , embracing it to the fullest , Justine is almost like a rabbit tossed into a den of lions . Her trust in people leads to being taken advantage of , penniless , destitute , on the run for crimes she didn't commit , and facing perilous situations towards her life and virginity , seemingly always able just to escape by the skin of her teeth through fate and happenstance . Meanwhile , Juliette , commits the very atrocities Justine is accused of , and rises through society living lavishly , but never emotionally fulfilled . All the while the film returns to the Marquis De Sade ( . . the always powerful Klaus Kinski , showing a very tormented man seething with agony like an imprisoned zoo animal longing to escape his misfortune ) , behind a jail cell , alone and haunted by his muses , the very creations of Justine and Juliette as their story unfolds . Essentially a series of ( mis ) adventures as Justine seeks shelter from a world that wants to devour her . . nearly every possible sanctuary from harm seems to hold someone ( . . or multiple someones ) with sinister intent . Just when you think Justine might've finally escaped the evils of the world around her , someone hostile spoils her happiness . While one is branded a thief and murderous who is not guilty of the crimes against her , the other does commits these deeds and reaps the benefits substantially . . perhaps the Marquis sees the world through a different pair of eyes , as in his story those who take to committing wicked and carnal acts are rewarded while virtue and innocence leads to mistreatment and cruelty . Or , in order to survive in such a harsh and barbarous environment , one must succeed and triumph by being ever more treacherous , sadistic and savage . . . obviously the examples of Madame Dusbois ( Mercedes McCambridge , living it up in her role as one of those devouring lions who poses a major threat to Justine , even after the poor girl helps her escape prison and a certain hanging for a list of deeds committed against mankind ) and Juliette work in this line of reasoning's favor . Yet , by the end , Justine is justified for hanging tough and enduring each and every hardship faced along life's way . Juliette sees that the lifestyle she has lived leaves her an empty void yet unfilled despite being where she is , and Justine , having found love through a kind , handsome artist , has come full circle understanding the world for what it is . I think the story of these two sisters is perfect material for a director like Jesús Franco who operates without restraint working with more of a budget . While I believe many will find the film frustrating as Franco uses zoom and often toys with focus ( . . although , I think it works to great advantage in the opening as we see De Sade moving throughout his jail cell while the characters of Justine and Juliette take shape in his mind while also presenting themselves " in person " ) , I think this is one of his best films , using the locations at his disposal to full effect , actually having the ability to establish time and place thanks to period costumes and lavish sets . I think many will find his cast rather average to hammy . I relished McCambridge and LOVED how Franco introduces her . The camera moves with her in frame as Dubois exposes the joy of being who she is . . through McCambridge we can see that she basks in the lifestyle she has led up until this point , not expecting to die . I thought Dubois was one of the most entertaining characters in the film , far more lively and ferocious than Romina Power as Justine , whose performance never dramatically cuts the mustard ( . . it almost appears as if she's about to crack a smile , even as her character faces dangerous situations , remaining fresh-faced and bubbly like a school girl ) . Franco mentions in an interview that he wanted Rosemary Dexter ( who plays Juliette's murdering cohort and lover ) for the role of Justine , who could display the pleasures that were starting to form through the agonies occurring to her . I think one can see in her opening scene in the Paris brothel that this would've been more ideal casting . . just the way she lies in a room presents something unique and interesting . Maria Rohm fits her seductive role as Juliette , this type of casting works because she has the type of look the character needs . I did think Romina Power had this precocious child-like spirit that Franco elicits for the character of Justine , and she certainly is a gorgeous creature , young with a " post-card " beauty which photographs well , but there's not an iota of depth . Franco admits that he often even shot Power's scenes as Justine when she had no idea they were for the movie ! Fans of Jack Palance will revel in his deranged portrayal of a " minister " , who operates a sect of monks who use females left behind by the world as examples of their doctrines of pleasure through pain . . often almost a drunken buffoon spouting gibberish as if he were on the verge of a nervous breakdown , this might also leave some who have seen Palance elsewhere burying their heads in their laps in embarrassment . I'm not sure if this is the user comment to read because I thoroughly enjoyed the film despite it's various weaknesses . Sure , I agree that Franco doesn't tap into the beast as he could ( . . because it's certain that there's room for some serious exploitation and brutality that goes unfurled ) , but I found this film stylistically inspired , specifically his use of color , camera-work , and setting . I do wonder what the film could've been if Franco had been able to use his choice for Justine .
Jungle Holocaust	Two oil men , Robert ( Massimo Foschi in a very demanding role ) and Rolf ( Ivan Rassimov ) get lost in the wilderness and have to fend for their lives in the jungle populated by a Cannibal tribe whose methods hearken back to the Stone Age . They get separated after an unfortunate incident riding a river when their raft breaks apart on top of rocky rapids . Robert especially finds himself in a precarious position . He is taken by a tribe , raped of his clothes , and imprisoned for use as an alligator target ( they use various animals to trap alligators for their meat ) . Somehow Robert must find away out of their clutches and back to the airstrip holding the airplane that brought him to the godforsaken jungle . With a female Pulan ( Me Me Lai ) he will need her to introduce him to foods or means of nourishment to stay alive . But , the presence of those cannibals always weighs on Robert's mind . More of a survivalist drama than a horror film shows various snakes feeding ( such as a fruit-bat & Gila monster ) and does show the cannibals partake in a human meal . Stnningly photographed and quite exciting , this film surprised me a bit as we see Robert slowly descend into a primitive in order to make it in this beast of a habitat .
Hunting season . . is over .	Emil Fouchon ( Lance Henriksen ) and Pik van Cleef ( Arnold Vosloo ) have a very lucrative business that pays in dividends . . and cost men their lives . They give their bored wealthy clients prey to hunt down and kill in this umpteenth variation of The Most Dangerous Game . It's rife with poetic violence thanks to director John Woo's always flashy style , but don't look for some sort of deep , thought-provoking experience because this is the type of genre film bent on showing bodies being shot to kingdom come and lots of slow-motion gunplay with explosions galore . That stuntman for Van Damme is quite amazing although the wig he's saddled with isn't too convincing . Van Damme portrays Chance Bourdreaux , a man who gets involved when assisting Yancy Butler's Natasha Binder . . a woman searching for whoever murdered her father . It all leads to Emil's business and how he likes to use those somewhat skilled ( . . and desperate ) in how to survive often finding war vets and the like . What Emil never counted on was a real challenge in Chance who seems indestructible and flat-out hard to kill . Soon , Chance and Natasha are on the lam . Wilford Brimley portrays Uncle Bouvee , a dear ally to Chance and knows how to shoot an arrow from his bow with a marksman's skill . This film has lots of of what you expect from an actioner from a director known for setting up amazing sequences of bullet-infested violence , but there's little real time in this for character development . Seems most of the attention was devoted to how Van Damme could kick a guy while shooting him at the same time , or how to find various ways to shoot a person . Then there's the awesome sequence where Henriksen is really on fire when he removes his coat . . THAT was stunning and I personally commend the actor for staying in that moment even as it was life-threatening . Fun , in a brainless sort of way , but doesn't hold up next to Woo's masterworks with Chow Yun Fat , HARD TARGET is merely an ant stomped under foot against HARD BOILED or THE KILLER . Henriksen and Vosloo are great as the heavies , though .
Snowbeast	Rills ski lodge's Winter Carnival faces a major crisis . . the tourist festivities , including the Snow Queen Pageant , have been interrupted by a carnivorous Yeti on the prowl for humans to munch . It'll be up to Tony Rill ( Robert Logan ) , director of operations with grandma Rill ( . . veteran actress Sylvia Sidney ) over the lodge , newly employed Olympiad skier Gar ( Bo Svenson ) scarred by recent failures at living up to his past successes at his profession along with estranged news reporter wife Ellen ( . . the absolutely stunning Yvette Mimieux ) , and Sheriff Paraday ( Clint Walker ) to catch and kill the snow creature terrorizing the slopes and mountain wilderness near the lodge . I think this film will be more of a treat for Sasquatch / Yeti movie aficionados than the average horror fan . This is every bit the television movie ( . . back when television movies were all the rage before cable became such a presence ) with the film at times pinpointing the complications of Gar and Ellen's failing marriage and how the perilous situation at hand brings them closer than ever before . There are no Yeti gore attacks , with this film often showing a white furry arm with sharp claws either grabbing victim's heads or coming towards potential innocents as the screen merely fades into blood red at obvious commercial breaks ( . . the blood red screen fade outs were a nice little visual trick I enjoyed ) . I think what truly enhances this particular Yeti monster movie is the incredibly gorgeous Colorado locations with director Herb Wallerstein and expert cinematographer Frank Stanley ( The Eiger Sanction ; Thunderbolt and Lightfoot ) often focusing on how the sun shines over the mountainous landscape with the snow traveling with the wind . . the idea that such an ideal picturesque place could harbor such a predatory beast is , in my opinion , this little movie's greatest strength . It helps when a television director has such a gifted camera-operator because Stanley is used a great deal with Wallerstein almost completely depending on point-of-view shots with the snow creature spying on potential victims through trees , establishing the beast's presence with it's arm often moving branches out of the way ( . . the creature's presence is also signified by it's intense growl , increasing in noise when it draws closer to lunch meat ) . I think many will find " Snowbeast " tedious viewing because of the melodramatics regarding the Sebergs and a slow-moving approach gradually developing towards the climactic showdown between Svenson's Gar and the snowbeast after it causes an avalanche of logs which tip over their RV ( . . trapping the poor sheriff ) . Following the wake of the Spielbergian juggernaut JAWS , many films thereafter would feature an authoritative figure ( . . in this film , the sweet-hearted elder Sidney ) wanting the knowledge of a potential monstrous threat ( . . instead of the shark , this film's is the Yeti ) held in quiet out of fear that tourism would be drastically effected ( . . instead of the Amity beach , this film is set in the Colorado ski lodge ) , only to face the horrifying consequences ( . . the beast attacks during the pageant with tourists running for their lives in fright ) . Solid cast also boosts this obscure creature feature .
The Eye3	Chongkwai ( Ray MacDonald ) purchases a " cursed " book which depicts various methods of seeing and encountering ghosts from the spiritual world . He invites a group of friends from Hong Kong to his home in Thailand and they decide to see if the book can actually perform the tasks it represents . In doing so , one of the group , Kofei ( Yu Gu ) comes up missing during their forest hide-n-seek game using a cat thanks in part to a ghost who " masks " him from them . Haunted by his disappearance , upon returning to Hong Kong , May ( Kate Yeung ) & Teddy ( Bo-lin Chen ) begin experiencing ghostly apparitions popping up throughout the city with a grief-stricken April ( Isabelle Leong ) making a drastic decision in order to find Kofei , for whom she believes is dead . May & Teddy will accept a dangerous mission , entering the spirit world as if dead ( . . another method in the book is sleeping while dressed in burial clothes ) to find Kofei . . and April who has become missing as well . The Pang Bros take the franchise into a completely different direction , sacrificing some genuine scares , adopting an almost entirely light-hearted approach to those scary spirits who walk amongst the living . Even the title opening credits are played out in a colorfully jokey manner . But , when the gang play around with the spiritual world , the tone shifts somewhat , but the Pang Brothers always implement some tongue-in-cheek gag that removes the sheer horror of the situation . An example being when Teddy is temporarily taken over by a spirit who has him break-dancing in a contest with a couple of clowns . It's hard to really be scared of an umbrella floating in the air , although May certainly is terrified . Who would've ever thought a basketball could be used as a scare device ? And , most of the book's methods of contacting the spirit world are rather silly such as tapping on bowls at Midnight with chopsticks awaiting hungry spirits , or looking between your legs for a spirit . I did love this one developed sub-plot regarding a dead girl who had no idea she was deceased , discovering this only after finding her corpse video-recorded at a crime scene thanks to Teddy's morbid voyeurism ; she even tries to stop the camcorder with her hand going through the object . The special effects are impressive . I thought the spirits were creepy enough when they expose themselves . I found the twist at the end regarding May and Teddy's fate rather amusing and it fits in with the overall mood of this film . If you are looking for an Asian terror tale , look elsewhere , because The Bros Pang just weren't in the mood this time around . I think the comedic tone will repel some viewers because the cover of the DVD I rented promised something terrifying . But , to be honest , the first two films were full of such despair and angst , it was refreshing to see the third film a bit more cheerful and playful .
Wolfen	Detective Albert Finney must figure out what is causing vicious canine-like attacks on people . The case really doesn't take shape , despite many street denizens , derelicts , and hobos being viciously torn apart , until a wealthy business man , van der Veer ( behind a major ground breaking undertaking ) is killed . What baffles police is how one man of such prominent means is killed the same as the forgotten who live around the filthy places . Finney will seek the help of coroner Gregory Hines ( steals every scene he's in ) , psychologist Diane Venora ( quite the looker back in the day ) and animal specialist / zoologist Tom Noonan for understanding just what types of predators he's dealing with . The film takes on a different spin regarding the werewolf genre than it's associates that came out the same year ( " An American Werewolf in London " ; " The Howling " ) in that these creatures are closer to actual canine than your typical " man gets bit by a werewolf and turns due to a Full Moon Curse or any other decided shape-shifting ability " . Also , Native American folklore and the understanding of this certain type of wolf ruled extinct thanks to human hunters comes into play in this story . It's truly a parable of man against nature in a state of unbalance when a hunting ground is disturbed . I didn't really buy the ending . . I actually thought it was kind of ridiculous . . but enjoyed the mystery and suspense leading up to the final twenty minutes or so . The " urban blight " photography and the " through the eyes of the hunter " steadi-cam make this film a much more rewarding experience that perhaps makes up for the ponderous ending that came off heavy-handed to me . Good cinematography of the city overall and a capable cast take this beyond where it could've easily wound up . . a promising werewolf tale in an urban setting that falls under the weight of it's supposed message regarding man's disruption of a natural way of life .
The Scarecrow reviews " Wolf Creek " Intense Spoilers	I'll start with the entire " based on a true story " aspect of the film . If Ben is locked away in a room to himself , how could the other two girls ' stories be told ? How do we know the situations they face have any merit ? Or is the whole " based on a true story " merely a fake tag in the vein of " Blair Witch Project " ? I totally agree with buddy that the director ( or , maybe my gripe is toward the editor ) seems to shifts focus unevenly . I agree with buddy that intercutting would've worked ten times better continually giving us different perspectives . Ben gets to escape and into the forest he goes , but we follow the black haired girl for most of the way , then collapsing into the blonde haired girl's story immediately . There doesn't seem to be a balance between all three victims . I agree with buddy that the ending is abrupt and rather unsatisfying . That's why I questioned whether this was really based on a true story or a writer's way of predicting a possible true story that MIGHT occur in the quiet reaches of the Outback . I'll say this the film certainly didn't help the tourist trade any . My major problems with the film concern the black haired girl who just makes ineptitude an artform . For instance , she shoots the bastard and has him laying on the ground . What does she do ? She hits him a mere two times on the strong part of the back . Me ? I'm gonna smash the bastard's head it with the butt of that rifle until I see his freakin ' brains . But , it doesn't stop there . She has to head back to the bastard's place because she couldn't finish the job to start with and the bloke follows them to a cliff where she and the blonde push their vehicle over trying to trick the bastard into believing they were dead . He doesn't fall for it and now they have to hit the ground on foot as he surveys the damage . The black haired chick tells the blonde to stay put because she was slowing her down ( I don't know about you , but the blonde should've punched her lights out for proposing such a thing ) ! So the black haired girl makes it back to the bloke's place , even finds a gun and loads it . What does she do ? She decides to head over to this little shed like thing ( anyone give me a reason why and I'll be more than thankful ) and subsequently loses the gun ! But , it doesn't stop there . Instead of finding the proper weapon and waiting to kill his butt , she decides to snoop through the private belongings of past victims ( anyone keen enough should see this was simply a screenwriter's way of impacting the viewer through showing us all the innocents this bloke has killed along the way . . an emotional parlor trick ) ! The time she wastes doing this could've been better served finding some kind of weapon and preparing for the bloke to come back . It still doesn't stop there . The black haired girl finds several cars in a parking lot . She goes into one of them and cranks it up . The bloke is right behind her and stabs her ( reminding us of Myers first visual kill in " Halloween " ) through the back . Now , how could he guess which car she'd choose and how could he get in without her hearing ? ! I'm sorry I go on this way because I think this film really builds up the characters well . They are human , not just clones of past characters from slashers with little more depth that an egg shell . I love the photography and like how he operates using the beauty of Austrailia ( and the wide scope of this country ) as both a pleasure and horror . I think the aspect of " where do you run when you don't know where you are " definitely works in this film . It taps into my hidden fears ( being far away from the existence of people and having no escape ) and I responded to it . I think the film works on many levels . I still find it flawed ( I hope I made myself clear on why I thought it was flawed above ) and think it lacks tight enough editing . To be based on a true story , I find too many things quite ridiculous . . such as the bloke's marksmanship shooting . I just don't think this guy could be this good with a rifle . I just don't see how anyone would leave a man on the floor without making sure he was dead .
Vamp	To become members of a fraternity , AJ ( Robert Rusler ) concocts a scheme to get in by bringing a hooker to their party . He'll persuade his pal , Keith ( Chris Makepeace ) to use nerdy , rich Duncan's ( Gedde Watanabe , scene stealing as always ) car . . and wallet . . to drive to the city to pick up a hooker ( . . or hookers , but preferably one will be sufficient ) . They immediately run into a no-good albino thug ( Billy Drago ) and his group and escape a scrape . But , their night takes a turn for the worse when they find a strip club , called " After Hours " whose boss , Katrina ( Grace Jones ) is an Egyptian vamp . The ones under her employ are vamps as well , and soon poor AJ will make the mistake of meeting Katrina in her living quarters back stage after her provocative , unusual number for the crowd of patrons . She'll tear into his neck leaving him for dead . . until they find out that he was not alone and actually had two friends along , Keith and Duncan . Luckily , a non-vamp , Amaretto ( Dedee Pfeiffer , who is a wonderful , welcome presence ) who had a past kiss with Keith will assist him when he's running for his life and looking for AJ , who had been temporarily disposed . But , Keith doesn't just have the vamps to contend with , the Albino has rounded up his gang of co-horts so escape for the poor guy seems nearly impossible . That's not counting the number of vamps who live around the club and underneath in the abandoned sewer system below . Finding that his best friend is indeed a vampire , Keith and AJ have a very awkward moment where friendship will be called into question as the blood-thirst becomes unbearable . Keith will find that a route out of the clutches of those vamps around him seems almost impossible as even his friends are after his blood . It'll come down to Keith and Amaretto to somehow find a way out of the situation they find themselves as even Duncan is turned over to the dark-side , and even escaping in a car will be a daunting task as garbage men are " corrupted " by Katrina as well . Katrina has a man under her , Vic ( Sandy Baron ; always dreaming about Vegas ) that watches after things in the club . . always returning to Katrina when mistakes are made by her hired help or when things regarding their secret may be divulged . Silly , colorful , stylish 80's vampire comedy is quite lurid thanks to the setting around the strip club . The casting excels as Makepeace is quite a likable hero displaying his dismay , confusion , and horror at what is taken place around him . Sandy Baron has some of the best lines as he explains to Makepeace about there being no escape and that their business is a lucrative one for it eliminates the degenerate slime of the world by making them lunch . Watanabe carries a facade of sophistication trying to sound rich with his voice . . he so desperately craves to belong to a popular group and Keith & AJ provide that glimmer of hope as he often shells out bucks for their beer amongst other things . Then you have Pfeiffer as the sweet , bubbly love-interest with an aura of natural charm . She really shines bright , radiating such an , at times , quite sleazy flick . And , she's sexy to boot which is a knock-out combination , a winning role she should be proud of . Rusler has some great moments as a conflicted vampire , trying to determine what's best when faced with possibly drinking his best friend's blood or falling on the stake . Except for a jaw-droppingly bizarre opening act , Grace Jones has limited time on screen . Her dance number stops the show , though . . it's hard to forget . And , her feast of Rusler's neck is quite gruesome . She's equally exotic and menacing , never uttering a word , using her sheer presence to seduce and captivate the viewer . Good make-up effects , and a heavy dose of humor really make this a surprising gem ready for fans of 80's horror . It is a required taste , however , for it dwells in some rather scuzzy places . Great use of neon shading the buildings , streets , and sewers bring an atmosphere that reminds us of the time this flick was made . Billy Drago has like 5 or so minutes and compliments Grace in the menace department . . although , his work is often used for laughs , even though his intensity is at a high as he confronts our heroes ready to inflict damage . The violence includes a stripper vampire stabbed in the heart by the heel of a stiletto shoe , a heart ripped from the chest of an employee by Jones who was displeased with her mistake at selecting a victim with friends , and a smashing finale where we see a vampire's face strip away at the sight of sunlight . And , Jones ' transformation ( . . teeth protruding , eyes rolling back , toe nails extending ) into a vampire is eerie , and her ripping away at the neck wound of a victim she's feeding from is perfectly savage . Really has that kind of off-the-wall , disastrous , exhausting " night in the life " premise where a character escapes one perilous situation after another , wondering , like the viewer , what could possibly happen next . . maybe , that's what draws me to this movie .
Futureworld	A newspaper writer , Chuck ( Peter Fonda ) uncovers a possible secret plot by the diabolical Dr . Schneider ( John P . Ryan ) when an employee within the Delos corporation ( which has now created another paradise such as the Westworld of the first film except this time it's almost completely operated by androids ) has evidence of a corrupt nature . Assigned to partake in a trip to Delos , along with famous television reporter , Tracy Ballard ( Blythe Danner ) who deems him a relic saying the television medium is the better way to produce news to the community at large , Chuck notices how most on the guest list are high-ranking political members from various countries which seems rather fishy . Thanks to an employee , Harry ( Stuart Margolin ) who works most of the water systems of Delos ( the androids have the weakness of not being able to withstand liquid for it fries their electrodes and inside circuitry ) Chuck and Tracy find that Schneider is creating duplicates from the cells of those who make their way to Delos , tapping each's drink with sleeping medication while they are being probed and scanned of what makes them human while immersed in a deep sleep . It's the perfect plan to rule the world really . . by killing the humans and replacing them with duplicate androids , who can be controlled by Schneider , the world is his oyster . So the film shows how Chuck and Tracy try to find a way off of Delos , while on the run from their duplicates ordered by Schneider to kill them . Exciting , popcorn thriller lifts elements from INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS very effectively . While Fonda might be very bland in the lead , his situation is what grips you . The fetching Blythe Danner is quite game , though , and is fun to watch . Yul Brynner has a cameo in a dream sequence of Tracy's . Chuck and Tracy once had a sexual relationship for which spurned the nickname of " Socks " for her . Chuck pretty much calls Tracy that throughout the film . Arthur Hill has the role of Dr . Duffy , who seems quite the diplomatic sort , but is overshadowed by the villainous John P Ryan as Schneider . The special effects are quite good as we see faces removed when certain androids are killed with the electrical work on the inside of the head . The sets are amazing as well . Just a fun sci-fi sequel to a great original film . The ending is quite satisfying .
Shock Waves	Nazi zombies rise from the watery depths to terrorize and kill a group of shipwrecked survivors on Nazi SS Commander Peter Cushing's island . That's pretty much the outline as this film follows these unfortunates who seem to have no hope at all as they run for their lives , trying desperately to find a place to hide or some sort of boat to get away . The zombies have rotten faces , blonde hair & black goggles . It seems as if the only way to kill them is to remove their goggles . The zombies preferred way to dispatch their victims is drowning . A surprisingly effective low budget wonder actually benefits from the skeletal ruin of the manor owned by mysterious Cushing and chilling score . John Carradine has a marvelous opening performance for the film . He's so much fun to watch that when he's gone you immediately miss him . Cushing is unfortunately not used as much as I'd like to see him , but provides us with certain information regarding the killer Nazi zombies .
Cello	Tragedy strikes a deeply depressed musical teacher's family as they fall prey to a vengeful ghost seeking revenge . There's a secret Mi-ju ( Hyeon-a Seong ) is hiding and we can see that whatever is plaguing her in how she carries herself and on her face . The film's most symbolic image may be several claw mark scars down her arm . . they hold a special meaning as to why Mi-ju's innocent family is being preyed upon . A student she gave a bad grade to is causing mischief which seems to have no relevance to the proceedings , but we realize that certain phone calls sent to her ( I hope you're happy . . You ought to be . . ) aren't from this rude girl . Haunting her besides these phone calls is the mental illness plaguing her autistic daughter . Mi-ju pops pills and we can see a cold distance in her marriage to businessman husband . Her sister-in-law is slowly driven crazy by the absence of her fiancé , going to school in America , who has quit calling her . Mi-ju's husband has hired a mute ( . . she swallowed acid ) housekeeper , who lost her family and once attempted suicide several times . And her normal , adorably cute daughter is a victim to the unraveling of the family . The husband , often at work or away from the malevolent occurrences damaging his family , soon himself makes discoveries involving his wife's past which yield a dead school friend of hers , a promising cello musician named Tae-yeon ( Da-an Park ) . Soon Tae-yeon's musical score shows up out of thin air as a constant reminder of that certain secret Mi-ju has kept buried which we'll soon see solving all the mysteries as to why her family suffers so . Asian ghost revenge tale where the lead protagonist is hiding something that will soon come back to haunt her . It's the whole " sins of the mother " where you can perhaps hide a truth from others , but you yourself know what really happened . Mi-ju is a failure in life , not only as a cello player , but as a mother , whose guilt and joyless existence are on display . As I mentioned above , the claw mark scars are perhaps the image one should remember for this reminds Mi-ju of her past for which she can never escape , no matter if her shirt sleeves cover them or not . Not only do the claw marks work as an interesting symbolic image for the story regarding a character's past sins , it remains in our minds for we know there is something to them as it pertains to the mystery of the film . The twist at the end is an oft-used Twilight Zone type of gimmick where a character can truly never escape from the consequences of her own actions . Some of the special effects are decently staged ( . . what happens to the sister-in-law , for example , or the image of Tae-yeon often popping up out of nowhere ) , but the film is more of a mystery unraveling with the ghost making occasional appearances as a reminder of who is causing the supernatural terror to Mi-ju's family . The violence is limited to the end as Mi-ju loses her family members one by one to " the ghost " . The use of the cello instrument is a key image throughout the film , obviously , and the autistic daughter has a significant role ( . . and is the cause of an unfortunate major family tragedy ) in the story . . perhaps she's a representative of bad karma or something regarding her mother's sins ? I was so into the story , I paid little attention to the technical side of things , but it's quite professionally made with beautiful camera-work . This is very story-driven psychological thriller with the ghost more or a less an image of Mi-ju's undoing . The creepiest image for me personally was the ghost's ghastly white hand , with those long , black finger nails crawling up the throat of Mi-ju .
Psycho IV : The Beginning	" I'm free . " Maybe as Norman Bates announces this at the end of the film , in a sense , not only was Norman finally cured of his Mother , but Perkins was finally free of the character that both made and abused his career . Anyway , the Norman Bates saga comes full circle and Perkins , as mentioned above , finally has the opportunity to close the door on the signature character that he could never fully escape . Norman has a way to release the horrors of his youth as a radio show on controversial topical subjects , hosted by DJ personality Fran Ambrose ( CCH Pounder , I always liked this actress ) , sets their program's night on children who murder their mothers with visiting psychologist Dr . Leo Richmond ( Warren Frost ) as their guest . Norman claims he'll murder his wife at the show's close for becoming secretly pregnant against his wishes . . Norman is frightened at the possibility that a monster will be born into this world and he will not watch it happen . The rest of the film has Norman telling of two victims he murdered shortly after his mother's demise , how his mother tormented him as a teenager , his mother's sexual relations with a brutish married man , and ultimately the poisoning of his mother and lover through the use of strychnine . As we follow the details into his life , Perkins himself often enters this world . . Norman as an adult has still not been able to release himself of the past that has haunted him . All the while , Fran tries somehow to talk Norman out of the killing of his wife . . often her task is difficult as Dr . Richmond , a doctor who has dealt with Norman in the past , often adds his two cents with terrible results . Director John Landis has a wonderfully slimy role as the radio director who loves the idea that Norman is venting his miserable past on his show thinking of the ratings . Henry Thomas ( a frequent collaborator under Mick Garris ) effectively tackles the role of a young Norman , capturing his frail psyche , not to mention his feeble ability to stand up to his mother , and the vulnerability that comes under such a devotion for someone who doesn't have the capability to love you the same way ( . . not to mention , the quiet jealousy venting under the surface ; the innocence Thomas has makes his horrendous deeds towards his victims even the more shocking ) . And , Thomas even favors Perkins quite a bit as far as his physical features . . his smallish frame works wonders for the character . Norman's mother , channeled through Olivia Hussey , is evil incarnate , a tyrant who makes Norman's life a living hell . Despite being nasty bitch , Hussey is still incredibly alluring ( . . especially when bathing herself with iced tea ) and sexy with Garris ' camera seductively capturing her . But , this film is completely B & W regarding Norman . . he's the victim in this film and Hussey with Thomas Schuster as lover Chet , are looked at with complete scorn . Those two female victims murdered are dwelt on screen with gusto . . Thomas ' Norman doesn't look like the kind of kid who would stab his first victim so heinously or strangle his second with such ferocity ( . . the second death is even more horrifying because she isn't dead , in her trunk , as the car quietly drowns into the infamous lake where Norman leaves his victims ) . While not told in sequential order , the film is so well crafted , in my opinion , I never felt confused . . this is Norman telling the story and he'll tell it how he wishes . I think Garris must've been thrilled to be the director who closes the series to such a historic character in the annals of horror . This could be his best film as he photographs Perkins and the unfolding of events quite stylishly . And , the ending , as Norman faces his demons one last time within the decrepit house on the hill , is fitting and satisfying .
Shadowzone	Surprisingly effective little sci-fi horror flick produced by Charles Band's Full Moon Pictures . Experiments funded by the military has a staggering side-effect when the head scientist , Dr . Van Fleet ( James Hong ) discovers that an alternate universe exists when a subject is induced into a vast , deep sleep . . something sinister lies on the other side and uses the subject as a portal into our world . Everyone within the underground facility are in danger as the being which has found it's way into our dimension is hostile towards those it / they consider a threat . Captain Hickock ( David Beecroft ) is investigating the mysterious death of a test subject in the underground facility and we can see that the scientists involved with the EDS ( Extreme Dream Sleep ) are hiding something . Sensing this , Hickock wishes to see the printout results on the corpse and to settle doubts that his death wasn't a result of the sleep experiment . . unconvinced of the results , and unpersuaded that Van Fleet's claims of a genetic cerebral hemorrhage as the cause are correct , he wishes to see if another current subject would suffer the exact fate if the sleep levels were the same . In doing this procedure , the current subject is induced into sleep too long and the being from the other universe is able to use him as a gateway into our plain . This puts everyone in peril for the being has the amazing power to shift it's molecular structure and can imitate anything lifted from the thoughts of humans . It travels throughout the facility and must be caught and killed or else . . once it attacks Van Fleet who had locked himself in the sleep lab with the being , we realize that it is not exactly friendly . Really neat B-movie cast includes Louise Fletcher as a rather odd scientist ( Dr . Erhardt ) who finds the being spellbinding , and seems to have been cut off from society a bit too long , and Miguel A . Núñez Jr . as computer specialist / electronics genius Wiley . If you have seen Miguel A . Núñez Jr . in other films , you can just about expect his fate . David Beecroft is your typical hero , an outsider unaccustomed to the way things are in an underground facility isolated from the world he belongs . Through Hickock , Beecroft is a no-nonsense , take-charge kind of character who is realistic and practical when faced with a really difficult situation , which he certainly inherits when searching for the truth regarding the death of a civilian . Frederick Flynn is the tobacco-chewing , easily rattled handyman , Tommy Shivers , who could use a shave , bath , and some manners . He's also really bad at his job , and we see how poorly managed and worse-for-wear the facility is as Hickock inspects the place . . pipes often spit steam , water leaks are apparent , and rats are visible in the kitchen area . Affected by earthquakes and hampered by such a small staff , the facility sure could use a make-over . The being itself is a series of monsters , not particularly as scary now due to the advancement in special effects ( . . or as effective as say Bottin's work in THE THING or Stan Winston's work in PUMPKINHEAD ) , but effectively grotesque when they pop up on characters . . the monkey creature is quite a ghastly creation . I have read about SHADOWZONE's comparison to ALIEN , but the only similarity I noticed was the plot regarding characters roaming the halls and rooms of the facility as the being is somewhere in the vicinity . . some attempting to put food together for the long haul with Hickock & Wiley attempting to repair the damaged transformer after the mishap regarding the being's entry into our universe . Shawn Weatherly is scientist Dr . Kidwell , who is so attached to her pet monkey ( . . a supposed lab animal no longer needed when Van Fleet began to test human subjects ) she'll risk her life to find it when it goes missing . . the twist regarding her finding a monkey is a doozy . Not as gory or violent as it could've been , probably due to lack of budget ( . . for a Band production , the film looks great , particularly the underground facility and it's devastated state due to natural and unnatural factors ) , but director JS Cardone is able to build the dread quite nicely due to the fact that the being could be anywhere and mimic certain things ( . . this was perhaps what many believe was ripped from THE THING , I guess , because an animal is used by the being to trick characters ) . Maureen Flaherty and Robbie Rives are the nude test subjects shown frequently in all their glory . Lu Leonard has a funny role as the rather grumpy cook dealing with a rat problem Shivers won't correct due to his procrastination . Hong is entertaining in an all-too-short role as a nervously cautious scientist worried that Hickock might make a discovery that halts the funding of his experiments . The film does feature some questionable decisions by characters who seem to leap before thinking things thru .
The Crow : Salvation	A wrongfully executed man named Alex ( Eric Mabius ) , resurrected from the dead by the crow , returns with a vengeance to find the man with a scar on his arm that killed his beloved Lauren ( Jodi Lyn O'Keefe ) . To find that man , Alex will first seek out the four men who falsely accused him on the witness stand which led to his death via electric chair . The crow will guide him on his journey to finding those responsible . Erin ( Kirsten Dunst ) , Lauren's sister , and Peter Walsh ( Grant Shaud ; was Alex's attorney ) are Alex's only allies in the search for retribution . Soon dirty cops are unmasked leading straight to the Captain ( Fred Ward ) and even Erin and Lauren's own father , Nathan ( William Atherton ) . I like this film and think the reason it turns out better than I expected is due to the heart of the picture . . one man's will to find the one's responsible for the death of his love . There is some strong talent in the cast for a direct-to-video feature and the young leads of Mabius and Dunst { . . not to mention Ward , Atherton , Midkiff , and Shaud } bring much to this film . The film's budget is exceedingly lower , but I felt it makes up for it in keeping the plot simple instead of overloading us with an overkill of sick visuals . Now , that's not to say it doesn't lack punch and edge . There are some very gruesome moments indeed and much flesh is displayed , but the levels are down exceedingly . Plus , this film doesn't make out the perversion as beautiful , but with a disdain towards those young ones exploited { example being when Alex confronts the young girl tied to a pole in the strip club owned by the dirty cops } . The film doesn't speak highly for the cops on the force under the Captain . The world of this film isn't Gothic like the other two but just as corrupt . While the other two felt like they were set in a much darker time and place , this film feels closer to our time in modern society . That might turn some away who like the dark , noirish vision of the first two . But , I do feel the heart of the story is still here and the element of man's link with the crow is quite present here .
Sundown-The Vampire in Retreat	Any film that has David Carradine as Count Dracula and Bruce Campbell as a dorky , rather inept Van Helsing descendant is gonna grab my attention . From what I understand Anthony Hickox's ( Waxwork ; Hellraiser III ) vampire western , Sundown-The Vampire in Retreat , rather lingered in obscurity which is rather surprising since it is such an interesting , colorful , sprawling , ambitious hybrid of genres . And , the film is packed full of terrific names in the cast ! For an avid horror and western fan such as myself , Hickox's film was quite a treat and I could just feel the enthusiasm behind the direction although his influences are very visible . The score is rousing and quite orchestral , despite the fact that this film is actually set in modern 1990 with family man , David Harrison ( Jim Metzler ) , wife Sarah ( Morgan Brittany ) and daughters driving into an American Western town of Purgatory to help assist an old college " pal " , Shane ( Maxwell Caulfield ) adjust a machine which might have the ability to create synthetic blood . This machine was purchased by the mysterious millionaire , Jozek Mardulak ( David Carradine ) , who is the authority over the town which consists completely of vampires who have taken a vow to not harm humans unless absolutely necessary . Interesting enough , Mardulak seeks favor from God for the murderous , blood-sucking deeds from his past with a township also guilty for those innocents who perished thanks to their thirst . But , under Mardulak's nose is his lieutenant , Ethan Jefferson ( John Ireland ) plotting to overthrow the great leader so that his race can hunt humans again . Shane joins forces with Jefferson and has plans of his own . . in a major sub-plot , it is revealed that Shane and David's wife slept together and that daughter Julie could in fact be his . Shane desires to " turn " Sarah and Julie if just for spite because he's an egotistical , arrogant , smug punk who doesn't like playing second fiddle to anybody . The problem for David is that he can not defend his honor properly because Shane has superior powers thanks to his vampiric abilities . And , also , Jefferson plans to kill all the regular citizens of Purgatory if they do not comply with demands for joining the hunt . Shane has developed a wood-tipped bullet which , when fired into the heart , splinters on impact killing the vampire . Having built an army of vampires by hunting human outsiders willing to join him , Jefferson plans an onslaught which threatens all the work Mardulak has contributed to conforming his race . A nerdy descendant of Van Helsing , Robert ( Bruce Campbell , operating his shtick without restriction ; very cartoony and animated offering quite a nervous and over-his-head , but impossibly brave hero ; quite an alternative to his Evil Dead series persona ) kidnaps a vampire diner waitress in Purgatory , Sandy ( . . the yummy beauty Deborah Foreman who steps away from her usual adorable cuteness ; quite a sexy and alluring presentation , but she had tapped into this kind of deliciousness in Hickox's previous horror flick , Waxwork ) threatening to sprinkle holy water on her if she doesn't take him to Mardulak's home . Lots of stuff going on , that's for sure . There's even time to show a frightened young couple , who witnessed their friend's beheading at the hands of hillbilly vampire , Mort ( the great M Emmet Walsh ) imprisoned next to him by the sheriff because they know too much with the town wanting to feast from them . The vampires survive off of the artificial blood Shane's machine , produced from David's schematics , and heavy UV cream . This was my first viewing of the film and as much a buff as I am , I shamefully admit to just finding out about this rather recently . I thought the film is quick paced enough to look over it's flaws , although there were times when certain performances were a bit cringe-worthy , particularly Metzler as the heroic father whose dramatic scenes with Brittany ( . . who is cute , but doesn't exactly blow you away with her performance , either ) regarding Shane are overwrought . Caulfield nails his part as the a$$hole of the film , behind the possible destruction of a family and only joining forces with Jefferson as a way to get his " property " , Sarah and Julie . Campbell and Foreman have nice chemistry together in their sweet , budding romance . But , Carradine as Dracula , masquerading as Mardulak is money and seeing him opposite old Hollywood veteran Ireland in a gunfight was sheer bliss for me . We definitely see the spaghetti western influence here . . I am pretty sure Hickox just dreamed of directing such a scenario . The vampire effects are surprisingly good , but many will probably wince at the bat creations ( . . there are different effects used such as animated and clay forms of vampires in bat-form ) . Rarely is their any fanging on screen , which was the greatest drag for this vampire cinema lover . It was a lot of fun seeing M Emmett Walsh steal entire scenes so easily and Buck Flower as a town vampire switching allegiances to Jefferson's clan ( . . his confrontation with Foreman is a doozy and his fate regarding an open umbrella is priceless ) . Ireland once again , no matter his age , finding that menace was also a pleasure and he knew how to really bare those fangs so fiendishly . Fabulous use of Moab , Utah locations shot in widescreen and the wonderful sense of irony in the plot being that these vampires , in their attempt to go straight choose such a hot place as their refuge from humankind .
The Frightened Woman	Dr . Sayer ( Philippe Leroy ) , a wealthy physician with psychological issues regarding the opposite sex , kidnaps an employee , Maria ( Dagmar Lassander ) , a free-thinking liberal woman who believes men must be the ones " fixed " instead of females . Sayer retreats to his palatial estate , running Maria through a humiliating series of mind games , threatening to molest and kill her . Sayer's desire , it seems , is to dominate her body , mind and soul , making her his sexual slave , obeying his commands , adhering to his every wish and whim . After resistance , at first , Maria slowly teeters towards his objective , but has plans of her own . . she says she wishes to help Sayer relinquish his sadistic behavior towards women , so that he could love and not feel such yearning desires to harm . It seems that Sayer has her under his grip , agreeing to certain rather embarrassing scenarios ( . . such as lotioning his toes , " making love " to a blow-up doll which is a recreation of himself , often spending time topless , and even getting hosed down when she slaps him hard across the face bringing blood from his nose ) which almost break her , but something happens as the troubled doctor slowly falls in love with Maria . . and through what appears to be a desperate attempt to end the madness , Maria gains an upper hand , toying with Sayer's lust for her body . More of a battle of wills , a kind of sexual warfare where it seems one is in charge when in fact the other truly has the upper hand . Through a great deal of the film , Sayer mistreats Maria , forcing her ( . . it seems ) to submit to his series of psychological games of a sexual nature . Her attempts to escape fail because his home is such a well designed fortress . . it's a typical European art deco kind of palace , fashioned and orchestrated by a man who has kept to this weekend retreat of his for quite a spell ( . . it features walls and doors opening at his command , with an area quarantined off for his " victims " ) . But , once Maria seemingly downs a bottle of pills as a result of her anguish at his hands , the tables are turned and she has him where she wants him . He finds that he actually craves her and Maria uses this to her advantage , playing hard to get when Sayer wishes to embrace and ravage her ( . . and , I could understand his frustration because she has this allure that can drive a man crazy ) I felt the film works , ultimately , as a war cry for women , their empowerment and uprising against men who have the notion that they should always have control , sexually and mentally . The " twist " finalizes this ideal . I couldn't swallow Sayer's fate because of his rigorous cardiovascular activity and exercise regimen . . we see how he develops his toned athletic figure , and how this regimen is part of the normal routine every weekend before the true mind games with his victim begin . If he is so well fit , and spends such time developing himself for the extracurricular activities which follow his regimen , how could he suffer the fate which follows his finalizing the deal with Maria at the end when she stops resisting his advances ? Maria , he would later admit , is the first he's actually kidnapped ; others from the past , call-girls , were paid for their services so that Sayer could feel the power of dominating a woman , even if it's all a fictitious charade brought about by a deeply troubled individual with an inability to connect with the opposite sex . The spontaneous decision to do so , to take a leap from the norm , costs him more than he could ever know . All this psycho-sexual sub-text is rather fascinating to see unravel , but Dagmar Lassander , such a yummy sex kitten , was my reason for enjoying it so . . without her , I couldn't have liked it as much because she's vital as a victim worth striving to obtain . Perhaps the film's highlight , the delicious dance as Lassander , clothed in gauze ( ! ) , unravels the wardrobe exposing her breasts to a jazzy score . . it's the kind of sexually seductive moment that makes your mouth water and forehead sweat . Dagmar Lassander must've been a joy for fashion designers because she wears those clothes so well . . she has this kind of cool , a sophistication and screen presence along with her beauty and seductive powers , Dagmar transcends the part to create an iconic character which would define her career . . even if the film isn't well known ( . . I found about through word of mouth ) . The provocative nature of the script and risqué subject matter might not appeal to certain crowds as it deals with sex ( . . and pain ) in many different forms , the dialogue quite illustrative and elaborative . At times , I couldn't help but chuckle at Sayer's comments towards an imprisoned Maria , regarding how he enjoys making women suffer , and the thrill he gets at forcing them into a type of slavery ( . . in an attempt to make the words poetic , it all feels rather hokey ) . But , Dagmar is the real reason to see it , and the film , to me , works at it's best as a fetish film , a possible male fantasy with this seemingly prim and proper idealist , captured and held against her will , forced into a precarious situation , her fate possibly at the mercy of a complex and possibly dangerous masochist . Her submission , and how she reacts towards his aggressive behavior with her ( . . there are times where she unfolds to a wavering desire to embrace him , unveiling a possible attraction towards him which , in itself , might startle some who watch it ) are among the most fascinating highlights of this exploitation feature . My other favorite scene , besides the dance , is the piano concerto with Sayer fondling Maria as she plays a soothing melody .
The Rejuvenator .	A wealthy , self-absorbed , withering actress , Ruth Warren ( Jessica Dublin ) demands to be a guinea pig in an ongoing series of experiments she's been funding for three years . Dr . Gregory Ashton ( John MacKay ) has almost perfected a serum which can reverse the aging process , but still hasn't quite succeeded at synthesizing it without the need for cadavers ' brain fluid . This breakthrough would provide Ruth with the youth that she desires , tiring of being stuck in an old body , longing to be beautiful again . Despite his warnings , Ruth insists on taking the serum , and Ashton reluctantly agrees . . shortly afterward , the results are staggering . Looking as she did in her younger days , Ruth , now taking the alias of Elizabeth ( Vivian Lanko ) , wishes to celebrate her new found freedom , but a price comes with this . . the serum's not perfected and Elizabeth's body suffers monstrous side effects . Needing more and more of the serum to return to her human form , Elizabeth is building a tolerance and Ashton is running out of brain fluid needed to keep her from turning into a hideous carnivorous beast . Superb ghastly monster design make-up enhances this Mad Scientist movie . The film has familiar traits that identify with other sci-fi horror films of the past in that a scientist will do whatever it takes to succeed , accepting bodies for his experiments without knowing how they were retrieved . After he discovers what Elizabeth has done , killing innocent victims for their brains , Ashton still forges ahead despite the fact that he understands what kind of monster he has created . Brian Thomas Jones ( . . also the director ) and Simon Nuchtern develop back stories for their small cast . . we see how each character longs for another . Elizabeth ( . . when young , beautiful , and full of life ) devours men , and embraces night on the town , enjoying her supposed new lease on life . She's a selfish creature who is willing to commit murder in order to retain this youth she's been given , and Ashton struggles endlessly to discover that key element needed to perfect his breakthrough , knowing that if he doesn't , Elizabeth will continue to destroy innocent lives . Katell Pleven is Ashton's loyal , hard-working assistant , Dr . Stella Stone , who's in love with him . Her contributions have lent a great deal to Ashton's work , helping him strive to succeed while Dr . Germaine ( Marcus Powell ) , a colleague of Gregory's father's , wishes for his experiments to cease . . Germaine considers him an unethical scientist whose unorthodox theories are a threat to the medical community and will attempt to stop him in any way possible . James Hogue is Elizabeth's long-time butler , Wilhelm , who loves her with all his heart , and doggedly remains by her side , no matter what . While Elizabeth and Ashton have an affair , Stella and Wilhelm yearn for it to end ( . . the filmmakers establish fantasies where Stella and Wilhelm dream of embracing Gregory and Elizabeth ) . But , these little stories serve as minor back ground to supply characterization within a monster movie where a creature kills to remain lovely and young while the scientist who made this happen suffers to solve the crisis , with a bureaucrat breathing down his neck , trying to find something to incriminate him . What Ashton doesn't know is that his security guard , Tony ( Louis Homyak ) is spying for Germaine , and this will cost both men dearly . Features some potent graphic violence as the monster goes on a rampage , removing brains from the heads of victims , when she isn't killing those who get in her way . As in most films regarding " dangerous " science , the scientist ultimately pays the price for attempting to alter with the life cycle as it has been , and those involved suffer the consequences as well . This was a nice surprise , thanks to an internet pal , I had the opportunity to see it . Yet another science fiction sleeper worth pursuing in the 80's which deals with the effects of attempting to change the way life works . . the scientist and his patient , both hellbent on accomplishing the impossible , pursuing the seemingly unattainable achievement .
The Ghost	An amnesiac , Ji-won ( Ha-Neul Kim , playing the character as vacant and lost as possible ) troubled by a traumatic past which is slowly unraveling memories , begins to realize that a ghost , possibly of a high school girl , Su-in ( Sang-mi Nam ) is killing former friends who ridiculed this girl because of her low-income status . What Ji-won doesn't realize is that her " past self " was a nasty rich bitch who treated those less fortunate , from a financial standpoint , like dirt while her " rat pack " would join in on the festivities of name calling among other cruelties . Along with her boyfriend , Ji-won will indeed seek out the truth behind the deaths of her former friends and who is behind them . Soon , the complete mystery tucked away in her subconscious , will reveal a horrifying drowning that perhaps shapes what has been taking place to her former school chums . Each of Ji-won's high school friends die by drowning shortly after the ghost appears to them in a vulnerable state unable to find help from their menacing visitor . As you've read throughout the user comment section already , " The Ghost " is stylishly directed and rather well acted . The film looks great and the cast doesn't disappoint . There are even a few scares here and there . . but it's all rather familiar . The twist at the end saves this film , I believe , from completely feeling " been there done that . " It's a mind-boggling doozy of an ending , I'll tell you , where someone isn't who they appear to be . . it's the case of " identity crisis " where jealousy can drive the motivations of a cast-away so longing to have the life of the one they envy . It's the kind of twist that takes you right back through what you just have seen , putting a new light on the story and central character . The film is designed like " The Grudge " as a spook film , so there isn't any graphic violence , the emphasis is on creeping the audience , not blood-letting . The ghost , as can probably be pictured in the minds of those who have seen numerous Asian horror flicks , is a girl with long black hair which splits to reveal this discolored eyeball that peers at a potential victim . When her hands reach out , and her feet walk across the floor , water is shown soaking off , foretelling to the viewer this restless spirit's fate . I felt the director skillfully crafts the story , supplying the memories of a past conveying to us just the kind of loathsome person Ji-won was , and how Si-un was treated by her . This back-story is supplemented as the story comes to the obvious confrontation between Ji-won and the ghost . I think one can rightfully criticize how similar this film feels to others that have came before it , but at least we get a back story into their lives and what motivates the horrors to those who kept a specific secret one fateful day .
Deathwatch	There is a German trench occupied by soldiers of the Royal army who have recently " escaped " a brutal battle . Inside the trench , dead German bodies are everywhere caked in mud with knives among other things stabbed in them . It appears that they killed each other . They often hear distant gunfire and explosions yet see no one . A certain German soldier , who can speak French , tells the British accompaniment that they will kill each other like the others . What's even worse than the mental disintegration of nearly each British soldier is that ghoulish entities ( and this barbwire which seems to have a life it's own ) are killing the soldiers . Also , certain soldiers ' personalities and behavior seem to be oddly shifting into madness as they begin to attack each other and grow more and more insane . Will any of these soldiers be able to survive ? And , better still , where are they really ? Jamie Bell , an underage soldier ( . . and rather cowardly ) seems to mature while he watches the others around him fall apart at the seams . It's an unlikely scenario that he'd be the one to try and control what's happening , but that's one of the many good things this eerie little horror item has to offer . The film is startlingly really good as the foreboding within this massive trench seems to last throughout . It has an unpredictability about it ( . . to a point , but I believe we get a general idea of who might survive the trials facing them as a whole ) . There's this ominous grip which never released me and the way the film is photographed inside the muddy trenches with all the corpses , barbwire , and constantly flowing rain . . there's atmosphere aplenty . Even the cast bring a lot . The situation they face brings a claustrophobia and watching these men come apart brings a lot of tension . Then there's the spooky supernatural aspects which work exceedingly well during the nighttime . I will say that many might roll their eyes at the denouement , but overall this was an enjoyable little flick . Time well spent .
Dune	While the story is anything but simple , the heart of it concerns the planet of Arrakis , which holds a specific spice which yields a magic to sustain life , stretch the conscience to new heights , and even possibly the ability to " fold " space . The Emperor ( José Ferrer ) wishes to command that planet , but needs to rid himself of the people of Atreides who seem to be close to holding a deal with the spice planet once dominated by the evil people of Harkonnen . There's a traitor amongst the Atreides , put there by Baron Vladimir Harkonnen ( Kenneth McMillan , really hamming it up to a maniacal level in nearly every scene he's featured in ) , so that the Harkonnen race can retake the planet and spice reserve . Paul Atreides ( Kyle MacLachlan ) was supposed to be a female child since that would've created harmony amongst the planets , but he is quite special in how the story unfolds . He seems to have this destiny in place to lead the people hidden on Arrakis to overtake their own planet and be the guiding force over the other planets . Trying to cram so much Herbert into a decent running time seems just too difficult a task for Lynch who tries to cover up the muddled unevenness with technical savvy . Visually , DUNE is a canvas of pure art in set design and a pleasure to behold . Yet , the film suffers when it comes to story-telling and visuals can only take you so far . This cast is really good , but they aren't assisted by the dialogue they must speak . Sting and Brad Dourif seem perfect for their benevolent roles as Harkonnen henchmen as Lynch does show his often sadistic side in film with embellishing these beasts with much more attention than the heroes which seem to come off cold . Certain characters like Linda Hunt's Arrakin Shadout Mapes or the charismatic supporting players Richard Jordan ( as Duncan Idaho ; soldier for Paul ) , Patrick Stewart ( as Paul's trusted teacher Gurney ) , Jürgen Prochnow ( as Paul's father and the leader of the Atreides ) , & Max Von Sydow ( as Dr . Kynes ) barely get enough time on screen to develop . Still , the film is dazzling to look at even if it suffers badly in the overall complete Lynch product . I can understand why people side against it since Lynch isn't really your true Hollywood filmmaker and comes the closest to being that in his film DUNE . It still has enough signature moments ( specifically when we see the Harkonnen side where we see the design of their ships and planetary structure of dark , steel , and smoke ; not to mention how the Harkonnen side behaves with morbid delight in their horrendous deeds ) such as the weird dreams Paul has , the visual template of unusual thought narrative , and the diseased sores on the Baron's porcine face .
Undertow	The lives of Chris and Tim ( Jamie Bell and Devon Alan ) are overwhelmed at the arrival of their widower father's brother . They soon find out why he is there . . it's to collect half these coins his father once stole as father John ( Dermot Mulroney ) has them hidden somewhere . Murder will result as the boys ( carrying the gold in a knapsack ) run for their lives through murky , poverty-stricken Georgia with their pursuer , Deel ( Josh Lucas ) always nipping at their heels . Another aspect fueling Deel's rage was John's taking away his love . That is seen as betrayal , but with John also lying to Deel about the coins being gone doesn't help . The film is basically a chase , but feel very reminiscent of " Night of the Hunter " because the framework is essentially the same . We watch a psycho really determined to get what he believes is his right to own . . those coins are meant to be lining his pockets . He isn't afraid at killing the boys , proof after Deel murders their father and attempts killing them with a shovel . We know that if Deel catches them , it's certain doom . Also , the journey itself , despite the garbage-poor look of the boys travels , is almost idyllic as it adds a realism and unusual feel . We feel like these places they travel , and people they meet , are honest-to-goodness real and intricately drawn out . The film is conventional , but at the same time David Gordon Green is able to meander by having his boys meet certain individuals on their journey who mold them and shape them along the way . Also , Lucas isn't afraid to make his Deel extreme and on-the-edge scary that he's willing to do whatever it takes to get what is coming to him . . what he waited in prison for .
Breezy	Perhaps not as viciously attacked now as it was in it's initial release , this burgeoning love story between two unlikely souls , seems to have gained an audience . While I might have problems believing this kind of romance could ever work ( . . or last ) , it just was too irresistible thanks to the pleasant leads who give endearing performances . The serious approach might wring in a few laughs because of the subject matter , and even I must admit to , at times , finding it a bit corny . The story is quite simple . A lonely , yuppie , middle-aged real estate agent and a young , life-loving , excitingly refreshing unpredictable hippie begin an unlikely , budding romance towards the end of Vietnam . The film exposes the feelings of the older section of yuppie America and how they look on in disdain at the hippies and their culture . Through William Holden's Frank Harmon he hears their feelings , but finds his feelings have quite changed as this girl , who genuinely cares for him despite their massive age gap and cultural differences , has rejuvenated his spirit creating an embrace for life deemed lost . The film shows the way others react ( and how Frank himself becomes embroiled by their reaction with oncoming guilt about the age difference ) to their courtship and how they try to keep it going despite the subtle backlash . Through it all Kay Lenz's Breezy just accepts Frank for who he is and could care less about his age or what others might think . It's odd seeing old-school pro William Holden , from the old Hollywood , in such a film as this regarding an old business man having a fling with a hippie girl . Perhaps not being able to get around that may've brought on the critical insults and slamming Eastwood suffered in his gentle directorial offering . Obviously , Holden isn't your typical middle-aged lonely heart , but perhaps the idea a yuppie business man and a much younger hippie falling in love seems too hard to get over . It's the acting that pulled me in . The leads are so engaging and charming , I couldn't resist getting sucked into it . It's a harmless flick for the exception of nudity ( . . mainly Lenz baring her breasts to Holden before they embrace for love-making ) and is made with love and heart . It's nice to see , though , that others are discovering it and embracing it themselves with open arms . Maybe Eastwood was disappointed with the results in 1973 , but perhaps he can find solace in the fact others from this generation have accepted it all their own .
Stay	A psychiatrist , Sam ( Ewan McGregor ) , tries desperately to keep a patient of his , Henry ( Ryan Gosling ) from committing suicide when he turns 21 . Yet , as Sam continues his mission to try and keep Henry from making that grim decision , reality around him becomes distorted and surreal . People who are supposed to be dead are indeed alive , not to mention many vanish and reappear , or change roles according to either Sam or Henry . For instance , Sam encounters Henry's supposedly dead mother who , in turn , believes he is her son . Henry's mother's dog viciously bites Sam's arm , yet Henry informs him that Olive ( the dog's name ) has been dead for many years . A young woman named Athena ( Elizabeth Reaser ) is one minute some waitress Henry grew attached to , yet the next she's his fiancé . All this occurs as Sam pursues Henry's whereabouts as the young man often returns to him for comfort . Then there's Lila ( Naomi Watts ) , Sam's lover & a painter , who had attempted suicide before , but even she may not be who she seems ( her face often distorts with Athena's creating this whole other weird vibe ) . Even Leon ( Bob Hoskins ) , Sam's blind friend , is claimed by Henry to be his dead father . There's even a scene where Henry and Sam are talking at the same time , saying the same thing . The ultimate image that reflects back to us over and over is a car crash on the Brooklyn Bridge which might be the true answer to all the madness occurring to Sam and Henry . Universally panned by many ( . . and seemed to go through theaters faster than an eye-blink ) , I think it's quite underrated and should be given a chance by fresh eyes . Everything bizarre and unusual that happens on screen can really get frustrating ( like seeing certain faces playing duel characters ) , but if one can hang on until the very end everything gets it's just explanation . The film is certainly mind-bendingly trippy , and Forster's camera is always shaking things up where we can not settle into a comfort zone . I liked it and thought it's puppetering twists from strange scene to strange scene as we follow not only Sam's wild journey for truth , but seeing Henry's abilities to change those around him ( such as giving sight to Leon ) can be a lot of fun . It's a given , though , that many are just not gonna except it on it's own terms and will shut the film off half way saying to hell with it .
Outside Ozona	The Skokie Ripper has picked up killing women and stealing their cars along the Midwest and the film centers on various characters that he will affect in one way or another as their lives intersect in this interesting ( I thought ) character study . The thoughtful , existential screenplay was written by director Cardone and deals with topics such as regret , loneliness , fate , and death . Outside Ozona might make an interesting companion piece with Cardone's desert Midwestern vampire tale , The Forsaken . The film is filled with colorful , often profane dialogue . Could be Cardone's most ambitious script as a writer and he rarely has had such a competent cast to work with which included Robert Forster ( as a gentle truck driver ) , Kevin Pollack ( as an out-of-work circus clown ) , Penelope Ann Miller ( . . cast against type as Pollack's dim-bulb stripper-girlfriend ) , Taj Mahal ( as a disgruntled and troubled radio jock whose voice is an important part of the film ) , Meat Loaf ( as Mahal's radio manager who can not stop his employee from letting off steam on the air in a revolt against having to cover two shifts because another didn't come into work ) , Sherilyn Fenn ( in a minor role as a possible victim of an unlikely serial killer ) , Swoosie Kurtz ( as a diner waitress ) & David Paymer ( as a bible-quoting , fanatical sociopath murdering females on the road in his twisted , warped view of working for the Lord ) . Kateri Walker is a beautiful Navajo woman Forster befriends as she plans to take her dying mother , Effie ( Lois Red Elk ) to New Mexico before her death . The film basically follows the characters as they converse about their lives and what possibilities have passed them by .
Cross of Iron	Hauptmann Stransky ( Maximilian Scell ) badly wants that iron cross . Steiner ( Coburn , battling that German accent , but I still liked him in the part and felt he fit the role well ) , a veritable war hero respected by many , has one and stands in the way of Stransky getting just that . Stransky claims he lead his accompaniment bravely into battle ( of course , he's lying through his teeth ) , but many men around him , especially Steiner know different . As Steiner and his men are at their posts as the Germans retreat , Stransky doesn't inform them leaving the soldiers for dead . Though , as we have already established in several war scenes , Steiner is able to escape certain death from Russian tanks and foot-soldier gun-fire . He still stands in the way of Steiner getting that cross as he courageously ( and intelligently ) leads his men through rough terrain and possible death to get back to a German outpost in a nearby village . Sluggish pacing , at times , makes this film a chore to sit through . . it really felt a lot longer to me than it was . Still , the film has thrilling war sequences sprinkled throughout , Steiner men's voyage across war-ravaged Russia is indeed quite interesting and harrowing , the camaraderie between Steiner and his men is refreshing and realistic , and seeing Steiner and his men outsmarting the Russian forces through cunning ways of quick escape is suspenseful and quite entertaining . Ultimately , seeing what Steiner and his men go through on their difficult journey makes the impending tragedy even more jolting . I felt the film is a bit sloppy and uneven , but has enough compelling elements ( such as Steiner's seeing visions of his beloved soldiers ' faces during good times once they are dead ; the Russian kid that gets it by his own people ; war-ravaged country-side and the dead lying all throughout ) to keep the interest of Peckinpah faithful .
Faraway , So Close !	Cassiel ( Otto Sandler ) decides to follow Damiel's path and become human , but realizes that this world differs greatly from where he came from . His supposed " nemesis " is a shady character named Emit Flesti ( Willem Dafoe playing him very oddly ) who can communicate through both worlds . . he talks with Cassiel's " angel partner " Raphaela ( Nastassja Kinski ) and can also chat away with mortals . He seems to have this particular interest in time and time seems to be very prevalent in how Cassiel views this brand new world . The world to Cassiel can be a curious beast . . he starts out as any new babe in a brand new world by slowly adjusting to his surroundings . He visits several mortals he viewed as an angel in the other existence taking what little he knew from them incorporating everything into his new man . . Karl Engel . As Karl , he has a hard time making headway in the mortal world , at one point deep in an alcoholic daze , but meets a corrupt businessman who changes him into a whole different person . Money begins to slowly corrupt Karl who is entering a world of crime with his boss that may ruin his goal set when he even decided to come to our world . . to try and bring humanity to a cold and sad world . That seems to be Flesti's desire ( as he often tells Raphaela who often begs him to let Karl alone ) for Cassiel . . that his Karl descend in this mortal world finding out that he doesn't belong here and should return to his angel duties . This film is quite a contrast to " Wings of Desire " for which it's a sequel . While Damiel's entrance to our mortal realm was indeed because of love for his beloved Marion ( the lovely Solveig Dommartin ) for whom he often shadowed , Cassiel's decision came because he wanted to make a difference . . bring joy to a disheartened world . But , corruption , greed , and other vices may put a damper on those plans . The film , through Wenders direction , lovingly meanders with the German and American languages often mixed together as characters speak . There's less of a melancholic tone to this one where " WoD " was centered in a location of West Berlin before the wall came down and many's hopes and dreams seemed nil . Like in the first film , the camera offers a POV shot of how Cassiel flies , and there's the drifting between B & W and Color to show the changing of worlds for which the angels and mortals inhibit .
The Kiss of the Vampire	Gerald and Marianne Harcourt are on their honeymoon when the motorcar they are driving runs out of petrol . They have no idea that the village they have to stay at houses a nearby vampire , satanic cult lead by the sophisticated evil Ravna and his son Carl in a château where many reside . Through the sufferings of hotel proprietors Bruno and Anna is an example of what Ravna can take away with his evil vampiric spell . When Marianne falls under the spell of Ravna , Gerald will have to join forces with Professor Zimmer to stop Ravna . Stunning and intense Hammer film is of a surprising quality . . it also has this enormous task of being great without the usual suspects such as Cushing or Lee as actors & Terence Fisher or Freddie Francis as director . The color , writing , acting , and suspense is top-notch . Ravna has an evil presence because he takes from loving families and turns their innocence into corruption . There's a powerful scene where Gerald is able to make his way into the château finding his beloved Marianne in a trance . Ravna has Marianne even spit in Gerald's face as a way of enforcing the fact that she is no longer the woman he loves . The film , despite a marvelous suspenseful set-up having us wonder if Marianne will ever be saved from the mental grasp of Ravna , does have an abrupt , silly ending as Zimmer calls upon a horde of bats from a spell he speaks inside a pentagon that will strike at Ravna's château & his unfortunate " family " as they are trapped inside unable to escape ( Zimmer placed the mark of the cross on all the doorways and exits ) .
The Scarecrow reviews " Valdez is Coming "	Burt Lancaster ( who I just thought was great , though he battled with the accent just a bit . . a minor squabble ) portrays Bob Valdez , a former Apache hunter for the Calvary now a constable who accidentally shoots an innocent black man claimed to have murdered the husband of Gay Erin ( the beautiful redheaded Susan Clark ) . Gay's lover is Frank Tanner ( Jon Cypher ) , the leader of a band of cutthroats who lead the crusade to take out the black man who was mistaken for being the one who killed Gay's husband . Valdez tried to smooth things over by consulting with the black man , but hothead RL Davis ( Richard Jordan . . a bucketful of energy and spunk ) open fires before the constable to get the honest proof of the victim's innocence . Valdez ends up killing the innocent man and desires all who fingered him to pay for the man's pregnant squaw to have passage home . This is an insult to Frank who is a racist pig who loathes the sight of " greaser " Valdez . When Valdez persists , in kindness and gentle-care , Frank to pay $100 , he is is attacked and roped to a wooden cross . . they send him into the desert this way to perish . RL Davis is sent on his way when he is told by Frank that he couldn't shoot straight . RL , in his only moment of kindness in the film , releases Valdez from his ropes after an incident when Bob tried to break the wood roped to his arms . After being lent help and rest by his friend , Valdez will seek revenge for what Frank and his cronies did to him . What Frank and co . doesn't know is that Valdez is a great shot and smart tactician . He knows the mountains and is a wily problem for Frank to solve . Still Valdez has a problem when RL tells Frank of Bob's friend's helping him and this act of betrayal proves once and for all that RL is a greedy lowlife simply desiring to be one of the guys . Still Frank will continue to underestimate Valdez who knows the entire country all too well . Before it's over , Frank will , without a doubt , know that . . Valdez is coming . The film is a blast to watch . It's one of those vendetta entertainments that often frequent the multiplexes in the 60's and 70's when the rules , thanks in large part to Peckinpah's " The Wild Bunch " , were starting to be broken . We were actually seeing the men act and talk the way they did in those days . The mean behavior exhibited by crooked men who lived for wealth and prestige . In this film Frank seems to be one mean sonofabitch and finds that he is slowly losing his men one by one to a superior enemy he misjudged because of different skin color . He automatically looked at him as a weak peasant instead of a great gunfighter and that theme works greatly here in this short and satisfying western .
Phantom of Soho	Slick Bryan Edgar Wallace mystery set in the seedy Soho district of London ( . . filmed in Berlin ; part of Germany's successful Krimi crime genre , which resembles Italy's giallo ) where a killer wearing golden gloves , black robe , and skull mask ( . . the latter is revealed at the end ) is stalking and stabbing a group of questionable aristocratic individuals who populate at a strip club known as Zanzibar , and are caught off guard by the killer when they are most vulnerable . Obviously the killer must be found and who better to do so than the finest at Scotland Yard , led by Chief Inspector Patton ( Dieter Borsche ) and his lieutenant , Sergeant Hallam ( Peter Vogel ) answering to Sir Phillip ( Hans Söhnker ) . A successful crime novelist , Clarinda Smith ( Barbara Rütting ) , quite the opportunist , seeks to join the investigators , betting she could solve the mystery before they can . Each individual murdered seem tied together somehow , and the killer leaves a manila envelope ( . . with different types of currency , and a golden cigar case by one ) at each crime scene . Patton and Hallam must determine the motive and why these certain individuals are selected for execution . It all ties to the Zanzibar strip club and the wheel-chair bound owner of the establishment , Joanna Gilyard ( Stanislav Ledinek ) . Always by her side is Dr . Dalmer ( Werner Peters ) , an established physician , known to care for wealthy clientèle . Patton and Hallam notice a rather ominous looking fellow hanging around Zanzibar , often hiding behind objects to spy on them , a visible birthmark around his eye , making him a recognizable figure , Wilhelm Grover ( Otto Waldis ) . . he himself gets involved when Patton's on his way to discovering a truth about the killer . Another character who soon adds extra weight to an already difficult case is a bar photographer , Corinne ( Helga Sommerfeld ) whose job catches incriminating pictures of political and important figures in England . . she may hold an answer herself in what is going on regarding the identity of the killer . And , another suspicious character arises , a blackmailing sailor , Captain Muggins ( Hans W Hamacher ) who threatens to expose information regarding a sunken ship and insurance fraud which certain people don't want published . Like any good mystery , Franz Josef Gottlieb's PHANTOM OF SOHO , follows the detectives on their pursuit of the killer , adding up the clues as characters are bumped off , tying up the loose ends as the complicated plot unfolds . If you follow behavior and how Gottlieb's camera sometimes casts doubt by pointing out faces during key moments of dialogue , you might just figure out who the killer is even if motive isn't clearly established until the end . Like many popular Giallo , this Krimi mystery is effectively stylish ( . . and atmospheric in the Gothic tradition ) and even lurid at times ( . . since this is German produced , you even see dancers expose their breasts while stripping for on-lookers in the Zanzibar club ) featuring devious characters with sordid pasts . And , at the heart of the story is a bona fide revenge angle for a very unjust act towards an innocent victim seeking retribution . Gottlieb's style is rather flashy , shooting characters from unusual ( . . but effective ) angles , and the convoluted story is handled with expert skill . I recommend PHANTOM OF SOHO to fans of the Giallo , while it does lack the beautiful men & women wearing glamorous fashions , the gratuitous violence and sex / nudity associated with the popular Italian sub-genre , this Krimi mystery establishes the familiar framework the audience is accustomed to . . unscrupulous characters with amorous appetites , dying at the hands of the killer , for a certain cause not yet established , the executions shot in a specific way ( . . the POV camera is the eyes of the killer as the gloved hands , one with the established knife , peer from the sides of the screen , confronting a frightened victim who is frozen from shock , stabbed in the heart , with the envelope planted either under the victim's hands or between their fingers ) , as the detectives solve the mystery . The colorful cast help matters immensely as does the intriguing plot ( . . and how it's designed ) . . I expect many will undoubtedly find such a film " old and boring " , but fans of mysteries might like it .
Phantasm II	Along the northwest , The Tall Man ( Angus Scrimm , as menacing as ever ) has raped graves and murdered small towns , building his dwarf army . Mike ( James LeGros , who never really comes into his own as Michael ) has spent seven years in the psychiatric hospital being " mentally rehabilitated " , but knows that The Tall Man isn't some aberration and sets off to see what graves he has exhumed . Reggie ( Reggie Bannister , cool and balder ) tells Mike he's just imagining The Tall Man . . that is until The Tall Man blows up Reggie's family in a house ! Reggie joins Mike on the road , properly motivated to put a stop to The Tall Man once and for all . Along the way , Reggie picks up a mysterious , but very attractive , appropriately named hitch-hiker , Alchemy ( Samantha Phillips , who has done mostly soft-core porn in her career ) . Another important female character , Liz ( Paula Irvine ) , is somehow psychically linked to Mike and sees what happened to him as a teenager . She knows too much about The Tall Man and is a direct target . The Tall Man seems to be playing mind games with Mike leaving " bread crumbs " so that he and Reg can follow his direction . It all leads to a showdown in a little Oregon mortuary where the killer spheres , evil henchmen , and monstrous dwarf minions are let loose on our heroes . As like the first film , plot coherency goes out the window as Don Coscarelli throws caution to the wind filling the screen with lots of outrageous violence . This film seems to have had the biggest budget of the series and it shows in gruesome ways . Reggie seems to have taken the heroic role here since LeGros just really doesn't have that kind of charisma to be that great hero we can root for . Scrimm brings the same sinister sneer and dominates the screen with his ominous presence .
Requiem for a Vampire	Two " teenage virgins " , Marie & Michelle ( Marie-Pierre Castel & Mireille Dargent ) have escaped from I'm guessing a reform school . Their driver was killed as another car's inhabitants ( I'm guessing the police ) blast out their vehicle's back window with gunfire . Hiding away from those hunting them and burning the car ( . . and dead driver ) , Marie and Michelle hide out temporarily in a cemetery ( . . in one weird scene , Michelle trips into a freshly dug grave knocking herself out on the casket while a member of the grounds almost buries her alive ! ) until their safety is assured . There's seemingly abandoned greystone ruins of a château near the cemetery surrounded by massive trees and an idyllic countryside for which Marie and Michelle decide to hopefully inhabit for the time being . What they don't expect is a female vampiress , Erica ( Dominique Toussaint ) who has a barbaric entourage of hunters as servants who rush them . When the girls try to flee , bats hanging from tree branches " hypnotise " them enabling Erica to capture them as she plans for Michelle and Marie to meet her master , the last full male vampire whose powers have weakened over the ages . Erica isn't completely a vampire despite her fangs and blood-drinking . . she can still tolerate sunlight and isn't a true member of the undead . Her blood sister Louise ( Louise Dhour ) is even less a vampiress for she doesn't have the luxury of fangs . Louise is the type of vampire sister who hands down the orders from her lord and plays the piano ; she's also the one who watches her master's casket . Michelle and Marie are introduced to the last male vampire as he bites them from behind . Michelle and Marie try to escape the next day but run around in circles it seems . . despite following different paths hoping to escape , they always return to the château with a skull at the door . Louise informs Michelle and Marie that they are to be initiated into the vampire fraternity having received the " divine bite of the vampire " , but first must lose their virginity to him . Louise points out that you can not be a virginal vampire . They wish for Michelle and Marie , before their initiation , to lure male prey to the château by nightfall . Marie meets , falls in love with , and loses her virginity to a man walking the cemetery one day named Frederick . She later tries to save him from being a victim of Erica's . The older man who Michelle lures ( thanks to a striptease & drawing him by giving chase ) isn't so lucky . Michelle must find out where Marie has hidden Frederick for he threatens the vampire whereabouts and identity ( . . this leads to a whipping torture as Marie hangs with stripes down her back and Michelle , devastated for what she has done , with tears staining her cheeks ) . Will Marie be seduced into the way of the vampires ? Will Marie give up her love's hiding place ( where he is hidden is certainly an interesting place ) ? Will the last male vampire's legacy live on through his blood daughters ? If you are familiar with Rollin , this film carries his various signatures . . beautiful french countryside , atmospheric cemetery , Gothic greystoned ruins of a castle where rows of steps are endless and halls echo , skulls make their mark throughout showing up near tombstones , places marking the vampires ' lair , etc . , limited dialogue and back story , fluid camera-work capturing the entire landscape squeezing every bit of ambiance available , an abundance of nudity and sex , and a jazzy organ score in the background . The version I watched had gratuitous extended scenes of sexual molestation as Erica's barbaric servants rape and abuse various enslaved nubile females , chained within a pit , as she takes a few bites for good measure . This might serve as titillation for many ( there's also a scene where Marie and Michelle grope each other ) , but I yawned through most of this . I thought Dominique Toussaint was striking ( she seemed to have such a presence that leaps from the screen ) as Erica , wearing a clinging gold dress and purple cape that swings open . . the way she opens her cape might be theatrical to many , but I lapped it up ( . . woof . . woof ) . She really looks like something out of a comic book . . now I do not mean this as an insult , far from it . I think Erica just looks incredible and Dominique just runs with it , easily overshadowing the weary last male vampire who is in the film mere minutes and looks as if his powers were weakened . This film's strength is some truly stunning uses of the château ( the way Rollin shoots overhead as Marie and Michelle try to flee Erika , and when Michelle leads the horny old man on a wild goose chase through halls & up steps , are really thrilling set-pieces ) , the vibrant green and red colors Rollin uses in the last male vampire's mausoleum , the cemetery bright blue skyline at dawn as Marie ( believing she had lost her love to the last male vampire forever ) woefully walks across with various crosses in the distance , and the windy green covering the cemetery grounds as Marie and Michelle comb the area in search of refuge from a shady past . My favorite scene ( other than when Erica appears ) is when Marie and Michelle hear organ play from within the château cathedral believing cloaked monks await inside . . only to find skeletons behind those very cloaks and Louise , the vampiress playing the tune they heard . Don't expect a satisfying story or a quickened pace . . Rollin isn't the type of filmmaker that worries about moving anything too fast . I don't even think we see the first vampire until thirty minutes into the film and the sexual sequences in the bondage chamber go on forever it seems .
Bad Dreams	A influential cult leader , reminiscent of Jim Jones , Harris ( Richard Lynch ) seduces his communal group of worshipers to take part in a suicidal fire pact which explodes the house they live in . . but , one survives , Cynthia ( Jennifer Rubin ) who awakens twenty years later to the care of Dr . Berrisford ( Harris Yulin ) . Spending her days in a mental hospital without any family to speak of , Cynthis attempts to revive memories of her past before the house fire which took the lives of those she cared about . Her memories will assist the police in closing a case long spent open as Detective Wasserman ( Sy Richardson ) , working the scene at that time , remains convinced that Cynthia's not the victim she seems to be . His feelings are assisted when members of Cynthia's therapy group , each known for suicidal tendencies , each begin killing themselves , with her nearby , believing she's a possible catalyst as to their sudden decisions to end it all under grisly circumstances . Before each member of her therapy group dies , Cynthia is either visited by Harris ( . . either as he was in the 60's or with charred burnt flesh ) or sees him following them . Her assigned psychiatric physician , Dr . Alex Karmen ( Bruce Abbott ) , doesn't believe in Cynthia's bogeyman manifesting from her nightmares to kill members of her therapy group and is convinced there's another type of motivation causing the strange suicides which have began to emerge . Karmen pursue the truth with odd resistance from his own superior , Berrisford , as Cynthia slowly falls prey to her hallucinations ( . . or are they ? ) of Harris who beckons to join his unity where those she once knew await her on the other side . If she doesn't end her own life Harris will continue to take souls . . it's up to her . Slippery thriller , almost completely set in the mental hospital , where the viewer is to guess whether what Cynthia sees ( . . nightmare man , Harris , who pops up often to spook her ) is real or a product of fantasy fueled by something malicious . Rubin's beauty is used rather well as she's often running around in a gown , conflicted and confused about her present mental state . Great villainous heavy Richard Lynch has a tailor-made star vehicle , often showcased in terrifying burn make-up , as the supposed supernatural killer causing the patients under Karmen's care to off themselves . Berrisford's philosophy and unorthodox methods of treatment for the patients under Karmen's care is of the utmost importance to the plot , but it's subtly infused within the story . While the similarities to " Nightmare on Elm Street " are striking ( . . Part 3 in particular which also starred Rubin in her first film and was set in a mental hospital ) , " Bad Dreams " ultimate twist at the end pries it apart from the Freddy Krueger franchise . Still , I imagine many will shrug their shoulders at this film as merely a rip from the franchise being that it concerns a nightmare man , with a burnt face no less , terrorizing Rubin . The title doesn't help the film's cause either . The film has a strong cast with Abbott ( . . fresh off the heels of " Re-Animator " ) , Yulin , as usual portraying the quietly malevolent and untrustworthy type of character who reeks of malicious intent , and Dean Cameron ( Summer School ) as a jokester with a nasty streak that explodes into violent rage at the very end when alone with Cynthia . Those familiar with Susan Barnes sweetheart in LA Law will find her very profane and confrontational patient Connie quite a polar opposite ( . . or polarizing , to be more specific ) . The gore is limited but there are inspired sequences of violence such as what one patient does to himself with surgical scalpels , the aftermath of a couple who decide to hurl themselves into the hospital turbines ( . . lots of blood spray spurting from ventilation shafts leave quite a lasting impression ) , and a suicidal leap onto the steps from an upper floor window . But , Lynch's burn make-up delivers the ultra-creepy goods . I think despite seeming unoriginal and rather familiar ( derivative ) , " Bad Dreams " remains quite entertaining as the plot plays out and all the pieces fall into place . And , if anything , you have Lynch's tour-de-force performance to enjoy . Great little kill-fantasy played out in Karmen's mind after Berrisford fires him .
Doctor X	Dead-on-Arrival pacing and excessive attempts at unsuccessful humor plague what could've been a very satisfying psychological character study about a serial killer who preys on victims during the Full Moon cutting into their skulls while also cannibalizing them . Lionel Atwill portrays Doctor Xavier . . called on by police to find the killer amongst his staff of colleagues working at his institution . Fay Wray portrays Xavier's daughter , who will be the female in danger , and Lee Tracy is the wisecracking reporter . To snuff out the psychopath , Xavier will gather his scientists together at his château for the next 48 hours ( the police gave him a time-line to find the killer or they would all be under arrest ) . While at times a trial to sit through , director Curtiz is a marvelous artist who frames stunning shots utilizing the two-strip Technicolor and terrific sets to maximum effect . Yet , he can not overcome a very slow-moving plot , Fay Wray's annoying screaming for no reason , Lee Tracy's very dated and boring comic interludes , and hammy overacting . I think the most intriguing and chilling portion of the film come at the end when we are introduced to the killer for the first time when shapes himself as a beast through synthetic flesh .
Ed Gein	Surprisingly good umpteenth re-telling of Ed Gein seems to be the most on-track with how the notorious nutcase's life went down . There's a scene early on where a neighbor proclaims to Ed after going to the movie show with her son , " You guys are going to those horror movies all the time . " Ed answers tellingly , " They're very educational . " I think this film successfully lets us see what can happen to a man mentally wounded by the upbringing of an overbearing , fanatical mother . The film shows how she seems to be the guiding force behind the murders and cover-ups . For instance , mother ( commandingly played by Carrie Snodgress ) manipulatively commands Ed to kidnap and kill a bar matron named Mary ( Sally Champlin ) for dirty-mouthed hussies deserved to have their mouths washed out with poison . And , poor store clerk Collette ( Carol Mansell ) is singled out for no apparent reason but mainly perhaps she represents that lust that is dormant in Ed's heart . Somehow , despite mama Augusta's death , a huge part of her remains inside Ed's mind . . a towering presence that can manipulate and order him to do things . If you see a loosely , but at times accurate film from the early 70's , DERANGED , both are similar in ways , but have a different feel towards the circumstances regarding Ed's situation . This film plays Ed's life more matter-of-factly without the dark humor that lay at the heart of DERANGED . This film wants to show us the way Ed was without winking at how absurd he was and his bizarre , sick habits regarding skinning victims and eating their innards . . often feeding the unaware neighbors next door people they've know from the city . The film also shows how Augusta's insistent disgust towards " modern women " has penetrated Ed enough where he can not remain around females who are different from his mother . Her quoting from the bible , mainly Revelations , is often reverberating around in his skull bearing down on him to " do God's work " so that his mother could return to earth to be with him . Steve Railsback , a criminally underrated actor , again is perfect as another serial killer ( he portrayed Charles Manson amazingly in " Helter Skelter " in 1976 made-for-TV effort ) with Ed Gein . He seems to tap into the man's simple-mindedness and delusional , quiet madness . He makes him strange , but also deceptively harmless . We can see why we might be leery to hang around him , but trusting him doesn't seem that difficult . The film isn't that gory , but does show how he does the work mother tells him to do .
The Scarecrow reviews " Dead Man's Chest "	If you have seen the previews and understand that this is labeled under swashbuckling FANTASY , then you probably do not need to complain at the film's lack of logic . . because there really isn't any . If you seen a Davey Jones pirate who appears to look like he's a crossbreed with a squid , then you ought to know what you are going to see . The film is perfect summer blockbuster material . It revels in it's silliness and ridiculous stunts and bows it's giggling head to all those movies that play with believability throwing caution to the wind . The film's nonsensical storyline consists of three different factions after the heart of pirate ghoul Davey Jones which is locked away in a chest and he holds the key . Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley must get the compass which guides the way to the chest because certain governmental baddies desire that heart for it would mean the seas would be owned by East Mining company . The power of the seas is Davey Jones due to a love pact with it . Captain Jack Sparrow also desires to have the heart because if anything the open seas should be rules by a pirate . Sparrow has a map of the key and the compass . . how he retrieved either one is a mystery ( he recovered it from a dead corpse's casket ; at the beginning of the film we see he hid in the casket blowing a hole out of it after getting the map . . I do not know how he came upon the news of where the compass or the map would be . . we must accept what we get or not } . So Bloom must get Sparrow to give him the compass or else . Soon Sparrow meets up with Bloom's father who leaves a mark on Sparrow's hand declaring him ill fitted for certain doom . Soo Davey Jones desires to catch Sparrow for he desires Sparrow's soul . It goes on and on , but the film is about the dead man's chest and how everyone needs the heart inside . The film has an abundance of stunt sequences which defy everything beyond any form of logic . The sequence where Bloom must save Sparrow from being burned and eaten because his crew is captured by a tribe who think Sparrow is a god , shows this oval cage of bones and skulls which has encased them and their adventure down hills is extremely ridiculous . Not to mention , the dueling on top of a wheel towards the end . There's this octopus creature which consumes ships { an amazing scene where this thing engulfs a ship and it's crew is astonishing } called a Kragon and the grotesque masking of Davey Jones ' crew for who are all amphibious are highlights in good computer graphics . Overlong , overblown , but never boring .
Jason X	In 2455 , serial killer Jason Voorhies ( the film confirms he murdered over 200 victims ) is accidentally set free from cryogenic stasis to dismantle and destroy a crew on board a transport ship heading home . Along with Jason was Rowan ( Lexa Doig ) who tried to stop Jason back home on earth where they were both found . . it was indeed her who trapped Jason in the cryogenic chamber , was stabbed by Jason using his trademark machete from the inside through her on the outside which opens the coolant to freeze her as well . She understands what kind of zombie monster he is as explained with how they tried many other aspects and methods of death which wouldn't end him . One by one members on board try and fail to stop Jason . Those still alive for the time being contemplate how to escape the ship before he catches up with them . This New Line release , much like the ninth film ( JASON GOES TO HELL ) , takes the Jason model and tries to spin a new , different type of story set in the future allowing the monster fresh new ways to kill humans . Supporters of Jason enacting bloodshed in his normal environs might balk , but a chance to see him out of his normal routine is refreshing . And , the flick plays it's wacky premise to the hilt . The computer effects are decent , if less stellar than normal bigger-budgeted films , but the gore is on display aplenty . One poor soul is cut in half , another is thrown on a drill ( the scene shows the man's body sliding down the screw piece ) , and in the film's best sequence a female medic's head is submerged in cryogenic fluid and smashed over a counter as it shatters into pieces . There's an amusing holograph sequence where they buy time to survive by creating an illusion of Crystal Lake with two nudie cuties distracting Jason . There's even a female android who does battle with Jason ( it isn't much of a contest as she has superior firepower that subsequently blows him to bits ) . . when it appears that he is finally conquered , he is reconstructed by a mechanical device that can repair torn tissue and muscles , into a half-cybernetic being ! This is clearly a flick designed for the Friday audience allowing us to see Jason doing what he does best , killing innocents who try their damnedest to escape the terror that awaits them .
The Long Hair of Death	Perhaps director Antonio Margheriti's answer to Mario Bava's BLACK Sunday , THE LONG HAIR OF DEATH features a witch destroyed for the death of Count Humboldt's brother , framed for the murder by the real killer , Kurt Humboldt ( George Ardisson ) vying for a power of position in the kingdom . The witch vows revenge , cursing the Humboldts and calling on her daughter , Helen ( Barbara Steele ) to wreak vengeance on them . Having failed at her attempt to dissuade Count Humboldt of passing sentence on her innocent mother , Helen is then pushed off a cliff , into a rushing river , by him . Poor Elizabeth Karnstein ( Halina Zalewska ) , as a child , had to watch her mother burn alive , and attend the funeral of her sister , Helen . As an adult , life hasn't improved much as Elizabeth has followed the commands of Count Humboldt , often fighting off the sexual advances of Kurt , who proclaims his intended desire to have her regardless of the young woman's disgust towards him . Under marriage , Elizabeth endures Kurt's control over her body , awaiting possible revenge down the road . . it comes in the form of Mary ( Barbara Steele ) . Helen's body awakens as the rains fall bringing hope to a village riddled with the black plague , and her corpse rises in the form of Mary , interrupting a church sermon , causing an already guilt-stricken Count Humboldt to collapse in a state of shock , his death providing Kurt with the throne . Kurt becomes enamored and infatuated with Mary , lustfully desiring her , soon plotting to kill Elizabeth . Mary , at first hesitant , soon joins Kurt in his scheme to poison her , suffocating her within a closed crypt . Thoroughly pleased with their " success " , Kurt awakens the next morning in horror as the maidservant , Grumalda ( Laura Nucci ) exits her room after having a conversation with Elizabeth ! How could this be ? ! The rest of the film shows Kurt's progressive state of unease as others mention seeing and talking with a wife that's supposed to be dead . Admittedly , Margheriti's film takes it's time developing the plot , but I truly enjoyed the Gothic trappings of the massive castle and the secret walls which seem to exist throughout , leading to rooms as an exit from the burial chamber . Steele is featured in quite a grand style , Margheriti allowing her to seduce Kurt with her feminine wiles ( . . she is positively beautiful in this movie , and enchanting ) and embellish in his torment at the end as a spirit whose finally seeing her enemy squirm . Ardisson , as the conniving , lecherous , egotistical , back-stabbing , underhanded Kurt Humboldt is a perfectly loathsome creature easy to root against , with the ending providing a feeling of satisfaction that justice was served . I wonder if those behind THE WICKER MAN saw the ending to this movie . I would definitely warn those with little tolerance for characters moving throughout a castle at great length , because this film follows them almost from one complete place to another . I had a feeling that Margheriti wanted to establish the importance of a medieval palace and how the characters move throughout , displaying the ability to cleverly hide adultery and fornication , while also showing how one could concoct a scheme to successfully murder someone without getting caught . And , to be honest , I think Margheriti simply enjoyed shooting within the castle , hoping to engage the viewer in the atmosphere within the walls . Above all , THE LONG HAIR OF DEATH is still a revenge story through and through , with the director building his story , bit by bit , allowing Kurt to follow his rotten father ( . . who at least felt sorrow and guilt for actions he committed ) to his own tragedy , just as the witch he put to death promised .
Mulberry St	A day / night in the lives of an eclectic group of characters , who live in a crumbling apartment complex soon to be possibly condemned on Mulberry St , are focused on as a societal collapse is imminent , threatening NYC due to a crisis of infection from wide-spread rodent bites . Manhattan soon is overrun by infected citizens who are slowly transforming into human rodents ! Once the citizens are completely infected by the rat virus , they attack anyone in their path , longing to feast on their flesh . Characters like Clutch ( Nick Damici ) , a former boxer seen often jogging on the streets ( also the one his fellow neighbors in the Mulberry St apartment put their trust in ) , his daughter Casey ( Kim Blair ) , recently returning from a tour in Iraq carrying a facial scar she's self-conscious about , Kay ( Bo Corre ) , a Polish-American single mother who works at a local pub nearby , are just a few the film isolates as the outbreak takes shape . While the influences of Night of the Living Dead ( characters trapped in an apartment complex as infected humans await them outside ) and 28 Days Later . . ( the " giddy-up " rat-humans , shaky cam style and running humans trying to escape as the predators pursue them ) are undeniable , I still found " Mulberry St . " a pulse-pounding thrill-ride . The rat-humans are shot quite the same way as the " rage-infected " human zombies of 28 Days Later ( & 28 Weeks Later ) . . the camera doesn't really completely eyeball them , because they move so fast , in such a frenzied state like wild animals starving for supper , that we don't exactly identify with them . And , once they are on the rampage , our regular working-class heroes are often on the move , or trying to find shelter or weapons to protect themselves . Appropriately grim with a rather downbeat climax as governmental biological teams finally arrive after night closes , with many of the cast members either dead or turned . The shaky-cam will undoubtedly turn some people off ( . . or turn their stomachs ) , but it gives the film an immediacy that I felt keeps the viewer on edge . I can see why director Mickle opted for the shaky-cam technique . . it does give the film a documentarian closeness with those characters focused on . There are shots within the apartment which give " Mulberry St " a claustrophobic dread while outside , there's too much space ( . . and often a deadening silence on desolate streets with rat-humans eating silently , always listening for sounds of fresh meat ) as bodies lie all over the place . Larry Fessenden has a funny cameo as a running civilian who locks the gate on a fellow citizen , later suffering the consequences when he himself needs help . I think " Mulberry St " is a rare film in that the characters , and the actors portraying them , are multi-dimensional .
The Crimes of the Black Cat	Fashion models are dying mysteriously by a heart attack after encountering a wicker basket containing a cat which leaps upon them . One of those victims , was the lover of a blind composer she duped for ambitions in the modeling world , yet he will seek her killer putting his own life to great risk . That blind composer , Peter Oliver ( Anthony Steffen ) wishes to find the murder of his ex-lover for whom he deeply cared for , despite her faults at bedding other men who could assist in her rise as a top model in the fashion world . In a restaurant bar , Peter overhears a conversation between the mysterious white-caped drug addict , Susan ( Giovanna Lenzi ) , wearing a talisman ( . . with an eyeball in it's center ) and another whose male voice is a whisper loudly giving instructions . This conversation , interrupted by a jukebox's rock music , is of major importance in the murders that will occur during the film's running time . Being blind , of course , has it's disadvantages ( . . perfect for exploiting in a giallo thriller-mystery where twists and turns pull the rug out from under the viewer who are , in a sense , blind as well ) so Peter will need assistance from chauffeur / employee Burton ( Umberto Raho ) and his lover Paola's ( Isabelle Marchall ) roomie Margot ( Shirley Corrigan ) who works at the fashion studio . Françoise Ballais's ( Sylvia Koscina ) studio is preparing for an upcoming Autumn line in Hamburg , and her dashing " husband " , Victor ( Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ) , quite the ladies man bedding the models under her employ secretly , manages things during such a busy time of the year . The studio faces a crisis that throws their lives into a tailspin , Harry ( Romano Malaspina ) who has his own photography studio ( . . and was the slain Paolo's cousin ) has incriminating pictures of Victor in bed with the victim . When someone stabs Harry in the throat with a knife , he becomes a leading suspect . Meanwhile other models who have incriminating evidence against Victor die in almost the same fashion as Paolo , a wicker basket yielding a cat results in their deaths by heart attack . The film follows Peter and company as they try to find the one ( s ) responsible for the murders as they compile . This has everything I desire in a giallo thriller . The convoluted story keeps piling on the twists . Susan , the lady with the white cape , is my favorite revealing mystery . . she's given an interesting development , and is quite a tragic character , who is revealed layer by layer , for as she is given exposition we are lead closer to identifying the murderer . As I've come to expect , this giallo gives us another wild plot twist at the end after it seems like we've established who the killer is . The reveal off-sets the vicious knife slashing of a character we care for , brutally displayed showing the blade as it penetrates the flesh as she cries in agony and dispair with nowhere to escape . As usual we have our amateur sleuths , these civilian detectives who actually discover just as much , if not more , than Inspector Jansen ( Renato De Carmine ) and his police . While the DVD print of this film is of lesser quality ( . . it looks as if the film is directly lifted from the film stock without the usual " touching up " that many giallo thrillers have enjoyed in the past , getting the treatment with a lavish quality transfer , enhanced beautifully for the viewer ) , I think the film will be a lot of fun for giallo fans who expect certain things that " 7 Shawls of Yellow Silk " will give them . There's nudity , some gratuitous camera glides down the naked backs of women taking showers , and stylish camera angles and uses of light & shadow . The expected red herring or two is here as well . Couple all this with a blind hero who must use his other senses ( . . including his intellect ) to figure out specifics with the help of his friends , and you have quite the adventure . - Spoiler paragraph - I like the touch of how the models die . Wearing yellow shawls containing a liquid repellent that sends the wicker basket cat into a frenzy , whose claws contain poison once they scratch , is such a nifty little way of adding something new to the giallo instead of the typical knife stabbings ( . . although they are included as well ) . I am torn regarding the episode at the Glassworks where a certain individual , possibly the killer , leads our hero into a most certain doom making stupid decisions that give Peter time to remain alive as the police close in . . . why would this person not just kill him and get it over with ? Yes , I will admit that this sequence is incredibly tense as Peter , blind as a bat , tries to thwart the other's plans of killing him , but still . .
Snakes on a Plane	A surfer stumbles upon a murder at the hands of notorious gangster Eddie Kim and must be protected by FBI agent Samuel L Jackson on board a flight equipped with an army of deadly poisonous snakes , planted there to kill him so that he couldn't testify . Somehow Jackson and the flight attendants must find the means to keep those on board safe and kill the snakes that are threatening their lives , not to mention another unfortunate dilemma facing them . . both pilots are bitten by snakes and someone else will have to land the plane ! A disaster movie with CGI snakes that attack a bunch of folks on board a plane with Sammy L working his usual cool / charisma . You are most certainly confident that he'll find a way to save as many as possible . The snakes bite into a breast nipple , eyeball , penis , throats , buttock , faces , leaving some nasty after-effects such as sores and mouth-foaming . A dog and man are victims of a massive python which wraps around and chokes them before the feeding occurs ( . . the dog's fate isn't elaborated , although the film shows the python swallowing the male victim's head ! ) Fun supporting cast add color to the proceedings . Like in a lot of disaster films , we are introduced to the supporting characters before the perilous situation takes place with the release of the snakes which are ultimately antagonized by the pheromones of leis flowers . Featuring characters that mimic cultural archetypes such as Rachel Blanchard as a Paris Hilton wannabe with a dog , IPOD , and Valley Girl looks ( . . her name is Mercedes ) and rap star Three G's ( Flex Alexander ) who is a cocky germaphobe with attitude . Lin Shaye has a wonderful role as flight attendant on her last tour , Grace ( . . one knows her fate when she mentions how she plans to retire after this one last flight ) . Julianna Margulies is flight attendant Claire , who plans to become a lawyer after this last flight , and is called upon to help Sammy L's agent Neville Flynn , when the going gets rough . Kenan Thompson lends his usual funny expressions to the character of Troy , Three G's entourage and high school chum who looks out for him and is asked to land the plane based solely on his video-game expertise ! The computer generated snakes aren't always that convincing , although that's part of the movie's charm . Fast-paced thrill-ride that aims to please . The absurd premise just draws you in and it's up to the filmmakers to sell such an idea as passengers joining together to find a way out of such a difficult situation through a variety of ways . . you must take a leap of faith when you see Sammy L killing snakes with a taser gun !
Deadbirds	A group of bank robbing murdering thugs hole up at the Hollister farmhouse embedded within massively long corn rows . William ( Henry Thomas ) was given directions to this place by a dying Confederate soldier named Jeffy who was is love with Annabelle ( Nicki Aycox ) . . Annabelle , however , was always in love with William . Along with his brother Sam ( Patrick Fugit ) , Annabelle , former black slave Todd ( Isaiah Washington ) , portly Joseph ( Mark Boone Junior ) , and sneaky , untrustworthy Clyde ( Michael Shannon ) they murder everyone within a bank as soldiers planned to store their gold in it . William , as they were fleeing the scene of the crime in a gun battle with other soldiers , actually shoots a boy . When they approach the rows leading to the plantation , the group encounters an eye-less , pale skinned monstrosity for which is gunned down immediately . This perhaps was their warning to stay away . . not heeding to it would be their downfall . It's quite clear upon staying within the farmhouse that something's amiss . . there's an atmosphere of doom surrounding this that slowly releases it's secrets . Sam received a nasty gunshot wound that seems infected to the point where it threatens his life , but that is just a taste of what awaits them . Weird noises and the sight of demonic children ( . . with Todd later seeing the ghost of a slave gutted ) awaken a fear in each member of the group as supernatural forces show themselves as they fall to the evils one at a time . Through the dying Sam , the farmer Hollister ( Muse Watson ) reveals himself and his past actions regarding his possessed children , his dead wife , the slaves he sacrificed , and his lynching by the neighbors surrounding the farmhouse . Sam passes this knowledge to Annabelle before he's dead . We get an understanding that the farmhouse and it's surrounding rows is cursed . . anyone who decides to enter in suffer for it , never to escape . Southern Gothic creeper , really has a sense of dread that builds thanks to a marvelously spooky setting . The film has lots of moments concerning the evils which provoke the cast that works well at getting under the skin . And , the unique story-telling regarding the plight of the characters , who are indeed unpleasant , greedy murderers is well told I thought . Using voodoo or whatever it was that was written within the torn book Todd was reading lets the film go into some thrilling areas particularly concerning the children and what they turn into . Plus , the filmmakers take every opportunity to throw up a scare concerning the characters who leave the film in one way or another such as Joseph being pulled into the well by something after hearing the frightened voice of a girl who needed help or Clyde who had been stuffed with straw , his eyes , nose & mouth tied with twine , and hung on a stick to resemble a scarecrow . Todd's exit is particularly weird . A unique , somewhat original horror tale . . it's more about execution ( how it builds tension within that creepy farmhouse and it's old rooms containing some disturbing history ) than the story , though . Oh , look fast when William is running up the stairs to find Clyde and you'll see the his " demonic " reflection come across the window .
Brides of Fu Manchu	The diabolical Chinese architect of doom , Fu Manchu ( Christopher Lee , imposing as ever ) still carrying a devious desire to control mankind across the globe , has orchestrated a new plan to destroy the top military nations ' generals and Commander-in-chiefs who are gathering together in London for a service dedication at St . Paul's church . Through a method using energy ( . . provided through the use of light , heat and power , transmitted by sound waves ) , Fu Manchu needs the cooperation and know-how of the top industrialists and scientists , and in getting that he kidnaps their wives and daughters ( . . they are the " brides " of the title ) , using hypnosis with his incredible mental powers , removing their will and in doing so can command them to do anything he so desires . Fu Manchu's arch nemesis and wily adversary , Scotland Yard Assistant Commissioner Sir Dennis Nayland Smith ( Douglas Wilmer ) , along with pathologist Dr . Petrie ( Howard Marion-Crawford ; Smith's Dr . Watson , you could say ) and Parisian Inspector Pierre Grimaldi ( Roger Hanin ) , must discover his plans and stop him before the cunning mastermind is able to remove the great military leaders which help to keep our world's countries safe . The film has three basic settings . London where Fu Manchu has dacoit soldiers attempting to kidnap Marie Lentz ( Marie Versini ) , the daughter of a great scientist needed to assist the madman in equipping his machines with the proper settings to bomb major cities . Marie's fiancé , German research chemist Franz Baumer ( Heinz Drache ) , helps Smith and company in their efforts to find Fu Manchu's headquarters , buried underground in the foothills of a specific French mountainside . The film often shows the trapped women imprisoned in Fu Manchu's headquarters , and slave Abdul ( Salmaan Peerzada ) who plans to save them . A certain industrialist , Jules Merlin ( Rupert Davies ) , is chosen for his expertise in building little wireless sets which enable Fu Manchu's henchman to set up their operations in small locations . The film shows Merlin's daughter Michel ( Carole Gray ) imprisoned which motivates him to do what Fu Manchu asks . When Marie is finally kidnapped in a well orchestrated siege in an opera house , she will coordinate an escape plan with Michel . Baumer will also infiltrate the headquarters posing as his fiancé's father . The film also has scenes in Paris where Merlin's business is centered . Marie doesn't know that her best friend , Nikki Sheldon ( Harald Leipnitz ) is actually working for Fu Manchu and assists in having her captured at the opera house . Fu Manchu's corrupt organization is under the disguise of Wireless International . Showing his capabilities , Fu Manchu destroys a cruise ship , The Windsor Castle , which will prompt Smith to move faster in stopping him before he's able to carry out his ultimate plan . Using Marie's father , Otto Lentz ( Joseph Fürst ) expertise , they will hatch a plan to use a stronger signal to counteract Manchu's with the lives of many important figures ' lying in the balance . Plot-heavy , exciting , fast-paced fun with a great cast and dangerous situations creating an exhausting thrill-ride with Lee in great form even though he doesn't even attempt to sound Chinese . Wilmer is effective at portraying Fu Manchu's adversary ; he presents the commissioner as fast-thinking , wise , and courageous . Smith has to have certain attributes if he's able to somehow defeat a villain such as Fu Manchu , with lives at stake . I think Wilmer is convincing , selling his Smith as someone we can count on to catch the terrorists out to cause chaos and global mischief . There are some thrilling set-pieces , such as the opera house kidnapping , the fight that breaks out between the " brides " and Fu Manchu's dacoit soldiers , and an attempt at hi-jacking Marie in her hospital of employment . We get to see Baumer beat the hell out of Fu Manchu's men and the destruction of the Windsor Castle ship as Smith and his men failed in saving those killed is quite a stunner . Unfortunately , Fu Manchu's headquarters inside the foothills look like cheap sets ( . . it's clear , I believe , that producer Towers desires to mimic Hammer ) , but that did very little to distract me from the perilous situation the madman was creating for our heroes . There's so much going on , you have little time to catch your breath . Director Don Sharp once again shows his skills at creating a lot with little , crafting a nice adventure out of the money producer Harry Allan Towers was able to give him . Rounding out a solid cast includes Tsai Chin as Fu Manchu's daughter Lin Tang , ever supportive and willing to obey . Burt Kwouk ( the Pink Panther movies ) is Feng , Fu Manchu's top scientist who is leader over the mechanical operations functioning the energy sent to destroy targets at his boss ' command . It's great to actually see Asians portraying Fu Manchu's Chinese soldiers .
The College Girl Murders	Prussic gas , a murderer donning a red clansman suit and hood wielding a white whip , and the murders of college school girls at the hands of paid convicts enlisted by a mysterious mastermind who keeps his face hidden within an office containing aquariums of turtles and fish . The inspectors at Scotland Yard , Higgins ( IJoachim Fuchsberger ) and his superior Sir John ( Siegfried Schürenberg ) certainly have their hands full with this case . It all seems to center around student Ann Portland ( Uschi Glas ) , who , when she turns 21 , is to inherit a great deal of wealth . The girls who are targeted share a room with Ann , but the reason for their murders remains a mystery SY's finest must figure out . The staff of the girls ' dormitory all seem to be hiding something and certain members of the faculty are falling prey to the killer in the red monk robe disguise , talented enough to precisely strangle the necks of those attacked with the whip . Two prisoners are commissioned by a mystery man to use the newly created toxic gas created by a scientist murdered at the beginning of the film during what was supposed to be a monetary exchange for his creation . It's a clever scheme where a driver , Greaves ( Günter Meisner ) meets the convicts ( . . who hide in a barrel ) who are assisted by a corrupt prison guard . Taken blindfolded to the secret room of the mastermind , he gives them orders on who to kill and how . Uncovering this operation is a top priority for Higgins and Sir John for it will lead them to the truth they seek in regards to the murders and why they are happening . Under suspicion are girls ' dormitory headmistress , her author brother , a sweaty , incredibly nervous chemistry teacher , a snooping gardener , and the Bannister . Some are red herrings until they are disposed of , throwing the viewer for a loop each time until the real mastermind is discovered . The ending features multiple twists . Out of the Krimi films I've seen , THE COLLEGE GIRL MURDERS is the closest to a giallo with it's colorful killer , a convoluted plot yielding lots of surprises and potential suspects , & sordid shenanigans between adults and the college girls at the dormitory . I think you can also see the influence of James Bond on this particular Krimi film with the villain mastermind's secret hideout with an alligator pit ( . . which isn't used ) , the fake bible / water pistol , when opened , fires the gas into the face of startled victims , the Greaves ' Royles Royce which has latches that cause flaps to darken the windows without revealing the passenger in the back seat , and the peep holes used to spy on the girls in their rooms and while swimming . Many might consider Sir John a liability due to his bumbling , buffoonish behavior and how he often undermines Higgins ' abilities to get at the truth ( . . perhaps poking fun at know-it-all British inspectors who harm a case more than solve it ) . . I felt he was used as comedy relief , particularly with his attempts at psychoanalyzing suspects and potential victims , often misunderstanding what are told to him . Higgins , using the skills adopted over his years as an investigator , instead follows the clues / facts , often avoiding Sir John as much as possible . Capable direction by the reliable Alfred Vohrer who keeps the pace humming at a nice speed , and the screenplay is full of interesting characters and lurid content . . the fact that so many of the adults surrounding the dormitory are suspect , any of them might be the one wielding the whip or calling the shots behind those murdered girls ' executions . I'd say this may be one of the best ( . . if not the best ) examples of the Krimi genre , for it keeps you guessing , always one more ace up it's sleeve . . the revelations unearthed at the very end are quite eye-opening ( . . and , you even get a literal unmasking of the real mastermind pulling the strings to top it all off ) .
House of Whipcord	Naive , young , gentle-hearted , beautiful French model , Ann-Marie Di Verney ( Penny Irving ) is drawn to a dark and mysterious " writer " , Mark E Desade ( Robert Tayman ) after meeting him at a party , later ( . . after a date ) agreeing to meet his mother outside of London , despite knowing little about him . Ann-Marie's pal and roommate , Julia ( Ann Michelle ) doesn't like the idea of leaving with a man she has just met and these worries come to fruition when Mark takes her to an abandoned institution which works as a cover for a hostile prison for " immoral girls not fit for society who must be punished into submission " . Mark's mother , Mrs Wakehurst ( Barbara Markham ) was once a prison governess who lost her job after her aggressive torturous methods towards a French inmate ended in death . The elderly , blind Justice Bailey ( Patrick Barr ) , whose mind is slipping into senility , once holding a prominent position , is now operating as the secret prison judge , having left his wife for Wakehurst after getting her off for her previous misdeeds regarding the murder of the girl ( . . the penalty being the loss of her license , and the source of her deep rooted , and thriving bitterness and hatred for " loose women " ) . Their marriage has worsened substantially over the years , and we discover that Mark is their illegitimate son ( . . there are also disturbing incestual undertones eluded to later on ) Forced against her will into an illegal imprisonment , Ann-Marie notices other girls that have met these particular circumstances as well . . it seems Mark's job is to lure women to this place so that they can be tried and convicted in some sort of bogus sentencing , a ceremony so ridiculous ( . . Wakehurst must now inform of her husband of the lines he's supposed to say due to his forgetfulness ) it borders on parody . You can only imagine how shocking and surreal such a situation can be . Told not to speak unless spoken to , given very little to eat , and a penalty system for bad behavior ( # 1 : Solitary confinement , # 2 : A flogging , & # 3 : Death by hanging ) , Ann-Marie will have to figure out some way to escape or else face the dire consequences of her current predicament . Working with fellow prisoners who have had enough of their cruel mistreatment at the hands of Wakehurst and her unpleasant guards , Walker ( Sheila Keith ) and Bates ( Dorothy Gordon ) , Ann-Marie will attempt to break free from the harsh confinements of such a bleak and unfriendly environment . Meanwhile , Julia confides in her lover , Tony ( Ray Brooks ) regarding Ann-Marie's whereabouts setting out to find her if she can , attempting to discover just who Mark is and his location . Appropriately grim women-in-prison film throwing a young lamb into a den of wolves . Barbara Markham is quite impressive as the diabolical ( . . with homicidal tendencies and a yearning to see the pretty deteriorate ) warden who hides behind this cloak of morality , wielding her power as if chosen by God to reform those deemed unfit to exist , when in reality she enjoys making girls suffer . The unbridled sadism , buried underneath this cold and calculating execution by the warden and her staff , really has you pitying poor Ann-Marie , who really is a sweet-hearted teenage girl who isn't ashamed of her body . Penny Irving positively glows in the opening scenes , a very vulnerable , somewhat bubbly girl whose modeling career is seen as a blight on society ( . . Walker obviously wishes to , along with writer David McGillivray , create a film exposing authoritarian types who use their power and code of ethics as a tool to discriminate , as the hypocrites they are ) by certain people who really wish to punish and harm because of the thrills that such methods provides . Sheila Keith is particularly memorable as Walker , an obvious lesbian who harbours a lust for Ann-Marie , but hates her at the same time for the type she represents . Through facial movements and specific gestures , Sheila Keith is also able to show her attraction to Ann-Marie , but , at the same time , we see the conflicting repulsion that soon overcomes her . It's a very convincing performance that can elicit chills . The film doesn't actually dwell too much on the whip flogging , although Walker establishes the potency of it's use very well showing whelps and bruises on those victimized . There's a certain hopelessness that permeates throughout Walker's film for Ann-Marie as she is constantly on the verge of escape only to be ensnared right back into the snake pit by unforeseen circumstances . Thanks to cinematographer Peter Jessop's lighting and the miserable aura of the institution setting , Wakehurst's prison is quite a morose and unforgiving place and you can do nothing but feel for those trapped within it's cells . Walker really wishes to keep the indelible image of the hangman's noose in our minds , knowing that this method of execution has been used ( . . we witness a prisoner sentenced to hanging for attempting to steal a piece of bread , and the failed operation to sneak her away from the death chamber ) before and could be Ann-Marie's fate if Wakehurst has anything to say about it . Walker alternates between Ann-Marie's plight and Julia in London growing more concerned about her friend's condition and reasons for not communicating somehow . It's a form of manipulation , of course , allowing the framework to advance regarding Julia being Ann-Marie's only hope ( . . another form of manipulation is Walker establishing Ann-Marie's potential getaway thanks to a truck driver nearby the Wakehurst estate ) . Stanley Myers score exceptionally conveys the mood of the film's plot all too well . Robert Tayman has quite a malevolent presence , despite his handsome allure which draws women like Ann-Marie to their doom . Jessop has a way of lighting Tayman that gives off a sinister intent , and you can just sense that this poor girl , under his spell , is like a fly caught in the spider's web . Penny Irving is quite uninhibited in this film , not afraid to show her gorgeous naked body , including a rather uncomfortable disrobing scene where she's forced to remove her clothes by Walker and Bates before being taken to her cell .
Antropophagus	An group of tourists offer to give an American , Julie ( Tisa Farrow ) , a ride to an island village where pals of hers ( . . a French couple we see killed at the opening of the film ) were supposed to be waiting for her . Deciding to remain on the island for a spell , the group find the village without people , providing quite an ominous suspicion that something's amiss . When the sailboat they were riding is sent away mysteriously into the sea adrift , the group ponder why , holing up in the home of Julie's friends , awaiting for the night to fall , hoping that the boat would return to shore . The remaining members of the group do find a person in the village , but she remains elusive warning for them to leave the village . They then find the French couple's blind daughter who is deeply traumatized . But , what none of the visitors plan on is encountering a dangerous , psychopathic cannibal ( George Eastman , in hideous make-up , with unhinged eyes . . his build works to enhance how scary he looks as he approaches victims ) without an ounce of humanity . He seems devoid of anything remotely civilized and there's a reason revealed later involving his son and wife in a raft isolated in the middle of the ocean . Aristide Massaccesi ( Joe D'Amato ) and George Eastman craft quite a sickening tale which has given " Antropophagus-The Grim Reaper " an assured following . " Antropophagus " is the very definition of a slow-burner as it idles along showing the tourists walking throughout the village ( . . modeled after the Greek Islands and looking eerily similar to Narciso Ibáñez Serrador's " Island of the Damned " ) attempting to find any citizens . I love horror films which show visiting outsiders finding a complete village abandoned like a ghost town as if they just vanished off the face of the Earth , and seeing our cast moving throughout and finding no one certainly worked for me . I think this beautifully sets up just how monstrous the film's predator really is . . such a menace that he empties a city of it's people . I think Massaccesi's decision to not show the killer until 50 minutes in will test the patience of many , but I felt that the director was building the dread of his arrival . I mean , we know that someone is on this island somewhere and I felt that Massaccesi wishes to keep him hidden for as long as possible . His impact to the film , when he does arrive , is immediately felt when Eastman's fiend bites a plug of skin from the neck of a victim . He'll also bite a chunk of flesh from a throat later in the film when he pulls a victim's face through the hole of a mansion's ceiling . The most infamous death concerns the removal of a fetus from a pregnant victim's womb ( . . Massaccesi said it was a rabbit ) taking a bite out of it . You also see the aftermath of a cleaver stabbed into a victim's face . Massaccesi even pays homage to Spielberg with an underwater attack at the very beginning reminiscent of Jaws . There's even the eating of intestines that will leave many jaws dropping to the floor in dismay . Massaccesi has shown ( . . as Buio Omega will prove ) that he isn't afraid of making films with disturbing subject matter and scenes with ( in ) human behavior that shock . I think the film's finest moments occur when Massaccesi shoots the use of candle-light at night through the darkened rooms of the French couple's home with Julie and Bodin's Daniel encountering a frightened innocent hiding from Eastman's monster , and specifically the Roman catacombs where Eastman's lair of eaten bodies is located ( . . this is very akin to the work of Lucio Fulci with the presence of remains , corpses , skulls , bones & red-eyed rats running about ) . The film also has a nifty sequence where Julie finds a hidden room where Eastman's sister kept many of his first victims through the breaking of a mirror , in the mansion of a family who worked for the village . Also , cool is a suicide where a woman decides to hang herself , and Julie , at one point , is trapped in a gated graveyard by a jealous Carol ( Zora Kerova ; who was upset because Daniel preferred Julie over her ) . A young Serena Grandi has an early role as the pregnant victim , Maggie , who is found by her husband in the catacombs . I think " Antropophagus " is very similar to Fulci's works at the time ( . . from " Zombie Flesh Eaters " into his more sadistic 80's gore flicks ) and just as willing to push buttons , repelling weak-hearted audiences . To those of us who have seen a bunch of these movies , though , the impact isn't as severe , but I find his unflinching ability to shock rather amusing . But , I think it can be sensed , here , that when inspired , Massaccesi can create a sense of atmosphere . With the amazing setting , Marcello Giombini's often haunting music score , and Enrico Biribicchi's lush cinematography , Massaccesi had all the tools to make quite an impression . Unlike many , I didn't have any problem with the pace because my eyes were taking in the location and how it was brought to the screen . And , Eastman is quite an impressive beast .
Hungry Wives	Very unusual Romero feature , which to me resembles a Cassavetes film , regarding an emotionally numb housewife , Joanie ( Jan White ) who desires something more than sitting at home while her hippie daughter Nikki ( Joedda McClain ) is out having a good time and husband , Jack ( Bill Thunhurst ) is always away on business . When Jack is home , he's constantly griping about this and that , and her daughter is dating Gregg ( Raymond Laine ) , a young man who embraces a care-free lifestyle and carries a very unappealing disregard for the suburban rich and the old establishment . Joanie's sexual life is anything but grand and she finds herself drawn to Gregg , despite finding his manners off-putting , and is quite uncomfortable with his liberated , unconcerned behavior towards those he finds ugly . Yet , she desires for his touch after arriving home after an unfortunate night with a really troubled neighborhood gal-pal , who Gregg embarrassed earlier in the evening after a visit with a witch ( . . he tricked her into believing that she was smoking marijuana ) , hearing the passions of her daughter being balled by him in Nikki's bedroom . Joanie becomes intrigued with witchcraft after her initial visit with the neighborhood witch , and soon starts dabbling with it after purchasing some items from a store . When Nikki leaves home after realizing her mom was listening to her throes of sexual bliss , Joanie soon supposedly uses a spell on Gregg to seduce him , with an affair as a result . Joanie is also plagued with surreal dreams of a nightmare man ( Bill Hinzman ) breaking into her home , dressed in black with a creepy disfigured mask , chasing after her . . when she attempts to escape Joanie finds that the outer door knobs are either chained or belted . In the opening scene , Joanie has a dream depicting various images of things both from her past ( . . a baby that may've been miscarried , limbs whipping across her face as hubby remains with his face buried in his newspaper unconcerned with her well being and practically ignoring her mere presence , future lover Gregg , among other things like riding a swing ) and possible future , with Romero setting up the fact that this woman is troubled with a variety of emotional problems . I think the film is an experimental , avant-garde way of viewing the psychological torment of a woman needing emotional fulfillment and not finding it . Through the subtle , under-played performance of Jan White ( . . I love an actress who tells us through her eyes what the character is truly going through , even if we can not see it on her face ) , we get an idea of how Joanie is hiding buried desires while attempting to disregard how she truly feels , eventually succumbing to them . I never felt she was a witch who could perform any act of magic , but someone embracing something new and different as a way of bringing meaning to an unrewarding life . Joanie is often shown , when her husband is home ( . . which isn't much ) , miserably withdrawn and perhaps seething with regret ( . . this was what I felt looking at her in the scenes when they are together in bed or at the dinner table ) at ever marrying this man . I don't think many casual horror ( . . and Romero ) fans will cling to " Season of the Witch " for it really isn't a horror film at all despite the deceptive title . More of a bleak study of a woman with too much time on her hands , living an unsatisfied life yearning for something more substantial . My favorite sequences concern Bill Hinzman's masked intruder who rushes Joanie attempting to assault her in her nightmares . Romero uses a lot of expressionistic lighting , often through window shades at night with his camera often closing tightly towards the faces of characters , mainly Joanie and Hinzman's nightmare man . The opening dream sequence is something straight out of Bunuel . . all you'd need is a goat as a finishing touch . Most of the film , though , is dialogue and performance , as the film often scathingly involves the nature of bored housewives , their behavior and gossip . The film very much rides on the success of White's performance because Romero's camera often focuses completely on her face . A great deal of the film is often claustrophobic , taking place in Joanie's home and Romero pretty much captures every aspect inside . . this is indeed Joanie's prison and I felt he does a good job of often confining us to this place . Still , the film is unpolished , often moving at a rather leisurely pace , with abrupt music disrupted by quick cuts from one scene to the next . The print , for which Anchor Bay apologized for , isn't the greatest in the world , looking quite affected by time .
Succubus	Lorna Green ( Janine Reynaud ) is a performance artist for wealthy intellectuals at a local club . She falls prey to her fantasies as the promise of romantic interludes turn into murder as she kills those who believe that sex is on the horizon . It's quite possible that , through a form of hypnotic suggestion , someone ( . . a possible task master pulling her strings like a puppet ) is guiding Lorna into killing those she comes across in secluded places just when it appears that love-making is about to begin . After the murders within her fantasies are committed , Lorna awakens bewildered , often clueless as to if what she was privy to within her dreams ever took place in reality . If someone asked me how to describe this particular work from Franco , I'd say it's elegant & difficult . By now , you've probably read other user comments befuddled by what this film is about , since a large portion of it takes place within the surreal atmosphere of a dream . Franco mentioned in an interview that he was heavily influenced by Godard early in his career , as far as film-making style , and so deciding to abandon a clear narrative structure in favor of trying to create a whole different type of viewing experience . And , as you read from the reaction of the user comments here . . some like this decision , others find the style labouring , dull , and bewildering . I'll be the first to admit that the film is over my head , but even Franco himself , when quizzed by critics who watched " Succubus " , admitted that he didn't even understand the film and he directed it ! Some might say that " Succubus " was merely a precursor to his more admired work , " Venus in Furs " , considered his masterwork by Franco-faithful , because it also adopts the surreal , dreamlike structure where the protagonist doesn't truly know whether he / she is experiencing something real or imagined . In a sense , like the protagonist , we are experiencing the same type of confusion . . certainly , " Succubus " is unconventional film-making where we aren't given the keys to what is exactly going on . And , a great deal of the elusive dialogue doesn't help matters . " Succubus " is also populated by beatnik types and " poet-speak " , Corman's film , " A Bucket of Blood " poked fun at . My personal favorite scene teases at a possible lesbian interlude between Lorna and a woman she meets at a posh party . . quite a bizarre fantasy sequence where mannequins are used rather unusually . Great locations and jazz score . . I liked this film myself , although I can understand why it does receive a negative reaction . Loved that one scene at the posh party with Lorna , a wee bit drunk , writhing on the floor in a gorgeous evening gown as others attending the shindig ( . . equally wasted ) rush her in an embrace of kisses .
Final Destination 3	Wendy ( Mary Elizabeth Winstead ) , a control freak , is the chosen one who foresees tragic deaths at the hands of a roller-coaster hydraulics disaster causing the ride to run off it's rails . Certain characters are prevented this disaster , but , unfortunately , Wendy's boyfriend and best friend are not amongst the survivors . Her best friend's boyfriend , Kevin ( Ryan Merriman ) will assist her in trying to cheat death's force once again as it's angry and hungry for those souls lost in it's grip the first time around . Among the gory death sequences include a horrifying tanning incident ( I'll never set foot in a tanning bed after seeing this ) , how a motor fan ( exploding from the hood of Kevin's truck as they " dodge death " ) can inflict damage to a person's skull , how an exercise machine can be bad for your health ( . . specifically your head ) , how not to use a staple gun ( one word for this sequence . . OUCH ! ) , and how a sign can smash one poor soul slicing him in half ( quite a nasty bit of business ) . But , these death sequences don't even come close to the harrowing subway sequence that closes the film . Wendy's premonition of the roller-coaster disaster is quite a humdinger as well . Before each death , the film exposes to us death's design in full from start to finish . . how every little detail is met to ensure those targeted die quite terribly . When death's design takes root , Wendy feels the force like a wind . . in a graveyard scene , trees actually tilt to one side ! Also , Wendy's camera , that took photos for the yearbook containing the characters who made it off the roller-coaster , gives away clues to how they each will die the second time . Like in the Saw series , I can just picture script writers at their laptops and around tables with their thinking caps on coming up with elaborate ways on how to murder these characters in the film . Surely , though , if you are entering the theater by the third film you ought to know what you're in for . It's all about how death will retrieve the souls that escaped it the first time , but far more unpleasantly . I believe this supernatural ( literally ) slasher should please fans of the series . It delivers , I believe , exactly what fans expect . More discriminating viewers will probably quite often exclaim , " Yeah right " , rolling their eyes , bemoaning at such a picture as this one . I'm a fan of the series so it worked well enough for me .
School Killer	Why has Ramón ( Carlos Fuentes ) brought his five college mates to a spooky abandoned school building which used to service the black sheep children of wealth ? That answer might just lie in a diary in his possession supposedly written by his dying father . What they come in contact with is in fact a relived episode involving another group of six , with five of them presumably meeting graphic fates at the hands of a sadistic security guard ( Paul Naschy ) which occurred 20 some odd years ago . But , as they seek out a way to escape from this place , terror awaits them as that horrifying moment in time replays as the group run for their lives , often in states of panic as the killer begins to hunt and destroy them in a various bloody ways . Will Ramón and any of his pals survive this night of horror or becomes ghosts forever repeating the very same night like those before them ? Stylish Spanish slasher has that professional gloss and potent , shocking violence to match . Some witty exchanges between the characters . . layered in their dialogue are pop-culture references to American horror films which might annoy some viewers . A demented Naschy is really ferocious with the kiddies as he attacks them gleefully . . quite a bloodthirsty maniac who carries out his violent acts with relish . I found the loud musical cues a bit annoying and the filmmakers often use flashbacks from previous events in the film as reminders to the audience . I don't think these tricks are necessarily needed , but felt the director wished to communicate in depth with the viewer hence the use of cues and flashbacks . A minor diversion for this film's plot keeps moving and the camera follows the pace of the characters and how they react to the chaotic situation presented to them . Your enjoyment of this film may ultimately come down to your acceptance of the paranormal supernatural aspects of the plot . Moments in time relived and a killer who continues his work seemingly from the grave . The twist does seem a bit jarring and abrupt , but this might ( . . or might not ) work considering how the story plays out regarding why Ramón's father is shown amongst those ghosts re-enacting those grisly events two decades prior . I will say that this film probably wouldn't hold up if scrutinized in detail , but as a slasher flick , it's a breath of fresh air .
Tarantula	Working on a nutrient experiment that could both grow a food supply large enough to feed an ever growing global populace ( while also hoping to perfect a nutrient that would keep humans from needing food ) , a rare disease called acromegaly ( causes the pituitary gland to malfunction causing facial , neck , hands & feet distortions resulting in suffocation and death towards humans , most of the time over many years after receiving it ) is found in a corpse in the desert near the town of Desert Rock . Professor Gerald Deemer ( Leo G Carroll ) , a nutrient biologist , is the remaining member of a trio working on the experiment , whose colleague and understudy ( both way too eager to see if they had perfected their experiment ) die from acromegaly . The understudy , Paul , revolting against his professor , causes serious damage to their lab while getting his mad revenge by injecting Deemer with their created nutrient . While a fire kills most of the caged animals being experimented on , a tarantula escapes , growing daily in size . On a murderous rampage through the desert , sucking human and cattle dry to the bones , country doctor Matt Hastings ( John Agar ) , Desert Rock sheriff Jack Andrews ( Nestor Paiva ) and Deemer's new understudy Stephanie " Steve " Clayton ( the lovely Mara Corday ) will find themselves in great danger as it leaves puddles of venom as a reminder of where it's been ( . . including rock slides which nearly kill Matt and Steve ) . During the film we , along with Steve , watch as Deemer slowly succumbs to acromegaly attacking his body at an alarming rate . We also watch as the gigantic tarantula scours the desert downing power lines , hovering over screaming human victims with little room to escape , and on the prowl for it's next meal . I guess , many will watch a creature feature such as this one for chuckles and kicks . I admired the effects for a ' 55 film . At the very least , the story's premise was intelligent and thoughtful . . the whole idea that these scientists , thinking about the future and how to thwart starvation and hunger , with their experiments , as always was the case when man attempts to solve the problems we face , ending with tragic consequences . I felt that Deemer seems singled out as a villain , because of his dogged secrecy regarding understudy Paul ( . . and his colleague's fate as well ) , but his overall intentions are good , and perhaps success would've been imminent had his partners been more patient . The effects of the tarantula are flawed , but I admired such effort and there are some nifty scenes such as one where the spider attacks Deemer's home , and another where it knocks over a power pole with sparks flying . If you want to nit-pick , there's room to scrutinize , but I thought this B-movie effort from the great director Jack Arnold was lots of fun . Agar was always a charming and handsome lead , very likable and Mara Corday his equal , as the typical screaming woman running for her life as the tarantula draws near . I think Carroll fits the bill nicely as a scientist who means well , but holds a responsibility for telling the authorities of what had transpired , opting instead to pursuing a breakthrough with his limited time left , receiving his grim fate , often handed down to characters who weren't completely honest when they should've been .
Demons	A mysterious partially masked young man is handing out special tickets to people on the subway for the attendance of a theater house called Metropol . Once inside , a film will be played about four young adults who visit Nostradamus ' grave and facing demonic possession and mutilation . The cause was a demonic mask which cuts one of them toying with it . In the theater of Metropol a hooker finds a metallic mask prop which leaves her with a little cut when she started wearing it in jest . The wound bubbles and explodes green puss . From their she transforms into a demon clawing her friend leading to a plague of demonic possession as anyone who receives a slashing from the fingernails of those " diseased " turn as well . Soon everyone finds out about the demonic presence as they witness a woman transform in a hideous sequence . Darting for the exits , they are blocked off with no escape it seems . Soon a breakout of attacks by those possessed leads to a major problem for the remaining survivors not only trying to remain safe , but finding a way out . The film centers on George ( Urbano Barberini ) and love-interest Cheryl ( Natasha Hovey ) trying to lead those still alive to safety while we see an onslaught of bloody effects thanks to demons tearing the flesh of anyone running for their very lives . Those still alive decide that the movie must be stopped and when they enter the projection room notice that it runs automatically . Even after destroying the machines , the evil still remains leading them to realize that the theater itself houses the true demonic force terrorizing them . We see this when a door opens for a group of druggies to enter in so that they could escape police . . but , a demon is let out ( the blind man , whose non-functioning eyes were gouged out ) , to roam the outside world , let free to spread the demonic plague on others . Crazed and graphic , Lamberto Bava's horror flick is filled to the brim with gruesome bits and carnage . How the demonic force came to be and who the host of this demonic attack on the senses really is remain a mystery never quite elaborated on in any form or detail . This movie is about style and gore . . and this is exactly where it succeeds . Lamberto Bava & company unleashes a violent frenzy of ripped flesh and slashed throats . The film is know for the off-the-wall sequence where a helicopter comes into the picture and you might see similarities between this film and NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD . . Romero's film is clearly an inspiration . While these are classified as demons , they operate and function like mad zombies desiring to kill . This is the perfect anecdote for the horror fan craving lots of gore . Once the bloodshed ensues , Lamberto and company pull out all the stops . The flick really is a never ending cycle of bloody death .
One Missed Call	Yumi's friends are dying in bizarre ways to what seems to be a supernatural vengeful ghost who forewarns her prey by sending them a ring-tone playing a specific tune . Following that tune is the final words spoken from each chosen victim's mouth before they die . On their phones , is a set date and time in the future when they will perish . Yumi ( Kou Shibasaki ) joins forces with Hiroshi Yamashita ( Shin'ichi Tsutsumi ) , whose sister was a chosen victim who died from terrible burns . Their journey to find out who is responsible for the abnormal murdering spree leads to a family with possible abuse involved . There's an important sub-plot featuring Yumi's harsh up-bringing that might be an essential aspect in the grand scheme of things . One major question is obvious . . why are these certain victims chosen ? Why would a ghost go out of her way to kill these people randomly ? The film seems like a standard , modern Asian horror flick using technology as a means for ghouls to travel so they can inflict bodily harm to their chosen victims , if you go by the premise alone . But , Miike does get a chance to imbue his warped sense of humor within the plot as Yumi's final college chum , Natsumi ( Kazue Fukiishi ) is exploited by a television show for ratings as the world watches with bated breath if she'll die in the studio across the airwaves as a monk tries to exorcise her from the monster pursuing her . And , the final thirty minutes toys with us as it shifts from one proposed ending to another . To be honest , the supposed climax in the old abandoned hospital , quite darkly lit , where we think Yumi is finally encountering the ghostly killer claiming her life is next , is solidly eerie . I think , for the most part , this is a professionally made , well-executed , slow-burn creeper . Rather level-headed ( . . but , still with quite a few WTF ? sequences to keep us on our toes ) , if a bit overlong . I think there's a good 90 minute movie here , but I do still think it's worthwhile even it's not Miike at his best . I'm afraid , this film's air of familiarity will hurt it somewhat .
Nightmare at Noon	A completely albino Brion James ( . . everything white , including his eyes and little hat ) works for some sort of terrorist organization as he , surrounded by gun-toting hoods in suits , injects a desert community's water supply with a type of toxic liquid which causes those who drink it in the community to go apesh ! t , some sort of homicidal rage with their faces skin tone turning a shade of green not to mention their blood . A lawyer , Ken ( Wings Hauser ) and his wife Cheri ( Kimberly Beck ) are on a weeks vacation who happen to enter this town after picking up a hitchhiker , Reilly ( Bo Hopkins . . is this guy cool or what ? ) , an ex-cop thrown off the force for murdering a rapist . Canyonland , the name of the little town , a tiny spot surrounded by a desert mountainous landscape , is the community whose citizens have become homicidal and extremely powerful . The sheriff , Hanks ( George Kennedy ) and his daughter , Julia ( Kimberly Ross ) must somehow contain order when chaos has erupted all around them , needing the assistance of Ken & Reilly as once-normal folks attempt to attack the group and each other . This was quite a multi-genre movie . Parts horror , action , western , and zombie movie , it kind of feels like " The Crazies " set in around Utah . The cast is why I'd recommend it to genre fans , but there are lots of action sequences and bizarre attacks such as when one old-timer in overalls named Charlie goes berserk , stabbing a diner waitress in the hand with a knife , tossing Ken and Reilly throughout the establishment like rag dolls , stealing a cop car after throwing Julia over the hood ( ! ) , driving his car through a lady with curls still in her hair when she attempts to curse him out for ramming into the back of her vehicle , blasting cars with a shot-gun , and even shooting his own son ( . . a deputy attempting to secure the shot-gun away from pa ) point-blank . You have a mother chasing after her daughter with a butcher knife . A motorcycle rider shooting folks on the street before hitting a car with his bike exploding into a car . Even Ken's wife ( . . who happen to drink water in the diner ) wigs out throwing Julia into a wall ! Poor Julia gets thrown around the room by an unhinged Cheri as Ken and Reilly must deal with a scrawny crazed auto mechanic in a junk yard . Looking for something different . . this is it . Fans of Wings Hauser will get a kick out of playing against type as a " tenderfoot " yuppie lawyer . And , Bo Hopkins gets to be a laconic hero , chewing gum , wearing his shades , and knowing exactly what needs to be done . And , good ole George Kennedy again portrays the fatherly , trustworthy man of wisdom with reserve and dignity . . his fate will leave many mourning . Try it out if just for Brion James as the mute in white who has the technology to render a town without the power to communicate or leave when he sets up an electronic perimeter which shuts down the ability to leave town in your vehicle or call out for help . Lots of shoot-outs and gushing green blood . Even a helicopter chase around mountains . Bodies in slow motion as they propel in the air .
Assault ( The Creepers )	A hideous rape to a lovely young teen girl heading home through the woods after exiting her all-girls-school opens this adult British mystery thriller . Soon , the one responsible for the rape will strike again , this time killing the second victim . Although this time the man gets sloppy as an Art teacher , Julie West ( the beautiful Suzy Kendall ) drives her car , with other students inside the back seat , into the forest on the main road finding him hovering over the dead student's body . Her description is hazy because of the light reflecting on his face . She still poses a threat , but not as so as the first victim , Tessa ( Lesley-Anne Down ) whose so traumatized she's borderline catatonic . Several possible suspects are served to us such as Dr . Greg Lomax ( James Laurenson ) who is trying to mentally assist Tessa back to health , Dr . Bartell ( Anthony Ainley ) , and the headmistresses husband ( Leslie Sanford ; who is often shown peering at girls ' legs , up their skirts and carries a lustful gaze ) . Det Chief Velyan ( Frank Finlay ) will reluctantly agree to allow Julie to make artistic renditions of a possible murderer , placed in the newspaper of a dogged reporter ( Freddie Jones , underneath a large hat and sunshades ) to flush the killer out of hiding . Here is when the danger towards Julie . . and Tessa . . increases as someone will obviously attempt to silence the voices that can put him away . I watched this film under a low-quality VHS print under the title , " The Creepers " and must say I liked it . I've noticed many label this a British giallo and that's a pretty good assessment I must say . It shows poor Tessa get her shirt and bra viciously torn off , nude photos of naked girls found by the headmistress possibly implicating her vile husband who will not hide his lust for young nubile flesh . The music was a bit loud , often melodramatically overlapping key moments of dialogue like when Julie was being interviewed by Lomax in the police car . I liked Kendall as Julie , quite a strong female heroine performance as she must contend with the fact that this killer is at large and could be just about anyone . The opening chase scenes through the woods as a killer stalked his two victims is dazzling and frightening at the same time . Tense final revelation where the killer reveals himself to be quite an important man in society while chasing poor Tessa , who has trouble even speaking or responding to anything , is a fine conclusion as Julie tries to save her as she is being raped yet again .
The Emerald Forest	Tommy is taken from his family by an Amazon tribe called " The Invisible Ones " and father Bill spends ten years searching for him . After finding a few leads , he has an encounter with a dangerous cannibal tribe called " The Fierce Ones " and actually stumbles on his son as he tries to flee for his life . The dilemma of the piece comes with a decision left up to Tommy , leave his tribe which are essentially his real family after ten years of living with them or joining his father in the modern civilization across the river . The film is more a focus on how modernization , progress if you will , has began to wipe out the trees and land of Amazon tribes as they slowly die out . Interesting enough is that Bill is a model example of this type of progress as he heads a log dam which clears land once civilized by The Fierce Ones tribe . He will spend time with The Invisible Ones tribe and find the error of his ways seeing that what he and others ( White Man ) are doing to people who have lived here for centuries destroying cultures . We also see how the ugliness of prostitution has became a stigma to tribes as The Fierce Ones trade women from The Invisible Ones tribe for machine guns . Using the machine guns , The Fierced Ones have a clear advantage over The Invisible Ones and their mere spears . Again , through that we see how progress can also destroy a civilization . . The Fierce Ones can wipe out who they deem a threat and / or nuisance with advanced weaponry . When The Invisible Ones lose a great deal of their men to those machine gun attacks , Tomme ( his name amongst his tribe ) will search for his father across the river for help to get back their women who have been traded to a prostitution house . Stunning cinematography ( by Philippe Rousselot ) and score are highlights of this amazingly shot film set in the Amazon . Through Boorman's fluid camera-work , we follow the characters as they travel to destinations in the immense forest , yet see what is happening as modernization is chopping away the trees that once populated said Amazon forest . I thought the angle of the modern age clashing with tribal customs in the form of Tommy to be the strong point of the film while the progress part of the film as it pertains to the cultures being wiped out laid on a bit too thick . I didn't quite like the remaining twenty minutes ( the deal with the prostitution ring resulting in heavy violence and the whole rain ordeal as it destroys the dam ) as much as the first hour as Powers Booth's Bill was amongst a culture of people he knew nothing about . Seeing his son almost completely tribal is interesting not to mention the viewer getting a glimpse into a unique culture of people and their ways of living . The mythological aspects were also diverting from the realism of the film ( if a wee bit silly ) . Young Charley Boorman is quite impressive as Tomme .
Night Junkies	Lurid vampire film , set within a seedy part of London where night feeders feast on the blood of prostitutes . Well two , in particular , both bitten by a mysterious woman , never named ( . . and whose face is never shown ) . One is Vincent Monroe ( Giles Alderson ) , a night feeder who waxes existential about how the addiction for blood is akin to a heroine junkie's need for the next fix . He falls in love with a tough-talking , street-wise exotic dancer , Ruby ( Katia Winter , who smolders on screen ) for whom he bites , and turns , into a feeder . Ruby is haunted by the nightmarish childhood where memories of her heroine-addicted father ( . . seen at the opening as we view his puss-oozing arm , infected by the ugly needles ) who would commit suicide in the next room . Ruby is being groomed as the top stripper of a club magnate , Max ( Jonathan Coyne ) , a bald vicious sort , in tailor-made suits who " protects " the female investments under his employ . The lucrative prostitution ring he runs in his stripping establishment is ran under Max's iron fist and , along with his muscle ( Daniel Kobbina ) , persuades his girls to participate in keeping the business a success . Ruby is continuously pressured by Max to take her position as a dancer one step further by making more money having sex with clients . Soon Ruby will attempt to leave her boss with Vincent working as her avenger . . but a Jack-the-Ripper type psychopath ( René Zagger ) , under Max's employ , also a feeder ( . . the other male turned by the mysterious female who seems to meet men she picks up at bars with the sole intent on spreading her " sickness " to others ) has a fixation with Ruby and will seek revenge for what Vincent does to his boss , as well as to settle a score with the one who denounced his advances . This psycho is the actual one feasting on his boss ' employees . I commend the effort of director Lawrence Pearce whose obviously working with a rather low budget . . it really shows because he shoots most of the film at night , with characters shot in darkened rooms and streets . Set in London , the director opts to show very little of the characteristics associated with the city , probably due to financial woes than choice . Yes , he does use modern techniques , but the director seems intent on keeping this " vampire " tale story-driven , even if the setting is riddled with foul characters and ugly circumstances . London , in this film , is portrayed as a nasty world replete with loathsome people . The title is quite appropriate . . this views vampirism as an addiction with the need to feed insatiable , always there yearning for blood as the body desires oxygen . We are privy to Vincent's methods in how he selects and disposes with his victims . He tries to be selective , but there are times where he must not be choosy . He informs Ruby as they stroll a bridge that over the edge is his " . . cute little community which rests at the bottom of the Thames . " Ruby finds this repulsive , but Vincent believes he's doing them the community a service , if he left the bodies he fed from lying dead , " . . it'd be like a user dumping needles on the street . " This film is very talky with Vincent narratively explaining the burden of his addiction . At the forefront is this tragic love story between two lost souls trying to make a pact against feeding , but fighting the craving for blood ( . . along with the psycho searching for them and his climactic confrontation ) will test their bond . Not a bad little movie , I rather liked it . But , the film is drenched in unpleasantness ( the sleazy nature of Max's business is exploited ; René Zagger's sadistic psycho beats a drunken hooker across the face in a rage , lapping up the blood on her face like a starving mutt ) , so it's not for all tastes ( . . pun intended ) . Many might feel that René Zagger is a bit too over-the-top . . he certainly seems to be enjoying himself , relishing his violent behavior theatrically .
Murder Party	Insane goremedy about an unfortunate average-joe who discovers an invite at his feet on the sidewalk to a " murder party " on Halloween . Expecting a Halloween-themed costume party , Chris ( Chris Sharp ) finds this an then some with a gathering of eccentric artistes who plan to use him as their focal inspiration for an extreme art piece . The group will murder him in some grotesque way yet undetermined as Chris is tackled by them and tied to a chair , bound and gagged , he awaits in horror as they discuss and delay his artistic demise . . he's to be a sacrificial lamb as the artists compete for a grant promised to the one who impresses their mentor , Alexander ( Alex Barnett ) the most . But , as the night approaches the witching hour ( . . the time appointed for Chris ' death by Alexander ) , unforeseen circumstances arise and Chris watches as those among him fall prey to their own frailties , egos & insecurities , with the scene actually turning into a legitimate murder party . Alexander brings to the party a drug-dealing foreigner with a gun named Zycho ( Bill Tangradi ) who has a barbiturate which works as a truth serum and doping agent . . this will bring out the buried secrets which will compel murderous acts along with a very unstable painter modeling his costume after the baseball furies from " The Warriors " who needed such a place to unleash his hidden desires for bloodshed . While the graphic violence rears it's ugly head at the end , most of this film is a satire on artists and their pursuit for achieving success . Chris is a blue-collar product of the working class who makes the fateful decision ( . . probably taking that step at doing something unpredictable which throws a potential cog in the wheel of his daily routine of getting up , going to work , coming home , and watching television ) of entering a world very different from his own . But , as the film culminates towards the violence , it's an explosion with poor Chris experiencing the madness first-hand . I think many will find this unique , refreshing and different than the usual horror coming out these days , while others will be repelled , disturbed and sickened by the dark humorous situations that occur as the film continues . As far as the gore is concerned , director Jeremy Saulnier cheats a bit , not always having his camera hone in on the violent acts ( . . probably due to budgetary constraints , and perhaps not wanting to have his film too gratuitous ) . But , there are some rather unsettling moments of violence that achieve quite a visceral feel such as when one sets his werewolf mask on fire ( . . trying to light a cigarette ) with parts of the rubber melting into his face as he attempts to peel it away and the use of a chainsaw to the face . Bullets shot into the heads of certain victims as blood drools and wicked swings of a baseball bat also play into the violent climax . There's even an ax attack on artists during an exhibit performance . I'm pretty sure many will be wondering whether or not ( . . as they are watching the film ) this will ever have murders during the party because the director builds up to it by exposing the artists and their MANY faults as they seem to delay the inevitable . I found this amusing because when the violence ensues it rarely stops , until Chris attempts to flee the maniac left standing . The film is , in my opinion , quite tongue-and-cheek and shouldn't be taken too seriously . If looked at improperly , this film might be quite unpleasant viewing .
Wishing Stairs	" If you give your heart , the 29th step will appear and grant your wish . " It's one of those " Be Careful What You Wish For " type horror flicks with an invisible 29th step taking the place of the genie's lamp . Overweight Hae-ju climbs the 28 stairs nearby her boarding school hoping to lose the excess fat that has made her quite a fixture for chuckles and ridicule . When she takes that one extra step , it seems her wish has come true when Hae-ju notices such rapid weight-loss in such a short period of time . Kim so-hee is quite a success in her ballerina class and an apparent shoo-in for the special part of Gisele in a major Russian play . She's in love with a class-mate , Jin-sung ( the film doesn't just come right out and say it loudly , but you can see her adoration for Jin-sung in nearly every moment they are together ) who desperately covets the same part so-hee seems destined to portray . Jealous and obsessed , Jin-sung scales the 28 stairs , eyes closed in concentration , hoping to make that one extra step desiring the role of Gisele over so-hee . When , like Hae-ju , she feels that 29th step under her feet , Jin-sung gains hope that it'll all work out for her behalf . It does , but there are consequences for making such a request . . in a tragic set of events , Jin-sung will accidentally push so-hee down a stairway . Kim so-hee's leg is damaged in the process and subsequent grief leads to the young girl to the point of taking a leap out her hospital window . Blamed and hated by the students in her class , Jin-sung gets what she asked for , but it costs her much more than she receives . But , Jin-sung's nightmare merely begins . . secretly Hae-ju had a fixated hero-worship for Kim so-hee and takes to the 29 steps in request that the one she deeply cared for would return . In true " monkey's paw " fashion , it's quite possible Kim so-hee just might answer that request , with both Jin-sung and Hae-ju becoming haunted by her spirit .
Stuart Gordon's The Black Cat	Edgar Allen Poe ( Jeffrey Combs , a bit hammy but still entertaining ) is really struggling to find the inspiration to write another tale of the fantastic as his darling wife Virginia is slowly dying from tuberculosis ( " The White Plague " ) and his damn cat Pluto seems to be more irritating than usual . Living in poverty and drinking heavily , Poe is sliding into an abyss of sadness and depression . Virginia wishes to sell her beloved piano and Edgar returns from another round of gobbling booze so the idea of talking finances seems moot . A visitor , hoping to purchase their piano , is witness , along with drunken Edgar , to Virginia's beautiful playing only to see the horror of her throat's blood vessel bursting resulting in lots of splatter . Blood all over the piano and floor as Pluto drinks a little from a puddle . Very soon , Virginia can no longer stand very long and is practically bedridden . But , they are so poor ( . . and Edgar makes so little for his work during this period ) and burdened with debt that their doctor will no longer invest in the welfare of her condition . With his wife at death's door and a creative drought lasting endlessly , Edgar is slowly growing mad and Pluto the cat just won't keep away from the pet goldfish and canary . He even claims that the cat is " killing " Virginia as Edgar spots it around her face when he walks into the bedroom . Soon she's passed on and he is at the point of no return . . blaming the poor cat , Edgar cuts out his eyeball and eventually hangs him . Yep , cat lovers may wish to look elsewhere for their entertainment . With no money to properly bury his beloved , Edgar decides to leave her casket open while burning down the home they lived in . . while Pluto hangs from the neck in death . Little does he know that Virginia actually awakens from the dead and Edgar carries her from the flaming house to live elsewhere . Yet , he will be haunted by the sound of a cat and the shadows of the feline loom around him . Stuart Gordon presents a stunning looking film which might appeal to gorehounds and B & W Gothic horror fans alike . One image seems directly inspired by Tourneur's " Cat People " as a frightened Edgar walks hurriedly from a bar he just got thrown out of as a large panther-like shadow follows him across the stone walls of buildings . There's a nasty " head-splitting " scene where an unfortunate victim stands in the way for Pluto as Edgar lunges an ax directly into said person's face dicing the skull . The blood-vessel burst is a nasty bit of business as Stuart has sprays and gobs of the thick red stuff landing on the camera and piano keys . It's clear Stuart had to add a little black humor within the sad scene as the cat drinks from a blood puddle as if it were milk . The effects are amazingly accomplished on such a tight budget using both make-up effects and computer generated work . I watched the behind-the-scenes documents on the making of the short film from the Masters of Horror brand and the creation of the special effects and make-up . Combs looks very similar to Poe . My only real problem is the dialogue which seems rather modern , but I dealt with it okay , I guess . I think Gothic horror fans would fall in love with Stuart's use of black and white photography , splicing bits of color within . The setting , I felt , was pretty accurate for that time period considering the smallish budget this kind of production has . I am kind of curious if the twist at the end will work for many . . I kind of thought it works as a presentation of a troubled artist finding inspiration through a bout of dementia .
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix	Harry Potter's internal struggle with the evil Lord Voldemort is at the heart of this cerebral installment , taking a break from the overpowering action we are used to seeing ( . . tournament wizard contests and such ) instead focusing on a potential threat towards Hogwarts school in the chuckling new professor , Dolores Umbridge ( Imelda Staunton ) with her wide-eyes and seemingly modest exterior harbours an aggressive desire to have full control of the school , operating by her strict standards , attempting to remove wizardry , enabling the students to practice their craft . Secretly a war is brewing between Dumbledore ( Michael Gambon ) and Voldemort with Harry playing a vital chess piece . It will be revealed that either Harry or Voldemort will live but both can not co-exist , a prophesy most certain to propel the next film . But , this film does follow Harry ' further growth as a powerful wizard , and his nemesis particularly in this movie is Umbridge who wishes to silence the young man from even mentioning Voldemort's name . Pursuing the knowledge of casting spells which can protect them from harm , and thus enabling them to join Dumbledore's army , Hermoine ( Emma Watson ) and Ron ( Rupert Grint ) will convince Harry to train volunteers secretly behind Umbridge's back . Harry also converses with his godfather , wrongfully accused serial killer Sirius Black ( Gary Oldman ) who keeps him informed of the latest news regarding what Dumbledore wishes to remain hidden for his safety . We witness a very paranoid Minster of the Ministry of Magic believing that Dumbledore may be enlisting a force against him ( . . perhaps in part to whispers from those who might wish to see Dumbledore out as headmaster of Hogwarts ) and it's visible as the newspapers increase the unease as Potter's claim of Voldemort's return has many split , some considering it bogus , others worried that he's correct . Film still features state-of-the-art special effects ( . . such as our introduction to Hagrid's giant half-brother and the frightening dementors working for Voldemort ) , but the emphasis is more towards Potter as a central figure as turmoil rages within the world of magic and wizardry . While growing into adulthood , the teenage students are forced into adult decisions as secret evils await them and the political order of things is a boiling pot where Voldemort is on the thoughts of everyone even if many would rather remain blinded / oblivious to such a horrifying truth . You get a nifty showdown between Dumbledore and Voldemort and the teen wizards even face off with Voldemort's brood who escape Azkaban . Potter's emergence as a powerful wizard whose humanity is his strength ( . . Voldemort considers him weak because of his emotions for those he loves ) an unfolding character arc because he will be tested against the dark powers with Voldemort desiring to take control of his body . And , a very important plot-point emerges regarding Severus Snape ( Alan Rickman ) and why he holds such a grudge against Harry , concerning Potter's father . Once again we realize that Lucius Malfoy ( Jason Isaacs ) is a dangerous presence in that he's an agent for Voldemort working on the inside , an intruder who can disrupt things within the Ministry of Magic . Helena Bonham Carter returns in a small role as sorceress Bellatrix Lestrange , murdering a major supporting character who was such a guiding force in Harry's life . Above all , the importance of friendship is at the very core of this installment . . Harry needs the support of his friends and allies more than ever before . There's a lot going on and it's clear that the screenplay tries to fit as much as possible from the source novel .
Contraband	Lucio Fulci's lone foray into the Euro-crime genre stars Fabio Testi as Luca Di Angelo , the brother of a slain mobster who must somehow survive the mafioso takeover of the sadistic Marsigliese ( Marcel Bozzuffi ) in Naples , Italy , also vowing revenge against him and his sleazy gun-toting henchman . The Marsigliese is targeting all the mob gangs who run illegal smuggling operations , wishing to take over the whole city as chief crime-lord , but the thorn in his side is Luca , who is willing to do whatever it takes to avenge his brother's murder ( . . which , adding to the agony , happened not far from him ) . My very first Poliziotteschi was entertaining for it's graphic blood-letting and enthusiastic staging of gangsters and hoods being killed / beaten in ultra-violent ways ( . . I do wonder if the slow motion action set-pieces , where characters fall from great heights or through windows , was inspired by Bloody Sam ) . Bodies riddled by bullets , with lots of blood squibs . A woman's face is viciously scorched . Brains shot out the back of a mobster's skull . A spike stabbed into a hood's chest as blood slowly leaks out . A throat is blown apart . Even though Fulci wasn't directing a horror flick , he could still serve up the blood shed unrestrained within a serviceable plot dealing with a criminal world wrought with violence and corruption . The cast and story are quite familiar to what you often associate with mafioso tales featuring betrayal , revenge , & violent methods at securing power , prestige , and wealth . A shared empire is desired by a mafioso boss with a grand scheme to run coke through Naples without the trouble of other mobs dealing in lesser " risky " criminal ventures . Interesting enough , we are taken right into the criminal underworld as investigators attempt to solve the string of murders occurring across the city . But , we see how crime doesn't always pay and if you are immersed in this culture , as Luca is ( . . pulled into assisting a smuggling empire with his slain brother and other capos ) , there's a possibility that you endanger those you love . In CONTRABAND , Luca's wife is kidnapped , badly beaten , and anally raped as the Marsigliese demands a partnership ( . . it's all a set-up to finish off the last , remaining capo left in the city ) in his drug-running operation . Nifty climactic showdown with old retired dons helping out Luca against Marsigliese and his thugs with even Fulci getting to fire a machine gun ! Composer Fabio Frizzi provides a rather disco-funkadelic type of score coexisting within a brutal crime story . Saverio Marconi has a memorable role as a trusted mobster , Luigi Perlante , who is in cahoots with the Marsigliese , Ajita Wilson ( Macumba sexual ) has a minor role as part of Luigi's entourage , and Romano Puppo is the Marsigliese's cold-blooded trigger man . Venantino Venantini is Captain Tarantino and Fabrizio Jovine is the Chief of Police , trying to end the smuggling operations plaguing their economy-deprived city . The film's bread-n-butter are the shoot-outs and assassinations , with Fulci trying to cover up the story's inadequacies with lots of action . The film does suffer some pacing issues with an on-going gag involving Guido Alberti , as the powerful Don Morrone , watching television , with only an appetite for spaghetti westerns . Photographed by the great Sergio Salvati , Fulci's long time cinematographer ( . . and a staple for Charles Band productions as well ) . Special effects from Germano Natali , a long time collaborator with Fulci and Argento , whose work here is satisfactory ( . . the stand-out , besides the brains exploding from a skull , being a henchman's stomach exploding from a shot-gun blast , with his intestines spilling out on the street ; the weakest effect showing the obvious fake head of a mafioso being blown apart by a machine gun ) .
Viy	Khoma Brutus ( Leonid Kuravlyov ) is ordered to say a prayer for three nights over the dead corpse of a young woman who in actuality is in league with Satan . He had met this one woman in the form of an old , haggard lady beating her with a stick due to her tormenting him with various witchcraft tricks at her disposal . In a little shack , covered with gray cobwebs , dust & portraits of Christ , Khoma will meet fear head on as she does witchcraftian theatrics with the coffin trying to shake him from his faith and the chalked protective circle he has made for himself . In the final night , she will call on countless ghouls , demonic spirits , and the very spirit of evil himself , Viy , to rattle Khoma's resolve . It's clear throughout that this theologian of the church is imperfect and flawed as he often tries to break free from those holding him at bay near this farm place so that he will carry out the mission set before him . To be honest ( . . and fair ) , this felt more like a goofy cartoon than a thriving scary movie about one's facing pure evil with little escape other than facing the demons presented before him . It's very tongue-in-cheek and silly with Kuravlyov playing him almost as a fool who does not deserve the right of being placed in any position of warding the evil from a condemned soul . The final night provides some creepy looking demons , springing from all the hidden places . There are tons of visual gimmicks and tricks like how the witch's coffin floats in the air towards our hero . I just consider this a comedy fantasy with small horror elements using witchcraft .
The Hamiltons	The Hamiltons have a " disease " and need blood . Lots of it . David Hamilton ( Samuel Child ) had to take over the fatherly duties of the family after both the parents died . He's homosexual and has a way of luring specific males into his home , but these selected " derelicts " have no idea who they are really coming home to . Francis ( Cory Knauf ) is a weakly , fragile young man who loathes his family's secret practices which is to bring those selected victims " lost to the world " ( such as wanderers , hitchhikers , hippies ) into their basement for the removal of the blood . Blood , we come to understand sustains them . Without the blood , they'd die . Anyway , Wendell ( Joseph McKelheer ) is the hotheaded Hamilton who has problems restraining himself . Darlene ( Mackenzie Firgens ) is Wendell's twin who is probably as devious as her brother , but is able to be much more trustworthy and seductive . It's when she's on the attack of a victim with no escape where the true animal emerges . We see this when she brings a school chum / neighbor named Kitty ( Jena Hunt ) home for a sleepover . Wendell can barely hold his urges together as he's around Darlene and Kitty . . coping for the meantime until he'll be able to release and feed . Francis has a camcorder he uses throughout the film to record images of his family among other things and takes a shine to a captive hitcher named Samantha ( Rebekah Hoyle ) . He begins to feed her and talk to her , needing desperately for contact with someone who can hear his problems with this messed up family . Day by day , Francis is fighting a starvation that will kill him if he doesn't find sustenance soon . Confrontations with Wendell , who can be quite hostile towards his younger brother whose weak state obviously repulses him ( . . not to mention Francis ' sympathy for the victim which clearly raises an ire in Wendell ) , doesn't make life any easier as David spends a lot of time working at the local slaughterhouse . David also wishes to keep his troop together with attending to a social worker , Paul ( Al Liner ) who has the ability to split them apart if he sees anything abnormal or warped going on . Francis flirts with turning them in because he slowly cares for the captive girl , but siding against his family , the only people he's ever known proves quite difficult . With time running out for Sam , Francis will have to make a decision , one way or another . Unpleasant and disturbing , we get a look inside a group of savages who must survive by masking themselves into the suburban world of picket fences and white kitchens . Sure , Wendell and Darlene do not , unlike David , try to hide who they are and embrace " the kill " with relish . The twisted part of the film has this certain someone / something named Lenny locked in a little room the Hamiltons feed blood to . . anyone who sticks their hand in that door receives some nasty wounds . We watch in horror how they select , capture & torment those unlike themselves . Survival and deception . . that's the themes , I feel , are at play here . Francis will either embrace his own or side against them perhaps paying the ultimate price in return . How long can Francis deny who is as his physical conditions worsens ? Lots of things going on with this family and we see the results of their actions . Not as violent as it could be , this film plays more with what you don't see than bludgeoning us with excessive gory violence .
Ripley's Game	The improviser with no conscience is now later in years and more sophisticated and calm in the way he does his work . " Tom Ripley " ( John Malkovich ) is bothered with the annoyance of a former partner he assisted on a painting scheme named Reeves ( Ray Winstone ) . Reeves needs an innocent to kill some people for him so he can make some serious business profit . The pawn of Ripley's game , and the innocent stained with blood , will be painting framer Jonathan ( Dougray Scott ) who is dying of leukemia . Jonathan isn't wealthy and makes an insult towards Ripley at a party function ( that Ripley overhears and visibly it is etched that he's angry about it ) that will put in motion him being selected as the one probable to commit murders for Reeves . Jonathan is indeed a tragic character in this film for he kills once to earn a cool profit that would benefit his money-strapped family after he's dead , Reeves threatens that very family if he doesn't murder again . Ripley steps up to assist Jonathan in the second kill ( which Reeves informs must be completed with the use of a garrote ) , which is anything but easy killing a man with a wire-strangling device , on board a train . When one of the second kill's men doesn't die , they come looking for Ripley and Jonathan which makes up the final thirty minutes of the film . I have to say , the film is entertaining , specifically for Malkovich's portrayal of a much wiser , more seasoned specialist who doesn't suffer from guilt or bothered by reasoning out his actions . He's cold , calculating , swift , and infinitely quick-thinking . Dougray Scott's interpretation of the sad Jonathan is also a marvelous watch because he is engulfed with the torment of his actions . His wife wants to know how he earns so much money and where he goes when heading off to Berlin to assassinate people . The knowledge of having to kill weighs him down and tears away at his very guts . He doesn't enjoy killing and it deeply bothers him . Jonathan loves that son of his and adores his beloved wife . Ripley doesn't even wince at killing , but Jonathan isn't a sociopath monster cloaked by this quiet demeanor . Reeves is the chief motivator of the violence and enjoys sitting back while others does his dirty work . Ripley doesn't quake at Reeves ' feet , but Jonathan has his family to worry about . Reeves has the power to harm Jonathan and that control forces the innocent to do his bidding .
Strip Nude for Your Killer	The Milan fashion world is rocked by a serial killer , wearing leather gear and motorcycle helmet , stab-killing those involved with Albatross studio . . it coincides with the unfortunate accidental death of a model receiving an illegal abortion . Carlo Bianchi ( Nino Castelnuovo ) is a very successful photographer enjoying the sexual kicks you receive from being a big-shot in the industry . He literally beds one gal he suckers into a sauna not but shortly after meeting her , promising of a healthy career as a model ( . . naked nearly the entire film , Femi Benussi shows she's unafraid to bare it all for the audience for almost her total screen time ) , but she'll , like others , gets stabbed multiple times after discovering the water faucets running in her employer-to-be Gisella Montani's ( Amanda ) abode . The constant with all these killings revolve around Gisella . . her heavy impotent husband ( Franco Diogene ) , her homo-sexual photographer Mario ( Claudio Pellegrini ) , and eventually herself are targets for the mysterious homicidal maniac . Gisella is also being black-mailed by someone in her inner circle ( . . of the remaining still alive ) . Others will follow as Magda Cortis ( Edwige Fenech , whose character is an apprentice to Carlo ) and Carlo become civilian detectives with their own lives endangered in the process . As mentioned in practically every user comment , " Strip Nude for Your Killer " lives up to it's lurid title . Ample nudity from uninhibited actresses , the lives of those associated with the fashion world ( . . particularly those who will do anything to gain success and fame ) are skewered and every character in the film embellishes in sex and hedonism . Fenech delivers the usual tasty nudity and looks fantastic even with a short hair cut . Her lover Carlo is the complete anti-hero , he treats Magda like a sex toy , even choking her not once but twice . He was one of those who left the dead model's body left in a tub with running water ( . . the image of this dead model is displayed quickly before every murder scene takes place with the director letting the viewer know that this is the motivation behind the stabbings ) . The stabbings themselves are often gushing wounds , but the final attacks show the aftermath of a castration and breast removal , pretty potent , shocking stuff . There's even some sad humor portraying Gisele's portly husband ( . . who is quite a danger driving on the roads of Milan with director Bianchi's camera following with a POV shot of the car passing through endless traffic , red lights , and even threatening civilians walking on the streets ) as a clown in heat who can not deliver in the clutch . Nice job by Blue Underground bringing giallo fans a print of true quality and the film looks great . . with good use of color and sound photography , Bianchi really provides the film with style . Yet , this isn't particularly any different than the endless chain of gialli circling the market , so to combat this Bianchi put naked flesh across the screen almost through the film's entirety . This giallo does have your typical wacky twist revealing why this killer is so viciously killing his / her victims , but this time , the revelation might be underwhelming considering it's a person who isn't as significantly drawn as other characters in the plot . This is indeed a true treat for those with an appreciation for smut . Film suffers for not having a likable character to root for , but Fenech once again portrays the endangered character in pursuit ( . . and being pursued ) of the killer .
The Creature Walks Among Us	" . . we all stand between the jungle and the stars , at a crossroads . I think we better decide what brings out the best in humankind , and what brings out the worst , because it's the stars or the jungle . " Seeking the Gill Man for scientific study , Dr . William Barton ( Jeff Morrow ) and geneticist Dr . Thomas Morgan ( the dashing Rex Reason ) are on an expedition in the Everglades hoping to find it with skipper Jed Grant ( Gregg Palmer ) operating the boat . Along for the ride is Barton's stunningly beautiful wife Marcia ( Leigh Snowden who is quite the eye-candy these Gill Man movies are accustomed to ) . Barton's a brilliant scientist , but crippled with jealousy . . obsessed so that he's eaten to the pits when he sees any man even near her . This jealousy , at times , overwhelms him with uncontrollable rage . Meanwhile , the crew ( which includes other scientists aiding Barton and Morgan including a sonar specialist who can track aquatic life underwater ) eventually find the Gill Man , but he's not easy to capture and corners them into anchoring when the channel they travel comes to land . In a smaller boat , the Gill Man attacks them as they are pursuing it , accidentally covering himself with gasoline . Scared , skipper Grant sets the Gill Man on fire nearly killing it . Wrapped heavily in bandages , the Gill Man is losing oxygen as Barton and Morgan try to save it from certain death . Noticing unused lungs , they decide to open them through a surgical procedure converting the Gill Man from fish to amphibian to mammal with the result being an increase in metabolism perhaps offering a rapid case of evolution in a small period of time . Now breathing on it's own , Barton and Morgan notice that the Gill Man's outer scales were burned away in the mishap of fire and that a layer of human skin is underneath . . this shows an increase in it's sensitivity to pain . The Gill Man is made a special suit for the loss of his stronger scales . Once ashore in San Francisco , Barton's behavior regarding his wife worsens as he notices Grant's aggressive advances towards Marcia . He can not shake the idea that his wife would eventually leave him and this causes a nasty streak that will lead to the murder of Grant while the Gill Man , adapting to his new system of life caged near the plantation they work and live , watches it take place . Barton tries to frame the Gill Man , but it tears from the cage going berserk . The introduction of murder between one man against another ( . . and perhaps it's own carnal lust for Marcia , often shown eyeing her from below ) seems to have effected the Gill Man greatly as it chases after Barton who shoots his gun towards the creature . Ripping through the plantation , the Gill Man will blaze a path hunting Barton while others try to somehow survive the carnage . Quite underrated Universal sequel to " Creature from the Black Lagoon " suffers only from a rather rushed resolution . I think the set-up of the film is quite intelligent and the debates between Barton and Morgan are quite fascinating . Barton wishes to pursue greater heights since seeing how to convert a sea animal to a land mammal , but Morgan believes they should take things slow , gradually understanding the Gill Man more before leaping into the ideas of increasing metabolism in " changing man " . We also understand early on that the Gill Man suffered a disconnected thought process due to a lack of oxygen to the brain for nearly an hour which may've caused permanent damage so this might explain why it reacts so violently towards the end . But , through it all , Morgan believes Barton was actually the real monster whose demons bested him and that the Gill Man had not reverted back to what it was . . but that it was just protecting itself against a predator ( we see that before Barton tried to kill him after the witnessing his murder of Grant that the Gill Man killed a bobcat which had entered it's cage killing a couple sheep ) . I thought the boat attack towards the beginning . . and the climactic rampage through the plantation . . were quite thrilling . Good cast , too . Only if the screenplay had been a little stronger opting to focus on the troubled marriage of William and Marcia instead of the evolving Gill Man on land .
Vice Squad	The sleazy side of LA street life on the Sunset strip with psychotic killer pimp Ramrod ( Wings Hauser ) set up by hooker Princess ( Season Hubley ) in cooperation with the police after he had cut up her best friend Ginger . After escaping police , Ramrod will search the strip ( . . with no reservations about using violence as a means for extracting Princess ' whereabouts from those he questions ) for Princess with one goal in mind and that's repeating what he did with Ginger on her . It's up to Tom Walsh ( Gary Swanson ) and the Vice squad to find Ramrod before he gets to her . The ugly , nasty side of prostitution is exposed in this thriller with Hauser effectively scary as the sicko , matched by Hubley as one tough , foul-mouthed broad . Mostly profane and unpleasant , but also fast-paced and suspenseful .
Postman Rings Again	Now , I certainly think Jessica Lange was a great-looking woman in this picture , but having to top Lana Turner was just too great a task to pull off . She certainly looks ravishing , though , as the young wife of a gas-station owner yearning to have a life with loner Nicholson . This film is notorious for it's heated sex scenes , but they can not mask the emptiness of this film where , to be honest , Nicholson just seems lost to this role . He seems to be sleep-walking . Colicos plays the Greek husband for whom Nicholson's drifter Frank and Lange's Cora plan to kill . I mainly wanted to see it because it has a pretty solid director helming it in Rafelson , but it was mainly because I desired to see Sven Nykvist's cinematographic work . The period atmosphere worked for me as well . Still , the film lacks the bite of the original film and I could never quite get into this film . It seemed to lumber along and it doesn't help that the film doesn't quite gel cohesively as a whole . What I mean by that is , it seems Rafelson and company want to get as much of the novel in as he can so the film feels uneven .
Let's Scare Jessica to Death	Recently released from a mental institution , Jessica ( stunning performance from Zohra Lampert who shows the fragile slippery slope her character's mental state is operating on ) is taken by her troubled and tired husband Duncan ( Barton Heyman , who shows the weary state his wife's condition has caused him . . we see that he is constantly frustrated or frightened when Jessica might shows signs of seeing people that aren't there or experiencing things that would point out her insanity again ) and pal Woody ( Kevin O'Conner ) to live in a farm house near an apple orchard . Duncan was once on the Philharmonic and Woody decided to join them for the time being . Once they arrive to the house , however , there's an uninvited guest . . the mysterious red-head Emily ( Mariclare Costello , quite seductive and creepy ) who just might be a vampire . All the locals in town act real strangely and wear bandages on their necks . . this might explain the vampire theory . There's a wise tale speaking about an Abigail Bishop ( in the family portrait , Abigail looks exactly like Emily ) who drowned in the lake , near their farmhouse , before she could ever wear her wedding dress and marry . Swimming in the cove near their house , Jessica sees something or someone white under the water beckoning her to come while moving toward her . Telling Duncan , his reaction of horror ( here she goes again seeing things ) is one Jessica will have to deal with as Emily whispers to her which forms a mental anguish that remains tormenting her throughout . When awful occurrences continue to happen to Jessica ( she discovers the body of an antique owner who moved from New York like they did bloodied in the cove thanks to a mute girl which isn't there when Jessica returns with Duncan ; Jessica's pet mole was stabbed ) , her marriage to Duncan becomes strained and he is seduced by Emily . Jessica's life becomes a nightmare as everyone around her seem ghoulish with a strange gash down their face or neck . Emily , in my favorite sequence , rises from the cove in pursuit of Jessica after almost biting her . I love this film because it's unsettling almost from the very beginning , with eerie music accompanying an uncanny creepiness in how the film is photographed ( I use the term hypnotic , which is what it felt like to me ) . . but , I felt the film's greatest success is asking the question . . is what Jessica seeing real or merely a delusion of a damaged mind unable to grasp reality ? Or , are there vampires at this little town led by Emily , who once drowned but has returned to collect victims who dare enter in ? The answer is up to you . This is one of those unsung gems from the early 70's that deserves attention . It's a testament to this particular decade that I can find gold nuggets I've never heard of such as this film when I watched it back early last year for the first time . The DVD boom sure has given rise to cult films that remain with you after the credits roll .
The Night Flier	I have to say one of my choices as a horror sleeper from the 90's is this little creepy grisly effort from director Mark Pavia , based on a Stephen King story , regarding a narcissistic , manipulative , and ultimately vicious tabloid reporter who'll stoop to the lowest level to keep his story on the front page , meeting his match when he begins tailing a vampire killer flying a black Cessna plane who hypnotizes victims around plane air strips throughout Northeastern United States , the rural routes of small town America . At the bottom of his plane is maggot-filled earth , and inside , smeared throughout the controls is dried blood , collected over the his time of mutilation and death . Julie Entwisle , just a bubbly , high-spirited cutie presented as the perfect little fish to be devoured by Miguel Ferrer's cunning shark , tries to forge her way into the tabloid's upper tier , starting from the bottom with a key ability to get forms of information difficult to reach for the paper's top piranha . Anyway , we see as he flies in his own plane from destination to destination , Ferrer's Richard Dees working through the first murder sites , gathering bits and pieces from whatever he can find , through testimony and bribing coroners for photos of mutilated victims . We also get a chance to see his ways of flamboyant journalism by disturbing a victim's grave , adding ugly dead flowers and his own blood ( . . while even stooping so low as to move the gravestone ) . . everything is for getting the top story printed with extra spice . I think the idea of the main character being a real slimeball could hurt the film for many because it's much easier to cast a likable hero who we feel sympathy for as he / she pursues the killer leaving a graphic trail of gruesome murders , with throats ripped open so badly that the head is pulled apart from the neck displaying bloody flesh . There's even one scene where the head is ripped completely from the body , placed in an appropriate area as to show those who investigate that the vampire can operate without restraint almost teasing the authorities to catch him . The opening kill shows long gashes down a male victim's face . . good , gory carnage is left in this vampire's wake . The closing sequence is one that receives mixed reaction . I've read from some who love it , believing it's the most effective portion of the movie , while others believe it's the most harmful . I particularly love the scene where we have Dees , after finally becoming sickened by the airport lobby slaughter by the vampire , watching from the mirror as the invisible count takes a leak , with the urine being blood red . . haha , nice touch . The B & W portion where Dees confronts victims , dressed as vampires , as the count allows him to see what it's like from the other side , I thought was a nifty little moment of nightmarish power . I think we have been spoiled rotten by DVD special features , given access into the movie-making behind-the-scenes effects process . For some , the practical effects of gore , displaying the killer's grisly methods , will receive less of an impact , but I enjoyed them even though I know how they are brought to life ( . . I think for some , the nasty open wounds from the vampire's finger nails look less effective , and we can understand how they were created ) . I think the casting of Ferrer is ideal just because of the type of character he portrays . He indeed has a taste for bloody carnage and the vampire , through the final climactic sequence , first seeing the wake of violence of an entire group of people awaiting a trip to some unknown destination , and the B @ W vision through a taste of the killer's blood , gives him an opportunity to experience just that . The audience does get what they crave , this bastard's comeuppance . He wanted that front page and gets it , but this time , Entwisle's young reporter ( . . who gets shafted by Dees ) benefits . It's a fitting conclusion , I think , which speaks volumes for why this film must have an anti-hero as the main protagonist . I like how the film presents Dees , the backstories of those with stories to tell of past victims to him , the sleazy process of how he operates , and the way Dees falls to the one warning him to stay away . I loved the ending with how Dees , who basks in exploiting whatever works to bring him success , becomes the victim .
The Beast Must Die	Millionaire Tom ( Calvin Lockhart struggling in a miscast part ) , who fancies himself quite the hunter , gathers a collection of various individuals at his palatial , massive estate ( with surrounding forest ) determined to find the werewolf among them . He has an expert in the knowledge of lycanthropy , Dr . Christopher Lundgren ( the great Peter Cushing , my real reason for seeing this flick in the first place besides it's being an Amicus production ) among the group . He suspects a hairy Paul ( Tom Chadbon , an actor I really liked in this film ) to possibly be the werewolf , because of his nose-thumbing and witty insults towards the millionaire . Another possible suspect might be the nervy Jan ( a young Sir Michael Gambon ) . Both Jan and Paul try to leave the estate and fail miserably because Tom always has his eyes peeled for anyone suspicious . Tom even seems pretty suspicious of the sophisticated and terribly irritated Arthur Bennington ( the always terrific Charles Gray ) who finds the insinuations of his being a werewolf preposterous and insulting . Tom has cameras installed all throughout the woods and on the grounds ( along with a massive grid with sensors underground dictating if movement is occurring within the radius of the grounds ) with a security room featuring television monitors showing every last movement that occurs in and out of the mansion . His man of security , Pavel ( Anton Diffring ) thinks this whole werewolf business is rubbish . Despite all the equipment and ways of tracking the beast , Tom finds his quarry quite elusive and intimidating . The werewolf is smart , fast , and deadly . Tom fails many times in catching the werewolf as several characters , including the entire security room and Pavel , are destroyed by it . He must kill the beast before the three days of the Full Moon end . Neat little werewolf whodunit benefits from a fine professional cast . The werewolf is essentially a wolf covered in extra fur , so somehow director Paul Annett has the difficult task of making him believable scary . Annett , had to include a gimmicky " werewolf break " ( producer Max Rosenberg , who said he hated this flick , insisted that Annett include it to " save it " ) with William Castle-inspired 30 second clock so that we , the viewer , could decide who the werewolf was among the cast . I enjoyed the aspect where the prey outsmarts the smug hunter , who doesn't understand defeat .
Humanoids of the Deep	A fishing village comes under attack by amphibious humanoid monsters who have evolved thanks to scientific experimentation in the size growth of aquatic life . A creature feature taken to the extreme . . bloody mayhem and graphic violence are on display . The sleaze quotient is high in that the monsters wish to mate with the female population , ripping their clothes as they sexually molest them in a grim manner . The carnage that ensues in the climactic attack by the monsters on the happy community attending their annual festival is a gorefest . This film is not for the faint of heart , but is a special treat for those who love their films bloody with lots of skin ripping , blood squirting , and the aftermath of poor victims who are torn to shreds . The ending , showing one of the poor girl's who was impregnated , packs a punch . Vic Morrow portrays Hank , an important man in the village who voices loudly his approval of a new cannery coming into the town brining jobs and employment . With fishing becoming a hardship ( the running irony is that these monsters are in fact eating the fish ) their village needs an economic boost . Anthony Pena portrays Hank's Native American rival Johnny Eagle who wishes for the cannery to stay away from the land of his people . Ann Turkel is Dr . Susan Drake , a scientist who knows about the escaped experimental , evolving aquatic life that are killing , raping & maiming . Doug McClure portrays the film's blue-collar hero , fisherman Jim Hill , whose wife , Carol ( the lovely Cindy Weintraub ) unfortunately has to face off with two of those things while her hubby is trying to defend his town against those monsters during the festival attack . The monsters , even if rubber-suited , are scary and effective .
Santa's Slay	Satan's spawn Santa ( Bill Goldberg . . YES , the pro wrestler ! ) has been stuck with the burden of obeying the wishes of children for 1000 years thanks to a pact he made with arch angel " Grandpa " ( Robert Culp ; an inspired bit of casting since Culp is a frequent visitor to pal Hugh Hefner's Playboy Mansion ) when he lost a bet . Now that the 1000 year debt has been met , Santa will now go on a Yuletide rampage of violence where no one is safe ( he destroys a group of carolers ! ! and thrusts a Jewish deli owner to the wall with a candelabra ! ! ) . Even the strip club will suffer Santa's wrath ! Santa has actually planned payback on Grandpa for his years of suffering and will try to chase down his grandson Nicolas ( Douglas Smith ) to the arch-angel's whereabouts . You see Arch-angel Culp decided to give up his immortal wings for Nic's mortal grandma out of love . So Santa can end the family line by killing Nic . Nic's girlfriend Mary ( Emile de Ravin ) will also be included in running for her life as they remain in constant peril . Nic and Mary are under the notion that at Midnight Christ Mass will be over and Santa will have to discontinue his slaying because that The Day Of Slaying ends . So Nic will try to avoid Santa until that time or else suffer the consequences . The opening of the film has a family consisting of hilarious cameos by James Caan ( ! ) , Rebecca Gayheart , Fran Drescher , & Chris Kattan being slaughtered by Santa right before they were to partake of the Christmas Eve dinner ! Dave Thomas has a funny satiric role of a crooked minister who frequents the strip club that goes up in flames thanks to Santa ! A film that is so jaw-droppingly absurd and outrageous , I often couldn't believe what I was seeing . Santa's " reindeer " ( actually resembling a buffalo ! ) eats a valet of the stripper club ! He tosses explosive presents from his sleigh at Nic and Mary as they try to escape him on a snowmobile ! He uses a glow-in-the-dark candy cane to track down Nic and Mary in a darkened school house , uses a tree ornament as a smoke bomb , amongst other innovative Christmas weaponry . The film is a wild-ride of gags . If you take this seriously at all , you'll miss out .
Run , Tom , Run	Ethan ( Tom Cruise , who puts in a demandingly physical performance ) is retired from field work , engaged , and happy until he's called upon to rescue an operative he trained ( Keri Russell ) from an evil black market " deliverer " , Owen Davian ( Philip Seymour Hoffman , who makes a great villain within the screen time he's given ) . When that mission ends tragically , Ethan and his MI task force ( consisting of one-two-three punch of Ving Rhames , Jonathan Rhys Meyers , & Maggie Q ) will join to try and stop Davian's selling of weaponry and other dangerous war toys to varying countries . Davian is a national threat to everyone and must be stopped . What Ethan doesn't know , however , is that someone within his own organization is partnering with Davian . What's even worse is that Ethan's beloved wife Julia ( the delightful Michelle Monaghan ) is in grave danger ( as evident , it seems , in the opening harrowing sequence ) . With seemingly insurmountable odds ( the deck is indeed stacked ) , how will Ethan ever be able to not only Davian , but uncover a high-ranking suit in his own organization ? And , is there any hope for Julia ? The mysterious weapon Davian has stolen from him by Ethan and the gang is a suitcase housing some sort of nuclear weapon nicknamed the " Rabbit's Foot . " This could've easily been titled , " Run Tom Run " because Cruise is constantly moving and film briskly follows him . JJ Abrams creates an energy in MI : III very akin to his " Alias " series where you never know who to trust and the camera never stops moving . The film feels a lot like " Bourne Supremacy " and is almost as fun . It has one of those endings , though , that doesn't quite match other inspiring action set-pieces such as the remarkable " attack on the bridge " sequence where Ethan and his crew are being shot at by a jet plane's missiles not to mention helicopter soldiers ' machine guns . Also , the Shanghai sequence where Ethan uses a fulcrum to swing himself from one building to another and then parachuting from that building almost being hit by several vehicles is also a masterful highlight . The ending just seems rather uninspired next to those sequences . This film , I'd have to say , is the most entertaining and energetic of the series . The cast is much more lively and the pacing which darts after the characters is almost exhausting .
House of 1000 Corpses	Demented debut from rocker Rob Zombie features a family of backwoods deranged psychos preying upon four teenagers who are in search of a notorious serial killer known as Dr . Satan . Filmed at Universal Studios , Zombie was allowed access to footage and props from their great classics such as CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON , THE WOLF MAN , THE OLD DARK HOUSE , and even THE MUNSTERS . Problems Zombie faced were more than the pleasures of attaining the sets or production values , as camera operators came and went , & studio suits ( . . asking for cuts upon cuts , never quite pleased with what they were seeing , eventually shelving the film altogether before selling the property back to Zombie , with the film being distributed by LIONSGATE ) played a part in his film's disjointed , often uneven presentation . Admitting to interspersing shot footage on a video camera , Zombie really creates quite an odd experience , with plenty of sadistic displays by the Firefly clan towards their victims . The film takes place during Halloween Eve and Night , adding a great deal to the overall look of the film ( . . lots of pumpkins and costumes ) . Zombie effectively uses neon and candlelight giving his family of weirdos an alluring setting to commit their variety of sick activities . One victim is turned into an art piece , " Fishboy " , kidnapped cheerleaders are subjected to torture , victims dressed in bunny suits are tormented psychologically by their captors , with two of them eventually lowered into an underground cavern where muddy ghouls live along with other freaks of nature ( . . along with Dr . Satan who operates on victims , opening up one's skull , using a drill , and the " Professor " , with goggles , a horribly disfigured face with a mouth that releases mucus of some sort , chasing after a victim with an ax ) . The first portion of the film shows the four traveling teenagers meeting up with Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) , a vulgar , pot-bellied clown who operates a gas station / murder museum , featuring collectibles you can buy along with displays of all sorts of unusual things ( . . and pictures ) . Spaulding even has a tour ride for visitors regarding wax museum mannequins depicting various notorious serial killers . Soon they desire to see Dr . Satan , with Spaulding sending them to the freakshow that is Mother Firefly ( Karen Black ) , her daughter Baby ( Sheri Moon Zombie ) , twisted albino son " artist " Otis ( Bill Moseley ) , massive mute auto mechanic Rufus RJ ( Robert Allen Mukes ) , belligerent and loud Papa ( Dennis Fimple ) , and the burnt subservient titan , Tiny ( Matthew McGrory ) . This gallery of the bizarre and grotesque are given star treatment while the " normal " kids don't help their situation any by fueling their " hosts " disdain through obnoxious behavior , goading them ( . . specifically the girls who often curse or berate Baby and Mother who flirt with their boyfriends ) by often antagonizing when they should leave well enough alone . Moseley has quite a powerful , if unpleasant , presence as Otis , quite confrontational and unrestrained while Baby enjoys carnage , gleefully cheering during their attacks on victims . Once the film moves away from the house , chock full of odds and ends like a junkyard untended , into the dark and sinister underground cavern ( . . and above ground where a cemetery is present ) the film shifts in tone completely , as Denise ( Erin Daniels ) , the remaining member of her friends , runs for her life from the Professor through a hall lined with corpses . . cobwebs and lights are ever present as Denise attempts to save her skin not knowing what lies in wait . Her situation looks hopeless . The film features Zombie's music and some really strange nightmare sequences , often either tinted in bright colors or sepia tones . Certainly , you can sense just how much a fan of horror Zombie is as his influences are quite visible . Prepare to be bombarded by lots of peculiar images and characterizations . The cult following doesn't surprise me because HOUSE OF 1000 CORPSES has enough unusual qualities to appeal to the Midnight Movie crowd . Lots of in-jokes such as the shirt ( . . and Halloween costume ) Tiny wears , not to mention his cereal ( . . also , you'll notice a grisly skinning scene where Otis wears a victim's face ) and wicked humor that will not appeal to all tastes . Tom Towles and Wolton Goggins star as country cops out to investigate the Firefly's residence finding themselves unwelcome . Great supporting star treatment for Karen Black as the loony mother of the clan . Almost everyone in the film has filthy dental care . A superb star vehicle for scene-stealing Sid Haig , provided with a role that might well define his career , later even enhancing it more in THE DEVIL'S REJECTS . Baby's giggles might induce either chills or aggravation , considering what she finds funny . Definite highlight for Sheri Moon would have to be Baby's stage show to a Betty Boop song . . her performance can be ( . . purposely ? ) irritating / grating .
Chosen Survivors	Selected intellectual minds , and important folks deemed special for forwarding the human race once a thermonuclear war is to rage across the globe , find themselves fighting for their very lives underground in their fancy governmentally ( supposedly ) secure bomb shelter well equipped with all the resources they could possibly need as vampire bats , which rest within a cavernous area secret to them , enter and attack when the group is most vulnerable . With a female assigned , via taped recording , guiding their day to day activities , offering a planned regimen for them to survive on , the group find themselves at odds with Raymond Couzins , a loudmouth who often stirs up bad vibes with his constant talk of conspiracy theories , and drunken insults . Yet , perhaps there is some truth to what he's saying as Dr . Peter Macomber ( Bradford Dillman ) holds a secret which will only add to the worsening mental state of the group as a whole . Realizing that they were merely part of an experiment on how a group could function together in an isolated situation , had such a catastrophic event taken place , the group hope that a signal had reached Washington , for Couzins , in a bumbling mishap that damages important electrical equipment resulting in the death of a member , leaves them with few alternatives left . Major Gordon Ellis ( Richard Jaeckel ) comes up with a method that could be quite dangerous . . someone could climb an elevator shaft 17oo feet which could open a door to the outside providing a chance for contacting help . Macomber , despite the group's hostile feelings towards he and his government which put them in their difficult crisis , comes up with an idea on how to kill the bats , through electrocution by suckering them with blood as bait . I must say that this was a pleasant form of entertainment . Sure , the special effects are rather inferior to today's modern technical improvements , but they didn't seem to bother me all that much because I found the cast so much fun to watch , and the premise was quite enjoyable . It's essentially mixes the always-reliable " animals attack " premise with the theme of nuclear war and how mankind could deal with such a thing . Perfectly capping these elements with a government conspiracy plot yielding terrified characters in search of an exit . Perfectly 70's carrying the sensibilities of the time , with a cast of familiar faces . I thought Dillman has a startlingly good scene where he admits to who he really is and the hoax that has put them all in grave danger . . I think Dillman realistically displays the emotional weight his character is bearing in both coming clean with his confession while showing that he believed that the experiment was for the betterment of mankind . I thoroughly enjoyed Cooper as the antagonist , and Jaeckel is a delight as the sincere army man , burdened with keeping the underground shelter under operation despite a series of set-backs that make that nearly impossible . I also loved this confrontation between the accusing Couzins claiming Ellis was perhaps behind a conspiracy to keep them in the shelter . . Jaeckel and Cooper produce some fireworks . Some performances are overwrought , as often was the case for Made-for-television movies with character actors , but I think the situation stressing and depressing those caught between a rock and a hard place , warranted such heightened emotions . I think Woody's elevator shaft climb was quite suspenseful . . it sure had me biting my nails . I do think the story provides some food for thought , and is a perfect time capsule of what was on the minds of the country at that time .
Razor Blade Style	Lilith Silver ( Eileen Daly , fetching in the lurid , sexy role ) is so overcome with boredom she takes on the role of hit-woman-for-hire , labeled by the media and police as the " angel of death . " She murders certain chosen subjects who are part of an ancient secret sect known as The Lost People , or the Illuminati . . they wear a seven-pointed-star necklace and eyeball ring . Lilith is told that it is imperative to collect the eyeball rings from her victims as part of her finishing the kill by her source ( . . and lover ) , Platinum ( Kevin Howarth ) . The Illuminati's leader , Sethane Blake ( Christopher Adamson ) , is the one responsible for turning Lilith into a vampire centuries previous . The Illuminati are a powerful group with many of their members deeply en-routed in the fabric of London such as the government and police . Inspector Price ( Jonathan Coote ) , of the Scotland Yard , is part of the group but doesn't understand that his leader is indeed a vampire such as the one murdering those of the case he has been investigating . Price will take it upon himself to hunt down Lilith as a modern-day Van Helsing wannabee , but has no clue that those myths such as crosses and stakes have no effect on vampires whatsoever ( well , the stake can make you bleed , but isn't a major factor as in myth regarding it stabbing you in the heart with instantaneous death ) . What we do understand , through Lilith's narration is that decapitation and major blood-loss are what do the trick in killing their species . With the group hiring Lilith wanting their stash back because of her failure to retrieve the eyeball ring of a recent victim , Platinum's life will be in grave danger . Lilith cares for him and will risk her life in order to save his . It all leads to a confrontation between Lilith and Sethane as expected . Clad in tight leather with an ax to grind , Daly is quite easy to watch just by her sheer sex appeal alone . There's an overall Gothic tone , with lots of heavy breathing , hissing , and an abundance of theatricality . The film is a low-budget affair which took director Jake West 3 years to complete with the cinematography mostly shot on 16 mm film stock which actually gives it a grimy , grungy kind of appeal that works . West uses an assortment of framed shots assaulting the viewer with his camera calisthenics . The cast is lively , especially Adamson as the animated villain who loves to stretch out his dialogue with a sort-of hammy delivery and Coote as the rather uninformed , constantly-duped inspector make for an entertaining diversion from the usual vampire norm . Full of blood and feeding with Daly just relishing the role of vampire with the camera just embracing her figure and how it fits in the suit she wears on duty . Very British with an amusing ending .
Werewolf Hunter : The Legend of Romasanta	A wolf becomes man to seduce and kill female victims in Allariz . Romasanta ( Julian Sands ) goes on record in front of a jury of his peers and the court proclaiming himself a werewolf . Almost all of Romasanta's conquests were not of anything remotely human until he falls in love with Bárbara ( Elsa Pataky , a stunning beauty ) , the sister of his wife and mute child . When Romasanta kills his wife , María ( Maru Valdivielso ) and mute child Teresa ( Luna McGill ) , Bárbara seeks him out after being seduced herself by him . Joining forces with DA Bastida ( Bary Piquer ) they are on the hunt to find him before more and more lives are taken by the wolf . With help by Antonio ( John Sharian ) , someone bitten and controlled by Romasanta , they might just be able to find him . Professor Philips ( David Grant is a persuasive doctor who proclaims that Romasanta is not responsible for the killer impulses the wolf brings out . Handsome production and great photography help the flick which doesn't produce the goods in werewolf transformations , instead opting for being a historical document on a serial killer stating on record he is a werewolf who can not help but kill when the beast comes out to play . The acting is adequate and there are a few brief moments of violence , but many viewers wanting a full-fledged creature feature with gory attacks will be disappointed , perhaps even bored . But , the film is well made and visually sumptuous . Just don't expect blood and guts .
Blood of the Vampire	Dr . John Pierre ( Vincent Ball ) is sentenced to prison for performing a procedure scorned by his superiors as illegal practice by attempting to transplant a different type of blood to a man who was bound to die anyway . He has a doctor who could vouch that his procedure was done under only the most unusual circumstances , but an evil scientist , Callistratus ( Donald Wolfit , actually pretty decent under hideous make-up ) has a corrupt Prison Commission officer Auron ( Bryan Coleman ) transport him to his insane asylum . Callistratus , the supposed " vampire " of the title , was brought back to life thanks to a new heart transplanted to him through the work of his freakish assistant Karl ( Victor Maddem , a face on one side drooping with this disturbing eye giving him a scary , mangled disposition ) and a drunk surgeon . Pierre is granted a reprieve when it's found that his witness , of the procedure considered malpractice was in fact a case of trying to save his dying patient , did not send a damning letter supposedly claiming that he doesn't even know Pierre . The fact that Auron was the forger increases Callistratus ' motivation for using Pierre as quickly as possible . He desires Pierre to finish his work regarding counteracting a blood disease where one set of cells are killing another set . . Callistratus ' heart is not helping his blood function normally so he needs Pierre to discover his cure before death returns his way . Soon , Pierre tries to escape with a prisoner chum , Kurt ( William Devlin ) resulting badly . Callistratus sends , through Auron , a letter announcing Pierre's death by trying to escape hoping to buy as much time as possible for him to discover the answer to the blood problem . What he doesn't suspect , nor Auron , was Madeleine Duval ( Barbara Shelley ) coming under disguise as a housemaid . . she is Pierre's lady-love who just wouldn't believe her man was dead . This will put her in great danger for Karl knows who she is ( . . he stole her photo locket from Andrew Faulds ' evil Chief Guard Wetzler , who confiscated it from Pierre ) and so does Auron . Can Duval help her love escape ? Will Pierre be able to free himself from the clutches of Callistratus ? Not really a vampire film as the title suggests , but Callistratus is quite the nemesis for our falsely imprisoned hero . He wants to live and will take the necessary steps to see this happen . The prison conditions , and the overall Middle-Ages-type prison setting are what makes this such a colorful horror flick . There are deadly dogs that are released to attack a few people , we understand that many people suffer horrible deaths thanks to Callistratus ' blood-draining experiments . You have the corrupt middle-man Auron halting Pierre's release from his asylum and the " innocent trying to escape from these harsh environs " is a plot that always works in such a macabre setting as is in this film . You add Duval's in disguise facing possible peril , the suspense increases . Not too shabby for a film that was not made by Hammer studios . Good production values and stylish direction are assets . Flawed , but entertaining .
Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man	Lawrence Talbot is resting comfortably idle ( . . but unknowingly alive ) in his casket when a couple of grave-robbers disturb his tomb , removing the wolfsbane keeping him at bay unleashing the werewolf on an innocent community once again . Talbot , realizing that if the killing is to stop he must die , seeks out the old gypsy woman Maleva ( Maria Ouspenskaya ) whose son brought the curse upon him . But , the authorities and his psychiatric doctor , Dr . Mannering ( Patric Knowles ) are out to find him , hoping to return him to an asylum thinking he's merely a mad murderer needing to be locked away . Instead , Talbot is led to Vasaria where Dr . Frankenstein's castle was located hoping he could help him . Unfortunate for Talbot , the doctor has since died and he finds the monster encased in ice , blind and weak . Talbot desires Frankenstein's diary and appeals to the scientist's ancestor , Baroness Elsa Frankenstein ( Ilona Massey ) hoping to sell the place ridding herself of an accursed property that has slandered her name , and finds a village of people wishing him to leave . When the monster ( . . played by a stilted Lugosi , attempting to show it's limitations due to a loss of power and sight ) bursts upon frightened villagers , Talbot finds himself in need of help . Mannering promises the village he'd disassemble the monster as his creator had pieced it together . Led by Elsa to the castle , Mannering finds a will to provide the monster with full strength due to a mad curiosity . Finding the diary thanks to Elsa , Talbot hopes to rid himself of the lycanthropic curse , but Mannering has other plans . With a dam underneath the castle , the village might decide to take drastic measures to relieve themselves of Frankenstein's memory forever . I love most of this movie , especially Talbot's struggles to rid himself of the curse that has become an obsession due to his uncontrollable killing spree . Great scene where he attacks a street copper and this perhaps , next to The Wolf Man , Chaney's meatiest role as Talbot . We do get a climactic battle between the werewolf and Frankenstein's monstrous creation , but I was never quite sure of the motivations behind Mannering who seemed very stable and controlled . . I wasn't convinced that such a man would purposely give strength to such a humongous and dangerous monster threatening to harm anyone in it's way . It was really neat seeing Maria Ouspenskaya with a stronger role as Maleva , who refers to Talbot as her son bringing a warmth and tender relationship between the two . I'm not sure what happens to her at the end as the castle is reduced to rubble , but it was great seeing her as a more prominent figure trying to help a troubled soul with a burden beyond his control . Massey is a stunner , dressed very well by the costume department , under a sexy accent . Atwill is the mayor of Vasaria , attempting to keep his people from forming into a lynch-mob . Dwight Frye is merely reduced to a villager questioning the mayor of his methods at not interfering with the activities of those in Frankenstein's castle ruins when it's clear experiments are taking place . Thanks to the impeccable work of director Roy William Neill , who was a seminal artist behind the beloved Holmes / Watson films , develops an incredible atmosphere and his noirish stylistic imprint displays what he could do with Universal's studio backing . I think this is essential viewing to all Wolf Man fans despite it's story flaws . Kind of episodic as Talbot seeks a cure , meeting various situations to the conclusion in the Frankenstein castle . You get to see the Wolf Man move around more than later on , especially at the end when the beast continually charges the enormous monster . I won't ridicule Lugosi considering the infamous history of production problems which would explain certain facets of the monster not explained on screen . I will say that this must've been an embarrassment to him considering how Karloff made the monster such an indelible iconic figure , and his performance turns out so laughable due to cuts and edits .
My Bloody Valentine	George Mihalka's fully restored MY BLOODY VALENTINE was finally being seen by devoted slasher fans like myself who have opined about it's forcibly excised gore footage remaining left out for decades despite the glorious nature of DVD . Giving the film new life , we can finally enjoy it the way it should've been seen 20 years ago . While the setting ( . . a spooky mine shaft ) , killer ( . . the miner costume , helmet , and gas mask ) , and the strong characterizations remained intact , there was always something missing . Seeing the gore inserted ( . . a bit obvious , but not enough to distract from the experience , or not at least to me ) where it belongs adds a nice jolt ( . . or punctuation mark ) to each attack , providing a more satisfying punch left untempered in the film's original castrated release . A mining town ( . . the kind of place where dreams die a slow , agonizing death ) plagued by the memory of a deranged psychotic , Harry Warden , who murdered several folks he held responsible for the methane explosion that killed his fellow workers and buried him alive . When this town , Valentine's Bluff , decides to hold a new dance after not having one for 20 years , the killings start up again . The killer wears a coal miner's uniform and gas mask ( . . with the helmet light often shining in the faces of those he surprises ) often plunging his pick axe into the torsos of surprised victims . Could it be Harry Warden ? Chief Jake Newby ( Don Francks ) and Mayor Hanniger ( Larry Reynolds ) decide to cancel the Valentine's Day dance after party organizer , Mabel Osborne ( Patricia Hamilton ) , a beloved member of the community , is found inside a spinning dryer in the local Laundromat , heart cut from her chest . Undaunted , the young adults , accursed to belong to such a dead end town , want to have some fun ( . . instead of the usual action inside the local pub ) and decide to host their own Valentine's party at the mine , inside the eating cafeteria . But , they have not idea what horrors await for many of them , particularly the ones who decide to take a little visit into the mine as the killer hides within , ready to strike from any dark corner . The film is mainly centered around a love triangle between TJ Hanniger ( Paul Kelman ) , the mayor's son who left for The West Coast finding tough luck returning home a failure , his former high school flame , Sarah ( . . the lovely Lori Hallier ) he left behind , and her current beau , Axel ( Neil Affleck ) . While TJ and Axel's friendship deteriorates , they will have to join forces , heading into the mine to find Sarah , who has went in with her best friend Patty ( Cynthia Dale ) , Cynthia's boyfriend Hollis ( Keith Knight ) , goofy cut-up Howard ( Alf Humphreys ) , and another couple who merely serve as the typical love-making kids who die at the killer's hand while doing the nasty in the engine room . Like many of the film's supporters , I like this slasher's setting , a blue-collar town where there are few career options available . I think the cast of characters are likable enough . The love-triangle isn't too overbearing and provides decent-enough sparks which infused friction into the slasher story . The costume of the psychopath , the boogeyman tale of Harry Warden , the closing song about his grip on the town , and the neat hunting ground of the killer as he pursues victims in the mine all , I felt , help enhance this slasher from the doldrums many others find themselves . . repeating the same repeated cycle of Jason Voorhies or Michael Myers . As I mentioned , many of MY BLOODY VALENTINE's fans had anticipated for the uncut release for quite a while , not necessarily holding director Mihalka responsible ( . . what can a filmmaker do when a production company guts your films ? ) for the long-standing neutered release because the Canadian cast and the better-than-usual characters , developed effectively by the filmmakers , add quality to the film . But , the gore-scenes returning to the film as Mihalka intended needed to deliver and I was pleasantly surprised that several sequences are superbly executed , such as the pick axe embedded into the jaw of a victim with such impact the eyeball protrudes , with my favorite being the poor girl who is lifted from her feet , impaled on a water pipe . Of course , the nail gun kill , while not gory , does make one cringe , and when a trapped character severs his arm , it certainly packs a wallop . And , the killer gets to slam his pick axe in torsos and one victim's face is buried in boiling water used for cooking hot dog wieners ! Even a ghastly heart removal and a body's discovery in a laundry mat's clothing drier are included to the gorehound's delight . Each and every additional scene add just a little more power to the film , and it was great seeing them for the first of many viewings in the future .
Squirm	Surprisingly fascinating " nature goes berserk " film opting to go more towards a character driven piece than you normally see in these kind of films . The plot is really silly , but fortunately Lieberman has the skills to shoot the film evocatively ( especially the wooded areas and candlelit nighttime when the worms descend on a town not ready for them ) . The cast , and good Georgia accents , also bring a freshness to this film that adds an original peculiarity to the mix . It isn't exactly gory , where Lieberman seems to want it to get under your skin more than shock you with graphic violence . That feeling of dread knowing they will eventually come out from hiding , the hordes of them , also adds a quiet intensity to the film . I like the leads of Don Scardino as Mick , from " the city " , who comes to Georgia to begin a hopeful relationship with the sexy Patricia Pearcy as Geri . The other element of fear derives from loony Roger ( RA Dow ) who desires Geri and is insanely jealous of Mick . Rounding out the interesting cast is Jean Sullivan as Geri's traumatized , numb mother Naomi ( recently losing her husband has certainly caused a depression ) , Fran Higgins as Geri's sister Alma , and Peter MacLean as the Sheriff ( with the teeth ) who doesn't like Mick in his little town " starting trouble . "
Stagefright	A stage production comes under siege of a serial killing actor ( notorious for shopping up 16 different victims to pieces with an axe ) named Irving Wallace who has escaped the holding cell of a psychiatric hospital . After a stagehand is killed with a pickax , the director quietly decides to continue his stage production out of desperation for his sagging career and a good payday . He informs actress Corinne ( Loredana Parrella ) to lock the exit / entrance door and hide the key . Of course , she's the next female victim to be killed , viciously stabbed by Wallace , who hides under the hawk head of actor Brett ( Giovanni Lombardo Radice , really playing his prototypical homosexual prankster to the hilt in scene-stealing fashion ) . So the crew who decided to stay on and continue the play are trapped in the building ! If that isn't inspired , I don't know what is . The rest of the film has the crew trying to stay close together and alive as Wallace roams the building with various weapons he confiscated from a workshop ( including a drill which penetrates the stomach of one victim , a chainsaw which cuts one fellow's arm clean off and cuts two more poor helpless souls in half , and stabs another quite viciously with a blade ) . The female protagonist is Alicia ( Barbara Cupisti ) , an actress fired from the leading role when she escaped from the building for a while to get her bruised ankle looked at ( coincidently by a doctor at the psychiatric hospital ; Wallace hid in the backseat of Alicia and her stagehand friend's car ) . They do remember a skeleton key being placed in an office desk drawer which might be their only means out of the building . Soon , the killer will have it and Alicia will have to use her brains to get out of the building or else . Director Soavi himself plays one of the cops stationed outside the building in the car supposedly to guard them from further harm . . he has a novel with the photo of James Dean printed on it wondering to his partner if he resembles the Hollywood legend . Not exactly original , but a pulse-pounding gore-thriller nonetheless . Soavi was establishing himself here staying close to the genre of his predecessors . He'd later make his own path with Dellamorte Dellamore . Stagefright is very stylish with a rather silly ending that just won't quit .
The Skull	The skull of the Marquis De Sade , imbued with demonic powers , is removed from his grave by a phrenologist with an obsessive curiosity regarding the notorious writer's sanity . This skull has the ability to mind control individuals , often resulting in death to others . The film introduces us to researcher and artifact collector Dr . Christopher Maitland ( Peter Cushing ) who often writes about ( . . and has a distinct fascination with ) the occult , as his interests lie in studying his collection , a vast cornucopia of objects , antiques & books , hoping to unlock the secrets of the unknown . When a fellow colleague , whose sole interests in the occult are to make a hefty sum from collectors such as Maitland , offers him a chance to retrieve the possession of the Marquis De Sade's skull , it's hard to refuse . Maitland later discovers that his fellow occult collector , Sir Matthew Phillips ( Christopher Lee , billed here as a guest star , when in fact he has one of the strongest , albeit despite a small amount of time on screen , roles in the film ) once had the skull , but it was stolen by Anthony Marco ( Patrick Wymark ) the very one who wishes to sell it to him . But , Phillips informs Maitland that he's glad the skull was stolen , telling him of nightmares and the evil control it has over the owner , warning him to stay away from it . But , Maitland shrugs off Phillips's warnings of the skull's danger as superstitious mumbo jumbo , and discovers for himself how all too real this evil truly is . Well , I'll say this , Peter Cushing and director Freddie Francis give it everything they have despite a rather hokey premise of a skull having supernatural powers . Cushing displays how his character is unable to resist the powers of the skull's control , with horror and confusion taking over . We see a battle of wills with Cushing's researcher losing almost every time , simply too weak to overcome the evil which slowly takes over his mind . We see how the skull , since the one who once had it was such a sadistic and cruel sort who enjoyed pleasure through pain ( . . claimed in this film as possibly practicing sorcery , an apprentice for Lucifer ) commands those whose minds it takes hold over to kill others nearby . In Maitland's case his wife , with the only thing saving her being a crucifix she wore as a necklace . The Christian iconography is heavily used to establish the oft-used theme of " good vs . evil " against the skull and it's demonic grasp of Maitland . We also see how , if you do not obey what it wishes , the result is grim , as the ending so well tells us . Francis , with the flimsy material that probably wouldn't hold under close scrutiny ( . . if the skull was so powerful how come it never exited the grave ? If De Sade in life was such a sorcerer , how come he died the way he did in a prison ? And , where does the power of the skull derive from when all that is left of the one who practiced sorcery is dead ? ) , does what he can through tricks and style . The De Sade book , with binding made of human skin , sold to Maitland by Marco , removes itself from a shelf floating to the table where the skull lies within the " devil's star " . The camera P-O-V peering at Maitland through the following eyes of the skull . A key turning on it's own releasing the skull from it's " glass cage " . Windows opening on their own with the wind blowing the curtains . A mirror breaking as Maitland walks past . And , Francis sure opens the film with a visual aplomb . . a distorted graveyard with a creaky gate as the phrenologist enters the dug grave of De Sade relishing the moment . And , any film which has a bidding war over Satanic artifacts between Cushing and Lee , and the two icons playing pool , works for me ! Some great names in the cast have smallish roles such as Nigel Green as an inspector with Patrick Magee as his partner , investigating the violent aftermath of what the skull leaves behind . Michael Gough as an auctioneer . Jill Bennett as Maitland's wife Jane whose life is in danger while she sleeps as her husband grapples with plunging a dagger into her . This is definitely Cushing's film . He has many scenes where it's just his character alone with the skull , attempting unsuccessfully to fight the evil desiring to overtake him . Peter Woodthorpe has a memorable role as the nosy landlord of Marco's , whose poking nose sends him to an early grave . Probably the film's most bizarre , baffling set-piece is a nightmare where Maitland is forced by cops into a car , led to a strange building with a judge forcing him into putting a gun to his head , before carting him off to a room as a colorful poisonous gas enters through vents .
The Hellfire Club	Rousing swashbuckling tale of an heir Jason ( Keith Michell , in fine form as an Errol Flynn type hero ) , whose despicable father finally leaves this mortal coil for Hell after his death in a hunting accident , must contend with his equally devious , aristocratic scumbag cousin Thomas ( Peter Arne ) who lays claim to the estate and has the paper entitling Jason to the kingdom . Unfortunately , Jason will have to secure that paper from Thomas somehow by sneaking into his service as a servant . Jason , who was raised by Timothy ( David Lodge ) , once a servant of his fathers ' . . and only one his late mother could trust . . has been part of a traveling circus for some time and has keen acrobatic abilities , not to mention sword-fighting knowledge . This knowledge , and acrobatic skill , comes in handy when Jason's identity is found out , perhaps through Isobel ( Adrienne Corri ) who is to marry Thomas but falls in love with his cousin . Isobel is from poverty and so desperately wants a title of wealth that Thomas can provide . . but despite her feelings towards Jason he stands in the way of her goals . Thomas ' power with the English government ( . . but his underhanded secret dealings with the French offer possibilities of his possible downfall ) puts Jason in prison when the evil aristocrat murders Timothy framing him . Jason had retrieved the paper stating his legitimacy to the kingdom and hid it in his lawyer's study . But lawyer Merryweather ( Peter Cushing , amusing even if on screen for mere minutes ) will not allow his knowledge of the paper known to the judge or jury at the trial for Jason's being tucked away in prison might just benefit England and bring down the corrupt Thomas and his Hellfire Club cohorts . But , Jason's circus-pals will not stand at bay as their friend lays in prison for the gallows and rescue him . Through a cunning kidnapping of the traveling French Marquis , Jason will go within the lair of Thomas ' Hellfire club cavern to rescue his lady-love Yvonne ( Kai Fischer ) , held prisoner so that a thorn can be removed from the evil cousin's side . Can Jason rescue Yvonne , thwart Thomas ' plans , and , above all , remain alive ? Lots of sword-dueling , acrobatic stunts , colorful sets & engaging performances rise this above merely the mundane . It has an appealing hero , loathsome villain worth rooting against , beautiful women , and an exciting prison escape . The circus troupe provide lots of joy as they cunningly trick the guards in the prison escape . Good production values and some suspense as poor Jason faces one trial after another so that he can get his revenge and claim his birthright . The Hellfire Club is an interesting backdrop to the action proclaiming what kind of sickening brutes Jason , and England , are up against .
Immortality	A " vampire " , Steven Grlscz ( Jude Law ) , chooses female victims for their " emotional " blood hoping that the perfect mate who'll love him perfectly , will indeed " cure " him of his illness . We see a victim in the early going he selects who was about to throw herself in front of a subway train . He offers kindness to her for she probably could've used it . But , his befriending her in a sense is a way of gaining her trust until she completely gives herself over emotionally ( . . through complete love hopefully ) , but as often as it has been , this person wasn't . He feels certain emotions in his chosen victims , whether it's disappointment or despair , each person has that strong emotion which carries freely through the blood . He must feed on blood to remain alive and when he disposes of the body in a quick-sanded marshland , it is unfortunately discovered by fisherman using illegal netting . He has to contact the police to inform them of his previous relationship with the dead woman so that his guilt won't be so glaring . So for a time , two detectives follow him suspecting him as the murderer . Meanwhile , Steven meets structural engineer named Anne ( Elina Löwensohn ) and they soon begin a growing relationship where he begins to feel is true love . Will Anne be able to save him ? How will she react if Anne discovers who Steven really is ? And , will Steven be able to elude the police from suspecting him ? All these questions will get answered as Steven must eventually feed or die in the process . Something also touched on is that Anne notices how Steven studies people . One of the detectives , Healy ( Timothy Spall ) notices that Steven copied a finger gesture in how he puts out the tip of his cigarettes . We later find that besides blood , Steven must also keep himself alive by constantly studying the human condition . Fascinating study on a person whose illness is really never completely elaborated on . That might very well frustrate some viewers wanting an answer , but what if there isn't one ? In a sense he is a vampire because he must survive by feeding on blood . But , his life is anything but flamboyant . There are improbabilities such as how Steven seems able to elude his crime against the victim at the beginning of the movie . The film provides us with a gang so that we can see how fast Syteven moves proving to us that he is beyond merely a mortal , but something much different . The love of the film is tested with Steven's condition which makes for an interesting drama particularly Anne's reaction once she finds out .
Cabinet of Caligari	Driving through a tunnel into the great unknown of " freedom " , with her shoes off no less , Jane ( Glynis Johns ) faces quite a predicament with her car's tire blows out . After a mile or so trek down the lonesome , uninhabited road leading to the gate of a mansion , Jane believes she's found help when the resident's owner , Caligari ( Dan O'Herlihy ) offers to send someone to fix her vehicle . Told the vehicle has more than just tire damage , Jane's offered refuge , but finds herself trapped within the ( electric ) gates of the estate with Caligari not allowing her access out . The rest of the film shows Jane's attempts at getting out of the clutches of Caligari and finding others within the estate seemingly trapped as her . But , as Caligari would later inform her . . nothing is what it seems . Thanks to the success of " Psycho " which perhaps opened a door to explore more psycho-sexual subject matter , that film's writer , Robert Bloch , had an opportunity to explore similar terrain . Caligari , a sinister figure who seems to remain in his little office , unscrupulously forward with questions of Jane's sexual history , desiring to know everything about her . He makes it known that he will not touch Jane , and seems like a perverted sadist who gets his jollies listening to female captives baring their record , naked to him . Characters present on Caligari's estate , Christine ( Constance Ford ) , his dutiful servant who seems eager to carry out any wish , no matter how cruel it might seem , Paul , a mannered gent with a quiet calm whose role seems uncertain , often consoling a tormented Jane wishing to leave . Mark ( Richard Davalos ) , a handsome fellow Jane befriends at a gathering of folks at Caligari's dinner table . . Mark is transfixed with her , but only can see her at night , for some reason , so wishing to part with her from the estate . Frank ( Lawrence Dobkin ) who offers Jane a chance to possibly break free , who seems to be in charge of holding others inside , only allowing certain people out ( . . like a nosy cook / maid ) . Ruth ( Estelle Winwood ) seems to be in the same predicament as Jane , a prisoner only allowed access out to the town every once in a while . When Ruth promises Jane a chance to leave , it seems she is beaten to death by Frank with Caligari standing present with Christine . But , overall , it's a film about Jane and her attempts to leave the estate which holds her captive . Watching as she slowly deteriorates emotionally , Glynis Johns provides us with a sympathetic character who seems robbed of her freedom , forced into remaining in this place with eyes around every corner encountered by friendlies who wish to chat and converse . I will say that the ambiguous nature of the behavior of the characters present in Jane's orbit and their dialogue which often hides certain things from her , talking in riddles , comes together when the film reaches it's climax . Bloch , I felt ( . . perhaps , I'm one of a few ) , crafts a nifty little psychological tale where you are kept guessing , like Jane , as to what are the true motivations of everyone around Jane , and why is she being held against her will . I found the lurid dialogue , for a film made in ' 62 , rather startling because the confrontations between captor and prisoner often probe areas of a sexual nature . Johns has a magnificent scene where she attempts to seduce Caligari , desperate at this point , believing he might be impotent , hoping to fracture his psyche a bit . . . by cracking his foundation , she would've at least given him a taste of his own medicine . The film is as Caligari tells Jane . . nothing is as it seems . Keep that in mind . Director Kay and writer Bloch really keep you at bay , with Jane encountering some strange situations that are often head-scratching . . that is , until you find out the " real truth " of what ails Jane . Perhaps a sleeper if one can shake off the comparisons to the German silent masterpiece of the same name . . just approach this as a different film , and you might enjoy it more .
Jenifer	Dario Argento's " Jenifer " is almost like a Lovecraftian porn . It's so outrageous and disgusting . . it's one heck of a wild ride , that's for sure . The mini-film is about a cop ( Steven Weber ) who stops a crazed man from taking a hatchet to this bound young woman . This woman ( played under revolting make-up by the beautiful Carrie Fleming ) has an awesome figure , but hideous face . Her name is Jenifer , and the cop just wishes to provide her a place to stay the night before finding her a permanent residence elsewhere ( . . she was placed in an asylum with no other refuge available ) . Something occurs to the cop ( . . his hand was scratched by Jenifer as he was untying her ) along the way . . he becomes lustfully attracted to her despite the grotesque face looking directly at him . Funny thing is though , covered under her hair , the gorgeous body is all he sees . ! While searching for Jenifer a home , the cop and the deformed fiend have passionate sex in the front seat of the car . Despite trying to separate from Jenifer , he can't resist her as she rips her shirt open revealing her sumptuous breasts . This allure creates a problem for the cop as his wife and son leave because Jenifer eats the guts of the family cat ( . . not to mention Jenifer bites the missus on the mouth ! ) ! Things only get even worse when the cop finds that Jenifer has been feeding on the guts of the young girl next door . Horrified at the sight of Jenifer's ferocious and unhinged appetite , the cop seeks out to get rid of her . Argento pulls no punches and this is probably one of the few episodes in the " Masters of Horror " series to really pour on the gore . The film's really unusual erotic undercurrent , not to mention Jenifer's seemingly unabashed will to kill anything to satisfy her hunger makes this certain episode stand out from the pack .
This is where the law stops . . and I start	Marion Cobretti ( Sly Stallone playing the hero with a raspy , low-toned voice making him evoke quiet anger ) is an officer of the elite Zombie squad ( although , we never see an official group of members who also participate on this squad ) . . those who handle the cases no one else wants to touch . He's called to protect a model named Ingrid ( Brigitte Nielsen ) from violent sicko thugs whose ideal is a perfect world without the weak . . weak being mostly women . Their symbol is a skull with axes over head . The gang like to hang out in some sort of darkened factory banging their axes together in adulation of their group's belief in killing who they deem the inferior . The members of this violent cult are merely in the film to service the plot with remorseless , mindless monsters for Cobra to destroy . Lots of dying in this one with many men getting shot . It's all inspired by the Dirty Harry formula where the justice system is failing , letting monsters re-enter society causing a risk to the innocents . Cobra is the representative against letting those vermin get away with their dastardly crime . When a dangerous situation spirals out of control , just call Cobra . . he will save the day . Andrew Robinson has the role of Detective Monte . . we are supposed to look at him as the bad guy because he wishes to give those who commit crime a fair shake even if they just murdered five women in cold blood . Andy must endure this role because he looks like a clown for wanting to follow the rules . Cobra is Stallone's invention that can not miss his target while a massive group of bad guys fire endlessly not even coming close to hitting him . Sure , his partner Gonzales ( Reni Santoni ) gets shot at the end . . but not Cobra . I won't lie the film is pure macho nihilism . . it's ugly and cruel . It's not politically correct , not very bright , and , at times , is unrealistic and ridiculous . And , you know what . . it's perfect 80's action junk that wets the appetite of those who crave the hamburger instead of the salad . COBRA is not good for you and it has one very corny rock soundtrack to match it's grade-A quality cheese . If you want to sit back and waste 90 minutes on lots of people getting bullets in their bodies as they fly off their motorcycles . . this is the finest example . Stallone wrote it and makes himself a bad ass with his shades , short hair cut , match-stick from his lip , and the cool car with nitro that makes it go 120 miles-per-hour . Brian Thompson does a lot of spitting and grimacing as the slasher of innocent women ( his face reminds me of a shark about to strike those who swim just a bit too far ) .
The Heirloom	James ( Jason Chang ) an architect , inherits a massive mansion with a disturbing family history . His stage-star fiancé Yo ( the stunning beauty Terri Kwan ) was planning to go abroad but decides to remain and live with James . Soon their friends , who visit them in the creepy abode , fall prey to supernatural terror . . they fall unconscious only to awaken inside James ' home unannounced and bewildered . Soon , Yo discovers , when meeting James ' Aunt in an asylum ( . . and through newspaper clippings from her reporter friend experiencing the strange phenomena ) , that James ' family committed a massive suicide and that they had performed an evil ritual concerning a child spirit and blood sacrifice for fortune and the elimination of enemies . Even worse is that James ' mother was locked away by the family for being afflicted with an illness . . as part of the family's curse for performing the ritual , their offspring , for the most part , were born diseased or ill . James was a healthy child sent away before the mass suicide occurred . When James ' friend . . and colleague . . is found murdered by what appeared to be a hanging from a rope ( . . we see that he is murdered by a rope not visible meaning some specter or ghost had committed the deed ) , the family curse rears it's ugly head once again . When a cynical detective , who scoffs at the mere mention of some ghostly involvement in James ' friend's murder , suffers the same fate , the idea that anyone who remains in the home for any major length of time could be in danger becomes quite prevalent . Who is causing the horrifying acts that are taking place ? Could it be James ' long-dead mother blazing a trail of murder ? Can James protect Yo from the same grim fate others are suffering ? While I shrugged my shoulders at the reasons behind the horror taking place to the cast of this flick , I certainly believe this director , Leste Chen , is a major talent . I thought his exceptional handling of such mediocre material is proof that he is one to watch in the future . Being so young is even more impressive because I found the film visually intoxicating while not being so blown away by the plot or characters within it . Director Leste does what he can , though , milking as much terror as he can from the script presented to him . It's to his credit that this film is loaded with creepy atmosphere ( the stunning sequence in the opening with all this hanging bodies while a woman crawls in agony sure opens the eyes wide ) and has a eerie mood that remains from start to finish . This is simply a proved case of style over substance where a talented director rises above the material he's stuck with . One aspect that majorly plagues this movie ( as it does " Amityville Horror " ) is why this couple remains in the house when it's quite clear something's amiss . . a certain evil they should get as far away from as possible .
Last House on the Left	Two teenage gals , newly friends , are on their way to a rock concert when they desire to score some reefer and wind up in the throes of terror when the supplier , Junior ( Marc Sheffler ) is actually the junkie son of an recently escaped psycho from prison , Krug ( David Hess ) who are holing up in a shoddy apartment with another sicko Weasel ( Fred J Lincoln ) and their nutso girlfriend Sadie ( Jeramie Rain ) . After having their way with Phyllis ( Lucy Grantham ) , the street gal , as her virginal friend Mari ( Sandra Cassel ) looks on in horror , the psychopathic four toss them in their car trunk the next day , hitting the road for Canada when the vehicle runs out of gas . The kicker is that the car runs out of gas just nearby Mari's home , yet neither girl can cry out . Into the wilderness the girls are forced into committing humiliating acts or else suffer the consequences . Yet , even after being run through the ringer ( . . Phyllis forced by Krug to pee in her pants , the two having to commit lesbian acts , both girls stripping , etc ) , their lives are still jeopardy as Phyllis attempts to escape as Mari , having been cut by Weasel earlier , suffers mental anguish hoping to coerce Junior into letting her go as the others run after the other . When the escapes fail , the four will finish them off and clean up , finding themselves at the home of Mari's parents . When Mari's father and mother ( Richard Towers & Cynthia Carr ) find that these cretins , who they have allowed rooms to sleep for the night , have murdered their baby girl , revenge is on the menu . Getting past the brouhaha of how unpleasant and disturbing it is , I'll skip to the moments that effected me . The way Weasel moves his knife up and down his nose just itching to stick it in someone . How quietly intense and homicidal Hess is as Krug . . bulking and tough , his menacing features are even more fearsome because of his brooding nature . Jearmie Rain , out of the four killers , is the most over-the-top and demented , loudly applauding her men's cruel and violent behavior , relishing their graphic acts on these two girls . Marc Sheffler's ugly features work well with such a pathetic character , who never had a chance in life considering who his father is . He's as much a victim as Mari and Phyllis . I actually thought Lincoln , as the no-nonsense killer Weasel ( . . always seen with his knife as if it were an extension of his pecker , taking good care of it ) , is about as good as Krug . He just doesn't care about anything , except the knife and getting to use it and having no sense of morality or conscience makes him almost as much a monster as Krug . I think Craven achieves what he sets out for with these sick bastards . . if you are caught alone with these people , vulnerable , you have little chance of surviving because they have no boundaries holding them , no reason or guilt . I can see the film's influence on modern horror particularly in the photography as the camera often shoots characters from odd angles , sometimes capturing one or more actors on screen close-up or just a few feet away . The wilderness murders I found especially effective , although a lot of the violence is hinted instead of fully elaborated on . I think the film's in-your-face camera directing into the faces of the psychos works quite well as they inflict harm to the girls , with their faces showing the trauma occurring to them both physically and emotionally . When someone tosses the word " raw " out there , I think it's quite appropriate for Craven's film here . There's no cinematic polish in store for a viewer watching this for the first time . I think the film is simple in story , with the shocking violence doing the most work in leaving the lasting impression . Almost like a true crime story of what a group of serial killers do to victims in the wrong place at the wrong time with fate dealing them a bad hand , LHotL works from a very terrifying level , and I felt Craven's camera-work and editing of the wilderness murders displays just that . It felt like someone , hanging around with the brood , was filming their deranged activities . The revenge angle , I think Craven has mentioned this before , displays the theme that almost anyone , if pushed over the edge by some sort of horrifying ordeal , could kill . What could release you from a moral obligation to not harm human life . . the murder of your only child perhaps ? While perhaps this doesn't leave the same impression as the murders of the girls before , there's still something powerful about what parents will do after the loss of their loved one .
Screamers	On a planet named Sirius 6b , a civil war between two factions has broken out over a mineral energy source called Berynium which was once a unified state . Earth supplies the planet with soldiers of the Alliance to battle those who dub themselves the NEBs . The Alliance were in trouble of losing to the NEBs until the creation of robotic creatures underground were created called Screamers ( the screech loudly as they prepare to kill ) . The Screamers are self-evolving to the point were they can actually duplicate humans and use the human-shell to trick Earthlings . Through a downed aircraft carrying a nuclear device carrying one remaining soldier left alive , Jefferson ( Andrew Lauer ) explains that the Alliance were bound for another planet housing a mineral source to do battle with another group of NEBs . Through a message that was sent to leader of the Alliance Joe Hendricksson ( Peter Weller ) , they discover that they were told of unified peace between them and the NEBs which turns out to be a lie when Jefferson informs them that the one that delivered that very message has been dead for over two years . Joe , knowing that the Alliance had left them on the planet forever , sets out to make contact with any remaining NEBs that might still be alive , carrying gung-ho gunner Jefferson with him . The Screamers do not attack the Alliance members for they have these arm bands which throw off their signal . Good old-fashioned old-school sci-fi actioner B-flick directed with visionary flair by Christian Duguay is actually exciting and imaginative . It's also tense with these Screamers quite elaborately detailed . Good special effects and a tough-talking band of soldiers brings this noir mentality to the film . Weller's hero is a direct representation of that very noir mentality as he doesn't dawdle with small talk . . he's a man of few words , wiser than anyone else . I could give or take the ending , though , as The Screamers have evolved quite impressively into humans to the point where they express emotion and bleed blood .
Ong-Bak : Thai Warrior	I've seen the future of martial arts and it is Tony Jaa . He stars as Ting , a young man studying to be a monk for his village of Nong Pradu when a young thug named Don ( Wannakit Sirioput ) steals the head of their deity , Ong-Bak , hoping it will cash in with his crooked boss back in Bangkok . There , he'll encounter gangs trying to catch George ( Petchtai Wongkamlao ) , Ting's only source of finding Don . George was once a citizen of Nong Pradu who has formed a partnership with a young woman named Muay ( Pumwaree Yodkamol ) as they scam others out of cash through methods of gambling . Ting is unfortunately caught in the middle of underground fights searching for Don and this will complicate matters even more . Soon , Ting will cost the mob boss Don works for millions when he stumbles on an illegal movement of stolen Buddhist statues hidden underwater near docks . The mob boss will hold onto the Ong-Bak head ready for revenge thanks to losing millions because of Ting's discovery and the items being confiscated by police . If Ting wants the head he'll have to go through not only the mob boss ' army of footmen , but his henchman who shoots himself up with tranquilizers to feel no pain ( because of his cheating , the henchman defeats Ting in a " ropes " fight contest ) . Incredible , awe-inspiring stunts and skills by Tony Jaa make this one hell of an experience . Exhilarating flights through the air with such grace as his body twists into all types of movements . Jaa can fit through tiny spaces and even kick people in various states during flight . There are sequences where he leaps over cars , takes shots from thrown debris , moves through people like a bolt of lightning . Particularly potent are his bouts in the dirty little bar where certain men will try various ways to defeat him . . pretty much failing . The ongoing street sequence where goons are chasing after George with Ting stuck in the same predicament watch how the men evade capture . The sequence as they chase after Don in these little golf-cart like taxis as Ting moves from one to the other nearly getting killed several times as crashes ensue . It takes a little while before the action kicks in , but when it does , you'll be exhausted at watching Jaa do his amazing work .
Revenge of the Nerds	Watching NERDS again just proved that despite it's lovingly exploitive attitude , the jokes ( albeit perhaps dated after 20 years ) reflecting the on-going nerd culture as computers were becoming the key for the success of very intelligent people who dress and act a bit different are what make it so appealing . I think it's a time-capsule teen comedy when the formula worked and well . The film is based in stereotyping , but that is another one of it's appealing traits . It's easy for us who never really felt we belonged in the popular set to side with the victimized nerds for they represent the lonely-hearts who bask in the giant hurdled insult . The film , despite hurling those insults , engagingly loves these nerds and I think that's another key to the film's success . We can understand that without the wonderful performances from the cast portraying the nerds that this film just couldn't fly . The film is also so immersed in 80's pop culture that it is an amusing memory to dredge back up . The film shows the jocks as cretins pretty much abusive in every way . They step over the nerds because they deem themselves superior because of what they have externally than internally . We can see that they have to depend on what they have on the outside ( brawn and good-looks ) because the nerds completely overwhelm them on the inside . Carradine as Louis and Edwards as Gilbert are definitely the spark plug for the film and are so wonderful and likable , the material looks better . Then you have the gross-out jokes that worked well for Belushi in " Animal House " in this film represented by Curtis Armstrong's Booger who burps loudest and picks his nose the deepest . And , he can hurl one mean hilarious insult . His quips are the most funniest . Then you have Timothy Busfield as the elder Poindexter who seems to be the most clumsiest nerd of the bunch who sure has a hard time with the robotic maid . You have Larry Scott as the homosexual Lamar where the humorous gay jokes fly . Ted McGinley is the prick leader of the Alpha Beta jocks and Donald Gibb is The Ogre ( who probably would be considered a nerd if he wasn't so massive ) . Then there's the oh-so yummy Betty Childs who is McGinley's girl but falls in love with Louis after she discovers how good nerds actually are at sex . There's this non-PC attitude that reigns supreme as full frontal nudity is in heavy doses and many of the jokes would indeed be considered offensive . But , it comes down to seeing the nerds out-shine and out-last those jocks that leaves us particularly satisfied .
Trilogy of Terror	Director Dan Curtis , along with writers Nolan and Matheson , craft three tales all starring Karen Black as the leading female character of each one . The first tale concerns a polite , well mannered , soft-spoken , nerdy seemingly naive ( . . and too trusting ) school teacher who is blackmailed by a student who drugged her , sexually taking advantage of her while unconscious after slipping something in her soda at a drive-in movie . A photographer , Chad ( Robert Burton ) believes he can just do whatever he wishes with Julie ( Black ) if she wishes to continue teaching , but he doesn't really know who's truly in charge . . The second tale is quite a doozy , a real chance for Black to shine as she portrays dual ( . . emphasis on dual ) characters , supposed sisters . . the repressed , ugly spinster Millicent who wishes to end her sister , the seductive floozy blonde Therese's evil ways . Therese , according to Millicent , is a follower of Satan who practices witchcraft , and attempts to warn her boyfriend Thomas ( John Karlen , of Dark Shadows & " Daughters of Darkness " ) before " it's too late " , revealing her possibly murdering their mother and having an incestuous affair with their father . But , there's a mystery about these sisters which only their doctor , Chester Ramsey ( George Gaynes ) truly knows about . The third , and most popular which has earned this televised film it's cult status , concerns this innocent woman , Amelia , whose putty in her overbearing mother's hands , alone in her apartment with a Zuni fetish doll , whose gold chain ( around the doll's waist to keep the African hunter's spirit from attacking ) falls off releasing it to terrorize her . This claustrophobic entry has Amelia running around her apartment , trying desperately to escape harm's way , slowly finding less places to hide while it stalks her with a kitchen knife . The climax to this one , when Amelia attempts to cook it in a stove , and how Black performs it , is a hoot . The grand stage for Karen Black ( . . and , boy , does she show her stuff ) where she's able to showcase a wide range of characters , each different than the next . While , I felt the third one is the most terrifying , delivering the most thrills , I think the other two tales provide Black with an opportunity ( . . if she hadn't done so already ) to show her audience just what kind of versatility she had . There's also a phone conversation ( . . the actress claims she re-wrote herself with Curtis ' permission ) in the third tale between Amelia and her mother that really develops the character well . . we see how Amelia is manipulated by her irksome mother , only through Black's voice and response . But , my favorite performance ( s ) of Black was in the second tale where we see two completely different characters , with a major discovery that links them . The first story , and my least favorite , is more of a case of " nothing is what it seems " where one character , who seems the tragic victim of deception , is actually the predator not prey . If you are a fan of Ms . Black , then this " science fiction " anthology ( . . Curtis , Black & Matheson all hate the descriptive term " horror " when used for " Trilogy of Terror " ) is a must-see .
The Freakmaker	A university professor by day , mad scientist by night , Dr . Nolter ( Donald Pleasence exuding a quiet mania , portraying his character as someone completely convinced that his work is for the betterment of mankind despite how diabolical his methods are ) , respected by his peers , creates hybrid plant-humans in a goal to form a new evolution of mankind , using his own students brought to him by a carnival owner , Lynch ( Tom Baker , under effective hideous facial make-up ) plagued with the glandular Elephant Man disease . Lynch believes reluctantly that Nolter will cure him of his problem , for which he continues delivering specimens , but as friends of bio-chemistry wunderkind Brian Redford ( Brad Harris ) and Hedi ( Julie Ege ) come up missing , it's only a matter of time before the professor's ghoulish experiments and Lynch's kidnapping will be discovered . Lynch has another problem of his own making . . he treats his carnival employees ( . . freaks , to the " normal " audience who cheer , sneer & fear them during shows ) cruelly , displaying an ugliness just as much inside as outside . Lynch's crew have tolerated his insults and nasty treatment for a long time , and this film shows how his behavior towards them will result in a violent revolt echoing Tod Browning's masterpiece " Freaks . " And , as typical of " mad scientist " movies , the creation will get revenge on it's creator . . Nolter creates a plant-man who ingests humans for consumption from a belligerent student of his who always replied in classes against his theories . Macabre premise delivers some shocking moments including Nolter's creations and how one of them eats a street bum . Nolter's fate is especially grotesque . Baker is far removed from his charismatic , charming Doctor Who in portraying quite a tormented monster of a man who will do anything to remove the diseased face that keeps him removed from the society he yearns for . I found the seedy elements startling . . such as Lynch's finding a prostitute willing to yield to his desires for a certain fee , the numerous displays of female nudity , and how female specimens have their clothes removed while unconscious on Nolter's laboratory slab before being experimented on . But , despite all the rather unpleasant mutations we are witnesses to , the opening of the plant cycle , set to rather unnerving music , actually was as effective ( . . if not more ) to me than what comes after . And , director Cardiff has a lengthly showcase for the " freaks " of the carnival , with the viewer as " grossed out " or transfixed by each representative allowed to display their abnormality , as the audience in attendance . The script can be quite literate , whose " science-speak " might bore many viewers . If you're wondering whether or not Pleasence is hammy , he's indeed quite low-key , playing the doctor with a calm confidence .
Blacula	Count Dracula bites a Nigerian prince , Mamuwalde ( William Marshall ) just for the sheer pleasure of it , entombing him in a secret chamber along with his wife Luva ( Vonetta McGee ) in his Transylvanian castle . Centuries later , two homosexual interior decorators ( haha ) purchase the castle and it's contents , shipping the casket containing the body of Mamuwalde ( . . along with other relics from the castle ) to a warehouse in New York City . His casket unlocked , Mamuwalde bites them awakening in a brand new era , the groovy & hip 70's , finding a woman who carries the exact likeness to his beloved Luva , Tina . But , Tina's sister , Michelle ( Denise Nicholas ) is married to a forensics pathologist , Gordon ( Thalmus Rasulata ) who pursues the mysterious deaths of bitten victims of Mamuwalde finding out that indeed , as unbelievable as it seems , a vampire is on the loose in New York City . Gordon will have to convince Lt . Jack Peters ( Gordon Pinsent ) of New Yor City police that an epidemic of vampirism will soon spread if they do not find the vampire biting necks . A domino effect , following the path of victims left by Mamuwalde , will inevitably lead to a showdown between the police and the vampire in a chemical warehouse . Even more urgent will be stopping Mamuwalde from taking Tina , who has fallen in love with the vampire , as his undead bride . Well , to me , Marshall is the African-American equivalent of Christopher Lee . He's a formidable presence , with a deep voice , handsome , charismatic , and ferocious when biting the necks of those who threaten to either expose him or his union with Tina . Sure , the film's make-up for Marshall and the vampire brood plagued from his bite is rather theatrical , but I didn't mind that . Obviously , the African-American " blaxploitation " take on Dracula , centered around the black culture of New York City , is definitely a draw , giving the vampire genre a refreshing flavor . The dialogue , dress , & music all reflect the African-American culture , which I feel give it a unique boost for fans of vampire films craving something different than the norm . Mamuwalde , unlike Dracula who put the vampire curse on him , is a sympathetic figure , who has an uncontrollable evil coursing through his veins . That lends a tragic element to the film as he pursues a union with Tina , but as a threat to society , this will obviously go unrequited as Gordon understands what it takes to kill his kind . It's only a matter of time before the police finally figure out his hiding place . Great showdown in a warehouse where a group of vampires threatens the life of Gordon and Lt . Jack , where our heroes use fire to destroy them . The chemical plant climax is rather nifty as well . Marshall really cuts a great form as the vampire . Great attack on Elisha Cook , Jr ( . . playing a grumpy coroner ) who doesn't listen to Gordon , leaving the cooler unlocked with an undead cabbie-turned-vampire charging at him in slow motion . Another cool attack on a photographer in her studio as Mamuwalde takes her life because of a picture taken that would threaten to expose him . The animated bat , representing Mamuwalde , is superb and far more life-like than the usual rubbery one . Cool face-melting-into-a-skull scene which closes the film .
I Saw What You Did	The universe of William Castle . . a Rockwellian innocence threatened by evil . That's the case in " I Saw What You Did " about three girls who prank call folks , chosen at random from a phone book , unfortunately hand-picking a middle-aged psychopath who likes to stick a knife in women's bellies . Libby ( Andi Garrett ) , her little sister Tess ( Sharyl Locke ) and school chum Kit ( Sara Lane ) spend the evening , while their parents are at a small gathering for the night , prank calling various people , when they select the wrong man , Steve Marak ( John Ireland ) claiming they saw what he did and knew who he was , shortly after he murdered his wife , burying her not too far from his home . Libby , quite a googly-eyed little cutie , really liked Steve's voice , and wishes to see what he looks like which puts her and little Tess in peril . Steve has a neighbor , Amy Nelson ( . . the one and only Ms Joan Crawford , in a limited role despite top billing ) who is obsessively in love with him . She finds out that Steve murdered his wife , and listens in on a phone conversation with Libby who is claiming to be a woman named Suzette . Furious with jealousy , Amy finds Libby prowling Steve's house , and removes her parent's registration card with their address on it from the car . This card will provide Steve with their whereabouts as a frightened Libby , with Kit and Tess in tow , drives away at the angry demands of Amy . Threatening blackmail if he doesn't marry her , Steve " rids " himself of Amy before taking to the road so he can find Suzette , planning to silence the one he believes might know of his bad conduct . While touching on the repercussions of prank phone-calling to kids , Castle has the perfect set-up for a confrontation between a sadistic killer , with an explosive trigger , and innocent children , alone in their house with parents far from home . It's a parent's worst nightmare and Castle preys on his audience with this fear by having worried mother Ellie ( Patricia Breslin ) constantly calling home and always either getting a busy signal or no answer at all . A master manipulator , Castle even has the police stop by the Mannering home before the killer arrives to find them safe . And , a masterstroke by Castle has the first meeting between Steve and his callers in the Mannering home going well with him even returning their registration card , before a call from Kit ( . . regarding the news she heard on the radio about Steve's wife's body being found and his exact description detailed ) sets in motion the final act as killer pursues those who threaten to expose his guilt . The casting of Ireland is also brilliant because he doesn't look like a psycho at all . . in fact he looks like a dad who might have a family , house , and white picket fence . A " Psycho " inspired shower murder where Steve stabs his wife viciously before putting her through the glass door really shows the viewer just what lurks inside this average joe , who doesn't look like he could harm a fly . Crawford plays Amy as a prying , overbearing busybody who walks right into a damning situation , deeply in love with a true menace . I think this will always be looked at as a minor effort in Castle's resume , but I think once he gets to the first startling murder , the film really kicks in gear building to the " there's a killer on the premises " climax where danger awaits the Mannering kids who must somehow evade grave danger . I realize a film like this is very much a product of it's time and will appear hokey and silly to a large majority of horror fans , but I think if one can look at Castle's abilities at applying nasty individuals within such a happy-go-lucky veneer , you might learn to appreciate his cunning .
Silent Hill	Sharon ( Jodelle Ferland ) is the adopted child of Christopher and Rose Da Silva ( Sean Bean & Radha Mitchell ) . Sharon sleepwalks , and during her " away period " speaks of a town called Silent Hill . Rose , against her husband's wishes , decides to find Silent Hill and possibly awaken memories Sharon might have of the place . As Rose is driving to the town she spots a girl in the middle of the rode and crashes . When she awakens , Sharon is gone . She sets out to find her but instead finds a sleepy ghost town with no one in sight . Where is Sharon and what is this place ? As she searches , Rose uncovers some disturbing creatures at the heart of the town . . and this strange woman , Dahlia ( Deborah Kara Unger ) who tells her about the darkness . . perhaps this is a description of what Rose saw before meeting this woman . Christopher , very worried about his wife and daughter , goes to find them and instead drives to a cavalcade of police cars . Officer Thomas Gucci ( Kim Coats ) takes him into Silent Hill and it looks nothing like the town Rose is inhabiting . Why is this ? There's this cop , Cybil Bennett ( Laurie Holden ) , who had seen Rose and Sharon at a gas stop and decides to pull them over to further check them out when Rose decides to make a run for the town instead of the cop ruining her plans for entering Silent Hill . Cybil , after Rose had visited Silent Hill , hand-cuffs her for supposedly harming her missing child . Cybil had a wreck on her motor cycle and as she goes to take Rose back to the town of Brahams nearby , the bridge leading there is gone and there's this massive gap of nothingness . Cybil and Rose are trapped in this place . . Silent Hill is a paradox opposite reality . Obviously the key to the paradox is how it was created and who was the creator . Perhaps the answer comes in this young girl deemed a witch by the name of Alessa ( who looks identical to Sharon . . coincidence ? ) who was badly harmed by fanatical types . . wolves in sheep's ' skin . Who can Rose trust ? This might determine how she will find Sharon . Rose and Cybil both are nearly killed by the darkness which seems to have all sorts of malformed demons who carry insects at their feet . Anyone who goes near them are viciously killed . Through Thomas , Christopher learns subtle truths about what happened at Silent Hill . . the fires that torched a town taking many " innocents " with quite a few vanishing . Thomas informs Chris that his father owned a barber shop in Silent Hill and was killed . He also lets Chris know fanatics hurt a little girl . He won't divulge everything and Chris tries hard to gain knowledge about what caused the fire and who caused it . And , his search is also for how all of this relates to his little girl . While his search may yield limited results , it's Rose who is facing it head-on in the " other " Silent Hill . She'll uncover a treasure trove of demented truths about a certain sect who hold up in a sanctuary which is a safe haven from the darkness . Strangely the darkness doesn't harm Dahlia . The sect seems to have a leader , Claudia ( Alice Krige . . who is creepy ) , who might or might not be a source of help to Rose . Cybil realizes Rose is legit and releases her from the hand-cuffs . Will Cybil and Rose find Sharon ? Is Claudia and her group trustworthy ? The sect seems to evoke strong religious beliefs . . is this a revelation of fanaticism ? Those who are not familiar with the video game may have a hard time sitting through this film . . the developing clues and characters that come into the picture might just be trying for the " unadorned . " This film , at it's core , is about one mother's quest to find her daughter in the heart of a dark world . She will understand the hate that created this world and meet it's creator . The why and how of Silent Hill and it's omnipresent evil are opened to Rose on her quest to find Sharon . As the actress who portrayed the eerie Dahlia , Deborah Kara Unger , describes this film . . " It's Alice in Wonderland meets Dante's Inferno . " That's about as accurate description as one could ask for . I think the casting is great particularly Mitchell as the weary mother desperately searching for her child and always in danger against a foe she does not understand . Holden is good , as well , as the officer trying to help her in that quest . Krige is very good as a woman who may or may not be the reason behind the creation of the paradoxical Silent Hill , and Unger is quite interesting as Dahlia , a woman that looks like a haggard street hobo with secrets buried deep claiming Sharon is her daughter . The camera-work has a stunning flow reaching around every corner and following the characters as they uncover disturbing things . The visual effects , especially in the gruesome climax , are state-of-the-art and effective .
The Scarecrow reviews " Runaway "	In the future , robotics has become an important part of society fulfilling roles once operated by humans . Housekeeping robots , agricultural robots , etc . Well , robotics has become such an important aspect in life that a special crimes division is specially directed at " robot crimes " . . such as malfunctions amongst the most serious threat . Tom Selleck portrays Sgt Jack Ramsey , once a beat cop who decided to step away from that role when his problem with vertigo leads to a killer getting away and killing a family not long after . He began studying the field of robotics as he explains to his new female partner , Karen Thompson ( Cynthia Rhodes ) , and found that he above every one else in the understanding of such a field . Thompson gets an idea of the rather mundane part of the role when a agricultural robot goes berserk messing up a crop . But , she also sees the ugly side as Ramsey has to upend a robot which has killed members of David Johnson's ( Chris Mulkey ) family . This sequence is stellar and we see how good Ramsey is at disarming difficult situations . It also shows how those who try to get in without understanding Ramsey's methods ( a television cameraman who makes a bad decision to follow Ramsey ) will perish . Once Ramsey looks inside the robot , it is found that a smart chip was planted to force the robot to turn maniacal . That man is Dr . Charles Luther ( Gene Simmons who is very good as a sadistic , vile human being who pierces you with his bulging , obsessed eyes ) who wishes to sell his technology of creating killing robots , designed to be terrorist toys . He had maneuvered Johnson and another doctor ( who we see killed by a robotic spider ) to create these smart chips with the capability to force robots to coordinate and destroy selected targets . Luther has this unique gun he uses which fires a heat seeking missile . It is used to kill Johnson when Ramsey and Karen try to apprehend him . Luther's lover , Jackie ( Kirstie Alley ) is caught in a room with specific computer parts needed to put together the whole terror-sell operation . Jackie is caught , unfortunately , by a robot which has flipped it's lid . The robot isn't deadly and can only shoot electric bolts which knock you down or annoyingly shock you . After Ramsey is able to successfully ( though not without a few bolts which threw him for a loop ) stop the renegade robot , he finds lots of computer property in Jackie's possession . They are successfully able to get information on where Luther is ( in a meeting with some clientèle ) , but Ramsey isn't able to get him for he has that gun hidden in his coat and a " floater " robot which blows smoke throughout the room . This time Karen is hit by a missile dislodged in her arm intact . In a harrowing sequence , Ramsey must remove it without hardly any movement . . Karen will have to undergo serious agony without moving her arm . The rest of the film consists of Luther and Ramsey playing cat-and-mouse as Jackie's life is now in danger after revealing her information . Not only that , but Luther is also able to find and kidnap Ramsey's son ( yes , the old kidnapping cop's son bit ) . The film shows Luther's cunning with computers and how he has eyes open at all times . The film's true tension derives from that very fact . I've read countless reviews for this film and none provides any enthusiasm towards " Runaway . " I don't see what the real problem is . I thought it was well paced , with some interesting little robotic creations , the cast seems game . . it's perfect for a lazy Summer afternoon .
Return of the Evil Dead	The dreaded Templar knights rise from their graves , on their undead horseback , during the night of a festival commemorating their execution at the hands of the villagers of Bouzano , as present-day citizens dance , drink , be merry & watch an amazing fireworks display , thanks in part to the local village idiot Murdo ( José Canalejas ) who actually sacrifices a young woman whose blood revives them . Jack ( Tony Kendall ) is hired by Mayor Beirao ( Ramón Lillo ) to put on a fireworks display for the festival , thanks to some help from a former lover ( and now the Mayor's fiancé ) Vivian ( Esperanza Roy ) who put in a good word for him by falsifying references on his resume . When Jack and Vivian meet for the first time , sparks return and they are soon contemplating a brand new relationship despite her current proposed plans to marry the Mayor for his wealth and bourgeoisie prestige . The Mayor's right hand lieutenant Dacosta ( Frank Braña ) also carries a secret torch for Vivian having watched over her every need since becoming the boss man's squeeze . Moncha ( Loli Tovar ) is almost killed by the Templar knights when they raid her home . . they do finish off her beau who paid her a sexual visit while papa was at the festival . Duncan ( Fernando Sancho ; another paid lackey for the Mayor to do his bidding ) , his wife & daughter are all attending the festival . These characters will somehow escape a massacre when the Templar undead soldiers storm the festival , within an enclosed plaza , causing a frenzied panic where the villagers try endlessly to find a way out . Jack is able to free the gateway by exploding some leftover firecrackers into the bodies of two guardian knights freeing those citizens who were able to flee from the slashing long strokes of the Templar swords . As certain Templar soldiers on horseback bunched villagers into a bundle , faces met the hacking blades . Dropping like flies , Jack bands some courageous men together , with wooden pitchforks , to battle with the knights on their horseback with far better weaponry . But , those citizens who are indeed able to rush out from the plaza gateway will not get very far . . trying to flee we see that the Templar knights have struck them down in a long-shot of dead bodies lying in mass over the country-side . Jack , Duncan ( . . his wife and daughter ) , Vivian , Dacosta , Moncha & Beirao , however , are able to hold up in a nearby Bouzano parish as the Templar knights await them outside . Jack , as leader , will try to find a way to see the group through the horrors that possibly lie in wait as others plan their own escape routes , especially the mayor ( this guy is a real piece of work , I'll tell you , he even tries to use a little girl as a distraction to escape ) who only wishes to escape without one care in the world for the others in the church . Murdo , the very one responsible for the terrors taking place , is found hiding in the parish . . he has a plan to guide Moncha through a secret tunnel , not letting any of the others in on it . Will the group make it out of the parish alive ? Or , will the Templar knights eventually wait for them to merely fall apart at the seams ? To be honest , I myself found this second film of the series to be far superior to " Tombs of the Blind Dead " . I think this film is more focused and scarier with a better cast of characters . I even felt the Templar knights are scarier in this sequel than the original . . their slow walk isn't a major problem in this sequel because there are so many of them . I couldn't help but compare the Templar knight zombies to those seaweed ghouls of John Carpenter's THE FOG in how they seem to be everywhere with little room for the characters to escape . If one thinks about it , the church sequences in this " sequel " and THE FOG resemble somewhat as well . . characters trying to remain level-headed in quite a terrifying situation , holing up in a church while undead monsters seeking revenge for what happened to them in the past await outside . This sequel has lots of bloodshed . . swords are always plunging into stomachs , chests , or slashing across faces . The Templar knights are pretty much the same as they were in the original film , but no less effective . I think their better utilized in this sequel / remake because of the set-pieces set up in the film . . . the massacre in the plaza and the hold-up at the parish . Director Ossorio certainly has a flair for shooting those creepy Templar knights as their rotted skulls peek out from those dusty cloaks . They rise from their graves essentially the same way they do in the previous " Tombs of the Blind Dead " . . but , as before , this sequence is quite eerie and effective . If you can tolerate the melodrama between Jack , Vivian , the Mayor & Dacosta , there's so much to enjoy . I just think this is a good little Gothic zombie flick . Easily the film's most graphic scene comes when we see the Templar knights in human form as one of them removes the heart from the chest of a poor female sacrifice eating it ! Good beheading in this flick as well .
I , Madman	Librarian book-worm ( Jenny Wright ) , who enjoys reading horror stories which she invests all of herself into , finds that a sadistic alchemist , from a " non-fiction " book titled " I Madman " has emerged from the literary page believing she is Anna , his muse for whom he wishes to please with the " perfect face . " In the novel , Malcolm Brand ( Randall William Cook , who looks like Noseferatu with a scarf around his face , hiding a missing nose ) removes his facial features because the one he longs for found him repulsive . Virginia ( Wright ) finds that Brand has somehow manifested into modern Los Angeles and is murdering people she knows , grafting a part from each victim's face after slicing them away with a razor . Following " I , Madman " as a source for where Brand will strike next , the difficult part is getting her boyfriend / detective , Richard ( Clayton Rohner , with a light beard and jacket , resembling a hard-boiled PI from a noir film ) and the police to believe her cockamamie story . Virginia is often visited by the maniac before and after he kills his victims . Tibor Takács ( The Gate ) brings us quite a startlingly original slasher with imagination to spare , if the viewer can give over to the supernatural aspect of the story . In regards to the madman's ability to manifest from words to flesh , committing his grisly deeds on the streets of Los Angeles , I felt derived from the reader's complete belief in the printed material . He wasn't real until the fear of him become so vivid , Virginia , in essence , gave him life . . his shape and form evolve from a written work into a true being . Perhaps it took both the reader and the writer himself to make this unbelievable situation come to fruition . When delving into the author's life of " I , Madman " ( . . and another novel , which featured a created monster by a Dr . Kessler , who actually leaps from the printed page to kill Malcolm Brand ) Virginia finds that Brand himself believed wholeheartedly that what he wrote was real not fictitious . . . so perhaps the killer without a face , was given birth thanks to the writer and reader's complete faith in what was written . Besides all that Freudian jazz , the film has a wonderfully morbid atmosphere , and I thought Tibor Takács ' film was very much in the Argento vein . . . a grotesque killer wielding a blade , slicing and dicing , with a baffled police force working all hours to catch him and a female character everyone believes is nuts caught in the whirlwind of a surreal nightmare helplessly finding all those she knows being killed , skillfully photographed ( . . while his credits aren't eye-popping , Bryan England's sophisticated camera-work and vibrant color , I felt hearken back to Argento films like " Suspiria " and " Inferno " , and there are several stunning shots of the killer from afar using shadow and light ) with a visual flair and intoxicating energy . Not to mention , there's some dark humor to spare , including a hilarious interrogation scene where Virginia attempts to tell the police about the one responsible for the murders and their priceless reactions to what she's saying . I think the premise might have viewers scratching their heads , it is indeed quite an outrageous story , but I ate it up . I loved the use of Los Angeles and I found the way Tibor Takács edits the novel sequences ( . . based in the 50s ) into the modern story , strikingly integrated . It was great seeing the lovely Jenny Wright get a rare lead role , and she ably fills it nicely , projecting a frightened woman who knows that the truth about her killer is as far-fetched as they come , doggedly pursuing his capture , and often finding him one step ahead of both her and the police . The creature which makes a grand entrance at the end will remind fans of Tibor Takács ' kiddie horror outing , " The Gate " , for it resembles the demon minions from the hole in the backyard of that film . The library scene ( . . where the police stake out the WRONG library ) is a doozy which only makes life harder for Virginia , who must somehow , someway , convince her boyfriend that the psychopath is indeed from some horror book she reads . Love the book store Virginia works in . . books are stacked and scattered in clusters all throughout the building and the climax works wonders in this setting .
The Black Book	Maximilian Robespierre ( Richard Basehart , quite fiendish ) wishes to become dictator over France , but this is feared by many of the underground resistance for he rules with a torturous iron fist whose methods of eliminating humans without much justice given to victims . He has the ability to work over a crowd with his words which have a power to manipulate . It's currently taken him to his lofty position , but gaining total dictatorship is a dream that would certainly lead to a mass destruction of anyone who even comes near threatening his role as ruler over all . He has a book of death containing names he plans to eliminate when under power as dictator and this black book is the key to his downfall . You see it has names of many who hold Robespierre to high esteem giving him the opportunity to gain power . Finding out what he plans to do to those who were behind him ( the black book contains quite a many names he wishes to send to death ) , would certainly overthrow Robespierre . That's where freedom fighter Charles D'Aubigny ( Robert Cummings ) comes into play . He will go undercover to find the book and get close to Robespierre . There are many who work in the movement to overthrow Robiespierre . Heck , even men close to Robespierre , such as slimy Fouché ( Arnold Moss ) are willing to possibly assist D'Aubigny in taking down the man who desires to rule as dictator . The film's main strength is the photography which brings a bleak grimness that you can feel . Through cunningly placed shots of shadows on the wall , we can get an image of what torturous methods can do to those who oppose Robespierre . There are lots of moody long shots of travelers on hills towards the night . The way Mann frames France , it seems like night always exists and that the light only passes by occasionally to take a peek . The cast may come off a bit flamboyant , certainly Basehart relishes playing such a villain . I loved how Mann shoots close-ups of faces with hysteria and tyranny painted on their face . You can also see the evil running through the veins of those who keep the French villagers and such at bay in fear for making a false step that would send them to certain death .
Queen of Spades	A Captain of the Russian army , with little money , becomes mad for the secret of three cards which could yield a fortune . That Captain , Suvorin ( Anton Walbrook , who is mesmerizing ) reads about Countess Ranevskaya ( Edith Evans ) who , facing public scrutiny after she commits adultery with a thief who desires money from a locked box , sells her soul instead of being found out of her sins . Given the powerful secret of three cards , she carves out quite a wealthy living at the gambling table . Suvorin wants the secret of the cards more than anything and will manipulate her servant , Lizaveta Ivanova ( Yvonne Mitchell ) so that he can get in to meet the Countess . Using a handbook regarding selling your soul for profit and success , he uses certain poetic words to work over a naive , impressionable Lizaveta , who is burdened by the demanding Countess . What happens to Countess when a crazed Suvorin puts a pistol to her one snowy night , makes up the haunting elements of this well-mounted , extravagantly produced , beautifully lighted tale . You could call this a macabre costume drama . . even at 95 minutes , this is epic in scope accurately depicting the 19 Century well with large , massive sets . It's quite stunning to behold , actually . The film might start out rather slow , but it gets better and better as time passes and the greedy dementia of Suvorin , a man who wants to know what wealth and privilege taste like , takes shape when it appears the secret he so longs for seems completely out of reach . The final 30 or so minutes is really marvelous as the supernatural elements come into play creating quite a spooky mood . And , the tragedy of Suvorin is a very powerful ingredient to the story .
Cold Prey	Geniuinely terrifying nail-biting slasher which is so competently made using suspense instead of sheer gore , despite the formulaic trappings often associated within the popular sub-genre . The key is the setting and the killer . The setting , an abandoned ski-lodge isolated in the middle of Norwegian snowy mountains , miles upon miles away from civilization . A group of skiers , young adults on their way to a lodge when deciding to snow board down and over potentially dangerous terrain leaves one among them with a broken ankle . Finding the the ski lodge as refuge , the group will decide to spend the night waiting for morning to go for help . They , however , are not alone . . a hulking menace , hidden underneath pounds of protective clothing , carrying a pickax he swings with a vengeance , the group will find themselves in for one hell of a nightmare . Ingrid Bolsø Berdal is the final girl , Jannicke , who is placed in quite a predicament when her friends and lover are being stalked and killed , having to protect her handicapped comrade , Morten Tobias ( Rolf Kristian Larsen , the comedy relief of the picture ) , whose broken ankle provides quite the detriment towards fleeing quickly as the menace draws near . As many final girls in slashers are , Jannicke is resourceful , quick-thinking , and courageous , attempting to stay one step ahead of the killer who knows this difficult environment a lot more than she does . Her lover , Eirik ( Tomas Alf Larsen ) was on his way to get help , when he is upended by the killer . Young couple , Mikal ( Endre Martin Midtstigen ) and Ingunn ( Viktoria Winge ) , having been together only a short amount of time but are crazy for each other , round out the cast of potential casualties . The opening of the film , concerning a scar-faced kid possibly being buried alive as snow topples upon him by an unseen assailant , and the dangerous manhunt to find him , making headlines ( . . this was in ' 75 ) is set up for a reason understood later . Many will find that this slasher operates under the normal guidelines instituted since the 70's . It doesn't stray too far from what you expect , all the way to the conclusion . BUT , director Roar Uthaug , despite this , is able to create an incredible sense of terror , and my nails were bitten to the quick , even though I had a good idea how it'd all end . The menace just comes out of nowhere ready to plunge that pickax into bodies with a ferocity you feel when it seldom misses destroying objects in the vicinity . And , the horrifying situation the characters are stuck in ( . . thanks to the setting which echos THE THING and , the feeling of no escape , evoking WOLF CREEK ) really grips you ( . . well , it did me ) . It might not be original , but it's so damn well made , with Uthaug squeezing every bit of dread he can get out of the cold and inhospitable ski-lodge and Jotunheimen's wintry mountainside . . it does take a while for the killer to make his presence known with Uthaug carefully establishing the characters ( . . he even shoots some angles as if through the eyes of the killer , peeping in on their conversations before striking ) . Little things are also expertly presented for later use in the film like a shot gun shell and a key-ring with a teddy bear . I hope to see more from this director because his action scenes are briskly filmed , with exciting photography capturing the characters , as they attempt to stay alive while being stalked , extraordinarily well .
Nadja	Low-key , off-beat , somber , existential , avant-garde modern retelling ( partially ) of Dracula's Daughter has the exotic beauty of Elina Löwensohn put to good use as the Romanian Count's predatory vampire daughter , Nadja , roaming New York City for fresh victims , finding a potential love interest in melancholy Lucy ( Galaxy Craze ) whose unhappily married to her gloomy alcoholic husband Jim ( Martin Donovan ) . Jim and Lucy love each other but never display an appropriate affection or fireworks which truly exhibit on the outside , if anything their relationship seems destitute and glum . But , once Nadja initiates a spark with Lucy after meeting her in a bar , their love and marriage will be tested as the vampire wishes to conquer her , capture her very soul through the draining of her very life-source , the blood . Thankfully for Jim , he knows Dr . Van Helsing ( Peter Fonda , in a very kooky performance , clearly enjoying his role's chance for eccentricity ) , the very one who thrust the stake in Count Dracula's heart . Van Helsing's desire to end Nadja's existence , ridding the world of a bloodsucker who has been draining New York of it's citizens through her various rendezvouses with male victims , opening the possibility of sexual activity , shutting the door on such opportunities by killing them . Nadja travels with her human slave Renfield ( Karl Geary ; very different than the countless nutty incarnations of the character whose often molded after Dwight Frye , young and attractive , quite laconic and mysterious , yet can be quite dangerous when provoked ) as they pursue and hunt . NYC provides quite a backdrop for Nadja , a vast supply if she so wishes to feed . Löwensohn's face is glamorously shot by director Michael Almereyda's cinematographer Jim Denault , and the dialogue , often spoke by the actress as a vampire who is having quite an experience in a city of such diverse and eclectic people , is quite thought-provoking and poetic . The film's narrative shifts somewhat once Nadja finds her ill brother Edgar ( Jared Harris ) and his beloved nurse Cassandra ( Suzy Amis ) . Nadja wishes for Edgar to join her and takes an interest in Cassandra . Van Helsing needs to kill Nadja so that Lucy can be spared and to remove possible danger from Cassandra , his niece . The aspect of director Michael Almereyda's style that rather left me cold was his use of a camera which pixilates image , specifically during Nadja's vampiric activities . I thought the gorgeous B & W photography was fine on it's own and gave this film an alluring look to match it's titular female vampire . All the performances , the characters , remain subtle , almost zombie-like and distant . . this might drive traditional and casual horror fans away and seems to reflect a society of lost souls , emotionally empty and depressed . The music score is quietly haunting and seems to fit the mood of the characters and their stories . This is definitely an art film , with the director giving the vampire genre a different flavour and tapping into contemporary themes that traditional horror fans might find ponderous and pretentious . I liked this a lot probably because of Löwensohn and it's refreshing change of pace from the normal brand of storytelling in regards to the vampire genre , which is oftentimes artificial , predictable and by-the-numbers . While this film does operate using themes associated with vampires ( . . needing blood to sustain life , not adept to sunlight , with a stake to the heart killing them ) , I like how Nadja is given a chance to show that she has feelings and often expresses herself with others regarding life and love . I appreciated the additional scene featuring Lugosi ( . . from White Zombie ) , lending his face to the Dracula spoken of by her siblings in the film . Fonda , with long hair , plays Van Helsing as if he were an oddball ( . . the way he should be portrayed , I think , because of his knowledge in " strange things most humans wish not to know about " ) , an outcast of society who lives , it seems , to serve mankind in ridding the world of dangerous vampires . Martin Donovan and Galaxy Craze play their roles rather sullen and without emotion , which is probably what the film calls for considering their supposed to be aloof .
Family	Harold ( George Wendt , just simply perfectly cast ) , despite that kind , gentle exterior , is not the suburban neighbor he might seem to be . Nope , he actually is quite loony and has an entire family ( . . almost ) of skeletons in a room upstairs . He sees them , however , as real , breathing , talking people conversing with one another as any family would . Within his loneliness , a dementia has set in where molding the perfect family means creating one fictitiously . . through submission , death , and the eventual acidification where the corpse is melted down and dried of any skin or body parts . We see his grisly work at the opening as Landis takes us through Harold's entire house with his slick camera-work which seems to look like one long take / trip until we meet an old man in a pan as his body gets acid poured over him . We see the body melt away with merely the skull showing as Harold sees about din-din . We see Harold converse with his fake wife over mundane manners as the young daughter ( . . kind of makes you cringe , if you think about it much ) watches cartoons . There's just something really warped about a scene where a man moves the skeleton of a young girl because he's afraid if she is too close to the television it will harm her eyes . Anyway , a new squeaky clean couple moves in across the road and Harold takes notice . David ( Matt Keeslar ) is an ER doctor and Celia ( Meredith Monroe ) is an investigator and they introduce themselves after an unfortunate accident one night . That night was where David had a little too much wine and slammed into Harold's massive brick-mortared mailbox ( it reveals that many skulls and bones are buried within , yet it APPEARS that neither David or Celia notices ) . After introductions , ( . . in typically naughty Landis perverted fashion ) Harold takes an interest in Celia and imagines her talking all sexually explicit and dirty to him . She really isn't , but this installment plays with the fact that Harold imagines and hears what he wishes because the man is just flat-out bonkers . So , Harold decides he wishes for Celia to join his family , which isn't a comfort to his wife . Another warped idea . . debating whether or not he's thinking about lustful thoughts about Celia to a dead adult female skeleton regarding her jealousy ! Oh , and when he's out selecting a new victim , they often talk to him regarding why he should choose them ! When David surprisingly goes missing , Harold sees an opportunity to move in on Celia . Harold just might be in for a surprise he never saw coming . . . Okay , this kind of plot isn't for everyone . Yes , it's quite deranged , but played outrageously tongue-in-cheek for the most part . The writer of this story also penned the terrific script for FRAILTY , so there's a moment of WHAM ! that comes at the end where we have to rethink conversations David and Celia had previous to when Harold decides to go for the jugular in desiring his possible new wife . The flick isn't that gory except for the acid-melting scene of gramps at the beginning and when Harold decides to dispatch his current wife with a hammer to the face . It'll probably come down to whether or not you can accept the macabre premise . That John Landis knows how to seep the humor out of anything no matter how terrible a deed one deranged man commits . Yet , the twist exposes the fact that it might be possible for even the sanest people to commit grisly deeds when seeking retribution .
Blood from the Mummy's Tomb	Egyptian priests , threatened by the power and proposed evil of Queen Tera ( Valerie Leon ) , kill her and entomb her corpse ( . . after extracting a hand which held a red-emerald ring on one finger ) , but meet tragic ends for doing so . Despite being entombed , however , Tera is able to summon archaeologists to her place of rest , with Professor Julian Fuchs ( a really good Andrew Keir , memorable as Quatermass in Hammer's excellent " Quatermass and the Pit " ) as the head of the unearthing . Each member retrieve a certain relic inside the tomb within their possession for " safe keeping " as Julian stores Tera's tomb in his carefully designed basement in his home . The key aspect to this film is that the moment Julian opened the tomb of Tera , his wife dies giving birth to his daughter who also quits breathing . . yet , mysteriously Margaret's ( also Valerie Leon ) heart begins beating again setting in motion her link with Tera . Corbeck ( James Villiers playing him quite aggressive and slimy ) , a key member of Julian's crew , wishes to see Tera's " rebirth " into the world as he believes he can control her with Julian's help . Tera's great power , he sees , can be used as an advantage , but Julian feels that she can be controlled by no one . We watch as she uses Margaret's human host as a means to terrorize and destroy all who were there when she was removed from the entombment and captured the relics . Margaret's beau Tod ( Mark Edwards ) will try to help his girlfriend as it seems Corbeck's influence on her is growing while also desiring to protect her from the danger of being harmed like the others who have come in contact with Tera's evil . But , we see as the bodies pile up with their throats torn away , that Tera may not be stopped . . perhaps her evil is too powerful for anyone to control . Corbeck will try to read from a scroll , while also re-attaching the removed hand ( we see , throughout the film , blood always trickling from where the hand was removed ) so that Tera can return to this world . Somehow Julian and Margaret will have to fight against Tera's evil will in order to thwart her plans of returning to this world to possibly wreak havoc . Complex , absorbing horror film might be frustrating for many because it's not a mummy film . . you never see a bandaged monster running amok . Based on a novel by Bram Stoker , it's actually about evil incarnate unleashing terror against those who have discovered her or pose a threat against her plans . Everyone is fodder or vessels for Tera to use . This film is quite a challenging flick . . I admired it's complexity and uniqueness from the typical Hammer horror fare . I think , despite it's faults , that this has much to offer those curious for something different . The appearance of torn throats is jarring , the performances are quite good , as always mentioned ad nauseum Leon's voluptuous breasts are certainly stare-worthy , and the ending is bleak ( . . nearly everyone dies ) enough to make this flick quite satisfying . . well , at least it was to me .
Gemini	Class warfare I felt was at the heart of this thriller from acclaimed cult director Shinya Tsukamoto regarding unstable Sutekichi ( Masahiro Motoki ) with a scar on his leg ( . . who was abandoned by his parents , found floating across a river and brought up by a theatrical troupe performer , living as a thief in the slums ) who tosses his successful , respected and prominently regarded doctor twin brother Yukio into his family's well , assuming his identity . Sutekichi is essentially responsible for the deaths of their parents , but his ulterior motive is re-entering the life of Rin ( Ryô ) who was once his lover and partner in the slums , with them separated after their thievery leads to possible trouble for the troupe when a man comes seeking revenge for what they did to his family after stealing jewels . Sutekichi has studied Yukio's mannerisms and habits , perfectly embodying him with no one , except Rin ( . . who has been manipulating Yukio into thinking she's an amnesia case with no history she can recall ) knowing who he really is . Sutekichi visits Yukio from time to time , to drop food scraps or for to torment and ridicule him . Over time , Yukio , in a sense , switches roles with Sutekichi , understanding what it was like from his point-of-view . There's a choice Yukio makes regarding whether to treat a drunken mayor who stumbled onto a spike which plunged into his chest , or a dirty , possibly plague-infested mother whose child needs help . Choosing the mayor , symbolically siding with the higher class instead of the poor , Yukio will swallow a bitter pill when his brother takes him away from the comforts of living , placing him in a horrifying situation of confinement , hunger , and filth . . there seems to be no escape as he looks up at his brother , who teases about ruining his practice and making love to his wife . And , among the pile of burdens is the knowledge that Sutekichi may've been responsible for the deaths of his parents . Tsukamoto has always brought a collection of directorial styles , his camera can sit still , smoothly glide , follow the actions of a situation feverishly . . whatever is taking place in the story , Tsukamoto has a certain way of conveying it . We get a look at two worlds , the proper , quiet life of a man of prestige and wealth , and the ugly , loud and scuzzy world of the slums . . quite a contrast that really benefits the story as the lives of the twin brothers come full circle and both get an understanding as to what life is like in the other's shoes . Rin is the middle woman , who left the old world through an identity switch reaping the benefits of a much more healthier world , but inside longing for the life she once had , her love for Sutekichi just as strong as ever . As always Tsukamoto brings an uneasy atmosphere and the character arcs are stunning to behold , exploring the psychological terrain of what can transform a person when placed in a difficult situation ( . . all the three of the principals ) whether it be for the betterment or detriment of their existence .
The Invisible Man Returns	Geoffrey Radcliffe ( Vincent Price ) has been framed by Richard Cobb ( Cedric Hardwicke ) for a murder he didn't commit - - the murder of his brother Michael over a business worth substantial wealth . Escaping from death row thanks to the experimental invisibility formula created by the Claude Rains ' Griffin from the original film ( this time his brother Dr . Frank Griffin , portrayed by John Sutton , gives the formula to Geoff to buy him some time to find the real culprit behind the murder of Michael ) , Geoff will seek out those that framed him with help of Frank and his beloved Helen ( Nan Grey ) . On the run from Scotland Yard police , Geoff will have to remain elusive , but is slowly growing more and more mad as time continues and needs to get Richard to confess after finding out the truth of his betrayal from the drunkard Willie Spears ( Alan Napier ) who has taken a higher job since he remained silent in seeing Michael's real killer at the scene of the crime . Frank will have to come up with a serum to not only bring Geoff back to visibility , but do this before he becomes completely overwhelmed with madness . The film works well as a race against time as Geoff , our invisible hero , must find a way to remain innocent , get the real killer to confess , hopefully get an antidote before his most certain mental plight takes over , and outsmart cops on his tail . The film is clever and I can not think of anyone else who could follow Claude Rains ' footsteps than the great Vincent Price . His voice works magic as he is quite the tragic innocent who we understand through Price is growing more power-mad with each passing moment . Price has always been great at portraying unfortunates who are good men , flawed , who grow worse due to tragic circumstances . In this film , like the original version , we do not see Price's face until the very end . The visual effects , for the most part , are quite good for their time . Well paced film and very entertaining . Not as macabre as the previous film , with actual comic bits ( and light-hearted music ) to keep things lively .
The Tell-Tale Heart	A pitiable , terribly timid librarian , Edgar Marsh ( Lawrence Payne , who is superb ) , falls head over heels for a new neighbor , a flower sales-girl who lives across the street . This lovely creature is Betty Clare ( Adrienne Corri ) and she agrees to date Edgar out of sympathy for his pathetic nature , but soon is attractively drawn to his best friend , playboy Carl Loomis ( Dermot Walsh ) , a ladies ' man with quite a reputation around the place . Carl , at first , resists Betty who clearly displays arousing affection for him , but soon accepts a sexual invitation for which a gullible Edgar sees from his window ( . . he often watches her undress , the voyeur that he is ) . Edgar , who had spent a considerable amount of money and time on Betty , reacts hostilely to Carl's betrayal by attacking him with a fireplace poker , burying the body under a floor board . This act of violence , haunts him as he hears the loud pounding of Carl's heart beat , which rarely ceases , plaguing him night after night . Succumbing to drink and madness , it's only a matter of time before he cracks . Meanwhile , Betty pursues the answer as to why Carl hasn't returned to her , suspicious since he proclaimed their future betrothal after he broke the news of their engagement and love affair to Edgar . I think this was a really nice surprise . Director Ernest Morris builds the torment existing within Edgar's soul slowly , over time , using the movement of objects , simple but effectively spooky tricks anchored by Payne's pitch-perfect portrayal of a rather feeble man whose guilty conscience starts to erode his psyche , and his already fragile mental state slowly crumbles . . and Morris uses images and sounds such as a water faucet dripping , a clock ticking , a chess piece rolling on a board back and forth ( . . wonderful symbolism , to boot , since Edgar and Carl played chess all the time ) , and a rug moving up and down symbolizing the supposed beat of a heart . Corri is ideally cast as the lustful object of Edgar's affections , and she's incredibly sexy which provides an understanding as to the infatuation of the film's protagonist and why he'd constantly obsess over her , to the point that he'd kill his best friend as a result . Great use of silence ( . . accompanied by the variety of sounds I mentioned above ) , as well , pointing out Edgar's isolation as the heart beats and he can not escape it , eventually cutting it from Carl's chest , looking at it thump , finally burying it . I think the filmmakers ( . . and , especially Payne ) effectively convey this poor loser's slow descent into hysteria . Bravura job for all concerned . . a real sleeper , see it of you get the chance . A word of warning , though . . this is a slow burner , a film that takes it's time , allowing all the elements to take shape . MAJOR SPOILER : Maybe , the twist at the end is a bit of a drag ( . . the whole " it's all a dream " aspect ) , but Edgar is quite a whimpering chap , so he deserves some sympathy , which may be why he's spared .
Wanted	Weavers were founded to keep the world in order without chaos enlisting assassins to eliminate those whose fates are decided when their names turn up in a code through woven fabric . This started in a monastery , and has since blossomed into a secret society called The Fraternity with the ones assigned to kill their targets equipped with amazing gifts ( . . such as acute motory functions where they can shoot from amazing distances , with a sense of sight and balance that is abnormal when those with these abilities are given complete training , honing their skills ) . A mistreated office accountant , Wesley Gibson ( James McAvoy ) whose numb existence has yielded him nothing to embrace regarding waking up every morning , finds that his father supposedly was a murdered member of The Fraternity . Gibson , who is thrown into a world he's never known , thanks to an uncanny female assassin with stunning abilities to shoot and drive , Fox ( Angelina Jolie ) informs the poor guy that the man who murdered his father , Cross ( Thomas Kretschmann ) is hunting him as well . After a shootout in a grocery store floods into the streets between Cross and Fox ( . . with Gibson finding his way into Fox's car in the most unusual way ) ending in a car chase with subsequent damage , Gibson is introduced to Sloan ( Morgan Freeman ) who fills the lass in on his potential and possible role as a future trained assassin fated to kill the man who ended his supposed father's life . Saying goodbye to the normal life which gave him nothing but distress and misery , Gibson goes through rigorous and exhausting training which tests his willpower , strength & reserve . Ready for his role as an assassin , Gibson will be taken under Fox's wing being tested on the street by killing his first target , always desiring in his heart to kill Cross . But , Gibson has no idea who he's really after as a twist throws his new life into absolute turmoil making discoveries which will certainly have him questioning his choice for accepting his path into The Fraternity . Folks , if you are going into this film expecting something deep and cerebral , you are in for a rude awakening . Logic is completely left on the back-burner and you will have to suspend disbelief . . " Wanted " is a ridiculous thrill-ride which wishes to exhilarate you with non-stop action and bloody violence through astonishingly good special effects . The film has characters with superhuman abilities doing impossible things with guns ( . . and , more importantly , bullets ) and cars , their bodies sustaining incredible blows , scrapes , cuts , and bullets . Jolie's Fox drives with one leg while laying on her hood shooting at Cross over her car ! Fox actually crashes a car into a moving train in the jaw-dropping derailing sequence where Gibson pursues Cross . Bullets curve when Fox shoots at an incredibly difficult angle with her gun going around a hanging pig hitting the bullseye of a target behind it . In another incredible scene Gibson masters this art where his fired bullet goes around Fox's face with the wind actually moving strands of her hair ! Cars completely flip over as assassins shoot their marks in mid-flight . The opening assassin is killed by Cross from an incredible distance . Cross has a specially made bullet with pieces that split apart as it travels before the sharp point goes through the mark's head . Gibson , in the powerhouse finale , goes through a warehouse of weapon-equipped men , even taking their guns from them as he shoots them in the heads . In this sequence , Gibson's gun actually blows through a victims face , after multiple rounds , shooting others through the hole in his head ! Rats are used in a most effective way . A twist in the middle of the film completely shifts the entire plot as Gibson makes an astonishing discovery ( . . concerning Cross and his actual reason for being chosen by The Fraternity ) that has him facing unparalleled odds . Jolie , who is a great actress with range who wishes to play multi-faceted characters , is still a born action heroine . Her Fox is quite a character . She's got that sexy and cool that a lot of actresses would love to have but only dream of achieving . . she looks great driving a car , shooting folks , and getting out of a hot tub naked . Her opening scene , in the grocery store as Gibson turns around , that defines why she's such a coveted commodity . Fox says little and lets her skills at death-defying feats do the talking . This film wouldn't be near as good without her . I think many will enjoy the development of McAvoy's character who is run through an emotional grind from start to finish , and seeing him toughen as the film continues is rather fun . Freeman's effortless presence and command is here once again . His fate is rather nifty . The film is a smörgåsbord of John Woo , James Bond , & The Matrix . . the balletic gun-play , with outrageous and mind-bogglingly performed stunts and action set-pieces , and bloody carnage with bullets penetrating foreheads and torsos . The assassins in this film , mainly Fox , Cross , Gibson & his " father " ( David O'Hara ) achieve miraculous deeds while trying to kill their targets . Throw your hands up and just watch the movie without giving the plot much effort . It's popcorn fodder which might just dazzle you , even if you are constantly rolling your eyes at what you are witnessing . The daily activities of poor Gibson are quite amusing , as we see just what kind of misery this guy so wishes to escape . Terence Stamp has an important supporting role as it pertains to Gibson and the father he never knew .
The Eye 2	Through the act of attempted suicide which almost kills her ( the taking of a large number of pills , after spending all her cash on clothes , due to depression after a bad relationship is called quits ) , Joey ( the superb Qi Shu in an understated , subdued performance ) gains the sixth sense and sees ghostly apparitions . Finding out she's pregnant by her past lover ( who was married keeping this a secret from Joey ) , Joey slides into an overwhelming sadness which doesn't bode well with the fear and torment of the scary spirits that pop up everywhere she goes . This one female spirit ( Eugenia Yuan ) seems to cling to Joey more than any other spirit . . who she is will be one frightening discovery Joey would like to have not known . The story is much smaller than the previous film , " The Eye " and much more of a character piece focusing on Joey and her traumatic story with all it's emotional upheavals . There are some excellent jump-scares , imaginative images that you won't soon forget such as the scene where Joey sees her child's face form into the image of the female ghost who stalks her . The film really uses the idea of reincarnation to full effect providing the story with an interesting narrative . . spirits cling to the pregnant entering the wombs of women before they deliver eliminating the life they once lived to begin anew . The story might be much smaller in scale , but it's still quite an ambitious project using the Buddhist belief system as a means of telling a powerful story on one woman's acceptance of life through many unorthodox experiences and another who has passed on desiring for a fresh start within a brand new life . This could be the Pang Brothers ' best film to date .
The Stuff	Larry Cohen , that independent genre renegade whose films often look as if they were thrown together with adhesive tape , returns to spoof The Blob and commercial marketing with this often witty and goofy tale about an alien goo that has bubbled from the center of the Earth , discovered by an industrial worker and manufactured as a tasty yogurt . This goo , over time , begins to take control of the human host in a diabolical plan to obviously take over the world . Enter ex-FBI industrial spy extraordinaire , Mo Rutherford ( Michael Moriarty ) paid to infiltrate the manufacturers of " The Stuff " ( . . the commercial name for the goo that is sweeping the nation ) to find the secret of how it's made finding out instead what the goo really is . Joining forces with Nicole ( Andrea Marcovicci ) , a marketing guru truly responsible for how well The Stuff has profited , who feels she's to blame for how the goo has begun to take control of her fellow humankind . Also , Mo will find another unlikely ally in young Jason ( Scott Bloom ) whose parents have become afflicted with the goo , a kid who saw first hand how the substance " moved " while surfing through the refrigerator one night . Jason made futile attempts to destroy tubs of The Stuff in a rampage through a supermarket which was printed in the newspaper and is how Mo found out about his knowledge in the secret conspiracy . Another ally is " Chocolate Chip " Charlie ( . . the scene-stealing Garrett Morris , who Cohen just turned loose , unbridled ) whose business was stolen right out from under him by those who make The Stuff . Mo finds out where the main manufacturing site is at and , along with Nicole and Jason , will attempt to find out exactly how the goo is distributed and created . After this happens , Mo will then coerce paranoid , very intense , military man , Colonel Malcolm Grommett Spears ( Paul Sorvino , hilarious as a leader so intense he could crush walnuts with his ass ) into assisting him in crushing the " goo regime . " As always , Moriarty has a ball as the laid-back , confident , cocky , non-chalant , quietly determined anti-hero who never wavers in his goal to find the truth for his employer , while also black-mailing a few along the way such as NYC businessman , Fletcher ( Patrick O'Neal ) . He's quite a spy who seems completely unflinching in the path of danger . I'm certain Cohen let him ad-lib with some zingers during very funny gore-scenes concerning humans falling to waste as the goo exits their mouths . There are scenes very reminiscent to The Blob where a river of white goo travels towards potential victims , often almost trapping them . There are some crude effects mixed with some stunning ones . I loved the icky effects where human faces melt as the goo comes up from inside them , out their mouths . We actually see a punch from Mo break apart a goo-infected man's face ! There's a truly bizarre scene where the goo attacks Mo and Nicole in their bedroom nearby the manufacturing plant where fire is used with very outrageous results . It seems that fire can be used as an agent to hurt the goo , such as when it attaches to the faces of victims . And , the commercials of The Stuff ( . . enough is never enough ) are perfectly realized jabs at marketers seducing the public to consume their products . I'm not sure myself what exactly Cohen is targeting , a many number of things I gather ( Coca-cola , hamburgers , who knows ? ) , but the end result tickles the funny-bone . He also pokes fun at the family dynamic as young Jason rebels against his parents ' wishes to eat his yogurt because " it's good for him . " Also , taking playful jabs at military men who are obsessive with their beliefs in evil Commies and secret conspiracies against America , using up-tight , foul-mouthed womanizing Colonel Spears ( . . initially Mo threatens Spears with certain evidence regarding his visit with a prostitute ) as a model . Sorvino just buries himself in this parody , head-to-toe . If you are familiar with Cohen's style , which is anything but conventional , then " The Stuff " will be a treat ( . . pun intended ) .
Donovan's Brain	Scientists Dr . Patrick Cory ( Lew Ayres ) and partner alcoholic Dr . Frank Schratt ( Gene Evans ) have successfully removed a living brain and have kept it from dying within a tank using an oscilloscope to measure the current and gain response to any reactions that might occur . Schratt tries to talk sense into Cory , because his actions ( which are for the greater good and benefit of mankind ) are illegal and could very well lead to his losing his medical license . But , losing his medical license will be the least of Cory's problems because the brain of a wealthy millionaire named Donovan gains control of the good doctor , growing stronger and healthier through a form of hypnotic suggestion ( . . Cory does admit to allowing Donovan control , not truly knowing the consequences of such a decision ) . The longer Donovan has control , the weaker Cory's hold is on his own body . Donovan begins plans to build a vault for his brain , using Cory to make shady , corrupt business dealings with past associates . It's known that Donovan failed to pay taxes and was a pariah to his family and those around him . His firm , aggressive , " don't take no for an answer " attitude begins to show itself ( as does physical traits such as a limp and this ugly , cold visage ) through the once tender , warm , loving Cory and soon his wife , Janice ( Nancy Davis ) and Frank begin to worry about him . The longer the brain has control of Cory the stronger and healthier it gets , with the powerful influence to force anyone in it's proximity to do whatever Donovan wills . Such as a crooked reporter whose camera takes a snapshot of Donovan's brain . . his blackmailing scheme threatens Donovan's plans . We see as the movie continues that the brain's powerful influence becomes too great to overcome even as Frank tries to shoot it with a pistol . Meanwhile , Donovan uses Cory's body to write checks , and with that money laying the groundwork for a vault to house his brain while also purchasing fancy suits , $2 cigars , and underhanded business associates he once worked with . As Donovan speaks through Cory to a former associate , " Mr . Donovan intends to dominate the international financial scene , and a fatal accident will occur to all who happen to stand in his way . " The blackmailing reporter finds out the hard way what that statement entails . . will Frank and Janice , suffer the tragic consequences of knowing too much as Donovan plans to finish them off ? This seems to have a rather lackluster rating on the IMDb , but I think it's quite brilliant in it's rich , intelligent script . . I'm guessing many find the flick dated and premise rather corny . I think the idea regarding a pulsating , living brain could command another ( . . and others ) to not only do it's bidding , but order those in close contact to even harm themselves quite a terrifying concept . The brain itself may also cause the film to receive criticism because it's basically rubber with a light glowing inside , submersed in a water tank . I loved Ayres performance as the victim of his science , even if it was for the welfare and benefits of helping others in the future . He actually shows the change from Cory to the notorious Donovan on his face . I certainly thought the dialogue was rich . I think this is a great B-movie , worth a look by less skeptical sci-fi fans who can see through the budgetary restrictions . Only the ending , with the help of an appropriate lightning strike that assists in helping our protagonists against the evil brain , " hurts " this film .
Murder , My Sweet	A jade necklace , a brute wishing to find a dame he loved from eight years back waiting patiently to being let out of prison , and a young woman wishing for the end of her father's marriage to a much younger woman are just the start of Marlowe's problems as he sinks into an abyss of untrustworthy characters in this marvelous film noir . Crackling , sharp observational dialogue full of metaphorical magic is perfectly placed in the trustworthy hands of a very good Dick Powell as Philip Marlowe who must somehow find this long-lost jaded necklace for it seems to be desired by several individuals . It seems the necklace's owner , Claire Trevor perfectly embodying the femme fatale , seems to be the center of all of Marlowe's troubles . But what does the big brute ( who nearly at certain points breaks Marlowe's neck when others misinform him of things the detective didn't do ) have to do with those scheming to get their hands on the missing jade ? The lovely Anne Shirley plays Ann Grayle , the daughter of the 60ish father married to much younger Trevor's Helen . Ann gets immersed in the plot as well as Marlowe often battles forces he never realized he'd ever face such getting walloped over the head several times from the back and drugged . RKO score another highlight noir with trippy visuals when Marlowe is drugged or hit over the head . The B & W photography is also top notch . Otto Kruger plays the villainous intellectual who desires the jade necklace and blackmailer of Hellen who also coerces Mike Mazurski's Moose , the brute , to choke a possible confession from Marlowe for whom he believes has the necklace ( he lies to Moose by way of Marlowe's hidden secret of the missing girl in order to get the massive man to assist him ) .
Sssssss	Doc Stoner ( Strother Martin , who most know as the warden in COOL HAND Luke who utters the famous line , " What we got here is a failure to communicate . " ) who has grown quite mad over the years , injects an innocent , kind-hearted college student , David ( Dirk Benedict ; Face of A-TEAM fame ) with an inoculation that is slowly turning him into a King Cobra . A missing student named Tim , we later find , was a tragic victim of Stoner's experiments in " tampering " with evolution so that civilization would continue after mankind was long past ( . . he's paranoid with the fact that mankind , as we know it , is certainly on the verge of collapse and extinction which fuels his obsessions with his work ) . What Stoner doesn't expect is that his daughter / assistant Kristina ( Heather Menzies of PIRANHA fame ) and David fall in love . Stoner , however , has grown diabolical and will kill one male behind the death of his pet snake and another quack doctor / professor , behind the school's granting him the annual grant that keeps his career going , who understands what he's up to regarding David , becoming lunch to his pet boa . Disturbing slow burning horror film works because we sympathize with David's eventual plight . He has no clue , at first , what the doctor is injecting him with . Also still , we witness David and Kristina's growing love for one another . But , the true terror is seeing poor David's agony and transformation as his insides and bone structure begin to shift . The make-up effects work well enough even if they are a bit hokey by today's standards . This film works more off the viewer's sympathies for the victim and what horrific lengths Stoner goes to see his work accomplished .
Hell in the Pacific	An American pilot , Lee Marvin , is stranded on a deserted island with enemy Japanese officer Toshirô Mifune . If they are to escape this island , they'll have to put their differences and feelings aside . The film shows their rocky relationship and language barriers . The film's strength ( besides Conrad Hall's visually stimulating cinematography ) is watching these two larger-than-life personalities clashing on an island together . Heck , it takes Marvin nearly thirty minutes just to sneak some water from Mifune's private stash . There's a definite culture clash with neither understanding the other the entire duration . Once they settle their differences by working together to build a raft , it's out on the treacherous Pacific Ocean with it's fierce winds , pounding rain & piercing hot sun . The film offers the possibility of a kinship that forms as both these men come to count on each other through a lot of tough times on and off the island . But , towards the end when they do find what appears to be the damaged ruins of an American outpost on a Japanese island , that possible developing friendship is shattered when they wake up and realize that while they were alone , a war was raging on between their respected peoples . There were two endings offered by director John Boorman . The one in the movie seems a bit abrupt and empty , while the alternate ending just feels right . They are sharing a drink celebrating how they made through the tumultuous hardships only to read a LIFE magazine reminding them of the war they were fighting .
Bucket of Blood	Poor simpleminded waiter , Walter Paisley ( perfectly brought to the screen by vet Dick Miller ) just wants to fit in with the self-important Beatnik " artists " at the Yellow Door coffeehouse . He's the object of jokes and ridicule as Walter amiably converses with them while his employer Leonard ( Antony Carbone ) just wants him to take the drinks to them with his mouth closed . When Walter makes a wax sculpture of a cat he accidentally kills and later a police officer undercover trying to catch dope-pushers mistakingly suspecting him of using , the waiter becomes an overnight celebrity . Although , his employer knows about the two killings , the profit and press that his café is getting is too overwhelmingly positive to report . So Walter then strangles a nude model , who insulted him in the coffeehouse , and it seems there's no turning back . He has fallen madly for Carla ( Barboura Morris ) , a beatnik herself highly respected amongst her peers and highly moved by the sculptures Walter makes . After the beheading of a factory worker , Walter's notorious habits for creating sculptures will soon get him in hot water . . how can someone like Walter get away with his murderous ways too long before something fishy isn't discovered ? The Beatnik arts are beautifully scathing thanks to the dark-humored screenplay which places a " nobody " amongst a crowd full on themselves . These are the kind of people who love the sound of their voices and act in a manner they deem cool . It's all performance and show , and Corman just pokes holes in their hilarious facade . A ton of fun for those with a macabre sense of humor or are genre fans of the wax-museum type horror flicks .
The Man from Planet X	A dying planet , turning to ice , is coming towards Earth at a steady pace ( thanks to " scientific degravitation " which was used to deviate the alien planet from it's natural orbit ) and Professor Elliot ( Raymond Bond ) informs a reporter pal , John Lawrence ( Robert Clarke ) of it's existence . Setting his lab in an old castle on a Scottish fishing village , Burry ( . . this location is where the alien planet will come to the closest ) , Elliot's daughter Enid ( Margaret Field ) and John discover as they are walking the moors a " magnetically powered range finder " ( . . used to determine the composition of the Earth's atmosphere ) whose metal is quite a find for science . Then that very night , after taking John to a little inn , Enid's car blows a tire . . . walking the moors she discovers a flashing light which soon unveils an alien space vessel , a one-bodied vehicle ( . . carrying the appearance of a silver ball with a cone-shaped top ) carrying a large-headed alien with an elongated face . Running for home , she informs her father and his associate , a rejected scientist recently released from prison , Dr . Mears ( character actor William Schallert ) of what she found . The professor , at first , has a hard time swallowing her outrageous story until finding the space vessel himself . A ray from the vessel beams upon the professor's eyes rendering him an object of servitude which would point out an ability this alien has at commanding humans to do it's bidding , forced against their will . But , at first , the alien seems to desire communication , particularly when the professor saves it from dying after a malfunction on it's suit ( . . and not being able to reach it's own " oxygen " gage which feeds it the air it breathes ) . But , Dr . Mears has plans to use the alien to benefit his diabolical schemes at global power , and shutting a good deal of his air supply while the others are away ( . . as a means to control the alien ) angers the creature who gets away , capturing Enid and subsequently kidnapping citizens of Burry by using it's powerful ray to submit their will . Using the controlled humans at his disposal the alien is setting up a wireless directional beam to his approaching planet who plan to launch an invasion . With Professor Elliot , daughter Enid , and Mears all under the alien's command , John will seek aid from Tommy ( Roy Engel ) , the village constable whose also worried about his citizens , those being captured and the terrified families . Calling in Scotland Yard detectives , using a long-shot form of communication , they will have to move quickly before the planet gets to Earth by Midnight or else the people of Earth face grave danger . Edgar G Ulmer uses everything at his disposal to make this modest little sci-fi chiller . Sets , models , matte paintings , a grotesque alien mask for the creature in a full bodied suit , a unique little alien ship , effective fog machines which give the moors a creepiness and atmosphere , and Ulmer , of course , brings his noirish background in photographing the film rather beautifully ( . . the way Ulmer shadows his characters and how he photographs them at night ) . If you are gonna make a low budget sci-fi effort , then Ulmer , a true artist , is the director to call on . But , the film is intelligent enough with characters who seem reasonably realistic . The alien threat / mystery ( . . what are the alien's initial motivations before and after Mears makes a decision to threaten it's life ? ) and approaching planet which possibly threatens the atmospheric nature of the Earth if it gets too close , truly gives the film a leg to stand on and the B-movie cast ( . . what you might find in a 40's Universal horror flick ) are top-notch . The film doesn't overstay it's welcome and thanks to Ulmer , the budget he saddled with doesn't distract because he's able to create through the use of his skills a real plausible world for which the story takes place . This is a sleeper worth checking out if you are into these sci-fi " potential alien threat " creature feature flicks . I respect Ulmer more for being able to succeed while being so financially strapped .
Curse of the Werewolf	A child is born with a curse after his mute mother , a young servant woman of the cruel Marques Siniestro ( Anthony Dawson ) who was thrown in a dungeon because she wouldn't put out and subsequently raped by a crazed beggar who had resided in that chamber for quite a long time . The mute murders Marques once she is released and takes to the wilderness where Don Alfredo Corledo ( Clifford Evans ) finds her immersed in the river . She dies while birthing the child who , coming into the world a bastard son with parents who never should have been in any type of sexual contact thanks to a mad beggar locked away in a dungeon far too long , is born on the Lord's birthday . Under the superstitions of Teresa ( Hira Talfrey ) , Corledo's servant , she believes the child is doomed because of his birthright . Corledo takes him as his nephew and names the child Leon . When goats begin to turn up dead with their necks sliced open , Pepe the Watchman ( Warren Mitchell ) comes under heavy scrutiny for not doing his job correctly . In our minds we assume who is behind those dreaded animal killings . Leon , a young boy ( played by Justin Walters ) who just hates the sight of blood suffers a bullet wound which indicates a possible sign that he's the wolf running around killing the sheep for that very night Pepe shot a wolf prowling within the goats . Later , though , we find that it was actually a wolf committing the misdeeds when Leon is locked away in his room by bars Corledo installs when his nephew talks of nightmares about changing into a werewolf . As a grown adult , Leon ( now played the rest of the film by Oliver Reed , with a fine tortured performance ) now wishes to get off on his own with Alfredo believing in his heart that the young man is cured of his " illness . " Talking with a priest , Alfredo and he believe that the only cure for Leon is love . Love can battle the other ailments that conjure that werewolf beast inside at the Full Moon . We later learn that love does exactly that when , as Leon seems on the verge of turning , a new forbidden love in his life ( Christina , played by Catherine Feller ) is there by his side . Christina's father , Don Fernando ( Ewen Solon ) wishes for his daughter to marry a man of wealth and means in an arranged deal despite how she feels for another in secret . When Leon accidentally kills his friend and two others , Don can get rid of the man who has been ruining his planned marriage . This film gave me what I desired from a werewolf film . . it gives you an origin story . It tries to set up a reasonable solution to why anyone would become a werewolf , and this film produces the curse as one possibly from God . It's better than nothing which is often the case in werewolf films where someone just bites another and the action begins . This film sets out to tell the perilous disadvantages of being under such a devastating curse which makes you do things you don't want to do like kill uncontrollably . The performance of Reed is key to the success of the film because he's playing a tragic character who only wishes to live peacefully and happy , but can not because of a bad lineage . The costume is average , but Reed makes up for that . Lots of blood splatter , though , from the wreckage the monstrous wolf leaves behind in it's wake .
The Pearl of Death	This time a sought after Borgia Pearl is the object of desire , worth snapping the lumbar vertebrae of many unfortunate victims ' backs at the hands of the sinister Creeper ( Rondo Hatton ) , working for a lecherous thief , the devilish , elusive Giles Conover ( Miles Mander ) . Sherlock Holmes and Dr . Watson are out to discover why innocent people are found dead , their china dishes broken all over the crime scenes . A Borgia Pearl was stolen by Conover in a daring heist actually caused when Holmes himself proved to the museum curator that his security system was flawed , inadvertently assisting the conniving con artist who almost got away with it . Conover had to get rid of the pearl temporarily and Holmes & Watson soon discover that it was hidden in one of six plaster busts of Napoleon . . it's essential that Holmes get to the bust containing the pearl before Conover and The Creeper do , or else another victim might be targeted . Of course , Holmes must contend with Scotland Yard's Inspector Lastrade ( Dennis Hoey ) , who is assigned to the rash of serial killings , having to tolerate his temperament and obtrusive attitude . Along the way , Holmes ' life is in danger because he poses a threat to Conover's plans . Universal Studio's regular Evelyn Ankers has a substantial supporting role as Conover's lovely partner-in-crime , Naomi Drake , who uses aliases and disguises to secure information for her protégé . Hatton's The Creeper is quite an effectively spooky villain , barely seen but quite established thanks to director Roy William Neill's superb methods of building his presence until his reveal late into the film . Rathbone is more intense in this film , because of his treatment by authoritative figures and the press who blame him personally for the loss of the pearl , and Bruce's lovable Watson almost gets his best friend killed when Conover attempts to kill the Baker Street sleuth with a book containing a springing dagger . Mander , as Conover , has a very wily villain which contends with Moriarty as one of Holmes ' more despicable and challenging foes . The Universal Studios production values add immensely to the beautiful look of the film and this cast couldn't be much better . Macabre plot , to boot .
The Iron Rose	A young couple meet at a wedding party and decide to try a date . It starts out as frolicking on the grounds of an old train station as flirting commences . They decide to have a small picnic inside a cemetery and are so drawn to each other sexually , that the couple will seek out a warm spot to make love . . that being an underground crypt ( . . yes , certainly a bit morbid , but just wait until the next place they find for a make-out session ) . As night is upon them , the path leading to the opening gate seems lost in the dark , and our couple can not seem to find an escape route . Their relationship begins to unravel before it has a chance to grow . The young woman , in the opening of the film , found a peculiar iron rose in the ocean of a beach . This rose she feels will guide her to a place of love and happiness . The young female lead of this picture , the longer she remains in the cemetery , grows more and more mad as her newly required male lover becomes a victim of her lunacy . Through poetic rhyme , we get a glimpse into her shattering psyche and her male counterpart will become swallowed whole by it . . his fate is determined when she holds this idea that the outside world is dead and the only true life is within the grave with those who have long since died . Yep , she's bonkers . A love affair between the young female and the cemetery blossoms as we watch her orchestrate balletic movement throughout the grounds , embracing death now fully conceived as the only true way towards happiness . Now , I do realize a film such as this will certainly frustrate many , but I found it stunning . While the plot is simple , I felt Rollin's goal was to embrace the macabre atmosphere of the cemetery in every way possible . To be honest , I can't think of a better location to set a horror film than in a graveyard with those ancient tombstones , dying railings , rusty gates that screech and moan , & deteriorating crucifixes lining the grounds as masses of shrubbery and night invade and engulf . Rollin's camera lovingly captures the female actress in shots around angel statues that have seen better days , holding skulls , gently caressing her iron rose , and dancing in a state of bliss throughout the cemetery . . even when she's lost to insanity , her beauty glistens . Some haunting dream-like shots of the cemetery as dawn begins to appear , the ocean with the naked female lead and her rose , etc . The most morbid and wild scene in the film , I believe , is the one where the couple make out in a burial pit of scattered skulls and bones , the male lead fell into while trying , in a state of panic , to find his way out . Rollin introduces the creepy make-out session with a counterclockwise camera spin pointedly at a dazed male lead trying to gather his wits as the female lead looks down at him . She dives in , they clutch each other , and begin to embrace as skulls and bones move about behind them . . it's really a scene that goes beyond the realm of normal behavior . Various interlopers walking the grounds during the daytime ( each a little wink from Rollin such as the sad clown dragging his flowers toward the grave of a loved one or a familiar vampire barely glimpsed entering a crypt ) add some bonus oddness to this Gothic extravaganza . Either you love it or hate it . . I doubt there'll be much middle ground .
The Mummy's Hand	Anhotep ( George Zucco ) is commissioned by the dying High Priest of Karnak ( Eduardo Ciannelli ) to protect the secret tomb of Ananka from " unbelievers " who'd dare defile / desecrate her tomb , removing it's treasures . Anhotep is given instructions by the High Priest to use Kharis ( Tom Tyler ) , an undead Egyptian imprisoned in bandages ( . . through amazing embalming methods ) for breaking the sacred rules of the gods for attempting to resurrect Ananka with Tana leaves , to kill anyone ( . . such as members of expeditions ) which dare to seek out her tomb or disturb it . But , Anhotep must , each night during the cycle of the full moon , dissolve three Tana leaves which will keep Kharis ' heart beating . When others threaten to desecrate the tomb of Ananka , Anhotep will dissolve nine Tana leaves to give Kharis life and movement . The " Tana soup " motivates Kharis to kill anyone near the vial containing what will indeed provide him life . Two down-on-their-luck archaeologists , Steve Banning ( Dock Foran ) & clownish Babe Jensen ( Wallace Ford , the film's comedy relief , providing belly laughs with his silly antics ) are in Cairo when they come across a vase from a beggar in the bazaar which contains hieroglyphics which might provide the way to Ananka's tomb . When Banning questions an archaeological colleague , Dr . Petrie ( Charles Trowbridge ) about it's potential , he questions the Professor of Cairo Museum , who just so happens to be Anhotep ! Moving forward despite Anhotep's various methods to trump any kind of expedition , Banning and Babe find a monetary suitor in " The Great Solvani " , Tim Sullivan ( Cecil Kellaway , who is a hoot pulling all kinds of magic tricks , providing the audience with yet another source for comedy , often on Babe ) who buys into their pitch for profit if Ananka's tomb is discovered . But , he has a daughter , Marta ( the spunky and lovely Peggy Moran ) who is visited by Anhotep telling her of swindlers who might rob her pops blind using him for a fake expedition . Anhotep also harbors a lustful attraction for her . At first resistant of Banning and Babe , she soon discovers their legitimacy as they pursue the tomb . Instead of finding Ananka's tomb , however , they make a far more dangerous discovery . . the burial chamber of Kharis . As the Egyptian workers who assisted them on the expedition flee for the hills , Anhotep will have a street spy ( Sig Arno ) infiltrate Banning's camp placing the vials of Tana soup in tents so that Kharis will kill those who draw near . Will Banning and company survive or will Anhotep succeed in his task to annihilate anyone who dares threaten Ananka's tomb ? This was a good little surprise . Tyler's affective mummy , Kharis ( . . a replacement for Inhotep from the first film ) is quite creepy thanks to the superb work of Jack Pierce , regarding the bandages which have become " living tissue " forming his " new face " . Those black eyes sure work to provide extra chills . Great cast , top to bottom . The comedy actually doesn't detract , but enhances the character's likability . Foran is a dashing , charming lead with Zucco a terrific villainous rival , with hate running through his veins for those who'd dare disturb the tombs of his people . Also affective is Ciannelli as the High Priest who as all the best lines ( " You hear ? Children of the night . They howl above the Hill of the Seven Jackals when Kharis must be fed . " ) who provides motivation for his apprentice , Anhotep . Magnificent sets ( . . I read that the temple scenes were appropriated from the film " The Green Hell " ) also enhance the overall film . In my humble opinion , this is one of the finest Universal franchise sequels ever made . Every aspect of the production is top notch . There's a terrific inserted scene of a howling jackal right before Kharis strikes for the first time . Like in future sequels , Kharis has a limp and lame arm which can be used at times to lift . . but most of the time , Kharis strangles his victims with his one good arm . The other sequels sadly are rather repetitious and uninspired . While Tyler cuts a formidable Kharis , Lon Chaney's later incarnation is disappointing .
Infection	An understaffed , over-worked hospital crew faces the daunting task of trying to give their patients proper care due to the fact that resources such as supplies and hired help are lacking . Even worse is the fact that the staff must turn down any new incoming patients because of their problems . Due to criminal negligence , regarding the accidental death of a burn victim ( the recipient of a nurse's embarrassingly awful use of hypodermic needles . . he falls out of bed because he sees her coming towards him with yet another needle and tries to flee ! ) when a nurse confuses chloride with chlorate when Dr . Akiba ( Kôichi Satô ) orders for it as they try to keep him from dying . Realizing that this death might cost them their jobs for good , the staff decide to speed up his decay by heating the body . Meanwhile , a paramedic brings in an infected body for the staff to attend to , but Dr . Akiba tries to explain that the hospital just can't see any more patients . Despite refusal to take the infected patient in need of immediate care , the paramedic leaves the body in the ER . Infection takes the life of one patient setting off an airborne pathogen which infects members of the hospital staff . The infection liquefies the internal organs with the body eventually dissolving into a green goo . The head of the staff , Dr . Akai ( Shirô Sano ) sees dollar signs and press if they can find a cure for the pathogen and recommends not informing the health department so they can study . Akai sees them as pioneers-in-the-making if they can stop the infection in it's tracks . Following this suggestion is a fatal error as the entire staff begin to die off . They hallucinate , often seeing patients that they didn't properly treat or serve well . . we begin to see how guilt ( often the director of the film goes back to the dead burn victim so we won't forget what this staff is trying to cover up ) is destroying each staff member's mind , seeping into their subconscious before infection takes hold . Very bleak horror film gets more and more disturbing as it continues . . it's really quite unnerving . Every character is painted in a corner for past mistakes , especially for what happens to the burn victim . The film takes one heck of a wild turn at the end giving new meaning to the infection . . it may symbolize something else entirely . Good , bone-chilling thriller squeezes every ounce of creepiness from the nightmarish hospital . The ending may be a bit too mind-blowing for some users because something completely unusual , a certain psychological twist , comes right out of left field changing the whole experience of the flick . Quite well made . I recommend it .
Zombi 2	Lucio Fulci's sequel to Argento's European cut of Romero's Dawn of the Dead , Zombi , has a journalist , Peter West ( Ian McCulloch ) , assigned to fish out clues regarding a sail boat that was discovered floating with a zombie inside , and the daughter of a missing doctor , Anne ( Tisa Farrow ) hitching a ride on the boat of American vacationers , Brian & Susan ( Al Cliver & Auretta Gay ) heading for Matool , a Caribbean island accursed with a strange plague turning the diseased and dying into zombie flesh eaters at the moment of death . Also strange is the corpses of those who have been dead for quite some time rising from their graves to chomp and chew on the available human flesh of the living . Anne's father was one of two scientific physicians attempting to study and discover the cause and cure for this bizarre plague . Dr . David Menard ( Richard Johnson ) is troubled at his lack of answers for this phenomenon as he watches his friends and island population falling prey to whatever has caused such death and sickness . Menard was a partner and beloved friend to Anne's father , having to shoot him in the head after he had died of the same sickness killing everyone in the area . Widespread superstitions from the islanders blame voodoo for causing the devastating plague ravaging the land . Peter , Anne , Brian & Susan arrive not knowing that the zombies would soon overwhelm them with few places to hide . Brian and Susan's boat was hit by a shark causing damage needing repair . The Lucio Fulci gore film that launched a devoted legion of guts'n'blood fans , dye-in-the-wool hardcore following continuing to this very day . While the story isn't a breakthrough , this is an effects movie all the way . The make-up grue is the stuff of legend . Necks among other limbs are bitten into with flesh ripped away and blood squirting from the wounds and gashes , guts and organs are removed and eaten for supper , Olga Karlatos ' ( . . who portrays Menard's hysterically frightened wife , Paola ) eyeball is pierced into a sharp hunk of broken wood from her damaged front door due to a zombie who would not stop until he got his hands on her , heads are caved in by shovels , gunshots blow apart rotted faces , and an underwater zombie does battle with a shark losing an arm in the process . I mean , a zombie battling with a shark , it's such a eye-opening experience , wacky while at the same time spell-binding . . but , no one can't say it isn't original ! The Spanish Conquistadors rising from their graves , their skin and faces deteriorated to the point that very few features remain other than skeletal form and moving worms , is a masterwork of atmosphere that deserves to be applauded , even by his harshest critics . Lucio Fulci's zombies are not only creepy , but they are also fierce and violent . They move pretty much like Romero's zombies , but are so ferocious when they grab the body parts of humans they wish to tear into . The zombie action is set to a very effective score . . Giorgio Cascio and Fabio Frizzi use some tribal music when the film centers on the island , but the catchy rhythmic tune introducing the ghouls as rise from their dirt naps or slowly walking towards potential meals ( Fulci would go to this particular score again at the end of his popular zombie movie , Gates of Hell ) is really a memorable score that certainly generates an effectiveness at the very end ( . . or when the zombie descend upon the the dead village towards Menard's sacristy for the climactic humans vs . zombies showcase ) . The zombies are killed using the same method established for the genre in regards to Romero's walking dead . . gunshots or major damage to their heads . Those who adore this gorefest embrace Fulci's extreme presentation while this will certainly repulse and offend many . Fulci rarely displays restraint when it comes to his zombie films , those who die do so often quite horribly . While this is a straight-forward zombie film regarding a plague which would soon arrive on the shores of New York City , Fulci's future work in this popular sub-genre would certainly grow stranger and more incoherent , using zombies in outrageous ways , his story-telling methods changing drastically . " Zombi 2 " is a brand new chapter in the Fulci cannon as his films went from focusing on a stylistic visualization of stories and characters to bloody violence and extremely unorthodox approaches to killing people .
White Palace	While I don't believe the end result for a second , this film will do whatever it takes to make us believe the relationship between 44 year old Nora Baker and 27 year old Max Baron can work . The age-gap isn't as difficult to accept as their ethnic and financial differences . Baron is a wealthy , successful Jewish business exec and Nora is a waitress at a hamburger joint . The film , though , with all it's might , tries to make us believe that , yes , they can still maintain a loving relationship despite all the certain trials that lie ahead . Both have had loss in their life , both find each other attractive , and when they are together the chemistry and passion is simply magnetic . It's the idea of who and what they are outside the personal relationship . Susan Sarandon's performance as the waitress is a winner because she shows her as fearless , dynamic , and flawed . . but she doesn't ask for pity and accepts that life doesn't always deal everyone a great hand . She goes after the younger man , loves him , she is thankful he continues coming by her house to stay . That aggressiveness to go after what she wants without worrying about what others might say ( . . though , she is very vulnerable and doesn't have faith in the strength of the relationship lasting ) . Spader finally has a chance to portray a likable character who just wants to feel something again . With Nora , he has that joy and the stars are aligned . I will say that this film has lots of things going for it . The dialogue does allow Sarandon to expand her character beyond a cliché . You like her despite whatever faults you might see glaringly . Spader is able to expand into uncharted territory as a person we can care about instead of loathe . There's also a marvelous supporting cast which fill the film with color . But , startlingly , this film is also sexually passionate and pulls no punches showing the animal attraction these two have for each other .
The Devil's Backbone	The lives of boys during a tumultuous time in their country of Spain during a civil war at a little schoolhouse miles away from any form of civilization are effected by Jacinto ( Eduardo Noriega ) who desires gold bars hidden in a safe within a kitchen . Jacinto , sometime in his life , lost any humanity as this obsession for those gold bars took over . He's also the reason behind a quiet tragedy deemed a runaway by the adult radicals ( communists , they call each other reds and take in children whose parents were killed or abandoned as war ravaged the land ) whose ghost haunts a specific room containing a dirty pool . That ghost is nicknamed , " the one who sighs " and one new arrival , brought to the school by someone who was tutoring him but has to go back to war , named Carlos ( Fernando Tielve ) sees him and talks with him . There's a reason this child named Santi has remained between this realm and the next and that is for revenge . Carlos can be the guide for Santi . Jaime ( Íñigo Garcés ) is a young artist who was friends with Santi and saw the whole terrible ordeal take place . But , that tragedy isn't even close compared to what Jacinto will ultimately do to get his bars of gold . The school / orphanage is ran by two radicals / liberals named Casares ( Federico Luppi ) and Carmen ( Marisa Paredes ) . Both are always on edge wondering if those who execute commies will ever find out two other reds are nearby . Ultimately , the violence that erupts and sadly effects the lives of innocents is solely blamed on Jacinto's gold lust . Sometimes ghosts have a way of returning the favor , however , and soon enough Jacinto will reap what he has sown . Beautifully conceived and gripping film from the talented visual stylist director Guillermo de Toro . He's able to communicate the horrors of war and poverty as it effects others , especially children . . this is truly at the heart of this film . It uses the ghost story elements to draw you in , but this is about the sad state of affairs that often yield from a land destroyed by greed and death . We see the ones effected here . Jacinto is the adult example of a child losing his way and only seeing gold bars as his means for escaping his melancholy . How that desperation effects those around him is shown to us vividly .
Girl Slaves of Morgana Le Fay	A philosophy student , Françoise ( the simply gorgeous Mireille Saunin ) on a holiday trip with best friend and fellow student Anna ( Michéle Perello ) , who has a desire towards being a professional comic-book artist , pass through a sleepy village , getting creeped out not only by locals within a rickety tavern , but especially from this dwarf Gurth ( Alfred Baillou ) . They hit the road , making the mistake of taking a back road , running out of petrol and decidedly spend the night in a cold barn , sleeping on a hay spread . Overcome with desire for each other Anna makes a sexual advance and Françoise accepts with a slight make-out session commencing . Awakening the next morning , Françoise finds Anna missing , with the creepy dwarf Gurth waiting outside with directions towards where to find her . Leading Françoise to the decadent castle of Morgana Le Fay ( Dominique Delpierre ) , Françoise finds herself unable to break the supernatural grip of this new place and hostess . Morgana is a goddess who rules over her kingdom and the grounds around her abode and Françoise finds herself with no exit available . Worse yet is the fact that Anna has become Morgana's eternal slave , and Françoise will be faced with the crisis of never being able to leave this alternate world outside the reality she calls home . Jealous of Morgana's blossoming transfixed love for the beautiful , alluring Françoise , her chosen " siren three " will secretly plot against the intruder so that she will be banished from the kingdom , or worse yet sent into the fold of the olders who would not accept the goddess ' offer of eternal beauty , left as an example for all the women caught within the confines of this fantasy world . I consider " Girl Slaves of Morgana Le Fay " to be the perfect embodiment of the male fantasy . 99 % of the film features women , naked under flowing gowns , or embracing in lesbian acts of lust . Utilizing the supernatural dream-like scenario set-up , director Bruno Gantillon can operate without restraint , allowed an opportunity to use any kind of mythical " gadget " at his disposal ( talismans , enchantment spells , a goddess / queen / witch who can grant eternal youth if they submit their souls to her ) . I personally enjoy the sight of beautiful women , although I found that under the power of Morgana , despite the constant nakedness and lesbian sex , there's this repressed sadness and depressing atmosphere . . Morgana has forced these women to make a choice without any sort of escape . Sure , for lovely women , the thought of eternal beauty is enticing perhaps , but limiting their options at having to remain under her jurisdiction removes the joy of love-making or sexual contact . There's one scene where dwarf Gurth commands the women under him to make-out and they do so with cold , bored expressions . . making out has become a chore , considering they've perhaps been doing this for many a year . And , we can see that Morgana rules with cruelty , often barking orders ( . . sure this might provide an erotic aesthetic , the idea of a woman ordering a multitude of nubile beauties to do this and that for her , as they soldier on without complaint , like robotic servants ) to her dwarf Gurth , hopelessly in love with his master ( . . and always rejected with coldly hostile insults ) and female underlings . The protagonist Mireille Saunin is quite a trooper . . she has a great lesbian sequence with Morgana's lead siren , a short make-out session with Michéle Perello in the barn which I thought was set-up nicely , and she's very attractive ( . . quite a sight for sore eyes , mostly either naked , or donning revealing clothing ) . Saunin is the ideal French innocent , overwhelmed by a strange and alluring world , which she finds both enticing and terrifying . I also felt Dominique Delpierre has an amazing presence on screen as Morgana . . a steely , domineering presence which grabs you when she appears . I think you truly feel that she has complete control and no escape seems possible unless the right kind of beauty can chink her armor , which is why I felt that the casting of such a lovely creature as Saunin as Françoise is ideal to the success of this erotic fantasy . I think the open-ending is quite stunning . . a decision Françoise chooses really provides food for thought . Would you pass up the opportunity to remain as lovely as you are for the idea of growing into a haggard , wrinkled lady ?
Vampyros lesbos	" The Queen of the Night will bear you up on her dark wings . " I guess you can look at " Vampyros lesbos " as director Jesús Franco's 70's modern variation on Bram Stoker's Dracula using Soledad Miranda as the seductive female lesbian vampire who took lessons from her master ( . . that being Count Dracula ) in capturing victims through a form of hypnotic lust , invading women through their dreams . You could say that Ewa Strömberg's Linda , an agent whose firm , Simpson & Simpson , is handling Dracula's will which would entitle that his inheritance of the Kadidados islands ( . . and everything on it ) be left to her , is Mina , the object for which Carody desires to " initiate into her inner circle . " Andrés Monales , as Linda's lover Omar , would be the Jonathan Harker , the one who stands between Carody and her paramour . There really isn't a strong candidate for Van Helsing . . it seems like Dennis Price , as scientist Dr . Alwin Seward , who runs a clinic and studies vampirism , would be , but he harbours a desire to be a vampire himself so he could obtain supernatural powers . Within Seward's clinic is Agra ( Heidrun Kussin ) , who is the Renfield of the film , except instead of madness , she's more overcome by a state of constant orgasm , wantonly desiring to return to Carody , locked up in Seward's clinic . Her husband is Memmet ( . . portrayed by the director in one of his typically bizarre roles ) , who works at a hotel which charters a small boat to ferry people to Carody's island . Memmet is actually a psychotic torturer ( . . who likes to sucker females into the hotel wine cellar where he binds them before the nasty business ) whose madness derives from the fact that Carody " changed " his wife into a lunatic only yearning for her touch . Paul Muller is given , frankly , a thankless role as Linda's psychiatrist who believes her rantings of being haunted by fantasies of Carody is merely bad sex . Carody's relationship to Dracula , subtly mentioned here and there in the film , comes from an incident near a castle she lived overcome by depravity and violence . Men were ravaging the village women , attempting to rape her ( . . this also provides the emphasis on why she hates men ) , dragging her from her castle . . Dracula killing the man on top of her , subsequently " adopting " Carody into his family . Carody mentions how she was the woman who made his life worth living and that he always desired her body , taking just enough blood he needed to survive finally turning her into a vampire . The Turkish locations are definitely highlighted in this film as Franco's camera embraces various aspects of his setting . But , the pleasure for me is Soledad Miranda . The many ways Franco shoots her , the character is all hers . Of her short few lead roles , I think this , " She Killed in Ecstasy " & " Eugenie de Sade " each display her hold on the viewer . Whether it be her very unusual stage act where she dresses a " human mannequin " for an audience before biting her assistant's neck , the way her face is lit , or the abstract camera angles ; it seems Franco wants you to see her as a very special creature , not meant for our world . Whether she's naked , in a bikini , or wearing lingerie on stage , Miranda is a showcase for our viewing pleasure . She's a dark-eyed goddess to me , a portrait on celluloid . I would definitely say Miranda's iconic accessory for this particular film is her red scarf . It's around her neck almost always . José Martínez Blanco is Carody's henchman Morpho , with dead eyes which stare right through you . The score only heightens the otherworldly nature Franco's direction brings to this fantasy . It's a vampire film , but I felt it embraces the erotic side rather than the violence often elaborated in Dracula adaptations . Sure , Carody's bites , but I think this is more about her seduction and entrapment over female victims she desires than the relishing bite on the jugular for flowing blood . I think the ultimate nourishment for a vampire like Carody is capturing the heart and soul of her victim , not their lifeforce .
The Grapes of Death	A grape harvest festival , located in a wine region of France , yields an infected village . . those who drank wine made from a nearby vineyard , whose grapes were sprayed with a created pesticide , are infected with flesh-eating sores which ooze puss and blood , rotting their brains causing homicidal mania to the point that they turn on those they love . Traveling to meet her fiancé ( . . the very one responsible for making the pesticide causing the zombie plague ) at the village vineyard of Rubelais , Elizabeth's ( Marie-Georges Pascal ) train stops at a station picking up an infected passenger who murders her traveling companion coming after her . Fleeing the train , Elizabeth enters the vast landscape of a beautiful French countryside , with " rocks everywhere reaching to the sky like trees " , not knowing what terrors await her . Along the way she runs into an infected father who murders his infected daughter right before her eyes with a pitchfork ( . . before crushing him with their car she leaves in ) , an infected man pleading for help bashing his oozing forehead through her car window , a blind girl needing directions back to her native village , the devastated village with burning bonfires spitting flame throughout while dead bodies lay rotting in the streets , village zombies with violent intent , the blind girl's infected boyfriend , and a crazy beauty ( the ravishing Brigitte Lahaie . . her scene in a see-through nightgown pulling two great danes is quite a memorable image to say the least ) whose perfect naked body shows no signs of infection although she wears her lunacy like a badge of honor . Luckily for Elizabeth , she is rescued by two uninfected construction workers , Paul ( Félix Marten ) , with rifle in tow , and Lucien ( Serge Marquand ) with the necessary sticks of dynamite when needed . Making their way to the vineyard of her fiancé , Elizabeth will seek her love for answers to what caused such a horrifying ordeal . Tragic consequences ensue . Have you ever seen a sophisticated zombie gore film ? Rollin's take on the zombie genre isn't the same blunt instrument of grue that we often are used to seeing , although the French director does turn up the dial on delivering some nasty facial sores which release yucky colors and goo . The pitchfork scene is certainly a highlight . . and Rollin's camera remains on the victim's stabbed body as she dies with the pitchfork sticking out . The French countryside is utilized by Rollin well ( . . would you expect anything otherwise ? ) showing us a gorgeous unpopulated picturesque space , uninhabited by the zombie hordes . Certainly an alternative to the awful low budget bloodbaths that have glutted movie shelves since Romero's movies broke the cinematic mold for gory violence . Not to say Rollin doesn't display a few gruesome highlights despite the pitchfork scene . One wacky moment shows an infected citizen beheading his female lover , stuck to a door with nails through her hands , and blouse ripped displaying her breasts ! Oh , and Rollin adds to the hysteria of the scene by showing him planting a slobbery kiss to the lips of the disembodied head as he dies ! Lahaie sure captures your attention as well . . she disrobes in a completely gratuitous scene showing the two uninfected males that she has no sores . Pascal , as the tragic heroine , tries to show a woman losing her sanity as she bares witness to the non-stop parade of insanity occurring around her . I found her a bit over the top , but I guess we must look at what was happening and put her character's plight into proper perspective . Here's Lahaie , having arranged for the zombies to have their way with her , coming towards Liz with a lighted stick as flames threaten to burn her face . If that wasn't enough , she watches as an innocent falls prey to her infected lover , not being able to stop what will eventually happen . And , to cap it off , Liz must face the fact that her fiancé not only caused the plague but is also a victim of his creation . So , I guess I can see some heightened overacting ( . . pulling into her hair , screeching , with eyes bulging ) being feasible under the circumstances . At the very end , Pascal displays her character as a silent shell of her former self , no longer the young woman full of life at the very beginning . . Elizabeth has been put through the ringer . Although , " The Iron Rose " is still my personal favorite Rollin film , this may very well be his best one . I think " Grapes of Death " certainly shows a filmmaker who has taken complete command of his craft .
Zero Woman : Red Handcuffs	After she kills an American diplomat known for leaving dead women after rounds of sadistic sex , undercover cop Zero ( Miki Sugimoto ) is thrown in the pen to rot ( . . she is attacked by female prisoners during the credits ! ) . When a public political figure's daughter is raped and kidnapped by a group of hoods , Zero is offered a chance to redeem herself . . by infiltrating their gang , assassinating them , and retrieving the girl . It will not be easy considering their leader was just recently released from prison and is clearly unstable . . his face often twists into a homicidal rage when completely provoked . We witness just how uncontrollable his mania can be when a young member of his gang attempts to help their prisoner escape , bashing a bottle over the kid's head as blood squirts from the wounds . Zero is able to earn the gang leader's trust by helping him escape the clutches of cops who had him surrounded , getting access into the brotherhood , but suffers through a series of sexual attacks and physical abuse , while holding an amazing resolve , focused on the task at hand . Meanwhile , Zero's boss , President Nagumo's man in charge , follows the leads she provides , accompanied by a host of cops who plan to do what's necessary to quiet any type of possible scandal . If the idea that a scandal might come out , Nagumo will order the unthinkable to help his political career remain untainted . Zero may very will have to not only contend with the unhinged group of thugs , but those who hired her just so that a politician can keep his life free of scandal . One thing's for certain , director Yukio Koda knows how to deliver brisk action set-pieces featuring startling amounts of bloody violence . There's a definite amount of unpleasant sexual abuse towards female victims thanks in part to the nasty gang who often attack on a whim . . in fact , they only discover that they have raped and kidnapped the daughter of a major political giant only after consulting their " sis " , Sesum ( Yôko Mihara ) who provides them with a place to stay ( . . she's also one of the prisoners who attacks Zero in the opening ) . We see how unpredictable they can be when they besiege a group of school girls studying for a Shakespearian play , raping and abusing them in a very hostile manner , even setting the house on fire with them tied up and unable to escape . Miki Sugimoto is a rock of strength , an ice-queen avenger who is able to withstand quite a bit of punishment because of her profound devotion to fulfilling her duty as required . She's also stunningly beautiful and carries a confident , cool disposition which defines many heroine undercover assassins in Japanese action crime thrillers . The use of the red handcuffs is preposterous . . Zero is able to throw the cuffs locking whatever body part she so wishes as if a magician with an unprecedented marksman's skill . Lots of thick textured blood pours from bullet riddled wounds during shootouts and the hand cuffs even stab a throat causing gushing red . A pretty cringe-worthy torture scene also occurs as we witness techniques used to coerce information from one amongst the group ( . . using a blow torch , vice-grip , and water hose ) . This is over all far less disturbing than it could've been because of how director Koda lenses the attacks , cleverly showing less than appears yet still stirring up a reaction from the viewer . Such as the rapes , you witness the clothes ripped away , but Koda is able to keep actual penetration away from the screen , yet you still feel the intensity and terror felt by the victims and the despicable thrill captured on the faces of the tormentors . Shooting in some incredibly difficult angles , Koda also impresses with his impeccable camera-work . Despite familiar trappings we are accustomed to ( . . undercover operation to get a victim out of the hands of criminals using a cop with unorthodox methods ) , Koda films it all with style and skill .
Haunts	Herb Freed ( Graduation Day ; Beyond Evil ) directs this psychological melodrama ( . . with elements of a slasher ) regarding the effects on a small town , and especially troubled Ingrid ( May Britt ) , as a sexual predator stalks vulnerable women at night with a pair of scissors after raping them . Ingrid is haunted by memories from childhood regarding finding her mother dead in a bathtub and possible sexual abuse at the hands of " reliable " Uncle Carl ( Cameron Mitchell , whose role is minor until the enigmatic ending where he supposedly returns to Ingrid's home where memories of his own resurface after being away for a while ) . It seems that Ingrid is being stalked by the town stud , Frankie ( William Gray Espy ) , who even rapes her in her own bedroom , holding scissors to her throat . Ingrid is a deeply devout Catholic who is suffering hallucinations thanks to her past ( . . blood is a constant ) and seems incredibly uncomfortable around men . Husky voiced , alcoholic sheriff ( Aldo Ray ) is truly puzzled about the attacks plaguing his once quiet , sleepy little town , and is quite concerned for his citizens , innocent women who might venture out at night alone . Trying to sober up , the sheriff will attempt to find the killer , keeping his deputies on alert , watching the country roads and neighborhood streets at night , hoping to catch him in the act . Meanwhile , Ingrid battles with her conscience and religious convictions after being raped . The film also subtly hints at the idea that her mysterious Uncle Carl might be the one responsible for the attacks . Also , a mannerly , soft-spoken stranger from Baltimore , Bill Spry ( Robert Hippard ) enters town hoping to date Ingrid , who seems little interested in making relations with any man . Director Freed and collaborative writer Anne Marisse craft a very tricky tale here which takes it's time building the attacks around Ingrid's story . The attacks themselves really are the Macguffen as the film centers around Ingrid , and serve to actually heighten her trauma . Through the surrounding attacks in town , Ingrid , slightly stable on a slender thread , goes off the deep end with the scissor-murders influencing her hostile fantasies . The film seems to have three endings . The police cornering the sexual sadist in a saw mill . Ingrid's confrontation with Frankie as a bound Carl tries to free himself . And , Ingrid's fate and the reactions from the sheriff and Carl relating the truth to the viewer . Freed doesn't hurry himself and the film takes it's time developing so it might can become tedious for some viewers ( . . such as choir practice and a bar conversation between Spry and a local gal-pal of Ingrid's who is a potential victim ) . I think one might also find the last thirty minutes tiresome due to the complexities of Ingrid and what is real and imagined . I found it worthwhile and thought Britt's performance was a stunner . The score from Pino Donaggio really adds quality to the tragedy ever so present throughout the film . Freed does an exceptional job incorporating Ingrid's memories within her life at the present , with Donaggio's somber music adding the right touch at reflecting her deteriorating mental state .
Enemy of the State	A labour lawyer , Robert Dean ( Will Smith ) is embroiled in a controversial NSA cover-up when a former college pal from Georgetown ( Jason Lee ) leaves a recording of the murder of a Congressman ( Jason Robards ) at the hands of Thomas Reynolds ( Jon Voight ) the head of NSA because he opposed a Security act being passed regarding wire-tapping at will anyone they deem a possible threat against America . The disc is what Reynolds needs or it will certainly hit the fan in a major way . Reynolds tools all his resources putting his crackpot team of surveillance wiz-kids and footmen on the hunt for Dean , whose life is thrown into a tailspin thanks to his supposed ties with the mob and a source ( Lisa Bonet ) who gives him information from a Deepthroat named Brill . Brill , it turns out is Edward Lyle ( Gene Hackman ) , a former NSA man himself removed from the agency he loved after an Iranian cover-up in the early 80's which sent him underground . His identity is uncovered once Dean meets up with him in an unfortunate state of affairs leading to both being on the lam . But , having a skilled technician who understands the world of surveillance and security breach ( obviously , I was reminded of Coppola's THE CONVERSATION the entire time Hackman appears on screen ; I believe they even use a photo of Hackman from that film when they search his background files ) will lend Dean a helping hand in catching Reynolds and company making one false move or statement turning the tables on them in using their own methods on them . Exhausting , thrilling , pulse-pounding roller-coaster doesn't let up once Dean is on the run . Smith and Hackman make an ideal team and the film plays at the entertaining , fast-paced level of THE FUGITIVE where Dean is continually running for his life at every turn trying every way possible to remain one step ahead of his pursuers . We get a glimpse inside the world of those who sneak a peak into our privacy . . it's scary and we come to understand that this flick might just be a cautionary tale as well . The supporting cast of young Hollywood at the time ( Jack Black , Seth Green , Jamie Kennedy , Scott Caan , Jake Busey , Barry Pepper ) is enormous . One of Tony Scott's best films , this film may not be at all realistic , but is a hell of a lot of fun .
Doomsday	The Reaper virus devastated a portion of Scotland with England building a steel , reinforced barrier splitting apart Great Britain . With signs of the Reaper virus reawakening in London , and the photographic evidence of those who have survived on the opposite side , quarantined away from " civilization " , the British government ( . . or what's left of it ) desires for a commando unit , led by someone of great skill and leadership ( . . able enough to pull off such a difficult , seemingly impossible feat ) , to find the cure which has allowed those uninfected to survive where the Reaper virus had ran rampant . Selected to lead the team is one-eyed Major Eden Sinclair ( Rhona Mitra ) , a skilled marksman with no fear , always calculating her next move , with an ability to handle chaos when others might falter . She is seen at the opening as the little girl whose eye was shot by a soldier with a hair trigger and is sent away by her mother on board a helicopter to safety as the madness of frightened citizens seeking refuge from being quarantined are all around her . Eden wears a high-tech eye which works as a video recording device and camera . She also has a watch which feeds her information from the eye . The soldiers under her wear the typically black hi-tech gear and carry the elaborate rifles able to blast the enemy with range and precision . They enter the quarantined Scotland inside armored tank-vehicles with security cameras and weaponry equipped to handle an army of marauders and savages as the case will soon become . They encounter a society of leather-clad , immoral cannibalistic , barbaric punks with mohawks , facial make-up , and piercings , a direct representation of a world gone terribly wrong it seems . They seem to have a singular mission , to harm and destroy , and those who decide to infiltrate " their city " are slaughtered . Eden and her commandos ( . . or those left after the savages pick them apart ) are to find a Doctor Marcus Kane ( Malcolm McDowell , whose chilling narration opens the film , informing the viewers of the horrifying future as it unfolded before the true plot forges ahead ) who was working on a cure before murder and mayhem arises having him flee with men elsewhere . Kane's son , Sol ( Craig Conway , letting it hall hang out ) , is the psychotic leader of his fanatical army , actually holding his decent and scared sister , Cally ( MyAnna Buring ) prisoner , planning much worse for Eden . Cally knows where Kane is and will lead Eden to his location . What lies in wait for Eden is a now diabolically mad Kane , who has built a new life for himself and those who followed him out of Sol's city , living within the confines of a medieval castle fortress , adopting a new type of civilization away from the past , isolated from the memories of yore , building an empire which threatens anyone from the other side . Obviously director Neil Marshall was inspired by his beloved influences , creating a wonderfully wicked hodgepodge of Escape from New York , The Road Warrior and 28 Days Later . . This will be considered a travesty by some , ripping off films from the past , but I saw it differently , working more as a homage , gloriously embedding the viewer into a harsh climate of violence and despair , a grim post-apocalyptic nightmare where all hope seems lost and only the mad or infinitely corrupt survive . Eden is a symbol of strength , fortitude , smarts , and cool . . a charismatic and formidable opponent towards those who wish nothing but hostility and death towards those they consider responsible for the pitiful conditions brought on by circumstances out of control . Those abandoned and left for dead cry out by inflicting misery on outsiders who pose a threat to their way of life and purpose . Featuring a Reaper virus quite similar to the one released by the monkey in 28 Days Later . . Eden is a female equivalent of Snake Plisskin , even missing an eye and wearing a patch ( . . and has a locater device which is smashed to pieces not longer after entering the quarantined zone ) And Sol's punks are very reminiscent to the violent freaks and weirdos from The Road Warrior . There's something quite surreal about seeing an action heroine facing off with a vicious punk one moment , and a massive soldier in gladiatorial combat within a suit of armour , not long after . One moment freaks on motorcycles and a graffiti-covered beat-up bus ( hearkening back to Hill's The Warriors ) are after Eden , the next Kane's men on horseback with a suit of armour , swords in hand , with archers equipped with a bow and arrows . Then the masterfully designed chase on the open roads as Sol's gang ( . . in modified vehicles featuring their deranged style ) are after Eden and company ( . . driving a Bentley they found in an abandoned warehouse ) featuring bristling scenes where crashes are imminent , across a gorgeous picturesque countryside with winding roads . Bashed in heads , a bunny rabbit blown to bits by an automatic machine gun , a victim cooked over an open fire as Sol's people celebrate a cannibalistic feast , imaginative beheadings galore . . lots of ultra-violence in store for those who crave such things . Marshall adopts modern techniques which might repel many . . quick cuts and breathlessly paced camera work are featured during the action sequences whether it be hand-to-hand combat or cars crashing into each other . Solid cast featuring Bob Hoskins as Eden's guiding influence Bill Nelson bringing his usual commanding presence to the film in an almost thankless role , Alexander Siddig as the Prime Minister , a rather spineless leader for a nation who has been abandoned by the other parts of the world , and David O'Hara as Canaris , the cold-blooded lieutenant who truly calls the shots , using his boss as a tool , just waiting to take his place . Great role for Mitra who conveys confidence and quiet swagger , also having the precise look needed to fulfill the role demanded of her . The Reaper virus is a nasty plague where humans ' faces are bombarded with hideous sores and cause the hemorrhaging of blood .
The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie	Will six examples of wealth and manners ever be able to friggin ' eat ? ! Off of this idea alone , Luis Buñuel has a field day exposing and exploiting these characters in various ways while also having them awake from nightmarish situations which open them up like wounds . Such as how the three males of the group deal in drugs or how Don Rafael ( Fernando Rey ) , the one character poked at the most , sleeps with his pal's wife , or how the " always-hosting " couple escape from their window while the others await them downstairs to have a tussle in the bushes . But , Buñuel can not resist throwing the entire narrative off course by having certain people , out of left field , enter the film telling of dreams they had such as the soldier who interrupts the ladies at a restaurant with a tale about his ghostly mother commands in poisoning the man who claims to be his father but who actually is an impostor . Another even wilder scene consists of a soldier who is asked by his fellow officers to tell a dream to the six main characters ( . . whose meal is yet again interrupted by Military practicing maneuvers ) about meeting certain dead people he knew from the past . But , my two favorite scenes poke fun at Rafael . His country is a violent , barbaric society yet it's representative , Rafael , is in this country living a life of prestige and privilege . When confronted by the Military head regarding how uncivilized his country is , Rafael pulls a gun and shoots him ! Another scene has the six finally on their way to eating a cooked lamb only to being stopped by men who break in with machine guns . Rafael hides under the table , yet gets caught when he reaches up into his plate for the sliced lamb that was to be eaten ! And , the " Bloody Sargeant " gag is a doozy !
Night watch	This curse placed on a specific woman has caused a group of " people " known as The Others to split into two separate factions : The Force of Light and Darkness . During a bloody battle , the leaders on both sides declared a truce which has remained for hundreds of years . There's " policing " of this truce with both factions working to keep it intact by keeping an eye on each other to stay away from harming others . The film focuses on the Light Others as they keep the Dark Others in line . Their police unit is called Night Watch while the Dark Others have Day Watch . The truce hits a bump in the road when Light Other Anton commits a grievous sin when he kills a Dark Vampire trying to harm a child he was protecting under a watchful eye . This sets out an unfortunate unfolding of events as the dead vampire's lady seeks vengeance not only for killing her man but allowing herself to be turned into a dark one . She also craves blood and the Dark Others coerce her into seeking out the young child who seems to have an important role for both Other sides . The film has several mysteries that develop over the picture's running time . Who cursed the woman which caused the split of the Other ? Why is there a vortex forming a tornado over Moscow ? And , most importantly , how can damnation spurning from an eventful apocalyptic showdown between Light and Dark ( . . seen through the psychic abilities of Anton when he touched the woman with the curse on a subway ) be stopped ? Who is this young boy and why is he so sought after ? Yes , the film is plot heavy and times convoluted , but this is so extremely well crafted if the viewer can just be patient and hang with it they might find it a pleasure to behold . I sure did . It's visually stimulating , excitingly paced , and full of surprises . Some fascinating developments occur such as Anton's unique relationship with the young boy he is to protect , the friendship between Anton and a Dark Other vampire , and an airplane's possible crash into a vortex hovering over a specific building housing someone very important in every event that has taken place in the past and the future ( . . for this important person the director uses a clever visual trick by way of a metal bolt from an airplane ) . There are some things that bother me such as the whole framework of the Others and their supposed battle . Why have a truce at all ? Why not just wage a private war on earth until one comes out on top ? That answer might just come thanks to a bad decision Anton made before he found out he was an Other . . it has a lot to do with the Dark Others and their sinister plans . The ending leaves open many more films for the future . If they are as imaginative and entertaining as this one I'm in for a treat .
Little Fish	Tracy ( Cate Blanchett , brilliant as ever ) has been sober from a nasty heroin habit ( among other drugs ) introduced to her by mum's ex-beau , a once prominent soccer star , Lionel ( Hugo Weaving , who gives a haunting powerful performance ) . The film takes up after being sober for a while and working at a video rental in hopes to get a loan that will bring in internet gaming and perhaps her own ownership of said store . Her past credit problems halt those plans and finding a way to raise the money she needs is ever so difficult . She cares deeply for Lionel who , I'm sure , was a father to her in that time when she needed one . Yet , Lionel's life has descended because of his intense drug habit and his sugar daddy ( and homosexual lover ) Brad ( Sam Neill ) is retiring from the life of drug boss . His right-hand man , Steven ( Joel Tobeck ) wishes to go into business on his own , but behind Brad's back . Ray ( Martin Henderson ) , Tracy's brother wishes to pull drug deals with Steven and finds a partner in a returning friend from Vacouver , Jonny ( Dustin Nguyen ) . Jonny is Tracy's ex and the man responsible for a car crash that cost his best friend Ray one leg . Jonny was sent to Vancouver as a means for breaking his drug habit and perhaps starting some sort of career for himself . Once Jonny returns that flame is still burning between he and Tracy . Tracy and Ray's mum , Janelle ( Noni Hazlehurst ) , is really at her wit's end constantly worried that her adult children will break their sobriety and wind up back on drugs . Their pasts have caused much anguish and horror . Jonny's return only fuels that , not to mention , Lionel's troubles at going straight . She knows Tracy and Lionel have an unbreakable bond which might lead to her getting him drugs when he has no freebies coming his way . This " drugs and their effects " drama is supremely well acted by this marvelous cast without one faulty performance from the lot . It has a realistic feel to it and , most importantly , you care for these characters because the cast is able to make them human , not carciatures . My only real problem is a rather unresolved ending which leaves a lot of loose ends untied .
Let the Right One In	I often read how the horror genre has no hope and that it's practically dead or on life-support , then a movie like LET THE RIGHT ONE IN comes along and dispels such nonsense . It has the traditional vampire traits we're accustomed to , yet is presented in an unconventional , low-key way that's refreshing and spellbinding . . partially due to the wintry , depressing setting , while also hypnotic in it's visual presentation . Director Tomas Alfredson deliberately paces this movie , allowing the young leads and their stories to captivate and grip you . The blossoming romance of lonely scrawny Oskar ( Kåre Hedebrant ) , a quiet , reserved boy whose bullied by a mean little turd named Conny ( Patrik Rydmark ) , who , of course , runs with a couple of droogs allowing him to gang up on the kid , just mistreating him for giggles . Oskar , brimming with calm anger , imitates , with his knife , Conny in a victim's position , longing to pay him back for his aggravating antics day in and day out . Oskar befriends a new neighbor , a vampire " girl " named Eli ( Lina Leandersson , whose face will become an iconic image in horror for years to come ) who uses an older gentleman to get her a blood supply . . hunting humans around the surrounding area of the small city , the man uses an anesthetic to drop victims , stringing them upside , slitting their throat as the blood drains in a funnel into a jug . But Eli's serial killing supplier has become sloppy ( . . he fails in one attempt to gather blood in an isolated forest due to a dog which got away from it's owner , and unfortunately selects a basketball playing student whose awaiting friends in a gym room ) and is soon caught right before slicing a victim's throat , pouring acid over his face in a suicide attempt . As the film continues , Eli will forge a bond with Oskar while her predatory instincts leads to a series of events which will put her in danger . As far as Oskar's situation with Conny , he agrees to fight back thanks in part to a pact with Eli . . if his situation becomes difficult due to a strength in numbers scenario , she has promised to help him . I was thoroughly impressed with the central performances of Hedebrant and Leandersson who are the featured characters all the way through . What might frustrate some more impatient horror fans is the way the film is methodically paced paying special attention to Oskar and Eli , and their developing relationship and how these two become indebted to one another . While the film is off-beat in it's approach to vampirism , Eli is shown feeding on locals , her hunger causing great agony ( . . we actually hear a guttural growl when Eli is needing blood , and her face becomes discolored and drained of life ) as well as her amazing abilities to climb , not needing the same kind of winter wardrobe Oskar does ( . . it's rather amusing how she often walks barefoot with short-sleeve shirts , even moving around at times with no pants ) . The film pays careful attention to Oskar's reactions to his new friend and her unusual nature . . and their conversations are warm without being sugary , which is a difficult feat accomplished with skill . A very fluid camera , director Alfredson often shoots characters from afar , letting the events transpire from a distance , allowing the atmosphere and mood of the setting to make as much impact as the story itself . The entire environment , the characters and their home , achieves the same tone throughout . . bewitching but sad . At it's core , I felt the power of friendship is what makes this movie as appealing and alarming in equal measure . . appealing because of two lonely hearts finding a love for one another , but alarming in that their friendship is forged through blood and death . The ending , as Oskar's life is threatened , is a powerful yet horrifying scene because we in fact see what Eli meant by having the ability to help him if he could not defend himself . Kudos to the filmmakers for allowing this story a chance to work it's spell over us , but without the beautiful performances from the two young leads , it could only work to a certain extent , if at all .
Mark of the Devil	Herbert Lom is truly terrifying as hypocritical witch-finder Lord Cumberland who secretly rapes and humiliates women ( . . this is only shown once , but elaborated on by a local witch-finder he murders when his impotency is thrown in his face , damaging his ego ) , although he isn't quite adequate enough to finish his despicable deeds due to his impotency . He hides behind his stature as a magistrate towards dishing out punishment , through his " soldiers of God " , with a menace brooding underneath the surface . . through Lom's powerful presence , you can see the cold eyes of evil brimming to the camera lens . Udo Kier is his equal as his student , Christian , a young man who looks at Cumberland as a fatherly mentor whose ways are just . Their relationship becomes strained and complicated when Cumberland begins to torture innocent people convicted of crimes they did not commit , because of embarrassment due to his men's negligence . Christian has also fallen in love with a village waitress named Vanessa ( Olivera Vuco ) , a voluptuous commoner convicted of witchcraft by the local sadist Albino ( Reggie Nalder ) , for whom she wouldn't put out to . Albino takes offense to Cumberland's entering his region taking over as the head witch-finder , and soon their butting heads leads to his death . Christian sees the murder and his relationship with Cumberland deteriorates , especially when an aristocratic couple , and their son & daughter are arrested for witchcraft for merely having puppet plays for the village children , saying that the wooden toys were being given voices from the Devil . Soon Christian will mutiny against his master , releasing Vanessa who will , in turn , cause a revolt urging the people to stop the unnecessary torture haunting their village . Using the name of God , to exact torturous methods of cruel violence towards innocents , using labels such as " witch " and " sorcerer " is the heart of this depicting of events from a horrifying period of history . We get all the ugly details particularly when one woman is stretched , burning , and whipped as those torturing her seek a false confession admitting to the preposterous accusation of having been impregnated with Satan's child ( . . her claiming accurately that a Bishop molested her causing a pregnancy for which she aborted ) . When she doesn't admit to what they desire , her tongue is pulled out as blood pours profusely from her mouth . A very wealthy prince is gruesomely run through the ringer as the church wishes for him to hand over his inheritance to them . We also see what they do to him seeking to " release the demons from his body " . . all he has to do is sign over what is rightfully his to the church and be freed from the supposed evil plaguing his being . They lock his feet while having the poor young man sitting on spikes . He's sliced and burned on the ass as well . We get plenty of sadistic insights into their notorious ways of tormenting people hoping , they say , to cleanse their souls . " Disturbing " or " unpleasant " , perhaps even " nauseating " fits the bill when describing this film . . at any rate , the film creates an unflinching view of how witch-finders and their soldiers of torture mutilated and maimed their suspects . While I can not really call it entertaining , unless you find pleasure in seeing people tortured endlessly and gratuitously , I certainly found it enlightening . Lom deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as Vincent Price when we talk about performances as witch-finders . Their cold and calculating approach in how they do their jobs , without remorse , is chilling . Powerful and seems realistic enough . Grim and tragic ending to quite a terrifying chapter in a barbaric , simple-minded period of man's existence .
Arachnophobia	Spielbergian flick that'll make your skin crawl . Not for those who get the creeps from the appearance of spiders , they are shot in practically every way imaginable by director Frank Marshall and his cunning cinematographer Mikael Salomon ( . . and I just LOVE the aerial camera-work shot from above ) . . they utilize lots of methods capturing the creeping crawlies and the victims they draw near . With a game cast who provide spirited performances , and this willingness to give the audience the heebie jeebies , ARACHNOPHOBIA is such a thrilling experience . It's really an old fashioned B-movie , with a polished and sophisticated look , well produced ( . . the funding alone for Venezuala must've cost a fortune ) , with the opening in the jungle , fabulous and really spooky because of the dreaded idea of coming in contact with hidden spiders yet discovered by man , really establishing the kind of dangerous spider our heroes would be up against . Daniels is perfectly cast as a city doctor , Ross Jennings , moving his family away from San Francisco hoping for a more peaceful existence in rural America . What he doesn't expect is a massive Tarantula ( . . which traveled from Venezuala inside the wooden casket of a local photographer bitten by the spider , killing him ) creating a breed of offspring with a domestic spider . The offspring set off to intrude upon unknowing locals around the area of Jennings ' home , biting unfortunates who have no idea that spiders are among them . Jennings will enlist the aid of spider specialists , James Atherton ( Julian Sands ) and his partner Chris Collins ( Brian McNamara ) to help solve the problems plaguing the town , leaving citizens dead under his watch including the former physician , Sam Metcalf ( . . notable character actor Henry Jones ) and a lovable neighbor , Margaret Hollins ( Mary Carver ) , who welcomed him to the neighborhood without bias towards his being an outsider . The beautiful irony of Jennings having arachnophobia provides quite an entertaining template for the character having to face his fears in the climax as he will have no other choice but to battle the spider responsible for the terror striking the area . Harley Jane Kozak really has good chemistry with Daniels , portraying his wife , Molly , who attempts to rescue him from his fear of spiders . John Goodman steals his scenes as an exterminator , a know-it-all who is often mistaken in regards to the locations of spiders and his knowledge about them . . Goodman's girth often engulfs the screen . Stuart Pankin has the role as Sheriff , Lloyd Parsons , who makes it quite known that he doesn't like outsiders intruding upon his town as if they own the place . Mark L Taylor has the role of Jerry Manley , the photographer who gets bitten by the Tarantula , his casket of which the spider hitches a ride . A very accomplished film for a first-time director , it's quite obvious that Spielberg had an influence during the production of ARACHNOPHOBIA , his own signatures ( . . such as the suburban , successful family whose picturesque life is disrupted by something sinister ) are recognizable . Sure to get under the skin , the shower scene where a spider crawls down a girls body , and the spider swarm at the end as they besiege Jennings home . Also , I think another success for the filmmakers was making the giant cob webs as eerie as the deadly spiders that made them .
Dagon . . one of the best of the decade	This might be a bit of a stretch , but I thought this was one heck of a wild ride . . in typically bizarre Stuart Gordon fashion . The brief synopsis goes like this , poor Paul Marsh ( Ezra Godden , those who have seen Gordon's Masters of Horror , " Dreams in the Witch-House " might recognize that he wears the same sweatshirt ) just wants to get help for his wealthy buddie when an enormous storm throws their yacht into a huge stone . Along with his lady-love Bárbara ( Raquel Meroño ) , they go ashore to this Spanish isle , but soon realize it is inhabited by " fish-people " ! After a supposed rescue attempt goes bust ( Bárbara stays on the isle to try for telephoned help ) , Paul returns to isle and finds his life in a bit of warped difficulty . . the people of the isle are after him and he has few choices of destination . Thankfully , he at least finds one normal ally in Ezequiel ( Francisco Rabal ) . . the one who tells him of what the hell happened to this place and the reasons to why many have gills and tentacles . In a sub-plot that makes more sense in the end , Paul has been seeing a woman in his dreams whose face surfaces on the isle which throws up more questions such as how this could even be and is it some sort of premonition . This film is really about how a man and his girl will ever be able to get off this isle alive with these hideous monstrosities chasing them or constantly on the attack . Most of the film follows Paul as he tries every possible way to not only defend himself against these creatures , but at the same time try and find an escape route out of this place . The problems stockpile as he discovers the mysteries of this place , his weird dreams , and what this " god of the sea " Dagon wants with his Bárbara . Ezra Godden has this rubber and animated face which can express confusion , horror , and delirium as he can not understand how he even got into this disaster . He presents him as mostly terrified { who wouldn't be ? } and struggling to continue his quest for escape and rescue of Bárbara . The creature effects are limited going more for what you visualize than throwing out constant cheap effects { . . it's clear that Gordon is working within a tight budget } . We do get shades of what they are under their enormous coats and hats which often shield themselves . A face here , or a tentacle there . . they often make an appearance and let us know that these " people " are not normal , but much different than we could possibly imagine . While , Gordon does reveal who they are like Macarena Gómez as Uxía Cambarro , the princess of her Cambarro family with her octopus tentacles for legs , he really wishes to keep the film around Paul's trying to free himself in the ever-present rain from such horrors on this isle . A fun treat for creature-feature fans .
The Vampire Lovers	Vampire Carmilla ( Ingrid Pitt ) , fulfills her duties for the Karnstein family by pursuing fresh female victims , intruding their dreams at night , draining their blood . Her first victim is the niece of General von Spielsdorf ( Peter Cushing , in a limited role ) whose set to marry fiancé Carl ( Jon Finch ) . There's a way for which the Karnsteins work . A Countess ( Dawn Addams ) , who carries a trustworthy face with an ability to easily deceive others into allowing daughter Carmilla ( . . often using an alias ) to stay with a fatherly figure with women in the household while she whisks away to see about a dying / sick relative . Both are guided by a mysterious , ominous vampire , always riding horseback with a sinister grin showing his fangs at the knowledge that other prospects for bloodsucking will be mistreated . Earning the family's trust , Carmilla goes to work , slowly seducing and hypnotically manipulating her prey , through the dreams and removal of blood , the victim slowly dies of anemia . After the death of Spielsdorf's niece , Carmilla sets her sights on the daughter of Roger Morton ( George Cole ) , another aristocrat whose business often keeps him busy , giving her time to slowly ravage his naive , innocent , and virtuous daughter Emma ( Madeline Smith ) . Madam Perrodot ( Kate O'Mara ) , Governess of the family , falls prey to Carmilla's powers as well . With the assistance of Baron Hartog ( Douglas Wilmer ) , someone who understands all too well what harm the Karnsteins can do , General Spielsdorf will hopefully end Carmilla's reign of terror . Another gorgeous , eye-openingly colorful Hammer production , this time giving those slobbering males some extra eye-candy to feast on . Like Barbara Steele's role in Bava's Black Sunday , Ingrid Pitt gets the iconic role of Carmilla , bearing the fangs & inhabiting the character as if born to play her . Pitt's seduction of innocents offers titillation , and she often bears her naked flesh displaying that stunning voluptuous body she had . Pitt , like Steele , has this presence that causes you to gravitate towards her . The film itself doesn't elaborate , though , as far as lesbian sex like more explicit Euro-trash vampire flicks in the 70's . Pitt does kiss Smith on the lips and there's this build-up to that as this sexual tension develops . The film shows Carmilla's growing attraction and love for Emma , qualities perhaps she desires . Pitt blessed figure is given the full treatment in some sumptuous gowns and there's no denying heads turn when she walks past . Few actresses who make their foray into horror achieve what Steele and Pitt did . I'd say this role was tailor-made for Pitt . Cushing fans might be a bit disappointed at his underwritten role . He does get to chop off a head as does Wilmer's Baron Hartog at the opening . The use of Christian imagery , such as the crucifix ( . . a Hammer staple ) are on display and Ferdy Maybe portrays a typical doctor who bah-hum-bugs the idea of vampirism only to fall prey to Pitt , and Harvey Hall makes the most of a small part as the Morton's butler who , for a little while , halts the whithering nature of Emma , only to falter at the lust for Carmilla . A breast bite is also revealed after Carmilla has killed her first victim .
Opera	A young theater actress reluctantly accepts her first major part in a staged play as Lady Macbeth thanks to the mishap of the production's diva falling in front of a moving car . A success winning her accolades , Betty ( Christina Marsillach ) finds instead horror as the one responsible for getting her to this point terrorizes her in cruel ways . First her stage manager boyfriend , Stefano ( William McNamara ) is viciously stabbed with a knife while she has to watch , rope-tied to a pillar in his uncle's vast mansion , keeping her eyes from closing thanks to needles scotch-taped under her eyes , with pricking a result if she blinks . Allowing her to escape , Betty again finds herself in this unfortunate position , when a specific gold chain is found on her Lady Macbeth wardrobe that had been torn to shreds by the madman after killing a series of crows which escaped from their cage in the equipment room , by the clothing designer who is first knocked to the floor by an iron and subsequently stabbed heinously by a pair of scissors ( . . to cap off this nasty scene , the chain falls into her throat with the killer having to cut open her throat to find it ; while not specifically elaborating this act , Dario uses the ripping sound of the scissors for optimum effect with the camera often retreating back to the victim's dead face ) . Having nowhere to turn , Inspector Alan Santini ( Urbano Barberini , playing him cold and bland at Dario's request ) promises to catch the psycho as Betty relies on her few remaining friends for comfort , the theater director Marco ( Ian Charleson , of GHANDI & CHARIOTS OF FIRE who would later die of AIDS ; A sad footnote , Dario revealed in an interview that Charleson informed him at the end of the shoot that he was HIV positive ) attempting the stage after a successful horror movie career despite being rejected by critics , and pal Mira ( Daria Nicolodi , Dario's former squeeze ) , her agent and confident . But , the serial killer is quite driven and a showdown between them will , of course , occur in the theater as Marco has added an interesting change to the production using the crows at his disposal . I think this is Dario at his most savage & nihilistic . Although he has certainly made later gruesome films ( . . such as his Masters of Horror entries and SLEEPLESS would suggest ) , this film really ups the ante in pure violence towards the victims of the psychopath . His method of forcing Betty to watch was admittedly a gag by Dario regarding the type of audience who like to look away from the more horrific parts of horror movies . I found myself rubbing my eyes every time she just has to blink ( . . brilliantly , Dario shoots the pricking from point-of-view achieving a tormenting effect from our perspective as if we were the ones with the scotch taped needles holding our eyes open ) . I like how Dario will show the widened eyes of Betty , horrified at what she's being forced into watching , as little blood tears down the needles when she has no choice but blink . The photographic work of Ronnie Taylor is impeccable , such as the crow's point-of-view shot in the theater at the end as it searches for the killer . Or , when the camera " travels " through rooms in the theater following the killer who wishes to see his muse from a box seat . Or , the dream sequence where we are taken into Betty's memory of an event regarding her mother's death by a certain killer , donning the same mask and gloves as the one causing her trauma at present . The highlight , in my opinion , is the peephole bullet-fire sequence , masterly staged by all involved as the camera follows a bullet which shoots through the eye of a victim , exploding from the back of her head , going through a telephone Betty planned to use to call for help . We even get a crow pecking the eyeball from the killer ( . . to add to this vicious scene , the crow is shown with the eyeball rolling around in it's beak ) . Only aspect I didn't care for , often pointed out by naysayers of the film , is the " final " ending which I personally felt was a bit unnecessary , but I guess Dario wanted to point out that Betty was indeed not like her mother , a woman with sadomasochistic tendencies which , in a twist , relate to why the killer torments our heroine . The rock music used during the violent scenes didn't bother me , because I felt that those moments of wicked graphic attacks needed a jarring thud which heavy metal can often provide .
The Orphanage	Laura's ( Belén Rueda ) beloved HIV positive adopted son , Simón ( Roger Príncep ) disappears and if she wishes to find him , will have to play a game with the ghosts of children she once knew as a little orphan girl , the victims of a secret tragedy . While those around her consider Laura's quest for the location of her son , through some idea that ghost children know where he's located , a lost cause , she will do whatever it takes to find him . Carlos ( Fernando Cayo ) , a doctor , tries , to no avail , convincing his wife Laura to abandon a foolhardy search that so often yields few answers . Yet , as she pursues Simón's whereabouts , horrifying truths about those children she once knew surface . This film follows Laura through the clues the children leave behind . The setting is at an orphanage , the very one Laura once lived as a child , for which she hoped to raise mentally handicapped kids . I guess the R-rating is for a minor few displays of disturbing images ( . . such as a key character's facial damage after being hit by a truck , a fingernail removal , & a broken bone protruding from the skin of Laura's leg ) which is a shame because this is actually a rather harmless ghost story regarding a woman's endless search for the son she adores . Dogged and determined , despite how others try to convince her that the mission was fleeting , Laura's pursuit brings such an emotional depth to this , and kudos goes to the performance of Rueda as the mother . I think Rueda brings that key mixture of motherly paternal love and warmth definitely needed and it's important that we care about this search . . the film hinges on our desire for her being rewarded . Although , the reward she receives may not be the way we would intend it to be , in the traditional sense , but it certainly packs an emotional wallop thanks in part to Rueda . Cayo , as the suffering husband who wishes to find their son , yet soon loses faith of ever finding him , while trying to heal , I think does a good job at pointing out how most of us , looking at the situation from a more grounded realistic view , would probably react to Laura's demand to continue . The film shows the influence of Guillermo del Toro as director Bayona obviously received a few pointers in the style because he has a visual command that beautifully swept me off my feet in how he photographs the film . This will try more impatient viewers because Bayona's film is a slow-burner , building the mystery , as layers are unpeeled . There's a creepy sequence with a medium , trying to find what is plaguing the orphanage , that I thought works really well , summoning the spirit of " The Changeling " . Other than the orphanage itself , the director makes good use of a lighthouse and beach-front as well .
The Scarecrow reviews " The Legend of Billie Jean "	Many might use labels describing this movie as " hokey " or " preposterous " or " manipulative " , but one thing I believe is achieved in this little cult fave is Helen Slater's terrific performance as the female heroine who gets her revenge against scumbag Pyatt ( Richard Bradford ) . It's interesting that this film works off a basic premise about a young woman who will have to take it to the road in order to get $608 for her brother's ( Christian Slater in his first film , and he really shows promise at such an early age ) motor scooter being damaged by Pyatt's son Hubie ( Barry Tubb ) . The film makes Pyatt completely evil and greedy milking Billie Jean's " Joan of Arc " image for all it's worth . He's a sign of corrupt greed , pure and simple and seems , in this film , to merely be a vile scum-of-the-earth with no soul . Helen Slater , on the other hand , brings effortless grace , strength , dignity , sexiness , and charisma to her role as Billie Jean . You can see why this movie has a little following because Billie Jean is a representation of poor , but rather happy neighborhoods while Pyatt , and especially Hubie , represent the very smell of greenbacks . What is damaging , I believe , is that there is hardly any room for a grey area in this film . Billie Jean is good . Pyatt is evil . Peter Coyote , a very fine and sadly underrated actor , brings a level-headedness and understanding to his role as a cop trying to stop the madness , but constantly dealing with Pyatt and his ideas of not paying the money that is rightfully owed to Billie Jean . The film works well as a road movie and the young cast is so good , we love watching them together on-screen . Yeardley Smith steals the film as Putter , whose foul mouth and overeating provide much humor . Putter is the type to just speak out loud what most might keep to themselves . Martha Gehman plays Ophelia , simple and honest driver of the car . She is pretty much the one Billie Jean can truly depend on when things tend to get chaotic . Then there Keith Gordon as the " hostage " who Billie Jean falls for . This is one of Gordon's finest hours ( along with some good work in " Christine " and rather ho-hum work in " Back to School " ) and it's quite a shame the film doesn't get recognized enough for others to see how good this young cast was in this movie . Dean Stockwell turns in a supporting role as Gordon's father . . their relationship is strained at best . I will admit that this particular scene where Billie Jean is called upon to " save " a little boy from his abusive father was rubbish , but it was a padding placed in the film showing that so many feel that this young woman is a symbol for troubled , wronged youth everywhere so perhaps it might not be hammered by critics too much . The film's ending as this statue erected by Pyatt with Billie Jean holding a gun in her hand as if she's a terrorist falls into the pit of flames that starts up accidentally when he trips over a burning candle could be considered a bit hokey as well . But , my solid rating is pretty much based on my love for Helen's phenomenal performance and the good young cast . The soundtrack really is quite good as well .
Huntress : Spirit of the Night	Tara ( Jenna Bodnar ) returns to Breckin , Northern Wales where she was born to attend her father's funeral . She was sent to America , because of her father's fear that a savage beast plaguing the surroundings of the area would harm her . Actually , thanks to a diary containing her father's recorded thoughts and newspaper clippings with photographs , given to her by butler Geoffrey ( Constantin Cotimanis ) , Tara discovers that a panther was behind a mass of slayings , shot by a Breckin citizen , with it's owner , a witch , cursing the female populace to carry the spirit of her beloved animal . Tara finds a young naked female being hunted by a village mob looking for a beast prowling the area killing citizens again , on her father's estate , and watches as the spirit leaves her body looking for a new host to rest . . in Tara does it find such rest . While actually being sexually repressed , Tara finds this primal spirit providing an extra motivation to embrace her carnal desires . Meanwhile , childhood friend , Michelle ( Blair Valk ) and crush , Alek ( David Starzyk ) wish to purchase Tara's father's estate . Michelle has a specific reason why she wishes to get her hands on the estate , having seduced Alek into finding investors interested in forking over the appropriate funds to do so . But , as Tara becomes accustomed to her surroundings , the atmosphere of it all enveloping her , she may wish to stay , even against the urgings of Geoffrey , worried about her well-being , and local antique-dealer , Ty Bodi ( Charles Cooper ) , a friend of her father's , who believes in the legend of the panther spirit , warning her of it's evil . Through Ty does Tara realize that the beast killed her mother . Also , Tara meets a photographer , Jacob ( Michael Wiseman ) who she falls for . He's in the area capturing wild life for a magazine , a cavern his temporary refuge and studio . She willingly accepts an offer to pose for him and does so provocatively , letting go of her inhibitions , the animal inside unleashing her from the cage holding her true self at bay . If Tara doesn't sell the estate , Michelle will try more lethal methods . . As a few others have already mentioned in the user comments section , I felt this is a loose variation on " Cat People " . The ravishing Jenna Bodnar has enough acting skill to tackle the role of an outsider transitioning to the new environs where folklore and superstition still remain in the hearts of many . I think , however , this works best as a piece of erotica because Bodnar has such a magnificent body , her figure so well-defined , and director Mark S Manos has the knack for arranging several set-pieces to showcase her " talents . " My favorite , besides the terrific cavernous photo session where lightning , rain , and a campfire enhance her naked flesh being bathed with water as it falls , is the first true night where Tara is caught up in a wave of lustful abandon , the animal inside emerging as she takes to a group of steps ( . . nice prop provided by the director so that Bodnar could work over it , her body barely confined within the silk robe , only a strap containing it ) set up in a room overlooking the wilderness , a lantern swaying to and fro . The director's camera covers every inch of Bodnar's body , up and down every curve . Carefully edited are the sex scenes . I think the director wishes for you to salivate over Bodnar , the story is of little consequence next to her " sexual awakening " as the spirit takes hold , ever so pushing her to embrace the dark side , chambered for so long . As a horror film , it isn't successful . I think the film uses the sexuality of " Cat People " , while neglecting the violence that derives from being consumed with the aggressive tendencies of the panther to hunt for food . It is mentioned in the film , through newspaper articles of recent attacks and the ever so glum Ty Bodi condemning Tara to leave at once . I cared little about the angle with Michelle and Alek . . although , Valk is incredibly sexy and has a very memorable disrobing before crawling on all fours on top of a piano . Unfortunately , though , her threesome with Tara and Alek is uninspired which is a shame since all are attractive . See it for Bodnar , she doesn't disappoint . She even turned me on moving her tongue down a butcher knife in a fantasy sequence . Executively produced by Charles Band ( . . my DVD carries his Full Moon label ) and filmed on stunning , richly lush Romanian locations . . there's an enchanting nature this location gives off that seems just right for an erotic fantasy .
Count Dracula	Franco's take on the Bram Stoker novel with Christopher Lee again portraying Count Dracula , except this production ( . . a meager one at best with Franco admitting in a recent interview that he had to front his own financing to finish the film ! ) is completely sub-dued from the acting to the presentation . Director Jesús Franco does exploit an obsession of his in this film . . his love for the use of a zooming camera lens . During moments of dialogue Jesús Franco loves for his camera's eye to hone in on the faces of his casts , and even lingers on the mouth of Dracula as his fangs become slightly visible . I do think that this technique can work , but , to be honest , Jesús Franco does tend to go overboard a bit . It does seem like he has inferior equipment . . his camera , at times , seems to have the jitters , and the focus & color occasionally obscure . But , I liked this film much more than I thought I would . I love the opening sequence with an elder Dracula " welcoming " Harker into his decadent castle . Dracula looks overwrought from the dead atmosphere of his ancestral home , where he belovedly speaks , with passion and authority , about his proud family and how they fought and won wars bravely . Yet , in that castle he remains , and I think that you can see it through Lee , a relic of a begone era . The blood of those in a completely different place far removed from home , will bring the youth he seeks . Like always , Lee can merely open a door and you stand at attention . That whole scene in his castle , before venturing off to seek fresh victims elsewhere nearby Van Helsing's mental institution , is probably my favorite of the film because it brings something different to the oft-filmed character , establishing this version of Dracula performed by Lee , as more than just a blood-sucker . If only Franco had been able to afford better special effects . He does use the location of Barcelona impeccably . I would've enjoyed a better confrontation between Lee and Lom , but to see them ( . . along with Kinski and Miranda ) in the same film , even if they were often filmed separately , is enough pleasure for me . For a long period of time in my youth , I only knew Lom primarily as Chief Inspector Charles Dreyfus , the constant recipient of aggravation from Peter Seller's bumbling Inspector Clouseau . Since watching more 60's & early 70's horror , I've come to find Lom an icon of the genre . He can hold you captive with his mere presence , just as Lee . He's not as much a theatrical actor as this authoritative , commanding figure who draws you to him like a moth to the flame . I didn't mind Franco's constant zooming towards Lom's face because he has always delivers something interesting with his Van Helsing character . Lom is formidable and this really bodes well because there is a good portion of the film where Lee's Count is away from the screen . I think , in order to hold the viewer's interest ( . . or those who want to see Lee all the time ) , it's important to cast other interesting actors . This leads me to Klaus Kinski . I have to admit that I wasn't expecting this type of interpretation from Kinski as the often dementedly performed character of Renfield . Klaus , I don't think , ever finishes a complete sentence , preferring to show the terror on Renfield's face as he slowly awaits the arrival of Dracula . Even within a padded cell , you can see , through the facial mannerisms and hypnotic blue eyes of Kinski , Renfield's plight . Unlike past interpretations of Renfield , Kinski doesn't deliver deranged monologues about the Count , but channels the horrors of what he knows through silence ( . . often seen staring , almost mime-like in how he makes for the window of his cell as it faces the mansion with which his enemy resides ) and gesture . Soledad Miranda's exotic beauty is definitely put to good use as Lucy , Dracula's chosen source of blood . Fred Williams , as Lucy's fiancé Jonathan Harker , and Jack Taylor as Mina's fiancé Quincy Morris , are more or less secondary characters . They're important as vampire hunters , urged by Van Helsing to stop Dracula before he can harm other innocents . The lovely Maria Rohm ( Venus in Furs ) has the role of Mina , but she is used mainly on screen to scream when she sees Dracula .
The Mummy	An archaeological dig unearths the ancient Egyptian burial tomb of High Preistess Princess Ananka . Inside a secret burial chamber is the mummified corpse of Kharis ( Christopher Lee ) imprisoned for blaspheming the laws of their god in his attempts to bring Ananka back from the dead using the sacred Scroll of Life , because of his devoted love for her . John Banning's ( Peter Cushing ) father , Stephen ( Felix Aylmer ) doesn't heed the warnings of Mehemet Bey ( George Pastell ) regarding the desecration of his Princess ' tomb . Stephen , who removes the Scroll of Life from it's place , doesn't realize that in doing so opens the burial chamber door . Making matters even worse , Stephen reads text from the scroll which bring life back to Kharis as he exits his chamber . While Stephen is overcome with hysteria at what he just saw , Mehemet Bey takes command of the scroll and Kharis , vowing to kill the three who entered the sacred tomb of his goddess , removing precious artifacts that belong where they were placed . Returning to England , John's father slowly awakens from his emotional plight while resting in a nursing home , to inform his son of Kharis . Thinking his father still ill , John is concerned but bothered by such a statement . When placed in a padded cell after a frightened outburst , Stephen is attacked and killed by Kharis , ordered by Mehemet Bey , when the mummy intruded through a heavily shielded window . Later , John's uncle is strangled right before his eyes after Kharis explodes through his front door . John realizes that his father wasn't just raving madly , and faces the fact that he's next to die . While his testimony of his uncle's killer being in a " comatose state of living death " to the police makes him sound loony , John will attempt to face off with Kharis , only to be saved by his wife , Isobel ( Yvonne Furneaux ) who is the spitting image of Ananka . After the attack , Inspector Mulrooney ( Eddie Byrne ) will inform John about an Egyptian who lives not too far from the asylum where his father was murdered . Mulrooney tells him of a crate falling into a bottomless bog , carrying " relics " to the home of this Egyptian , for which John will take it upon himself to meet the man who is indeed Mehemet Bey . Bey will this time follow Kharis to the home of John in one last attempt to fulfill the goal of repairing the honor of his people for the desecration . It was finally cool for me to sit down and check out Hammer's take on the Universal Mummy series . Obviously , being a major Cushing fan , I enjoyed his starring as the archaeologist , with a bum knee he didn't get repaired , having to use his wits to defeat the much stronger undead foe . I was equally pleased with Pastell as Cushing's true foe , Mehemet Bey , who is actually controlling Kharis as a killing device . There's a great scene where John and Bey meet at the Egyptian's English home . . John attempts to ruffle Bey's feathers by attacking , in a wonderfully sophisticated manner , his beliefs which will incite his anger leading him to act against his nemesis , exposing his guilt . While the sets and props used for the Egyptian tomb and people look like exactly that ( . . which , unlike purists , didn't bother me the slightest , understanding Hammer's limited budget ) , I found Lee ( cutting that tall imposing figure as he bursts through doors and windows , strangling smaller victims with ease ) as the mummy , " swathed in bandages " and covered in bog mud , quite effective . Sure Jack Pierce's detailed mummy wraps for Karloff are superior to those in Hammer's film , but Lee still looks quite menacing ( . . and , a credit to his performance , where we can see only his eyes , he brings extra emotion during the scenes where Kharis sees Isobel , obeying her commands , the presence of love and sadness echoing what he felt as a dashing Egyptian servant so long ago ) and his bandages are decent enough . It's a tall order for anyone to match the Pierce design , whether it be werewolf or mummy , so I cut Hammer some slack . As far as the premise for this " re-imagining " , basically Hammer takes the best elements from Universal's Mummy series , combining them to create this entertaining effort . You have Kharis being controlled by a shadowy Egyptian hiding in secrecy as he orders his weapon of destruction towards " unbelievers " who dare desecrate the tombs of his people's civilizations . You have John's wife Isobel baring a striking resemblance to Ananka which the archaeologist will use to save himself from harm . You have the Mummy killing members of an archaeological dig with English police baffled as to what kind of fiend could commit such murderous deeds . But , ultimately , the success can be contributed to the big three , Cushing / Lee / Fisher joining forces once again bringing us yet another thrilling horror tale . The film provides a flashback to Ananka's burial and Kharis ' fate at trying to resurrect her ( . . with us getting to see a human Lee in Egyptian garb and face paint ) as John reads through his father's notes , speaking about their ways and beliefs .
Demoniacs	Four pirates ( . . labeled " wreckers " for they draw ships with light crashing into the shore to pillage them ) ruthlessly rape and assault two blond young women as they walk to shore , appearing from the darkness in nothing but gowns . Soon the Captain ( John Rico ) , already insane , is haunted by ghostly apparitions of those two girls they left for dead on the shore . Yet , somehow , the girls survive fending off yet another proposed attack by the pirates , making their way to the " haunted ruins " which holds a demonic presence , imprisoned by two guardians who can give them the power they seek in weakness needed for revenge . I really enjoyed this one , even if I was often left with my jaw open wondering what the hell was going on . I couldn't help but snicker when the twins make to the haunted ruins and are greeted by the female clown . Many would probably throw their hands up at that , but I couldn't help but love such an audacious move by Rollin to throw a modern image inside a film representing pirates . I loved the brothel pub hybrid with patrons fondling the gals as our clairvoyant Madam plays the piano when she isn't foretelling doom . I like how over-the-top the pirates are , even Tina ( . . let me stop for a moment and gain my composure ) who Rollin films in nearly every scene naked , delighting in her devilish ways . Take , for instance , the Captain who lifts his mug to drink with beer spilling out all over himself , or Bosco ( Willy Braque ) , always morose until he begins to trash the fisherman's bar and brothel . The film is Joelle Coeur for me . There's one image I'll always have to summon every now and then . Rollin's camera eyeballs a naked Coeur with her arms stretched to the heavens after their conquest and corruption of the innocence of two girls who had just lost everything . The camera slowly pulls away as she stands , enjoying every minute of the atrocities committed . How Coeur can't help herself as her men ravage their bodies , tearing their already shredded gowns , in a state of ecstasy . She craves this type of cruel activity , embellishes the evil they partake in . The wrecking is child's play compared to the rape and destruction of innocence . I liked how Rollin gets his skeleton and bat in the film , by using them as " decoration " in the brothel-pub . Oh , and I loved that winged creature statue in the brothel-pub as well ( . . I believe Rollin shoots one of the girl's apparitions next to it when they haunt the Captain ) . The ruins left me in a state of bliss , particularly how Rollin shoots the female clown guiding the girls to the " crypt-watcher " ( . . he looks like a Russian czar , or something ) down those massive steps . And , when the girls remove their shirts making their way to the prisoner's cell to release him . . One of my favorite techniques established by Rollin is how he follows his female beauties , either naked or clothed under a gown or shirt ( . . just long enough to cover their crotch ) , holding a candle to guide themselves , as they make their way to a specific destination . I also liked how the final sequence ends with water engulfing the main characters . Oh , and my favorite scene , besides the bedroom sequence where the Captain is fondling a bird he'd later rip into as Coeur slowly gets naked , is a certain character's death as a piano plays on it's own .
Little Miss Sunshine	A family riddled with problems ( each with their own little failures ) will go through hell or high water to get little Olive ( Abigail Breslin , who is absolutely delightful ) to a Beauty Pageant in California . The main problem is the yellow VW van they have to constantly push to jump-start , but also battling life's little miseries on this journey can become just as difficult . The cast is outstanding , and the film is very funny . . not just uproarious like that humdinger of a talent contest at the end , but through subtle painful ways truth can be just as humorous . Obviously , through reflection and bonding , each character will summon something strong in themselves to thwart the problems they face .
Murders in the Zoo	Startlingly violent , potent shocker for a 30's film stars Lionel Atwill ( doing what he does so well , portraying diabolical scientists with evil intent ) as an insanely jealous , very wealthy , big game hunter . . and animal scientist / zoologist . . Eric Gorman , who supplies zoo's with wild life he finds on safari trips , and his grisly actions towards those who dare desire to seduce his wife , Evelyn ( Kathleen Burke ) . In the opening of this film , he actually sows a man's mouth shut ( ! ) for attempting to kiss Evelyn , leaving the man to be food for the wild . Later , a millionaire , Roger Hewitt ( John Lodge ) begins an affair with Evelyn , only to die thanks to Gorman's use of Mamba venom . When Evelyn intends to inform the police of his murder of her lover , Eric feeds her to alligators ! Thinking his threat of being exposed is over , Eric finds himself in trouble with animal scientist , Dr . Jack Woodford ( . . western icon Randolph Scott , far from the stern , tall-in-the-saddle cowboy hero he'd later become , he's a smiling softy with a heart-of-gold ) whose place of employment has been besieged because of Hewitt's murder ( . . the snake having not been found ) and bad press causing closure . Gorman will go to whatever lengths necessary to insure his safety endangering Jack , his girlfriend . . and fellow scientist / lab associate . . Jerry ( Gail Patrick ) , whose father GA ( Harry Bersford ) is the zoo's curator , or anyone else who stands in his way . Charles Ruggles is perhaps the film's weak link , a bumbling , alcoholic press agent , Peter Yates , who is supposed to be the comic relief , but he provides a diversion which breaks the intense spell this has . Without Ruggles , the film provides a tour-de-force performance for Lionel Atwill channeling the same kind of malevolent and quietly deranged characters he'd often portray on screen . This is the perfect vehicle for Atwill , and he provides the film with a loathsome villain to root against . For Atwill fans ( . . like myself ) this is a must-see . His final scene , after releasing lions and tigers from their cages , is a doozy !
The Limey	Definitive star vehicle for Terrence Stamp ( . . it seems he was born to play this role ) as a British " criminal man " , Wilson , who wishes to uncover the truth behind his daughter's death . Peter Fonda , a beleaguered rock'n'roll producer , Terry Valentine , is Stamp's target . Barry Newman ( . . of VANISING POINT fame ) is Fonda's " security guard " , Avery , an enforcer who protects the interests of his employer . Lesley Ann Warren is Elaine , a friend of Wilson's daughter he befriends as well as Luis Guzmán ( . . who portrays cook , Eduardo " Ed " Roel , another friend of Wilson's daughter's thanks in part to their acting class together ) who helps him on his pursuit for answers . Sure Wilson has thoughts of killing Valentine , but he'd rather find out the truth about his daughter before any attempts of settling a score . Great role for Nicky Katt as a hood Avery turns to when he needs dirty work tended to . Just as good a cast as you could ask for and director Soderbergh builds characterizations through a careful editing process going back and forth through time as Wilson dotes on his past regarding his daughter , while others surrounding Valentine ( . . such as Katt's Stacey and his partner , and DEA agents who have been tailing Valentine for helping push heroine ) have plans of their own he often gets in middle of . Within a tight 90 minutes , we get all we need to know about Wilson thanks to the way the film is directed and written ( . . good use of a film directed by Ken Loach starring Stamp as a young man living a rather poor , but happy , existence with his wife , before being sent to jail for petty crimes ) . I particularly was satisfied with the climax because while everyone is killing each other , Wilson is able to confront Valentine face-to-face with a much different result than we are used to in these types of films . To say this was an atypical revenge film would be an understatement , and that may be it's greatest strength . THE LIMEY also establishes Wilson as a fish-out-of-water character whose slang and language leaves many confused and bewildered , yet he leaves a lasting impression . My favorite scene would have to be Wilson's one-on-one with DEA boss Bill Duke , both out to get Valentine , for different reasons , attempting to understand each other . Lesley Ann Warren had a real chance to show just how good an actress she is when given a great part . . her work opposite Stamp , a quiet camaraderie that develops because of her fondness for his daughter , is subtle and effective . Also , Stamp's unusual bond with Luis Guzmán is actually touching . A really great movie if given a chance . Fonda's producer is rather sad , a relic needing companionship , always looking over his shoulder in fear that the boogeyman could come from behind any minute . Acted in a minimalist fashion , with quietly moving moments here and there . I think , at it's best , the movie shows a father's regret for not being a more vital figure in his daughter's life .
Habit	Sam ( Larry Fessenden , who also wrote , directed , & edited this feature ) is an alcoholic manager of a café , coming off a relationship that is lingering awkwardly , meets an alluring mysterious woman named Anna ( Meredith Snaider ) at a friend's Halloween party . They later meet for a series of passionate sexual encounters . . their first featuring an intense bite on Sam's lip by Anna . Soon Sam's friends begin to disappear one by one , while his physical condition begins to worsen . We see that Anna may just be a vampire when , during a sexual encounter in a hospital supply room she bites him lustfully on the arm . In another very quick moment which reveals even more about Anna is after Sam has spoken a dedication speech for his late father . . she has taken the face of Sam's past lover , Liza ( . . this is quick so you must notice it when it comes ; we can see that she has taken the identity of someone people at that function might've seen in Sam's life before ) . But , the most revealing aspect of Anna is how she hides her entire existence ( work , personal things , family ) only desiring to constantly have relations with Sam with most being of a sexual nature . But , even though Sam finds these certain developments out during time , including his worsening physical state , he does not seem to care as long as he can continue to have those moments with Anna . Horror fans might know Fessenden the most for his directorial effort , Wendigo , but I like this film even more . It has that " Martin " vibe ( the George Romero tale of a vampire ) with Fessenden using authentic NYC locations shooting and unfamiliars in the acting department . The cast is quite good for being unknown ( . . these are probably actors and friends he has worked with in the past ) , but the startling aspect of his story-telling to me is how graphic the sex is between Fessenden and Snaider . Snaider fulfills her role quite well providing a vamp who we might could understand why Sam wouldn't wish to relinquish his passion with her . The film's location work might remind many of indie directors like Ed Burns and Noah Baumbach who often like making films surrounding NYC and having " regular " looking people in them . But , I think this film is closer to Romero who likes using rather regular looking people who we don't see in films unlike those I named above . Much like " Martin " , this film feels like a documentary of a doomed loser who has finally found something exciting in his life , despite the consequences that might occur later . I wrote this bad review pretty much as a heads-up to horror fans who are looking for a different kind of vampire tale . " Habit " is quite a low-budget wonder where Fessenden provides us with realistic flats and the rather ordinary places that ordinary people might frequent in NYC .
Man in the Attic	Essentially an American re-working of John Brahm's masterpiece , THE LODGER ( . . itself a reworking of Hitchcock's silent ) , director Hugo Fregonese's MAN IN THE ATTIC is still a commendable , atmospheric take on the notorious Jack the Ripper with Jack Palance taking a crack at the infamous White Chapel serial killer , and completely mesmerizing in the role , in my opinion , displaying the tormented soul behind a calm exterior slowly beginning to falter as his infatuation and desire for famous dance hall actress Lily Bonner ( Constance Smith ) grows . This version is less subtle than Brahm's film with dialogue , behavior , and certain situations often implicating the mysterious lodger , Jack Slade , more than the previous incarnation . For instance , Helen Harley ( Frances Bavier , Aunt Bea on the Andy Griffith Show ) almost immediately suspects Slade of being the Ripper , never trusting him and always snooping about trying to prove that he is . The film has a scene where Slade talks about his mother to great length calling to our attention why he targets the hookers and female drunks which leave bars for their respected homes . An interesting difference in this film version is that Lily falls in love with Slade , even planting a kiss on him ( . . I love the reaction of Palance , completely taken aback and discomforted with such an embrace ) . There are many instances , though , where this is almost shot-for-shot similar to Brahm's film such as Slade's burning materials which could implicate him and the way the murders are set up which instantly bring to mind THE LODGER . The film opens with a White Chapel murder , followed by Slade asking the Harleys , William ( Rhys Williams ) and Helen for a room to let . Soon Slade becomes acquainted with their niece , Lily , bound for super-stardom , and the family dog who takes a liking to him . Slade is withdrawn and quiet , mysterious and creepy , leaving the house at night to supposedly work on his research of blood diseases at a nearby hospital ( . . he's a pathologist ; often working in the Harley's attic he's also paying for monthly ) . Soon Scotland Yard Inspector Warwick ( Byron Palmer , a poor contrast to the great George Sanders ) is passing by the Harley's to question Lily regarding the death of a former dance hall queen murdered by the Ripper ( . . also using his advantages as a detective to get a date with her ; himself interested with Lily after seeing her perform one of her lurid shows ) and locking horns with Slade who finds his terminology for murderers sickening and crude . This film , unlike THE LODGER , has Slade slowly getting more and more paranoid because of the nervous attitudes of those around him yearning for trust despite the fact that his behavior is indeed questionable . And , the finale changes drastically ( . . although , I rather like it about as well as the fantastic chase through the theater of THE LODGER ) with Slade leaving the theater , after halting himself from stabbing Lily out of his love and devotion for her , forcing through guards , grabbing a coach , driving horses down the streets of London as Insp . Warwick ( . . and the police ) are in hot pursuit . It's interesting comparing the performances between Laird Cregar ( . . who is nothing short of phenomenal ) and Palance , even though I often loathe such things . Palance is always nervous ( . . look how he fingers the rim of his hat while talking to Lily or others ) , or on end , for the most part , able to control his emotions , particularly around Warwick ( . . although , magnificently , Fregonese's camera is able to capture his detest for the inspector and his descriptions for Jack the Ripper , or murderers in general ) who challenges him the most . 20th Century Fox ( . . who also produced THE LODGER ) again produce an effective period mood , with wonderful sets and stunning noirish photography . This is an undiscovered gem that is not talked about near enough , which is a shame , mainly because the cast isn't as strong ( . . or as British ) as THE LODGER . Palance's faithful owe it to themselves to check this out .
From Beyond the Grave	Four tales of terror revolving around an antique store owned by the grim-looking Peter Cushing where various characters secure objects without paying the correct price with possible doom awaiting them . The first shopper , Edward Charlton ( David Warner ) is a smug , narcissistic know-it-all who procures a creepy mirror from Cushing which houses an evil spirit awakened when a séance takes place in the young man's pad . This evil spirit requires blood and , through hypnotic suggestion , forces Edward to bring female victims back to his place for slaughter so that he can become whole leaving the eternal prison that has held him for so long . Christopher Lowe ( Ian Bannen ) is an office manager stuck in a loveless marriage to Mabel ( Diana Dors ) where she constantly humiliates him in front of his son . He passes by Jim Underwood ( Donald Pleasence ) , a street salesman ( peddler ) using his participation in the war as a means to increase his sales . Chris pretends to be some kind of would-be war hero by stealing an Infantry medal from Cushing's shop and is invited to dinner where he meets Jim's darling daughter Emily ( Angela Pleasence , Donald's actual daughter ) . . who just happens to practice witchcraft and is more than obliged to off his wife if Chris so commands . But , she works freelance and perhaps someone else would like to use her services . . Reggie ( Ian Carmichael ) switches price tags on these little cases so that he can pay smaller price for classier box of the two . On board a train he meets clairvoyant Madame Orloff ( Margaret Leighton , playing her eccentric psychic to the hilt and beyond ) who informs Reggie he has an " elemental " on his shoulder . . this elemental must be removed before it takes over his host body . Not heeding to her warnings , Reggie returns home only to realize , after it tries to strangle his wife Susan ( Nyree Dawn Porter ) , that what Orloff said was true . In a ruckus exorcism scene , Orloff removes the evil from his shoulder as the house is destroying itself . But , despite the Madame's great efforts , the evil spirit might just find someone else to cling to . . William Seaton ( Ian Ogilvy ) seemingly purchases a sinister door ( the film sets up the possibility that William stole some of his cash back when Cushing was off to get a receipt ) which is to cover a stationary cupboard in his home . What William and his beautiful wife Rosemary ( the truly lovely Lesley-Anne Down ) do not expect is that , at the stroke of Midnight , behind the ominous door is a blue " ghost " room created by a man with evil intent . This spirit will seek Rosemary's soul unless William can find a way to harm him . Before each story , a thief is planning to rob Cushing only to find that the proprietor of this antique shop isn't anyone to be trifled with . Entertaining anthology from the always-reliable Amicus studios . Good fun for a dark , stormy night .
Retribution	A beleaguered detective , working a homicide case whose crime scene was disturbed by a flood which derived from an earthquake , is haunted by a mysterious lady in red , who might just be a victim he possibly murdered . . he can not remember ever doing such a thing , which makes her creepy visits to him even more bewildering . The film opens with a man drowning a young woman , dressed in red , in a salt-water pot hole leaving her as he drives away . This case evokes distress in Detective Noboru Yoshioka ( Kôji Yakusho , with quite an interesting face . . it seems like his years of working these cases , among other things the film will eventually reveal , show in not only the face but his demeanor ) who the film paints as the possible killer . A button and electrical wire , pointed out by the film in subtle sequences , allow us , at first , to believe he just might've been the one responsible , having selective amnesia in not remembering his involvement . I like how director Kiyoshi Kurosawa toys with me . . like a puppet at his command , I was led to and fro . Then , Kurosawa startles me by showing other murders carried out by a killer towards one they possibly care for . The murders start out one way ( . . a father sticks his troublesome , wayward son with a hypodermic of poison , an adulteress bashes her employer with a hammer ) then result with drowning in salt-water . I , at first , felt that the lady in red might've been a manifestation of guilt , but it seems later she might actually motivate others to kill ! That's another aspect of this tale that startles me . Along the way , the film always returns to Yoshioka , the catlayst who explores the identity of the lady in red which never fails to return to him , often frightening him with accusations of his murdering her . Who is this woman , really ? At first , Yoshioka believes she is the dead woman seen drowned at the opening of the film , but once her murderer is discovered , it still doesn't end . Through some digging , he finds out about a sanitarium which used corporal punishment towards unruly inmates involving heads being soaked in pans of salt-water . I found it amusing how the film will seem to let Yoshioki off the hook , regarding his possible involvement in a homicide only to bring the lady in red back to torment him . He has done something and this film cleverly shows us what . I will say that one must always keep Yoshioka's love interest Harue ( Manami Konishi ) in their minds throughout . If you can see , their relationship is missing something . It's distant , cold , empty . . something just isn't quite right with this picture . And , another little toy at Kurosawa's disposal is Yoshioka's partner Toru Miyaji ( Tsuyoshi Ihari ) who suspects him of misconduct . The lady in red is quite a creation of Kurosawa's . . she's not far removed from the others we often are accustomed to , but she resembles a corpse , just recently uninhabited rather than some spooky white with black eyeballs lunging from the darkness . Actually , she often appears in corners like those who perish to ash in Kurosawa's " Kairo " . Mirrors , flight , a crack in the wall . . the lady in red makes her presence known . I like how Kurosawa create's this depressing atmosphere , not unlike " Kairo " , where the skies in Tokyo are mostly grey and sad . Kurosawa said in a Q & A session on the DVD I watched that he shot this film in Winter , and the film works , I think , because of that . While I did find it baffling at times , this film sure held me at it's grip and I found it quite challenging . The fate of Miyaji , and Yoshioki's reaction and response to his sins , only add to this film's strange aura .
Family Reunion	Robert Perry ( Stephen McHattie ) has a major problem on his hands . . his son Bobby ( Daniel Terrence Kelly ) is a werewolf who turns at the fullness of the moon and has escaped numerous times from his room killing innocents in the night . On the run and sweating out Bobby's lycanthrope tendencies , Robert must also deal with his wife , Janice ( Patricia Tallman ) who is following after them , calling on a professional from an abuse center , Trudy ( Marilyn Rockafellow ) to assist her in finding them . But , Janice might not be who she appears , and there is indeed a reason why Bobby is going through his lycan transformations . . Tom Savini gets a chance behind to camera thanks to producer George Romero's influence behind the show , Tales from the Darkside . Lots of cool things in this episode for horror / Savini buffs , such as little Bobby's monstrous creations and his reading from Fangoria magazine , posters of Romero movies on Bobby's wall ( specifically " Creepshow " ) , Tallman as the ferocious mother who'd later be cast as the lead heroine in Savini's version of his mentor's " Night of the Living Dead " , Stephen McHattie , who'd become a staple in B-movie horror throughout the 90's , and some cool werewolf make-up add much to this particular episode . Creepy little effort from the make-up / gore master . And , in typical fashion for the show , it ends in a terrifying fashion ( ye one can almost find it oddly touching ) leaving open the idea of something grave towards others .
A Prairie Home Companion	A tender Altman etches a wonderful portrait of unique , lovable characters performed by a great cast in a film about a long-running radio program performing one last show before getting the Axe . Garrison Keillor scripts the film , but it's obvious that the film is still a continuing mold in the Altman tradition as the cast wings it showing quite a report often improvising in the ways they feel the characters should go . Obviously , there had to be some sort of collection of ideas regarding where the film's main arc ( about whether the show would ever make it past this show's supposed final performance ) would lead , but it treads the path many radio show programs go . . people sing and commercials are sung in between as proper sponsorship tags to keep the show on the air . You have Keillor himself doing the hosting , Woody Harrelson and John C Reilly as cowboy singers Dusty and Lefty ( they are so wonderful together and their " Bad Jokes " song is an absolute hoot ) , Meryl Streep and Lily Tomlin magically so perfect together as sisters Yolanda and Rhonda , Kevin Kline as " Security Guard " Guy Noir ( this character is so marvelously inspired with Kline having him constantly looking in the mirror and using " noirish dialogue " as if trying to evoke Chandler , but not a very good Security Guard ) , Lindsay Lohan as Yolanda's daughter Lola ( surprisingly good , not bringing down the wonderful talent around her ) , & Virginia Madsen in the most fascinating role as an angel whose death came after hearing a penguin joke from the show . Also , in a supporting role where she seems to tie everyone together is GK's always present organizer Molly , played by Maya Rudolph ( in a very funny scene , Molly can not find the duct tap company's sheet so that GK can announce them on the air leaving him to come up with something as she swarms through the massive amount of papers ; thankfully , their sound man lends a hand as Rhonda comes up with a gag ) . There are lots of interesting things going on as all the characters do get their moments to grow on screen . It seems everyone of these actors get their just do and are allowed to bring peculiarities to the people they play . The film requires a demanding task from it's talented cast who must often sing . Tommy Lee Jones has a minor part as the " villain " of the film who represents the one who plans to end the show looking at it as a relic that belongs to a museum . The angel played by Madsen seems to be a metaphor from Altman and Keillor stating that we must all die some day , such as LQ Jones ' Chuck Akers and all things , such as the radio show , must end sooner or later . Surprisingly , the film often brings up spiritual matters whether in song or to certain characters ( such as an ambiguous ending leaving us curious about the fate of some characters ) . . it's as if Altman or Keillor is facing their own eventual inevitability that we all must sooner or later come to the end of our journey . But , ultimately , I don't think this film will hit the mark for those who don't love these unique characters and the typical Altman voyeuristic style of film-making . I did , so it worked for me .
Last Man on Earth	Quite entertaining little modestly budgeted post-apocalyptic horror flick starring Vincent Price as a lonely , beleaguered man fighting an everyday struggle with a world of vampires . Through moments of backstory ( Richard Matheson , unhappy with the final product from a screenplay , used a different name in the title credits ) , we see that a plague had infected civilization carried by the wind which started the vampire virus . The film is quite haunting as we see a civilization in crumbling scary quiet with Price seeking out other possible living members of mankind eventually finding a woman who has found a way to reverse the vampire plague raging inside . Price was a scientist trying to find a cure . In a haunting side-note within the plot is Price's old colleague always trying to get inside the house to kill him . The film is actually surprisingly effective thanks to an always reliable Price in the lead . There have been other film based on Matheson's novel , " I Am Legend , " but this is perhaps as close as we'll get to a quality version of the story . Potent scenes include Price's wife and child succumbing to the disease , Price having to flee a group of people who consider him a threat , and the final climax as Price tries to tell those who wish him dead that his blood is the real cure for the vampire curse .
Dead of Night	A man is invited to a country house where a collection of people swap creepy stories from their past . That man is Walter Craig ( Mervyn Johns ) who has been having a bad recurring nightmare about this very day and the faces of those people in the house are fresh in his mind . During the film , he tries to dispel that his nightmare which consists of him killing an innocent man and punching a young woman is merely that . . a nightmare and nothing more . In this anthology , the ending has one of those cool , never-ending Freudian deals which leaves you with a sense of eternal dread for poor Walter . Tales include a mirror with a sinister hold on a poor soul , a young woman who finds a young ghost boy crying because of a fear that will come true , a golfer is tormented by a former competitor who after committing suicide from losing a bet , comes back to haunt him , and especially the final story about a ventriloquist who is dominated by his dummy ( this final one holds a very eerie performance from Michael Redgrave as the mentally ravaged ventriloquist Frere ) . As often in anthology films , certain segments are better than others , but each is intelligently told and well acted .
Island of Lost Souls	Edward Parker is an unfortunate victim of being trapped on Dr . Moreau's island of monsters . Moreau wishes to create human life from animal and needs to prove he's successful by seeing if his panther , now a woman , can feel human and connect with Parker . Parker , however , notices that Lota has claws where finger nails should be and finally suspects Moreau for the evil fiend he really is . Moreau wishes to prove the world that he can fully create a complete human being , but must find more parts to fully flesh out Lota to the point where she has no other noticeable animal traits . He plans to use parts from Parker , but sees opportunity on the horizon when Parker's love , Ruth , finds him thanks to Capt . Donahue boating her to the island . Ruth is too kind-hearted and trusting to realize what schemes Moreau has planned , but will understand just like her boyfriend just what kind of human monster the doctor really is . Montgomery , Moreau's aide , will also finally see the light and try to get Parker and company off the island somehow . Circumstances ensue when the monsters on the island , led by the " Sayer of the Law " , decide to revolt against Moreau having had enough of being tormented by him and his house of pain . The film has some real chills thanks in part to great photography and scary monster make-up . Bela was always good at creating vicious monsters behind hideous make-up and brings that knack to his Sayer of the Law . Laughton is a towering presence as Moreau . . he shows the madness that lurks underneath and we see the wheels turn through careful subtlety . The rest of the cast is handsome , but to see this film , it's all about Laughton and the monsters . Could've been a bit longer and the story doesn't quite get the full treatment it deserves . Moreau isn't quite the threat he should be ( the ' 77 treatment with Lancaster as Moreau and Michael York as the unfortunate trapped victim does explore the darker aspects of the story ) , but perhaps when it came out had something to do with it .
Jason and the Argonauts	Jason and his assembled crew of warriors and boatmen , in their ship Argo , guided by the statue of goddess Hera , face perilous danger and creatures of various kinds while seeking the golden fleece , often tested by the almighty Zeus and his gods looking down from the heavens . Escapist fare of the highest order with astounding stop-motion effects by the great Ray Harryhausen . . you could look at his films as a precursor to the special f / x bonanzas of the summer blockbusters of today's age . I was pleased with how well Ray's work holds up to the supposed superiority of today's computer effects . I think the definite highlight would have to be Jason's battle with the multiple dragon-headed snake , hydra . You also have the amazing metal " guardian soldier " statue , Talos who rises to strike the argonauts after Hercules removed a large pin from the treasure of the gods . The two winged harpies who were created by Zeus as punishment to a blinded prophet Phineas ( Dr . Who's Patrick Troughton ) are also cool as they flap and torment , caught in a net by Jason and his men as part of a bargain for directions to King Aeetes ' land of Colchia . And , the final effects sequence is quite dazzling as fallen skeletal warriors , victims of hydra who attempted to steal the golden fleece , given birth by Aeetes ' god Hecates , battle Jason and two of his men . Features Nigel Green , of all people , as the unlikeliest Hercules ever , nothing like the muscle-men who often portray the character , but he supplies the strongman with a boisterous attitude , cockiness and unwavering belief in his godlike gifts . Tod Armstrong is quite well suited in the role of trustworthy and charismatic leader of the Argonauts who put their full faith in him as they journey on dangerous adventures . Gary Raymond has the role of treacherous spy Acastus who dares challenge Jason , desiring himself to retrieve the golden fleece on his own terms . Nancy Kovack is the high priestess of the Colchian god Hecates , who falls in love with Jason helping him find the golden fleece , saved herself a couple times from certain death .
Flesh + Blood	King George has betrayed Martin and his men once they help him take a castle and it's treasured supply of gold . Captain Hawkwood threatens to kill them with canon fire if they do not vacate the premises without their weapons or the spoils they were to inherit . The Cardinal , who is indeed quite mad after seeing too many men dying in battle , finds a statue of St . Martin and tells their Martin he is to inherit fortune . Martin believing this " sign " , sets forth to seek vengeance on the king and captain for what they did to them . The King's son , Steven , is to wed virginal Agnes ( who has been in a convent ) , but those wedding plans misfire when Martin kidnaps her , holding her hostage while also causing heavy damage to the King and his accompaniment . It will be up to Steven to not only coerce Hawkwood to return to military duty but fight his father's war when George is deeply wounded in Martin's attack . Agnes will manipulate Martin sexually through her wares to not only stay alive , but so that she'll reach her beloved Steven safe and sound if not virginal . Verhoeven , and his cast , lets it all hang out in outrageous fashion with bucket-loads of violence and depravity . Rutger Hauer and company create a group of undesirable bunch that is hard to root for or against . They certainly relish in their roles as cutthroats ( they remind me of Ernest Borgnine , Kurt Douglas and company in " The Vikings " ) who love to swig their alcohol and swarm their women with an unhinged lust . Jennifer Jason Leigh proves here as Agnes she's willing to go a long way showing her entire nude body in various positions . Tom Burlinson , while bestowing Steven with intelligence and admirable traits , can show a snarl in the face of men he sees as vermin to be vanquished for what they have done kidnapping his bride and attempting the assassination of his father . The film is strikingly photographed with a marvelous rousing score from Basil Poledouris . I will say that this film knows no boundaries ( it is directed by Verhoeven who never strays from showing perversity and carnage ) and may not be for all tastes .
Venus in Furs	Jesús Franco fans consider " Venus in Furs " his grand achievement . It concerns the surreal odyssey of a jazz trumpeter who falls in love with the seductive spirit of a murdered young woman , Wanda ( Maria Rohm ) at the hands of three bourgeoisie types , Ahmed ( Klaus Kinski ) , Kapp ( Dennis Price ) , and Olga ( Margaret Lee ) who enjoy mixing violence with kink . Jimmy Logan ( James Darren ) discovers Wanda's body floating in the ocean becoming instantly attracted to her . Jimmy is a troubled soul who has found displeasure with his trumpet , even considering quiting his occupation as a musician . The desire and passion is missing , that is until a spark ignites when he finds a woman eerily similar to the dead woman he discovered . That is indeed the spirit of Wanda , returned to get revenge against those who left her for dead after their game of rough sex goes awry . Or , is anything we see even real , or just a series of images and stories flashing through the dreams of Jimmy , concocted at the moment of his death ? What we do know is that Jimmy's lover , singer Rita ( Barbara McNair ) realizes that her man is falling for another , and , despite her pleas for his love , knows their relationship may never recover . Like those Wanda returns to seek revenge , Jimmy is yet another casualty , desiring something he can not obtain . That's the best way I have to describe this film which uses the image of the lovely Maria Rohm , often partially naked , breasts uncovered , underneath a fur coat and wig , as a haunting tool towards those who long to embrace her . Director Jesús Franco admits that his main objective was to tell a story about a troubled musician and his love life with a lover of a different race . Producers pushed for the whole " Venus in Furs " idea . He also mentions in an interview that it wasn't his idea to edit those repeated images of Wanda to her victims , over and over , repeating throughout , calling it " gratuituous . " I think he does accomplish the idea that this trumpeter is at the moment of death reliving past occurrences and possible desires that were just out of reach . Every kind of visual trick is used , color schemes , slow-motion , penetrating zooms into faces , disorienting picture techniques as Jimmy runs for Wanda , and some very unusual uses of the dark and light . The settings for the film ( . . Jesús Franco reflects that he shot in several places like Rome and Istanbul ) are stunning and bring an atmosphere needed for such an erotic fantasy . The beach front is especially put to striking use . Attractive leads and an overwhelming melancholy and exuberant spirit in equal measure . I felt Jesús Franco achieves his goal regarding the musician and his difficulty separating the real from unreal by placing him within such a setting as the lively nature of Rio , a carnival with a people embarking on a journey of joy as he struggles to find his way . As odd as the death sequences were , they made sense to me this time around unlike my previous viewing . . a desire for such an unattainable beauty can haunt you to the point of death .
House of Dark Shadows	Dan Curtis , not as bound by restrictions regarding censorship and budget , brings the recurring storyline of centuries-old vampire Barnabas Collins and the tragic consequences of his presence and predatory behavior from the television soap opera to the big screen and shows that he has an eye for atmosphere , menace and dread in this Gothic melodrama . Nearly every important cast member either dies or is turned into a vampire as Barnabas seeks to make Maggie Evans ( . . the lovely Kathryn Leigh Scott , who has a great pair of legs ) as his bride for she resembles the love of his life who committed suicide when she found that he was indeed a vampire . Chained in a coffin and sealed await in a secret crypt by his father , Barnabas is freed by a slimy , greedy employee for the Collins / Stoddard family , Willie Loomis ( John Karlen ) looking for a precious necklace . Dr . Julia Hoffman ( Grayson Hall ) , a physician called upon by family matriarch Elizabeth Collins Stoddard ( . . Joan Bennett , who is actually underused in the film ) to help solve the violent attack of a female employee , along with scholarly Professor T Eliot Stokes ( Thayer David ) , has studied the blood of the victim , believing she can cure Barnabas , subsequently falling in love with him during the healing process . Barnabas bites a family member , Roger Collins ' ( Louis Edmonds ) daughter Carolyn ( Nancy Barrett ) who in turn bears her fangs into her beau after being laid to rest . Jealous of the budding romance between Barnabas and Maggie ( . . her fiancé , Jeff , played by Roger Davis who becomes the hero once nearly the entire family has been turned into vampires , is away at Boston ) , Julia deliberately causes an increase in the serum dosage given to the vampire causing him to age into an old man . His identity discovered Barnabas will cause death and destruction towards anyone who dare stop him from making Maggie his bride . Karlen's Willie is his Renfield-like slave who must do as ordered by his master . Most of the cast from the soap opera at the time have a role in the movie , but this is Jonathan Frid's movie all the way . His tragic vampire actually walks during the day and is almost cured when Hoffman's betrayal causes devastating consequences leading to many unforeseen demises . Great locations selected by Curtis , old places with history , such as Collinwood , enhance the film but those familiar with the show will notice that the themes of the movie are depicted on there . Except in the movie's case the stories culminate within a certain amount of time instead of the lengthening of months on a soap opera . The film follows the basic familiar customs of Dracula . Crosses , objects plunged into the heart , mirrors not reflecting the vampire's image , are depicted in this film . I felt Curtis was really inspired , having this golden opportunity to fill his screen with graphic vampire killings and bloody fang wounds on the neck . Nancy Barrett is quite impressive as a vampire victim in a flowing white gown wishing to bite a kid relative , David Collins ( David Henesy ) while pursuing to bury her fangs in the neck of her boyfriend so he can share eternity with her . Curtis does show signs of a new filmmaker honing his skills , so music can be abrupt scene to scene and his camera-work at times can be a bit dodgy . But , there are also some astounding uses of the camera , like his shot from below Barrett as she bites her beau for the first time shooting up at her face , exposing fangs with a blood thirst so evident . The finale has my favorite set-piece inside a castle in ruin , the only place left for Barnabas to complete his wedding ceremony , featuring the terrific use of a wooden arrow from a cross-bow . I think this is a definite must for fans of the show , Curtis gave his audience exactly what they wanted . Great closing shot of a fallen Frid as the camera pulls away through the damaged hole of the dilapidated castle . The amazing backstory regarding how the cast were tirelessly working on both the show and this movie is a testament to hard work paying off !
Blood and Black Lace	Models employed at a fashion shop are being offed one by one as a killer , donning black hat , gloves , and coat ( while also covering the face with a stocking ) searches for a diary of the first victim Isabella . That diary is of interest to most of the cast which paints the idea in our heads that any number of people might have an excuse to send Isabella to an early grave . This film is known as the model for future gialli ( Italian slashers ) with it's face-less killer coming from behind unknowing victims who have no idea that someone awaits them in the dark , quietly just out of sight to end them . This film , in my opinion , is style and color over substance . The story and the unveiling of killer ( s ) are merely okay if not too extraordinary . It's the way Bava sets up the sequences where the killer attacks , Bava doesn't seem to take an easy way out when it comes to framing a shot . Bava uses outside light as it flashes into rooms ( . . buildings ) superbly adding atmosphere to the proceedings . The pacing can be sluggish at times . . I have to admit there were moments where I was getting antsy . But , I just took in Bava's exceptional ability to artistically convey more in a scene than just a character running from another trying to kill her . It's the way Bava frames the prey and hunter . . how we are thrusted beautifully into the terror on their faces . The violence is also eye-popping considering when it was made . . sadistic with some nasty weaponry .
Drunken Angel	Akira Kurowsawa is not known for his subtlety . . of all his films I've seen , it's clear his goal is to overpower you . And , that is the case for DRUNKEN ANGEL , a somber , tragic tale of a Yakuza gangster , Matsunaga ( Toshirô Mifune ) , with tuberculosis , whose territory ( . . and moll ) in Tokyo is being taken right from under him thanks to a recently released thug , Okada ( Reisaburo Yamamoto ) . The film's titular hero is a cantankerous , but caring , physician , Doctor Sanada ( Takashi Shimura ) who attempts futilely to treat Matsunaga of his TB , but the gangster's influential criminal " friends " are a stumbling-block that ruin such plans . Sanada is the kind of man whose bark is worse than his bite . . those close to him know that his heart is tender even if he often raises his voice in anger at the ugliness around him . Rounding out the effective cast includes Michiyo Kogure as Nanae ( . . a loathsome tramp who leaves Matsunaga for Okada , seeing that her own situation would benefit better with the healthier , more established Yakuza gangster ) , Chieko Nakakita as Sanada's nurse Miyo ( . . Okada's meek wife who worries about his demands for her return knowing the kind of monster that he is , and the grief he has caused her ) , and Chouko Iida as Sanada's vocal but obedient servant . Shimura is a hoot as the loud , out-spoken , but relatively harmless , doctor who simply wants the best for his patients even though with cases like Matsunaga , he has his hands full . Mifune has one hell of a role as the alcoholic , miserable gangster whose stubborn pride and unshakable loyalty to his Yakuza boss render him a cripple with little hope . The intensity between Sanada and Matsunaga produces fireworks for the story because it's such a clash of volatile personalities . As I mentioned at the beginning , Kurosawa has never been the most subtle of filmmakers and you realize that his vocal concerns for a polluted environment come across in two separate ways . . the swamp in the middle of Matsunaga's territorial portion of Tokyo is often established over and over by the director pointing out , I felt , the cesspool of man's corruption to each other and the land itself ( . . there's even one scene where we see a businessman dumping trash into the pond , and Sanada warns kids not to drink from it due to infectious typhoid which derives from such filthy water ) . The pool is often the focus of conversation and Sanada frequently passes by it , and Matsunaga often peers away at it as he slowly rots away inside . Kurosawa uses Matsunaga as a symbol of tragedy . . a young man , dying , loyal to his clan , yet rejected as good-for-nothing . Matsunaga is in fact a martyr for Kurosawa because he uses him as an outcry towards organized crime and how aligning yourself to any gang , no matter how honorable you are at heart , can lead to a pathetic end ( . . Matsunaga's fate is really rather depressing and pitiable , his confrontation of a frightened OKada , whose cowardly true colors emerge , vomiting blood and hardly able to stand , much less battle anyone in hand-to-hand combat , seems so iniquitous ) . Yet , Kurosawa , at the same time , provides an inspiring message of possible hope through another case , a 17 year old girl with the same condition as Matsunaga , who faces her crisis in a different light , listening to Sanada , her fate the opposite . As typical of Kurosawa , many heartbreaking , engrossing , incredibly emotional moments throughout with Matsunaga the perfect catalyst to elicit sadness from the viewer , proving that a life of crime really isn't the answer to real prosperity . I'm pretty sure many will find Kurosawa's film quite heavy-handed , as if he were preaching to you , but I found DRUNKEN ANGEL to be yet another powerful experience . . especially the end .
The House That Screamed	Thriller set in a girl's boarding school for those females whose behavior is deemed as questionable and troublesome with Lilli Palmer as the " den-mother " Madame Fourneau , who runs the joint with a " firm hand . " Under her is " lieutenant " Desprez ( Cándida Losada ) who is sexually infatuated with a new arrival , Theresa ( Cristina Galbó ) . Theresa is ashamed of her dance-hall prostitute mother and Desprez takes it upon herself to ridicule the poor girl for it . Unlike many of the other girls , Theresa is mannered and kind . . but Desprez wishes to humiliate the girl because deep inside , I felt , she longs to own her . The film carries the lesbian sub-text as subtle as it can , but there's surface-level desire we can see on faces . It's clear Desprez truly wishes to ravish Theresa and when she begins to court Luis ( John Moulder-Brown ) , the son of Fourneau , secretly , jealousy and anger overcome her . Also , we see Fourneau smothering her son over his not associating with the girls , claiming he needs to remain inside so that he can not be tainted by what they might offer . There are hints of possible incest . . scenes where she caresses her son's hair often even kissing his cheek rather unmotherly points out the idea that there's a bit more to their relationship than meets the eye . The film does blatantly , in dialogue and behavior , show that these girls desire the grasp of a man sexually , even willing to make it with a rather scruffy carpenter who provides the school with wood every once in a while . There's a fantastic sequence where we see the girls during their sewing class chomping at the bit in longing for the sexual favors of the carpenter as one of them is making out with the man in the barn . . Desprez knowingly allows the girls each a chance to have it with the fellow under Fourneau's nose . Fourneau trusts Desprez implicitly , and she uses that trust to take advantage of the girls and her . Yet , with all this taking place in the film , this has it's disturbing elements as well . There's a killer amongst them that murders several of the girls with a knife . When the film introduces Theresa to us , Fourneau lets it be known that three girls had went missing . The film provides us with the reason as one girl plans a little rendezvous with Luis in the greenhouse and is brutally stabbed by someone from the dark . Closes with a really bizarre twist at the end explaining who the knife killer is and his / her unusual reasons / motives behind these murderous acts . There's a lot of sexual tension in this film . . you can feel it , the desire is so alive . Not a bad little movie . . warped , that's for sure .
The Sect	An evil , Devil-worshipping sect , led by their enigmatic leader Moebius Kelly ( Herbert Lom ) have dastardly plans for Mirian ( Kelly Curtis ) and it concerns unleashing evil on the world through a sordid type of birth . That's the best I can do to explain this baffling supernatural , surreal religious horror outing from director Michele Soavi whose camera is always moving , capturing the action of every scene . The way an unusual blue water flows in Miriam's house ' pipes or the POV of a rabbit as it moves throughout Miriam's abode . . Soavi's camera captures such action intensely . There are quite a few bizarre moments in this flick like Giovanni Lombardo Radice's stabbing of a woman , later having her heart found in his pocket in a subway as a looter tries to lift something from his coat leading to his suicide after police surround him after aborting the train . Or a bizarre sequence where Miriam's neck is picked at by a crane . Herbert Lom has the most interesting part as the sect's leader , who informs Miriam of why she was selected to carry out benevolent plans against the world and God . There's a hole in her house's basement with major significance to the plot as it works as a type of gateway . What occurs to Miriam's schoolteacher friend Kathryn ( Mariangela Giordano ) when her face is " attacked " by Moebius ' facial death shroud , and Frank ( Michel Adatte ) , Miriam's confident whose a doctor she depends on as her life is spiraling out of control , when he discovers what the sect is up to ( . . like Frank , we are an eyewitness to a very disturbing ceremony where a female victim's face is removed so that their leader can gain " new life " ) are also very strange occurrences within the film . Miriam soon finds herself on her own against the dangers of a sect wielding a power far greater than mankind has ever known . While , at first , I tried to make sense of it all , soon I just gave up and enjoyed Soavi's distinctive camera-work . . he really doesn't take an easy way out trying every type of visually innovative trick he can think of to make each scene memorable . And , there enough wildly imaginative ideas at work to keep one from getting bored . Very dreamlike , hypnotic score from Pino Donaggio seems to mesh well with Soavi's style and the film's strange subject matter .
Murder on the Orient Express	Samuel Ratchett ( Richard Windmark ) asks Poirot ( Albert Finney , having a field day as the sleuth ) to be his bodyguard after receiving several death threats . He is later found dead and Poirot discovers quite a secret . . Ratchett is indeed a notorious gangster Cassetti , the mastermind behind a kidnapping gone awry with the end result being the death of little girl Daisey Armstrong . Everyone on board is suspect as Poirot , with help by Signor Bianchi ( the wonderful Martin Balsam ) and Dr . Constantine ( George Coulouris ) , will pursue the truth through a complex investigation that gets muddied when clues of a possible killer emerge as a concierge suit ( a missing button from the suit is later found with a key to all the rooms hidden in the pocket ) is found as well as the dagger . Through a collection of testimonials from each passenger on board , Poirot puts together his case . This film , as slickly directed by Lumet , does show the viewer little cues before and after the murder takes place who might've possibly done it . The opening set-up with the Armstrong family is a bit elusive , but after you watch the interrogations , Lumet allows you to understand what that opening montage of clips and such means . This cast is simply awesome , definitely the best I've seen assembled and that alone is novelty to re-watch this over and over . I consider it one of the all-time greatest entertainments . A good old fashioned mystery to escape into for two hours .
Blind Woman's Curse	Akemi Tachibana ( Meiko Kaji ) attempts to the keep the wishes of her slain father by not allowing her clan to continue the blood shed that is known to occur when rival Yakuza families desire total control . That becomes impossible when rival godfather Dobashi ( Toru Abe ) uses a traitor amongst the Tachibana clan , Tatsu ( Shirô Otsuji ) , and his thugs to kill off certain of their members while also planting narcotics within their village shops using the police to imprison many of the workers . What Akemi doesn't expect is another rival joining forces with Dobashi , a blind female master swords-woman , Aiko ( Hoki Tokuda ) seeking revenge for the murder of her brother ( . . Akemi also blinded her accidentally at the beginning of the film when Aiko attempted to save her brother during a sword battle between the Yakuza clans out of retribution for the slain leader of Tachibana's family ) . Another less intimidating Yakuza clan ( . . which is still a powerful , influential clan ) operated by the Aozora ( Ryohei Uchida ; a source of comedy relief , wearing a bowler hat and loin cloth whose body odor is used as an object of scorn ) also make occasional appearances in the village which works as an epicenter right in the middle of the various Yakuza clans . With Aiko assisting Dobashi and Tatsu in eliminating members of the Tachibana clan , Akemi , having withstood much strife due to the attacks against her people , vows revenge while also disbanding her Yakuza family so that they can live without harm . But , Dobashi soon realizes that Aiko is much more honorable than she first appears and he will also have to contend with another emerging adversary , Tani Shouichi ( Makoto Satô ) , a wandering loner who has disdain for injustice , whose rage is fueled by Tatsu's violence towards a kind restaurant owner , Ojiki ( Yoshi Kato ) and his daughter Chie ( Yôko Takagi ) . Director Teruo Ishii fuses the Samurai and Yakuza genres into a blood-soaked tale of violence , betrayal , and revenge with lots of animated characters . Kaji is the beautiful Yakuza leader who attempts to attain the peace in a ruthless society vying for more and more power . She's haunted by the image of the black cat , how such a feline was licking the blood from the slashed eyes of Aiko . Hoki Tokuda holds a blank expression yet equally impresses due to her masterful skill at realistically presenting a blind woman with intense concentration who defends herself well against opposing forces . What's really interesting is how you sympathize with both females , understanding Aiko's desire for revenge yet , thanks to Kaji's charm and likability , wish for her no harm . Satô is a welcome presence as an honorable sojourner who moves from village to village , town to town , fighting corruption and standing against wrong-doing , falling in love with the sweet / stunning beauty Takagi . Takagi is the virginal innocent who works dutifully for her soft-spoken and courteous father , Kato who stands against Abe's sadistic Dobashi and treacherous slimeball Otsuiji paying the price when doesn't serve or recognize them as respectable customers despite the obvious results for not doing so . Ishii brings back Tatsumi Hijikata as another lunatic , this time a hunchbacked performer who slaves lovingly ( . . and obsessively ) for his master , blind Tokuda . After several Tachibana clan members fall to her sword , Hijikata skins the dragon snake tattoos from their backs ! Abe perfectly embodies the diabolical crime-lord , a loathsome piece of work with a den of opium-addicted forced prostitutes and a gambling trade that swindles customers . Otsuji is just as contemptible and malicious as he is , seizing upon elder Kato with extra thugs . . many against one old man , and that was through a blind attack with Kato unable to properly defend himself . There's no need to worry because the finale allows Kaji , Satô and her fellow sword-fighters a showdown with Abe , Otsuji , and their army of hoods , in a grisly climax where lots of slicing leads to blood spray . I especially enjoy how the dual between Kaji and Tokuda ends , a proper close to a much anticipated sword-fight . Busy plot , plenty of unique characterizations , some of the usual Ishii depravity ( . . how he uses a black cat and Hijikata , in regards to the tattooed flesh skinned from victims has to be seen to be believed ) , interesting sword-fights , beautiful Asian women , some nasty villains to cheer against , and the expected blood shed all make BLIND WOMAN'S CURSE a must-see for fans of the Samurai / Yakuza genres .
The Spanish Prisoner	The con is on in typical , slick , entertainingly complex Mametian fashion as gullible , very naive , but kindhearted Joseph Ross ( Campbell Scott ) , who has designed a certain process for a hi-tech company ( Mamet doesn't elaborate on any of this since this is merely a toy to use for the con-game plot ) which someone else is seeking after ( Juliam Dell , portrayed by Steve Martin ) . What he finds himself in , despite doing nothing wrong but trusting the wrong people and bringing along material in a book he should've left hidden in the safe , is a spider-web where the spider is collecting his blood and he is weak at the escaping . As the film unfolds , he might just have a chance of escape thanks in part to unseen , outside forces . The problem that plagues him is that Joseph has no one to really trust since it seems that every time he does ask for a helping hand . . and it seems he receives it . . he is snake-bitten . Slippery as a bucket of eels , Mamet is at his usual clever best by allowing his protagonist to stick his head in the guillotine only to pull it out in the knick of time through some sort of creative twist of fate . Sure , the screenplay has it's share of contrivances . . I mean really could anyone run such a con-operation so skillfully without a snag and dupe a character such as Joseph so easily ? But , Mamet does it for the sake of entertainment and , at least , he has us watch with wonder at how he unwinds complex webs when it seems the hero has no hope or escape from the mess he finds himself in . Rebecca Pidgeon is quite fun as Susan Ricci , a woman only so eager to offer Ross her help when he has nowhere to turn and Ben Gazzara as Ross ' boss who seems oh so weary that his process will be lost forever when it Dell has the material he has sought after that is sure to bring foreign investors lots of moolah . Even the " FBI " play a part in the labyrinthine plot as it develops . It asks a lot from the viewer , but gosh it's fun .
William Castle's The Night Walker	Howard Trent ( Hayden Rorke ) , hideous face with creepy white eyes , whose cane taps the floor loudly wherever he walks , suspects his wife , Irene ( Barbara Stanwyck ) of adultery due to her " sleep-talking " embracing her gentleman caller within the realm of blissful fantasy . He suspects that his attorney , and confident , Barry Moreland ( the dashing Robert Taylor , always the kind of leading man with the ability to conceal whether he's trustworthy or carrying malicious intent ) of being her lover . The third party of the story is private investigator George Fuller , hired by the insanely jealous Howard to follow Irene . When Howard dies in an explosion within his private laboratory , Irene is haunted by dreams / nightmares depicting her dream love ( Lloyd Bochner ) , Howard's interference on her encounters with him and various places that she is taken by her fantasy-man which feel so incredibly & vividly real . With Trent's hesitant assistance ( he carries a look of concern for Irene as if wondering whether or not she should see a shrink ) , Irene seeks answers to the riddles of her dreams and does indeed find that places she was taken to by her dream lover are real , but unlike the way she saw them the night before . Does Irene truly experience real encounters with a real man , or is she truly completely bonkers ? Through the wizardry of director William Castle and writer Robert Bloch , this wonderfully campy delight runs the gamut of twists and surprises . They use dreams / nightmares as a psychological tool to craft their tale and we follow Irene's journey through the unusual crisis she faces . I thought Rorke's Howard was perfectly sinister . . they really dress him up as a creepy intruder to Irene's serene , while also strange , encounters with her ideal man . Taylor , as I mentioned above , again appears sympathetic to Irene's cause , showing that he would like to believe that what she experiences is true . The third party , Lloyd Bochner has a pivotal role in this flick . . his character is the one who leads Irene through all the bizarre scenarios that occur in the supposed dream-world they inhabit . One particular sequence , my favorite of the film , has Bochner's dream man and Irene associated in an eerie ceremony , in a chapel , where the parties involved ( priest , pianist & witnesses ) are plastic mannequins , interrupted by Howard . The film opens splendidly with a montage of images with the deep resonant voice of the narrator asking us , " What are your dreams " What do they mean ? What do you know about the secret world you visit when you sleep ? " It goes on for minutes and I can imagine the groaning of many having to sit through it . But , I thought it was hokey , well-intentioned fun . Babs ' histrionics might make her devoted fans cringe , and her character is a bit naive , but she's always a pleasure to watch . I've read that many compare this film to Babs to Crawford's final role in TROG , but I think that's way off base . If you love William Castle and know what to expect ( . . gorgeous B & W moody cinematography , a plethora of red herrings piled on each other , schlocky & gimmicky narrative ) , this should be right up your alley .
Curse of the Demon	A skeptical scientist ( Dana Andrews ) , investigating the death of a doctor friend , does not easily accept the fact that a wealthy cultist ( and leader of a Satanic Worship Cult ) has placed a witchcraftian curse on him which , in three days , will bring forth a demon to kill him . Despite warnings from those around him , including the niece of the deceased doctor he was supposed to visit and a séance which yielded the dead spirit of the deceased doctor trying to tell him to cease his impromptu investigation , he'll be shaken from his hardened disbelief in anything supernatural when certain occurrences beyond reality begin to happen . Intelligent and well-acted horror film makes all the right moves showing a realistic man who doesn't believe in things he can not see with his own eyes until those supernatural situations supposed victims of superstition believe do occur forcing him to accept what he has , for so long , disbelieved . You have the typical marvelous B & W cinematography which is a constant in films from Tourneur , not to mention , a pretty creepy demon monster . Fascinating use of Stonehenge in it's depiction of witchcraft lore and how they represent a symbol of the rise of demonic spirits .
Suicide Club	A suicide epidemic is sweeping across Tokyo and could very well be related to a girl pop band , Dessert , whose song , Mail Me , might be sending subliminal messages to those who embrace it . Detectives , wary and worn , attempt to find out what is indeed causing so many to end their lives in such harsh ways . Soon Detective Kuroda ( Ryo Ishibashi ) , whose family life seems harmonious , will discover all too well the heartbreak that results from such a fervor . It seems that a duffel bag is found with a roll of stitched flesh around suicide crime scenes . . could very well be the flesh of those who decided to end their lives . A web site directed to Kuroda by a secret caller known as The Bat , features the number of people who are to die . Also , a homicidal , flamboyant , enigmatic figure , Genesis ( Rolly ) who leads a gang of thugs holding hostages ( . . people and animals ! ) in a bowling alley , claims to be the leader of The Suicide Club that has motivated the surge of suicides , hailing himself as the Charles Manson of the Internet Age . Sullen Mitsuko ( Saya Hagiwara ) loses her boyfriend when he decides to leap off a balcony , landing on her ! As a result , Mitsuko herself decides to research what provoked the decision to commit suicide , and soon discovers the reason why . Sion Sono's film is rather difficult for someone looking for easy answers as to what is causing the epidemic of the film . You could look at the society as a whole and recognize the cultural impact of the internet age , bubble gum pop , cell phones , and other devices which have effected relationships with themselves and others . . life rushes by thanks to the technological age we live in , and too often we fail to " connect " with those we love and ourself . I think the film is a complex piece of film-making which speaks philosophically about themes very present in Japan . . and perhaps to us , as well . The suicides are a way of ending this kind of disconnection , I believe , and certainly potently shock . Director Sion Sono really opens with a bang as this large group of school girls plunge in front of a moving train with blood covering those waiting for it . The school balcony suicides , I believe , are even more unsettling because this time we see the genesis of it and how it all comes to an end . Then you get the very unpleasant series of suicides which occur across the city ( . . a woman cutting into her hand while chopping slices of cheese , a comic sticking a knife in his throat in front of a horrified audience , a vendor downing a bottle of pills , a girl putting her head in an oven ) displaying the mania that has taking control of it's citizens . But , packing a major wallop is the fate of Kuroda and his family . . the realization of his neglect leaves a powerful punch to the stomach . The film provides a lot to chew on , and the songs themselves tell a great deal more than your typical pop junk . . the idea of using pop music as a means of story-telling is quite ideal and appropriate considering it's supposedly the " root cause " of the epidemic . Again , the theme of suicidal children will likely disturb some viewers , but the scenes where detectives are watching for potential new " victims " at the train station can get quite suspenseful and nail-biting .
Wagon Master	Travis and Sandy ( Ben Johnson and Harry Carey , Jr . ) are horse traders coerced into selling their animals to a Mormon group and guiding them across the frontier to a settlement . What they do not expect is to encounter the notorious Clegg murderers , with their wounded leader Uncle Shiloh ( Charles Kemper ) . Ward Bond portrays Elder Wiggs , the main voice for the Mormon group moving the wagon train to the Lord's destination . Along the way , they also encounter " Doctor " A Locksley Hall and his " Hoochey Koochey Wagon " and lend them help . Lovingly directed by Ford who pays close attention to detail with realistic problems any group would encounter during a rugged wagon trail . The film has a wonderful cast made up of character actors with nary a true star in the film which is actually a blessing to see , if just not for a change of pace . Young Johnson and Carey , Jr . come off real well , but this is Bond's film to shine as he has the best lines . Johnson is the one who seems to understand ruffians and brutes like Shiloh and will certainly come in handy when certain conflict might develop as the Clegg boys ride along side them a piece . I'd have to say this is one of his best and most least appreciated westerns and seems to flow very well .
The Scarecrow reviews " Atlantic City "	Burt Lancaster plays Lou , a supposed gangster slowly watching his beloved Atlantic City dying a slow death as a new more modern place is on the horizon . He falls in love with Susan Sarandon's Sally , a croupier traveling wannabe whose rotten drug dealing thief decides to bother her again { he is the reason she loses a possible chance in Vegas } . Soon her dead beat lowlife happens upon Lou , who has been yearning for Sally a long time { they are neighbors . . he watches her bath her naked flesh with lemons } , and proposes a partnership of sorts for distributing coke to a rich man . The dead beat husband knocked up Sally's sister , Chrissie ( Hollis McLaren ) who is too impressionable for her own good . You have an amusing turn by Michel Piccoli as Joseph , the man who trains card dealers so that they won't lose focus if a group of con artists try to read and cheat . Soon the dead beat husband ( Robert Joy , who fits the bill ) is murdered when the ones whose cocaine he stole find him . They will soon go after Sally who has no clue that Lou is the man with the dope and money that was to go into her husband's hands . Soon Lou and Sally will fall in love as Lou pays for the dead beat husband's airlift and burial in Canada . The money and coke , though , will be sought after as the hoods who murdered the dead beat husband will probe Sally for what actually belongs to them . The film's seedy drug and money sub-plot is merely a diversion or plot point to set up the meeting between Lou and Sally as they find the spark despite their age gap . Burt Lancaster seems to have found the sad tragedy behind the supposed mob guy . He lives a lie and deceives himself often , only realizing his whole life is a joke in a moment of clarity when the hoods , who find Sally and smack her around for information about the drugs and loot , hold him at bay as he couldn't protect her . The other moment of realization comes when he shoots and kills them as they plan to do Sally harm and end their meetings on a sour note . Kate Reid steals every scene as Grace Pinza , an elderly widow of famed mobster Cookie Pinza , for who she constantly reminds Lou of his failings as a real mobster as he takes care of her . She is pretty much an arthritic head case who doesn't cease to remind Lou where he'd be without her . Underneath all this is a bond they truly have . Lou really does depend on Grace and vice versa . She is another reminder of a past Atlantic City that now is a decaying relic . What Lou and Sally develop over the course of the film is magic . I totally really only thought of their age gap glancingly for they just spark and function on screen so well . There's a great scene where Lou admits to peeping in on Sally's lemon bathing and she seems so turned on by his honesty and in , especially , how Lou describes it in such erotic detail . It's an event in Lou's life , every night , that actually brings feeling . I think that them finding each other brought life back into Lou . As the film closes , we know that Lou and sally was never meant to be . She could leave Atlantic City , but Lou is too much of a fixture . He , in a sense , is Atlantic City , just like Grace and that old decaying building that will soon be driven to the ground giving way to a new more modern age .
Hard Candy	No mistake about it , this film is a daring one to make . We essentially see this 13 year old girl , howbeit a bright , " smart way beyond her years " drug and torture a 33 year old pedophile for an hour and a half or so . This film cleverly dares to show this girl actually out-dueling , psychologically , a man who has wooed quite a few teenagers . To have an entire film set in one general location for most of the way and have these two hold our interest is an amazing feat . This film has something to say and is clearly an indictment on pedophilia and it's damages . For a film to turn the tables in another direction where the predator becomes the prey is quite a challenge . I think this film succeeds . Casting is certainly key . Patrick Wilson really is a perfect choice for the role of Jeff , the photographer who can flash his profession in the face of pretty young things with the throwaway exuberance of those " possible future models " expected . Patrick's frat-boy looks and calm reserve really fit right for this pedophile . He looks like a perfectly normal man who we'd have a hard time believing could be such a monster when all to his lonesome gazing at a computer screen probing away on the internet superhighway for that chance to get that young virginal lay . But , Ellen Page is the revelation here . She absolutely dominates the screen with this allure director David Slade visually captures with his camera . You instantly believe her as " Hayley " and her transformation from what Jeff believes she is to who she REALLY is , this is startling to behold . She is able to toy with him and see through him . Understanding who Jeff really is through carefully studied research makes this film quite fascinating as it develops . She knows all his secrets and he is ultimately at her mercy . What TRULY motivates Hayley's vengeance , and how does it involve a missing girl and Jeff's former lover ? These questions are answered and we see who Jeff really is after Hayley gets done with him .
Countdown	A geologist ( James Caan ) working for NASA gets the opportunity of a lifetime . Since US government will not allow perhaps a better candidate ( Robert Duvall ) , an " air-force guy " , to pilot the PILGRIM capsule to the moon , a civilian is needed and Caan is their boy . It's all about beating the Russians to the moon and first-time feature film director Robert Altman takes the helm fashioning it into a matter-of-fact documentary type deal where we see how everything takes place prior to launch . The media swarm , the rivalries ( Duvall's Chiz is indeed screwed out of an opportunity ) , how the families cope , the spent time before that fateful trip , the planning , the testing , the debating on who should be piloting the capsule . . everything is shown to us so that we get a clear picture of what it is like in not only the pilot's life , but also those that worry about the mission themselves . I must say this film is exceptionally well made , with an intelligent approach which tries to explain to us the hullabaloo that surfaces at such a historic event and how that effects Caan and his family along the way . It all comes down to that trip , though , that really provides some suspense . It's a curio piece also considering it features Duvall and Caan in the early stages of their careers as well as seeing the beginning of Altman's reign as an unusual artist with his camera placements and how the characters speak to one another ( there is some moments where people talk over each other during discussions mainly in the sequences where Caan is in the capsule nearing the orbit of the moon ) .
Rabid	After a " successful " skin grafting experimental plastic surgery ( using tissue not only for outside work , but inside as well using skin from the thigh ) , innocent , sweet Rose ( Marilyn Chambers who is actually not bad in a rare dramatic role ; she still looks incredibly sexy and bares her breasts often , however ) has a mysterious appendage that pops out from a " pouch " on her arm pit . This appendage likes to suck blood from unknowing victims and is the only nutritious substance Rose can digestively hold down . Rose has constant cravings and those she attacks become bloodthirsty , stark-raving maniacs whose mouth splatter green pus . Soon the entire city of Montreal , Quebec has reached epidemic-proportions with the military having to step in to control the problem . There seems to be no cure available except death to all that have the " plague " ( after a while , the diseased crazies go into a coma and die ) . Rose's boyfriend Hart ( Frank Moore ) tries to find her once she breaks from the clinic after attacking Dr . Keloid ( Howard Ryshpan ) . . the plastic surgeon who worked on her . Poor Mindy ( Susan Roman ) offers Rose a place to stay , but unknowingly has the very one responsible for the outbreak of madness . You watch wondering when the impulses for blood will take effect leaving Rose with only one alternative and that is to attack her only real friend in the world . Will Mindy survive ? Will Hart find Rose ? The tragic part about the film is that there's really only one way to cease the plague sweeping the city ( . . and before it reaches the entire country ) and that is to eliminate the model source . . the queen bee . . and that is extinguishing Rose . The film is a bit raw ( Cronenberg was still honing his skills ) , but it's clear with this icky epidemic thriller he was on his way to greater things . The unpleasant premise of this thing inside Rose sucking blood might be ridiculous , but , at the same time , it really gets under the skin . It seems like Cronenberg could make these spine-tingling grotesques in his sleep .
Salvage	Teenager " Claire " ( cutie Lauren Currie Lewis ) is continuously haunted by the prolonging image of a supposedly dead psychopath named Duke Desmond ( Chris Ferry ) who worked in a salvage yard . He was shot dead by Detective Miller ( John P Miller ) when attempting the firing of his pistol . Duke is known for hacking up a male teenager . This film applies the oft-used gimmick of looping . . the theme where certain things recur over and over . I'm not giving away nothing because the twist is good fun . Most of the film is poor Claire caught in a disorienting state of fear , often trying to flee from her predator who often appears in the background . We do see Claire having conversations with her boyfriend Jimmy ( Cody Darbe ) as if life is continuing on with the image of Duke just an overwhelming nightmare , but when he starts appearing in reality that's one the real fear starts creeping into her mind . Also , we see her with mother ( Maureen Olander ) a bit also . It does seem like Claire does momentarily awake from her nightmare , only to realize that it all seems to start back up again once she's attacked viciously by Duke . I really liked this flick . A horror sleeper if there ever was one . The film feels like one long continuing nightmare that never ceases . Besides rock music every once in a while calming things a bit , the film uses a particularly effective eerie set of pounding piano strings among other thumping sounds to provide just that extra inch of intensity . A word of warning . . while this flick depends more on suspense than gore , there's a nasty face-peeling , from a curving blade , that might not be recommended for the squeamish .
The Dead Girl	Lives are examined revolving around a dead young woman's corpse laying in a deserted valley in California . The woman that finds her , Arden ( Toni Collette ) is awaken from the morose existence of taking care of her vile , viciously scathing , unappreciative mother ( Piper Laurie who lets loose that nasty streak she always explodes forth so well ) . Arden soon meets a grocery bagger , Rudy ( Giovaani Ribisi ) , a rough-looking fellow with an obsession for serial killer cases , who desires her and which might provide a way out of the life she's stuck in . Leah ( Rose Byrne , whose stunning beauty is so well displayed off such a saddened exterior ) is a young college student who checks corpses for shavings under the nails and such , burdened by the misery of a missing sister ( been missing for around fifteen years ) and the parents who hold onto hope every single day that she'll be found . Taking anti-depressants and sleeping the days away when not at school , Leah believes she has found her missing sister who carries a specific birthmark which her own had in between the fingers . She feels , despite the horrible way the dead girl died , this weight has been lifted from so many years of her mother's ( Mary Steenburgen , doing so much with such a limited role ) constant universe involving the search and find of her daughter . It leads Rudy to the embracing of life accepting an invitation by a classmate , Derek ( James Franco ) to his party and opening the doors to an intimate relationship . There's finally an opportunity here , after closure of finding her sister's body , for feeling other emotions other than despair and grief . But , this girl may not be who Leah was hoping her to be . . Probably the most disturbing vignette has a concerned frustrated wife , Ruth ( Mary Beth Hurt with the best role she has had in ages ) finding that her husband Carl ( Nick Searcy ) may just be the serial killer everyone is looking for when she discovers " trophies " in a dresser located in what was supposed to be an empty storage shed ( they work at a storage business ) . What will she do if her frightening intuitions are correct ? Go to the proper authorities or sit on her hands as he continues to go out for days at a time possibly plotting and committing ghoulish acts of murder towards innocent women . Melora ( Marcia Gay Harden ) has been looking for her runaway daughter for sometime now , but when she does find her it's not exactly the reunion she had hoped . Finding a file with her daughter's police report containing information regarding her whereabouts before the crimes that took her life , Melora discovers a friend / lover , Rosetta ( Kerry Washington , in a stunning performance ) who has seen the cruelties of life first-hand . Melora finds , through Rosetta things about her daughter's unfortunate tough road in LA and the granddaughter she never knew about . We also find out about what caused Melora's daughter to run away . . Finally , we relive the final moments of the dead girl's life , Krista ( Brittany Murphy exposing how gifted an actress she truly is with the right part ) who just wants to get to Norwalk , a location where her daughter lives before the child's birthday commences . First , she's betrayed by a client ( Josh Brolin , looking like a trucker with tattoos covering his arms and such ) who promises to take her after some , umm , compensation . Then she retaliates towards Rosetta's beating at the hands of her pimp by destroying his vehicle and attacking him . But , when a motorcycle she borrows quits on her road back , Krista will need a ride . The ride she receives is with Carl who promises to take her to Norwalk after a stop . . Jarring , powerfully acted drama , potently performed by a great cast who give their all to the characters displaying how cruel and gruelingly emotional life can be . It's incredibly down-beat and depressing , it'll make you want to put a gun in your mouth , but yet so full of truth in a non-pretentious way . There are decisions each make that will change lives forever . The one that shook me up the most was the one with Mary Beth Hurt who almost turns her husband in , but has a change of heart . . what she does with possible evidence is haunting . But , the entire film is gripping even when we know what happens to Krista .
Léolo	A young boy whose birth father is a " contaminated tomato " from Italy he insists , rejects his family and escapes his meager existence into his own thoughts , shelterly painted on his diary . He longs for his paramour Bianca , believes his grandfather is the source of his family's little tragedies amongst other things , and insists of being called Léolo Lazone , instead of his French-Canadian name . This is an indescribable comedy , textured with bizarre characters and unusual observations from the narrator of this film , young Léolo . Witty , bizarre , and completely unique , this film takes some very strange turns along the way as we see how his family life effects him negatively to the point where he feels he doesn't belong anywhere near them . He holds on to what little proper sanity he has left by clutching his yearnings for Bianca . If he loses her , then perhaps the final life-string will be forever severed . This film is beautifully photographed , but despite it's centering around a child's thoughts and meanderings , this deals with very adult material . It can also be hard to watch , though at times the absurd black comedy , done completely straight , is brilliant and realistically accurate .
The Bell from Hell	A psychologically wounded young man is released cautiously from an asylum and we follow his pursuit of manipulative revenge towards his cruel , greedy , paralyzed Aunt Martha ( Viveca Lindfors ) , the one personally responsible for getting him put there , thanks to the help of her daughter Esther ( Maribel Martín ) who falsely accused him of rape . This wounded man's name is John ( Renaud Verley ) , a quietly psychotic young man who likes to play macabre practical jokes on people ( . . such as a neighbor when he removes a pair of fake eyeballs , or when he pretends to have taken sexual advantage of her , after fainting from his " eyeballs gag " , by removing her panties leaving a false note ) . . all he wishes is to break free from the domineering Martha , who has a stranglehold on his late mother's estate and finances ( . . she committed suicide thanks to her hypocritical family's abuse towards her " sinful " ways ) . She will not grant him leave . . a passport . . so that John can leave this whole life behind that has crippled him emotionally , having him even questioning his own sanity . When Martha will not allow him the chance to leave this place of torment , with memories that echo to the depths of his very soul , as he often watches the old reels of life when mother and aunt had picnics with the children , John will seek revenge against her . Another sequence of events has John interfering with a group of hunters ' plans to rape a young teenage girl , whose father lives like a hermit in the woods nearby his palatial estate . A participant willing to rape this girl after pretending to comfort her from his lascivious village pals , is Don Pedro ( Alfredi Mayo ) , John's neighbor and husband to the woman John most covets sexually . John has a secret that Pedro needs silenced thanks to his reputation in town , and this among other elements ( . . such as Martha's schemes to keep her grip on the family finances by having John put away , so that she and her beautiful daughters could live a life of luxury without interference ) exposes the hidden , dormant sexual repression seething under the surface which culminates at the end when John leads an attack on Martha and her daughters , and soon meets his own tragic fate when he couldn't seal the deal . Like a lot of horror / psychological thriller fans , I found out about " The Bells " by word of mouth from Internet users I come to respect . This parable exposing the inner demons of a small village I felt was beautifully realized ( . . lots of stylish camera placements , particularly when John begins to remove his cousin Esther's undergarments and certain ways he shoots characters from unusual angles ) thanks to the over atmosphere of the setting , the sociopathic unveiling of the character John whose mental state unravels as Martha's threatenings take shape over him , and the way he uses both a bloody , disturbing slaughterhouse John works in temporarily and a bell shown throughout traveling by mules to the village , give this film a distinct power . I really liked it . The cast is attractive enough for such a place as the village ; the cold wilderness and sea which give the film a certain resonance . The ending , when Don Pedro goes to investigate the possible appearance of someone that should be dead , adds a nice little wink to the proceedings .
Poltergeist	I remember catching a special inside look to the making of POLTERGEIST in one of those 15 minutes clips introduced from Turner Classic Movie's vault and you could get an idea how involved Producer Steven Spielberg was in the overall production of the movie . After watching it again , POLTERGEIST is distinctly a Steven Spielberg picture , just without his name under the director's credit . I feel bad for Tobe Hooper . . it's the THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD all over again with Hooper taking the Nyby credit , not leaving an indelible mark that defines his style at almost any point ( . . perhaps the face peeling away to reveal a skull or the graves bursting at the end were partially his , but I figure if this were his film , the family wouldn't have escaped intact ) . Despite that tiresome debate , I felt that what excels in this movie is the superb acting from about as good a cast as you could ask for . From top to bottom , the cast is uniformly excellent . . the film establishes a family you can identify with , and the suburbia backdrop is ideal for the fantastic twist at the end . It's perfectly 80's as , at one point , you see Realtor Craig T Nelson reading a Ronald Reagan biography while wife Jobeth Williams spokes a dooby . The supporting cast is simply divine with particular work from Beatrice Straight and Zelda Rubinstein adding an incredible amount of value to the film . Straight's work opposite Jobeth Williams is impeccable . The plot is infinitely Spielberg . . a middle class family discover that their home is being invaded by poltergeists who kidnap daughter Heather O'Rourke holding her due to the spirits wishing not to depart into the light . The reason the spirits are restless is uncovered at the very end in quite a hair-raising finale as the bodies of buried dead rise from the earth " seeking revenge " . James Karen's limited role is of vital importance in that he represents corporate greed , lacking any kind of conscious in his decisions on starting neighborhood projects on " hallowed ground . " Zelda Rubinstein , of course , bursts onto the scene in an unforgettable portrayal of a " paranormal house cleaner " . Beatrice Straight is a psychologist who operates a small paranormal group whose interest lies in helping those who are supposedly haunted ( . . or to prove if clients are making bogus requests ) . I can not praise the performance of Straight enough and her character so emotionally invests in this victimized family , there's such warmth in her moments on screen with Williams . . you believe this woman genuinely cares for them . O'Rourke is adorable in her iconic performance as Carol Anne , just a beautiful girl who stirs your heart which is important for the plot because you need to wish for her safe return from the place between the world of life and death . Richard Endlund's team really provide some stunning set-pieces with what were state-of-the-art effects at the time as we witness the series of paranormal activity which plague the Freeling family . Wonderful melodic score from the late great Jerry Goldsmith . Some terrific supernatural monsters , wonderful light effects , and great use of skeletons all provide visual eye candy . Some thrilling sequences include the tree which wishes to swallow Oliver Robbins ( . . as well as the scene with the creepy clown doll which attempts to strangle him with it's arms ) , Jobeth Williams being pulled across the walls unwillingly , and O'Rourke's room being sucked into the closet where a vortex exists . Dominique Dunne ( RIP ) has a minor part as the older sister in the Freeling family , but makes the best of it with such an independent attitude , a cynicism that is expressed in scenes like when O'Rourke buries her dead bird and when she flips off construction workers ogling her .
Frankenstein and the Monster from Hell	Surgeon and Frankenstein loyalist , Simon Helder ( Shane Briant ) is sent to an asylum for practicing methods similar to his inspiration , having received bodies dug from a grave robber . Inside the asylum , Simon realizes that Baron Victor Frankenstein ( Peter Cushing , in perhaps his finest performance as the mad scientist ) is actually running things as the director ( John Stratton , playing him with twitches , almost as loony as the patients under him , overcome by his vices for drink and sex ) sits idly by allowing him to secretly have almost total control . You see the Baron has incriminating evidence regarding the director's rape of his daughter , a lovely mute inmate , Sarah ( Madeline Smith , saying nothing for nearly the whole film yet capturing the viewer's heart just like her fellow " prisoners " ) who assists him in his " research . " Soon Simon , replacing the Baron on the daily activities for the inmates , discovers what the Baron has been up to . . continuing his experiments . Through their own suicidal decisions , Baron uses body parts from his inmates to continue his work to create a man . Using the shell of a man born with primitive features ( . . and animalistic homicidal tendencies ) , Baron needs an assistant with capable hands since his are burned and Simon is only eager to help since he is a master surgeon . When a mathematical genius , with a musical talent as well , hangs himself in his cell ( . . motivated perhaps by a sheet appropriately left there ruling him incurable by Baron ) , Frankenstein and Simon will remove his brain , transplanting it into the body of the brute ( . . with the attached hands of a craftsman who also offed himself ) . When the results appear successful , Baron and Simon are optimistic that this will finally prove once and for all that Frankenstein's ravings of reanimating life weren't sorcery , but a breakthrough in science . But , as always is the case , Baron will encounter complications . . this time in how the body parts " mesh " with each other . Baron believes that perhaps if the beast mates with Sarah , he can recover from his " deteriorating " state . Simon , realizing that his mentor's inability to divorce science from a moral sense of right and wrong , will attempt to release the weighted burdens of being a monster from Frankenstein's bastard child with devastating results . I feel that if there was one area where Hammer didn't benefit from reviving the classic Universal monster movies , it was the make-up effects work during the Frankenstein franchise . Jack Pierce's genius and Universal's financial status to deliver top-notch creatures is absent from the Hammer Frankenstein films . I think if any Frankenstein film looked the cheapest , it was this one . The primitive monster in this particular film is terrible , looks like a costume in every way which is a shame , because I thought the dialogue was clever and wonderfully dark . Cushing , perhaps understanding that this was his final time as the diabolical Frankenstein , plays him to the hilt . There's even one time where he joyously glimmers when Sarah brings the Baron kidneys . There are moments where he sinks in misery before our eyes , perhaps realizing that his dreams may never come true , when his new creation begins to falter , after showing such promise . I really enjoyed how dedicated the Baron was , watching very observantly ( . . and impatiently ) as Simon was performing surgery . The setting , which is poetry on celluloid ( . . where better should a madman continue his work than an asylum ? ) , at the asylum is perfect for such a franchise , as the Frankenstein series , to inhabit . Briant is a more reserved , clinical assistant . Like the Baron , he eyes the future of science differently than the medical ( . . and moral ) community . . but , he doesn't adhere to the methods of retrieving proper specimens as his mentor . I think the film masterfully balances the black-as-coal humor with sad empathy for the professor whose brain is stuck in such a grotesque body . I also felt that the film gains our sympathy for the " casualties " inside the asylum , while also playfully displaying their problems sometime for laughs ( . . such as the inmate who thinks he's God ) . . I felt Fisher and company achieve a proper balance without the results ever veering off too unevenly . There are some grisly moments such as a brain removal ( . . showing the cutting away of the professor's upper skull before seeing Simon's extraction of the brain ) and the monster's attack on Sarah's father . As the final hurrah for Fisher and Cushing regarding the Hammer Frankenstein franchise , I think the ending works well enough , showing that , despite always failing , the mad doctor journeys onward with a positive outlook . Oh , and the hair helmet Cushing was stuck with might earn a few chuckles . . . I actually have greater respect for Cushing because it must've been extremely difficult to keep the viewer's mind away from that wig and on the character and performance .
Loreley's Grasp	" According to the legend of the seven moons , Loreley will come out of the river in the form of a filthy beast to devour human hearts that will return her to her sleep of centuries . " The film opens with a scaly monster exploding through the windows of a bride-to-be ripping her flesh with it's claws in gory splendor . . making no bones about it director Amando de Ossorio sets the viewer up with what his film has in store for those who continue watching . A mythic beast , who takes shape from the Amazonian goddess Helga Liné ( wearing nothing but a lizard green bikini the entire time on screen , which was fine by me ) , rises from the river to rip the hearts from victims to feed on while an all-girl's school calls on the skills of master-hunter Sigurd ( Tony Kendall ) to protect them while trying to find and kill it . What eventually occurs is that Sigurd falls in love with the beast in female form , Loreley , as well as the school lovely Professor , Elke ( Silvia Tortosa , one of the most beautiful women I've ever laid eyes on ) , an uptight and proper disciplinarian . Elke , at first , resists her attraction of Sigurd , but eventually lets her hair down . But , Loreley is a jealous " Siren of the Rhine " , which will put Elke in jeopardy as Sigurd begins to express his feelings for the professor . Meanwhile , a scientist ( Ángel Menéndez ) has studied the myth of Loreley and understands her " condition " from a completely realistic way . . with a " radioactive " blade , the doc hopes to " destroy Loreley's cellular mutations and send her back to the dark night of legend from which she has emerged . " When Loreley begins attacking in the village nearby the girl's school , the citizens pick up their lighted torches and rifles ready for action . But , under the river is an underground cavernous dwelling which houses the " Treasure of the Nibelungs " , taken by Loreley's father Wotan for her to guard . Loreley has plans for Sigurd . . he will live with her eternally . Sigurd is torn between killing the beast responsible for mutilated bodies left in it's wake and the love he has for the woman behind the monstrous shell . John Stanley , behind the horror review book CREATURE FEATURES , proclaims that Ossorio utilizes the " kitchen sink " theory in " Loreley's Grasp " , which actually is what appeals to me . Plucking elements from various horror films and mythological tales , Ossorio creates this smörgåsbord of ideas packed in 80 minutes . Filled with eye candy ( . . lots of lovely ladies to feast our eyes on , including three water nympths who live with Loreley and her guardian grunt , Alberic , portrayed by Franco vet Luis Barboo ) and nasty flesh ripping ( . . including the removal of hearts from torn wounds ) Ossorio knew the crowd he was catering to , and delivers a fun exploitation flick using fantasy and the supernatural in a sexy , bold , graphically violent way . Might appeal to fans of " Humanoids of the Deep . " The monster is rubber suited , but Ossorio wisely uses mostly point-of-view shots allowing the camera to be it's eyes , only showing the creeping reptilian clawed hands as they prepare to strike their victims .
Chamber of Horrors	An aristocratic , sociopathic strangler , Cravatte ( Patrick O'Neal , evoking the spirit of Vincent Price with his quietly mad psychopath and demented eyes ) in Baltimore ( . . who removes his handcuffed hand , which was locked to a steel wheel , with an ax after escaping from a train into the sea below a bridge ) hides out in New Orleans under a different name , choosing a stunning streetwalker to assist ( . . unknown to her ; she thinks it's a blackmailing scam ) him in a series of vengeful crimes retaliating on the key figures who planned to send the killer to the gallows . The true motivation , besides his insanity , that provides him with the desire to kill is the loss of his hand for which he blames the ones who caught him , for being " responsible " for his trauma . The detective team of the debonair , sophisticated sleuth Anthony Draco ( Cesare Danova , with his Italian looks and charm ) and his protégé , the cerebral criminologist Harold Blount ( the delightful , incredibly likable , unflappable Wilfrid Hyde-White ) , along with side-kick dwarf assistant Pepe ( José René Ruiz ) , will join forces with local law enforcers Inspector Matthew Strudwick ( Philip Bourneuf ) , at first resisting them as mere amateurs until they help capture the killer at the insistence of Cravatte's blustery , cigar chomping Mrs . Perryman ( Jeanette Nolan , chewing scenery as a wealthy multi-married voice of authority , whose monetary contributions and prestigious name certainly carry an influence ) , and Sgt . Jim Albertson ( Wayne Rogers ) . What makes this Holmes / Watson type sleuthing team so unique is , when they aren't helping their peers solve crimes , that they run a wax museum whose exhibits are based on notorious murderers , their victims & devices . If you want a proper description of what the film looks and feels like , imagine if William Castle directed a Hammer film . Baltimore is akin to the fog-infested , cobble-stone streets of London . With macabre humor , some lurid elements regarding Cravatte's dwelling places and selection of " adventuress " women , the deranged methods for which the killer does in his victims ( . . Cravatte uses an assortment of weapons , such as a meat cleaver , surgical knife , and gun , hooked on to a device he ordered connecting to where his missing hand use to be ) , the House of Wax setting which never gets old , and a spirited cast who add extra fun to the sordid atmosphere of the premise . For a film made for a television audience , this is a good looking production . . . . great sets , costumes , use of shadow , and professional camera-work . Director Hy Averback might be looked at as a hack , because his film seems so similar to other directors and companies churning out these type of films at the time but his smörgåsbord of ideas and styles impressed the hell out of me . I think a lot of horror aficionado / buffs will have fun with this one . I think some might penalize this for not being too original . The " House of Wax " setting , which I've always been a fan of , really provides some very amusing bits not to mention the final showdown between our hero and the killer , especially in how Cravatte meets his end . But , the setting has been used before . The killer's affliction , by his own hand , and how he murders folks , has been seen before . . the idea of a hook-handed killer doesn't exactly seem fresh , even at that time in 1966 . And , many might find the two gimmicks of the " fear flash " and " horror horn " , which were all the rage back then , rather hokey . I dunno . . I find these gimmicks an amusing part of a cinema from yesteryear . While the story is indeed a wicked one , it's still a film made with a television's audience in mind , so sadly the violent elements are tame , off-screen stuff . Marie Windsor , as a brothel's Madame who lends her place to Cravatte as a hideout because he pays well , and Tony Curtis as a card-playing client in the Red Light District , have small roles .
Frightmare	Twisted little tale from Pete Walker with the theme being pathological cannibalism . Jackie , a make-up artist for a TV station , is the unfortunate daughter of cannibal mother , Dorothy . Daddy Edmund , by now a wreck who can not control his wife's homicidal urges , who covers up for the woman he loves despite the fact that this is becoming quite a weary activity too difficult to keep hidden . The fact of the matter is Dorothy was put in an asylum for 15 years , along with Edmund who was protecting a murderess , but eventually ruled as cured even though she's anything but . Jackie's professional and personal life have been affected by her mother's desire for parcels she believes are dead human beings ( . . this idea was brought to Jackie by Edmund ) and talks with mother to try and keep her sanity under control . What makes matters worse for Jackie is her sister Debbie , who has a nasty streak all her own . Debbie is being probed by police for being involved in a disappearance of a beaten barman ( Debbie presses her boyfriend and his biker gang into a massive attack on the disco bartender just because he wouldn't serve the underage girl drinks ! ) . It turns out that Debbie killed the barman which only fuels the idea that she might be as evil as her mother . Dorothy is a tarot card reader by occupation who uses this as a way of selecting victims to eat . Her meat-lust is unhinged and as the film continues , we see that she is one sick individual . What's worse is that Debbie , who is said to have never even met her parents , has been a part of Mommy's killing ways for some time . . actually just as soon as Debbie left her orphanage and Dorothy left the asylum . Now , Debbie wishes for Edmund to kill Jackie so that their murderous ways will go on without anyone standing in the way . Jackie's only ally is her psychiatrist boyfriend Graham , who has done some research on his lover's family and soon realizes that they aren't your typical , average couple . Definitely not for all tastes .
Reflections in a Golden Eye	Major Weldon Penderton ( Marlon Brando ) is grappling with buried homosexuality that awakens lustfully when he becomes enamored with an enlisted soldier ( Robert Forster ) working as a stable-hand for his horses . Penderton is bottled in an unhappy marriage to Leonora ( Liz Taylor , great as always ) who can be loud and overbearing , not to mention grating . Leonora has been having a sexual affair with Lt . Col . Morris Langdon ( Brian Keith ) while they ride off on horseback . Morris is also in an unhappy marriage to deeply troubled , fragile Alison ( Julie Harris ) still having a hard time coming to terms with the death of her child shortly after birth . She passes her sad days with Anacleto ( Zorro David ) , her servant boy who certainly represents a joke to the Army men around the area for it's obvious he's homosexual ( he dances around a room to classical music and paints with watercolors ) , but incredibly devoted to Alison . Alison has known for some time that her husband is cheating , but it takes courage to finally threaten a divorce . Morris clearly loves her , but the passion in their marriage has been gone for some time and Leonora fills that void . Meanwhile , the stable-boy Private has become obsessed with Leonora every since seeing her naked body as he stared through the window outside . The Private is indeed a voyeur who seems fixated on the Penderton's home , and he takes chances of being caught as he sneaks into Leonora's room at night smelling her perfume , staring longingly at her , and going through her underclothes . But , through all of this film , it's Weldon himself who is busting at the seams , showing the imprisoned torture his silence regarding his sexuality causes . The film balances all this drama rather effectively in an absolutely fascinating stew that shows how relationships begin to crumble when everyone hides buried iniquities from each other . Each character longs for someone else , yet inside the prison of military pride and honor , every secret goes unheard despite what everyone truly feels . Death ( as rumored at the start of the film ) will certainly occur in an act of violence that seems to be one things to the outside world , but inside that person behind it knows exactly why those shots will be fired . The film , through all the circumstances and betrayals that occur , is certainly set-up for tragedy because no one can follow how they really feel repressing their passions in " quiet " which will only boil over eventually .
Le Boucher	A young accomplished headmistress of a Parisian village , Miss Helen ( Stéphane Audran ) , is in a conundrum . . she's in love with a serial killer , Paul ( Jean Yanne ) , the local butcher , who has been stabbing young females in the surrounding area with a knife , leaving bloody corpses . Stumped Police Inspector Grumbach ( Roger Rudel ) questions Helen after a second murder of a local girl married to a teacher she knows , Leon ( Mario Beccara ) , bleeds upon the head of a student after a field trip into a cavern looking at prehistoric paintings . Helen confiscates a key piece of evidence linking Paul to the crime . . a cigarette lighter she gave him for his birthday . What started as a blossoming romance between two people soon darkens as Helen must fear that Paul's homicidal tendencies could endanger her own well being . My first Claude Chabrol thriller was a nice surprise . It's really more of a character study , a kind of " opposites attract " romance develops regarding how two completely different people find a mutual growing friendship and love for one another despite their glaring differences . Audran is a revelation , completely believable , as this elegant , refined , sophisticated lady who is absolutely realistic as the headmistress . Yanne looks like your typical working-class butcher , walking with a slouch , often discussing the horrors of war , but very mannered , guarded as to not say too much , yet appealing in a quiet way . I like how they find this pleasant rapport with each other . I think the decision to shoot in such a minimalist manner , from the performances to the style , enhances the film . . like a good Hitchcock thriller , Chabrol is even able to create a type of McGuffen regarding the first murder as we follow Helen and Paul's bonding , the way they meet each other ( . . stopping by each other's place of employment as they work ) , spending time together , disregarding the village uproar about the vicious slaying , acknowledging it in a subdued way . I think that's perhaps the most interesting aspect of the thriller . . the way neither Helen or Paul dwell on the murder until they have no other choice . For a while the only way you could tell it was a potential thriller was the very moody , rather chilling score . I think another aspect which worked for me was the idea that a killer was close by and that Helen was the main focus of the film . . Chabrol never leaves her , and the threat towards her life was quite vivid . I appreciate Chabrol's unpretentious direction . . he doesn't call attention to himself , allowing the characters and story to grip you instead .
Tales from the Crypt	" Who's next ? Perhaps . . YOU ? " Ralph Richardson , under a cloak , prophetically releases five people into their possible future fates as we watch each tale one by one . The first tale has the perfect murder spoiled . Joanne Clayton ( Joan Collins , cold and calculatingly evil , but quite stunningly beautiful ) faces quite a dilemma . . she has murdered her husband ( . . for cold , hard cash , of course . . during Christmas Eve , no less , as her daughter rests in bed up stairs ! ) , but finds that a nut case , disguised as Old Saint Nick , has escaped an asylum and is snooping around her house . She would normally call the cops , of course , but there's the dead corpse in her living room . But , daughter is upstairs waiting for Santa with bated breath , as mommy cleans up her mess . What's a little girl to do when she knows that the one she's been waiting for is just outside . . The second tale depicts the events that transpire to Carl Maitland ( Ian Hendry ) who decides to kiss his wife and kids goodbye , leaving them for another women and finds that a car crash will change his plans forever . . The third tale shows what pure greed and class disregard fuels when James Elliot ( Robin Phillips ) , longing for the property of kindly Arthur Edward Grimsdyke ( Peter Cushing ) who is beloved by children ( . . he finds trashed toys in the rubbish heap , fixing them for the kiddies ) and often speaks with his late-departed wife through a Ouija board . Elliot , for kicks & out of scorn , begins manipulating certain folks ( . . like city officials and the children's parents ) which slowly ruins Grimsdyke's life . His dogs are removed , the children are told to stay away , and he is sent cruel Valentine's Day cards which ultimately end his life with a broken heart . Yet , Elliot hasn't heard the last of Grimsdyke . . . The fourth tale is a gleefully sadistic variation on THE MONKEY'S PAW in regards to a businessman whose finances have hit the skids . Faced with having to sell his prized possessions , Ralph Jason ( Richard Greene ) and his wife Enid ( Barbara Murray ) try their luck with a statuette that grants wishes they picked up in Hong Kong . . with horrifying results . The fifth tale has a group of blind men , who live together in a government-functioned home , revolting against their selfish director , Maj William Rogers ( Nigel Patrick ) , for bad living conditions , little to eat , and the death of one of their own . Rogers is the kind of bloke who sticks his nose up at the blind under his watch deeming them inferior and living with all the refinements they lack . Along with his trusty dog , the blind , whose leader is George Carter ( Patrick Magee ) , subdue Rogers , placing both in closed rooms down in the home's basement . . they begin construction and Rogers will find himself confined having without ( . . and his trusty dog won't be so loving to it's master ) . Each tale has it's macabre elements , but you'll notice that the protagonists whose fates are beheld before them were responsible for misdeeds against their fellow man . And , the fun is seeing Richardson damning them . I personally love the last two , because they end so magnificently . . although , I found it a bit far-fetched that the blind men could construct such an elaborate prison for Rogers . The fourth one is particularly ghoulish because wishes granted , if committed to satisfy avarice carelessly , can lead to dire consequences . That and we get to see guts . Love the " poetic justice " for Elliot and seeing Cushing rise from the grave is the most memorable image I take away from this particular Amicus anthology .
Black Belly of the Tarantula	A burned out detective , Inspector Tellini ( Giancarlo Giannini ) contemplating the thought of turning in his resignation , resides over the bloody investigation where a psychopath , donning tan skin-tight gloves , a large hat and overcoat , is paralyzing female victims by throttling an acupuncture needle into the back of their necks having them experience the agony of death alive and awake . These murders are linked to a black-mailing scam regarding a stud under the employ of the boss of a health spa who convinces clientèle to sleep with him while another takes photographs . When the husband of his murdered nympho wife goes after her adulterous lover , Tellini will have to find both of them before it gets really out of hand . Who is the murderer of the female clientèle photographed and certain women who are involved heavily in the black-mailing scam ? If that wasn't enough to burden Tellini , he finds that the killer had videotaped him making love to his wife in the bedroom of their apartment . . which insures the detective that his wife's life could be in danger . Well paced , excitingly photographed giallo entry has an interesting enough premise especially in how the killer murders his victims with them well aware of what is happening to them and who it is doing them in . The plot unfolds nicely even if the end result is strictly so-so . Giannini is quite good as the worn-out cop beaten down by the case he's working on . Some lovely ladies in the cast including Barbara Bouchet ( as the nympho / first victim ) , Barbara Bach ( as an employee at the spa knee-deep in trouble for her involvement in the black-mailing scam ) , Stefania Sandrelli ( as the detective's beautiful and loyal wife ) & Claudine Auger ( as the main culprit of the black-mailing scam and boss who runs the health spa ) . The film's main problem is the twist regarding the identity isn't too difficult to figure out once certain suspects are eliminated earlier on . The murders , in this case , are quite potent and shocking , especially in how the killer likes to plunge his knife into the torsos of the victims after they are paralyzed . The title refers to the method a wasp commits when it paralyzes and disembowels a tarantula as it relates to the psycho's killing style .
Let Sleeping Corpses Lie	London art dealer , George ( Ray Lovelock ) unexpectedly finds himself in a problem . . a traveler backs over his motorcycle , damaging it . Awaiting repairs which would take over a weekend , George " commandeers " Edna's ( Cristina Galbó ) car , since she run it over and he needs to be at a specified location hoping to purchase a country house . Instead , folding to Edna's begging , George drives her to a desired location to meet a drug-addicted sister , finding themselves knee-deep in the walking dead , who have awakened from their slumber thanks to an agricultural machine which uses radioactive waves that kill insects . Following her sister's boyfriend's murder , Edna and George find themselves suspects , thanks to a racist Inspector ( Arthur Kennedy ) who almost instantly considers them the most likely ones responsible for the crime . They become fugitives when the Inspector's cop , sent to tail them , winds up dead thanks to zombies from a cemetery crypt who attack him , and it seems that there's no hope for their being cleared due to the incredible nature of how this occurred . George will attempt to put an end to the machine behind the zombie outbreak and find heavy resistance from an Inspector who wants him in prison , or , better yet , dead . Since the DVD revolution has led to obscure and foreign horror films being re-released in finer quality formats , re-awakening a new generation to titles they may never had seen otherwise , " The Living Dead at Manchester Morgue " I believe is one of those that has benefited greatly . As a zombie film , I've often read from admirers of the beloved sub-genre that director Jorge Grau's picture is mentioned with the likes of " Night of the Living Dead " . I think Grau deserves praise for ably displaying a zombie film , with depth and atmosphere , while also serving up the flesh-eating , scary walking dead , and effective gore genre fans crave . It doesn't hurt that Grau also gets solid lead performances from Ray Lovelock ( . . as the London art dealer who supposedly represents a " long-haired , faggot-clothed , police-hating " generation of despised hippies , who are vocal and resistant to the establishment ) and the always lovely Cristina Galbó ( . . as an emotionally fragile Edna , worried sick about her heroine-addict sister to the point of exhaustion ; in her opening scene , when she accidentally backs into Lovelock's car , we can see that her Edna is worse for wear ) . I think one must pay more attention to Arthur Kennedy's performance and character , less towards his terrible dubbing . I think the dubbing also takes away from Lovelock's performance . I think one must recognize that Kennedy portrays the type of curmudgeon whose racism is easily recognizable in how he responds to Lovelock when they first meet , and this only adds to the richness of the film's underlying sub-text . . no matter how true Lovelock might be , he's got a bullseye thanks to the way he looks . It doesn't help that Lovelock doesn't receive orders well , and Kennedy's Inspector's blind hatred for " his kind " creates the tragedy towards the end . A domino effect is almost immediate on their first meeting . . we can see right after they first meet that only complications will continue to rise because these two are from different worlds . Like any great zombie film , Grau allows mankind to damage itself . We have created our own mess , and are so blind with progress that the world is doomed to reap horror . Like films from the past using themes playing out at the time ( war and the use of atomic radiation ) , " The Living Dead at Manchester Morgue " deals with how we are creating zombies through scientific progress in killing insects through radioactive waves which drive " lower life-forms " such as infants to bite nurses , and awaken the corpses of the recently dead . . through trying to make things easier , we're causing more damage than we realize . Grau cleverly opens the film with ways London is polluting the environment , through industry and overpopulation . Right away we see that mankind is about to receive payback for how we have treated this world . So Grau's film works on multiple levels . What I found stunning was how Grau was able to incorporate atmosphere . . the crypt sequence , where Edna and George are trying to escape , is about as good a claustrophobic scene as you could ask for . And , how he is able to create such dread and photographs the zombies so effectively , Grau shows his capabilities as a director . Using the locations so well , Grau builds the tension as the film continues , with the walking dead appearing from the background and darkness , with effective make-up , and this eerie moaning ( . . and creepy musical accompaniment ) that gets under the skin . I didn't care for the ending , displaying Kennedy's fate , but it's certainly to please those who desire for his comeuppance . I do agree with the majority that this film deserves it's mention alongside the very best the zombie sub-genre has to offer .
Commando	The Schwarzenegger answer to Stallone's Rambo is John Matrix , an ex-commando ( . . the best there is , of course ) , retired under a new name living comfortably with his daughter Jenny ( Alyssa Milano , adorably cute as his kid ) , forced back into service when an ex-partner , Bennett ( Vernon Wells , wonderfully over-the-top and slimy ; the perfect antithesis to Schwarzenegger ) betrays him for kicking him off his unit for uncontrollably bloodthirsty behavior in the field . Bennett assists a sadistic and cruel overthrown political leader ( . . in some unnamed Latin country , of which doesn't matter ) , Arius ( Dan Hedaya , perfectly malicious ) in finding John's whereabouts , proposing that he must kill the established figurehead who replaced him or Jenny will be " sent to him in pieces " . Those responsible for this operation are in for a world of hurt as Matrix , boarding the plane towards the destination of the ordered murder , will establish his own grand plan to eliminate each member of this scheme , understanding that he has only a number of hours to get to Jenny before Bennett kills her . That so begins the body count . Of course , these movies have a co-starring female civilian who gets caught in the mix , and that role went to Rae Dawn Chong , as Cindy , a flight attendant Sully ( David Patrick Kelly , cleaned up , but still a scumbag ) , one of the crooks working for Arius in the states , takes a shine to . Matrix only plans to gain her assistance in keeping Sully busy until he can get information to where Arius and Bennett are located , but , of course , things get out of hand and she's flung into the developing operation . Cindy even helps out Matrix later because of her " skills " ( . . she's taking flight school ) as an amateur pilot . Heck , during Matrix's " shopping spree " commandeering weapons and arsenal from a gun store , Cindy actually rescues him from potential prison time thanks to a rocket launcher ! Bill Duke has a small role as Cooke , a heavy Matrix battles in hand-to-hand combat who also works for Arius in the states and knows where Jenny is located . One by one all associated to Arius will meet their doom at the hands of Matrix as he heads for the fiends heavily guarded fortress , with weapons and arsenal , prepared for war . James Olson is Major General Franklin Kirby , essentially fulfilling the Colonel Trautman role from Rambo , as the man who trained Matrix and knows his capabilities as a soldier . Cartoonish , ridiculous action film I'm sure repelled critics at the time because Matrix is an absolute killing machine . No one that attempts aggression against him lasts very long . The hysterical mall sequence where Matrix chases after Sully will have you in ribbons it's so unbelievable ( . . he literally lifts up a phone booth with Sully in it , hurling it in the air and to the floor , while also wiping out a group of policemen and mall security ) as is the climax where he's successfully able to gun down and blow to smithereens an army of heavily equipped baddies shooting non-stop . Explosions galore and many a man is dropped by gunfire and knives to their torsos . In a startlingly violent sequence , Matrix , inside a tool shed , stabs a soldier in the chest with a rake , cuts an arm off with a machete , and takes the top of another's head off with a thrown saw blade ! The pace blazes by because of Matrix hasn't got but hours to figure out where his daughter is and to get to her . Rae Dawn Chong has some very realistic responses to the madness and violence around her , and her zingers are just as funny as the usual Arnie one-liners once destroying a foe . Perfectly 80's , there's a clear definition of who is the hero and villains . Arnie's role is larger than life . . a muscular Adonis whose immune to bullets no matter how many people are shooting at him . And , he's equipped with supernatural power , with an ability to carry a large log on his shoulder , can rip doors off hinges , and break apart locked chains . . as does Bennett , who , in a very amusing scene throws his body through a wood-padded wall right after Jenny had removed a portion of it ( . . this obviously , for her , took a while ) with a door knob . If you are to like an action film such as this , you positively have to suspend disbelief , because it operates without real logic . . and I love this movie for that .
Eden Lake	Freckled , radiant red-head , schoolteacher Jenny ( Kelly Reilly , luminous before her life becomes a living hell ) and her handsome yuppie boyfriend Steve ( Michael Fassbender ) take a trip to an idyllic quarry on the verge of being turned into a gated community , who fall prey to a menacing group of local kids , a gang of aggravating brutes with nothing better to do than provoke trouble with this innocent couple , simply wishing to enjoy their camping trip in peace . Their tranquility is shattered when a heated confrontation spirals out of control as the antagonist leader , Brett ( Jack O'Connell , always wearing a sneer or growl as he orders his cronies to his bidding ) and his goons steal their vehicle and certain items belonging to Steve , the result of an accidental stabbing of a girl dog . This death escalates a traumatizing series of events which lead to Brett and his posse's sadistic torture of Steve after his attempt to drive Jenny to safety results in a crash . Jenny , on her own , must somehow save Steve , get help , and evade Brett and his gang running for her very life in the unfamiliar wilderness of Eden Lake . A survivalist thriller using the " yuppies in danger " theme with the kids causing our hearts to flutter and our nerves to quiver . Brett is obviously unhinged , with rage issues that only fuel his egotistical desire to harm . The dog's death only provided a reason for him to inflict damage . I applaud Reilly's physically demanding performance . . not just exhausting it must've been to run , run , run , but also to bear the burden of such a tormented soul . The graphic violence is unsettling , particularly when Steve is tortured and a scene where a kid ( . . the youngest who tried everything he could not to harm Steve ) is stabbed in the neck with a shard of glass . Oftentimes , it's the ones pushed into an unwarranted situation who suffer as the real brute is able to get away . James Watkins shoots a lot of from afar , breathtaking aerial photography over the wilderness of Black Park , in England . Once the chase begins , you can barely catch your breath . The ending is debatable . Some will find it hogwash , how it all is carried out , while others will embrace it because it doesn't allow for the usual satisfying ending . Like many enraged viewers , I had to examine myself because , truthfully , I wanted Jenny to drive that truck right over Brett , that loathsome scumbag . The film is actually an examination on how far certain kids have deteriorated morally and psychologically . The lasting image of Brett is quite potent and chilling , leaving a bad taste in your mouth , but it does confront a scary truth . . some kids are pure evil and must not be allowed to walk the streets with opportunity to harm innocent people . I think this movie will incite a host of negative feelings , but that's the point . . to cull from the viewer a feeling of disbelief and anger at injustice .
I Vampiri	This may have Ricardo Freda's name in the credits as director , but to me this is a Mario Bava film . His stylistic and thematic signatures which make his films so wonderfully unique are on display from start to finish . The camera work and how massive spaces are shot with characters within the middle of the frame and the way modern stories exist within Gothic trappings . The giallo characteristics are also here in how an amateur sleuth ( . . in this case the heroic investigator who doggedly pursues the truth putting his life and career in possible risk is a journalist ) hits the streets trying to find the killer / kidnapper of young teenagers left dumped in the Siene , their blood drained . Paris is the setting for this chiller instead of Rome which is usually the location where these stories often take place . Although I'm sure many will feel duped by the film not adhering to the traditional vampiristic themes horror fans are accustomed to , I felt the film features enough atmospheric and macabre flourishes to entertain . I'm afraid , though , many will become bored with the detective side of this movie because the pursuit is given as much credence to the plot as the ghoulish acts performed on innocent people in order for an elderly duchess , Giselle du Grand ( Gianna Maria Canale , yet another absolutely beautiful Italian , proving that something must've been in the water during this time to produce so many glamorous , striking women ) consumed with retrieving her beauty so she can get her hands on a second generation of Lantin ( Dario Michaelis , the sleuth Pierre often at odds with his superior at the newspaper and the police operating the case ) , to keep her youth . The duchess , who loses her beauty returning to the old woman she really is after the experiments providing such vitality wear off , uses the love of brilliant scientist , Dr . Julien du Grand ( Antoine Balpêtré ) who adores her to the point he'd do anything for her , as a means to regain her youth . It's an obsession with repercussions , of course , as continuing to supply her with youth means kidnapping teenagers off the street , extracting their blood , and opening the possibility of getting caught in the act sooner or later . Unfortunate for Gisele ( . . a created niece of the true Duchess who masquerades as this alias to trick everyone ) Pierre loathes high society types and the aristocracy , resisting her advances at every turn . His partner , photographer Ronals Fontaine ( Angelo Galassi ) , however , worships her , he's quite transfixed to the point where he would stare at her from behind her windows , almost a stalking peeper . He ultimately comes to a tragic end when he sees who Gisele really is after attempting to seduce her despite constant rejections . Pierre's true motivation for pursuing the case , besides the publicity it brings his newspaper and himself , is a kidnapped schoolgirl , Lorrette ( Wandisa Guida ) , a friend of the murdered girl in the Sienne he had questioned and become friendly with . Paul Muller , a Jess Franco vet , has an important supporting role as junkie Joseph Signoret whose habit is used against him when ordered by his supplier , Dr . Julien du Grand , to kidnap girls . His fate is sealed when he threatens to expose du Grand and the duchess , strangled by the scientist's assistant . The scientist makes a devastating mistake when he uses Signoret's dead corpse as a guinea pig for " life reviving " experiments , hoping to restore vitality to a body that is dead and inert . The consequences for this decision really come back to haunt them . Carlo D'Angelo portrays Inspector Chantal who becomes increasingly agitated at Pierre who seems to be leading them on a wild goose chase , and are critical of his techniques and desire for creating publicity . This has certain aspects often associated with early Bava I love . The duchess ' castle is sprawling with a giant family crest that rests above the fireplace ( . . which has a secret passageway leading to the family chapel ) , a chapel containing decorative skulls-n-bones above the supposed crypt of scientist du Grand who faked his death so that he could work in secret and specifically for the duchess , a spiral staircase , curtains that are always in motion by the wind , and a superb shot of light splintering through trees as a car pulls up ( . . there's also a great silhouetted shot of du Grand and his scientist working from the outside of his lab as a frightened Signoret awaits them ) . As expected , Bava also has inspired ways of shooting faces using interesting camera techniques not often seen at this time . Quite an unheralded sleeper which might gain an enthusiastic following through it's release on DVD . The superb age-changing sequences where you can not actually see the dissolve as in times past are simply a splendor to behold . This is a real gem worth pursuing if you are a fan of classic Italian horror .
The Fly	Returning to THE FLY for the first time in a while , I'm fascinated with the film's structure in story-telling . How the film introduces us to a distraught wife of a man killed under a press , his head and hand crushed . We are , at the off-set , told the tragic end of a scientist , yet I found myself completely gripped in the film anyway . Quite an achievement , I think . The science of the story might not hold up to scrutiny , and the costumed fly head and arm may seem less realistic by way of modern cinematic means , but there's still this rather shocking , unnerving quality THE FLY has that I totally bought into . Inspector Charas ( Herbert Marshall ) is investigating the case of why Helene Delambre ( Patricia Owens ) would purposely cause a press to smash her husband's body . At first unwilling to talk , Helene is finally coerced into telling the true story by her brother-in-law , François ( Vincent Price ) , as to why she committed such an act of violence . Her brilliant scientist husband , Andre ( David Hedison ) had developed a transport device which could teleport an object from one place to another by disintegrating the atoms , with them reintegrating back together . . such a method of travel would be of such importance and benefit mankind in so many different ways . But , in using the machine to transport himself from one machine to another , a common fly enters the chamber with him , causing horrifying results . I was amazed at how invested I was in the film , obviously knowing that only tragedy would result as Helene and her son , Philippe ( Charles Herbert ) try desperately to find the fly which had Andre's human head and arm . And , I could see why François and Inspector Charas would find the story so hard to fathom . While perhaps unconvincing unlike in it's heyday , the reveal of the fly head still packs a wallop ( . . that is if you are gripped by the story and care about the plight of the loving couple , the complications that result from tampering with the laws of nature ) , and further more the POV shot through the eye sight of Andre as Helene screams in horror is as effective as ever . Top notch cast with Price receiving lesser billing ( . . he still displays a range of emotions thanks to such a unsettling series of events , his character admitting his being in love with Helene ) , but still benefactor of being a part of yet another classic sci-fi horror film . Price's role here is for Helene's moral support during such a traumatic moment , having to bear the burden of Andre's loss , a decent and good man who fell victim to experimenting with the unexplored . . engaging in a science dealing with the very atoms that make everything what they are is obviously a dangerous path to take if something were to go wrong . And , THE FLY shows the aftermath of man's desire to explore the seemingly impossible . The scene where the fly is caught in the web of a spider drawing in to eat it really remains rather unsettling , but rescues poor Helene about to be sent off to the loony bin . HELP ME ! HELP ME !
Bloody Reunion	This was one hell of a reunion ! What is supposed to be a celebration for a dying teacher turns out to be far more sinister , bloody , violent , and painful . A group of adults return to reunite with their school teacher and we discover that each member of her class have grown with boulder-sized chips on their shoulders , their lives deeply effected by her mistreatment of them . The teacher's husband hung himself after she gave birth to a male child with a hideously deformed face . Keeping him in her basement , several of the school kids ( . . appropriately those gathered at the reunion ) often mock him , while one younger boy is kind to him . . the film sets up that this particular child ( . . who was actually criticized by the teacher for talking to her son ! ) is perhaps the young adult who begins sadistically attacking the characters of the reunion , one by one , surprising them when they are preoccupied , finishing them off in the basement where the deformed kid was kept away from the outside world . The film shows the deteriorating mindset of those who have gathered with their teacher , their emotional outbursts , confronting her on how she has misshapen their lives for the worse . Shortly afterward , however , most of them meet a grisly fate . I will say that BLOODY REUNION isn't your typical slasher . . this is a film with something to say . It is chock full with anger , pint-up animosity , buried hostility that is surfacing ( . . and had built over the years ) , and the reunion provides an opportunity to aggressively seek answers for the torment that has lingered due to the improper upbringing by a teacher who was supposed to nurture her students , not belittle and criticize them . The film has a whopper of a twist which many might compare loosely to HIGH TENSION , but BLOODY REUNION does it in a very effective way that works rather well and isn't riddled with plot holes . Almost completely told from the point of view of Jung-won ( Seong-won Jang ) , sadly slumped over the bedside of her mentor , to a detective attempting to piece together the sequence of events that led to the slaughter , the school teacher's indictment is brought to light over the course of the film . It is far from a pretty picture . The teacher is made to look as if she held a disregard for the poor , often ridiculed those with weaknesses ( . . one's nonathletic ability , another's weight issues ) , and even possibly molested her attractive male student ( . . which has turned him into a pill-popping wreck ) . At a very sickly state where she's confined to a wheel chair and can not control her bowels , the teacher is at her most vulnerable and weakest . Her punishment , the bad karma which is returning the favor , should be enough , but these former students , fueled by years of self-loathing , social rejects with buried contempt for the very one they sought approval ( . . always wanting to please her ) , have a chance to unleash the vitriolic rage held inside for far too long . The violence can get pretty unsettling as one is a victim of a vicious razor blade attack ( . . after bound to a chair , he's fed broken razors and water to wash them down ! ) , one's eyelids are stapled , another is pummeled with a bat ( . . before the final crushing blows , we watch as ants enter his orifices and bleeding wounds . . yuck ! ) , with eyes gouged , and a neck stabbed , blood squirting from the hole . The teacher's life is threatened multiple times when students approach her with violent intent , but each time she is spared in the nick of time . The very fact that they have such hate for her and are dying so horribly is enough punishment . . because she realizes that she's the real mastermind behind everything . Now , I will not reveal the twist , but before the bellyachers lay claim that it makes the film a waste of time . . I beg to differ . The teacher is still responsible for those under her care , and their obligations to those under her is of great importance . The mentor and role model , the teacher can shape minds , and motivate her students to be the best they can be . It can work both ways , and even if what we witness may not totally be accurate , the same negative feelings still exist and the behavior of an adult towards a student she has distaste for can ultimately bring about such dire consequences . This is a slasher with a potent punch . Care given to the characters and the twist isn't something merely thrown in there to foil the viewer , but comes from a dark place . Slasher fans definitely should give this one a shot . . it's a winner .
The Doctor and the Devils	" Up the alley and down the street Fallon and Broom sell bones and meat . Fallon's a butcher and Broom's a thief . And Rock's the boy that buys the beef . " At the film's closing , Dr . Thomas Rock ( Timothy Dalton ) proclaims that he has become a ghost story that frightens children and questioned how it had gotten so far . A revisionist take on " The Body Snatcher " ( . . a marvelous film produced by Val Lewton ) , this film has Dalton portraying a scientist whose skills in anatomy are unsurpassed thanks to his intense study of dead bodies . The law prohibits Rock from using fresh corpses for his research so all he has to use are rotted corpses brought in by grave robbers or criminals hung or animals . He soon enlists the aid of graverobbers Fallon and Broom ( Jonathan Pryce and Stephen Rea ) to bring him fresh bodies for proper research not knowing they are supplying him with victims they murder . Julian Sands plays Dr . Murray , Rock's assistant , who falls in love with a prostitute named Jennie ( Twiggy ) and discovers when he goes to see her how Broom and Fallon get their corpses so fresh . The whole business of delivered bodies provides a special moral dilemma within the story ( . . which worked quite well in " The Body Snatcher " ) . Also , the film is quite an indictment on the plight of impoverished " squalor " who lie slowly dying in the streets and alleyways or drift slowly into the abyss of alcoholism . Director Fisher's camera doesn't shy away from the less fortunate as the film seems to show us first-hand their suffering . Dalton's doctor is actually the sympathetic figure in the film in regards to his recognizing the poverty that his colleagues and peers seem to either ignore or just care not to acknowledge . He honestly desires fresh bodies so that he can make a difference in the advancement of the medical profession moving it from the dark Ages to the 19th Century . It's just unfortunate he has to resort to paying graverobbers for specimens . But , the film does recognize ( . . like in " The Body Snatcher " ) that Rock knew very well that some of his specimens may've been attained beyond reasonable means . Thomas ' sister provides a detrimental problem to the furtherance of his work as she believes his ways are the works of the devil . His wife is also seen as immoral by the sister for she artistically portraits anatomical charts of the human body . Others question Thomas ' work as well , specifically Prof . Macklin ( Patrick Stewart , whose role and character is underwritten ) who wishes for his unusual methods to be grounds for dismissal . The major moral crisis , though , comes when a deranged Fallon attempts to murder Jennie and is sought after by Dr . Murray where Rock's illegal researching in accepting bodies murdered might soon be discovered . While he only wishes to advance anatomy to save lives , his accepting murdered bodies is indeed considered immoral and unlawful . While the material of the film might seem familiar , considering it just really feels like a remake of " The Body Snatcher " and is just difficult not to think of the previous film while watching " The Doctor and the Devils " , Fisher's marvelous direction makes up for it . Unlike his Hammer years , Fisher doesn't have to hold back . He isn't held down by restrictions and can display the cruel realities of life such as the squalor in the streets as the epidemic it was . The period cinematography feels fresh and completely genuine . It is quite grim and bleak which might put off many with no hope seemingly in sight for many in this film . Fisher keeps the film , for most of the way , on the dreaded streets so that we have a hard time looking away from the truth .
Smithereens	Terrific poverty-row character study about Wren ( Susan Berman ) a young woman who reckons herself a possible punk-rock manager , desperately latching onto Eric ( Richard Hell ) , a supposed rock " star " who she sees as a future success in the making . Paul ( Brad Rijn ) , a kind-hearted portrait artist from Oklahoma , living out of his van , leaves his " home " ( . . and heart ) open to Wren . Wren has always been the type to use those willing to treat her with kindness , and Paul only realizes this all too well when she often takes his treatment towards her for granted often retreating back to him when Eric rejects her advances . Wren sees an opportunity ( . . basically in her own naive mind ) to represent Eric when he mentions possibly heading for LA with the goal of rock stardom seemingly in reach . But , as we see through this little film , dreams are just that . . dreams . I think this film gets it's point across well with director Susan Seidelman's camera sticking it's nose into the ugly , garbage streets of Greenwich village where dreams go to die . Wren is a casualty of her own making . . she sees a bright future which , sadly , will never be because her head's in the clouds instead of reality . How long would Paul put up with her antics , using his many good traits ( . . especially his van ) because she has nowhere else to go . Wren has no prolonging wish to go back to where she came , New Jersey , because that would ultimately mean failure . There are others , besides Paul , she tries manipulating for the betterment of her own condition . . a family member for money and a pal for a place to stay ( she's often confessing that Paul's van is a bummer to sleep in ) . She is primarily an intruder , she only swarms into the lives of others when they can benefit one person . . Wren herself . Some interesting things occur to Paul , an outsider , such as a hooker who offers him a sandwich and a pimp who really wants his van . Paul has designs on leaving New York as this just isn't his kind of place . Where will Wren retreat to ( . . and , better yet , what will she resort to ) if Paul leaves and Eric rejects her once and for all ? The ending freezes the screen with Wren confronted with a question by some stranger looking for a good time . . with nothing at all , what would be her answer ? There's an element of sadness and bleakness to this slice-of-life that I think makes it a really great gem for discovery . . you add the very low budget camera work right on the streets and this film feels all too real .
Heavy Metal	Series of sci-fi animated tales revolving around a powerful evil green orb named Loc-Nar ( who serves as narrator to a young female earthling it plans to possess ) . Set to a rock soundtrack with many ( if not most ) of the tales loaded with profanity , sex & graphic violence . Lots of animated boobage . There's even alien drug use ( a cocaine type drug called Nyborg , we actually witness the hallucinations the aliens have while driving their ship to a space station ) ! Perfect entertainment for the Midnite Movie crowd , but could be offensive to women and of a moral authority . Quite lurid and grotesque at times . . this is not for all tastes . Tales include a New York City cabbie of the future , with a disintegrating beam loaded in his car for anyone who tries an attempt to harm or rob him , who gets mixed up with a mysterious dame holding the orb and gangsters desiring to possess it , a young boy transformed into a muscular warrior who must defend a blond dame against a seemingly unkillable king and evil witch both vying for the orb , a navy crew being turned into creepy skeleton monsters by the orb during WWII while the fighter captain must abort for a spot on Earth where other ships have wrecked not knowing what lies in wait for him , a crew of aliens responsible for human mutations thanks to the orb in their possession with a robotic captain who kidnaps a Jewish hottie hoping to marry her , and a battle between orb infected human monsters and a female warrior from an ancient race . Some really great animation , especially in the final tale .
My Dear Killer	An insurance investigator is decapitated by someone operating a dredger near a polluted quarry . Inspector Luca Peretti ( George Hilton , in fine form ) and partner Chief Marò ( Salvo Randone ) are on the case and soon discover that his death , that of Vincenzo Paradisi ( Francesco Di Federico ) , is tied to the kidnapping of a little girl ( . . the Moroni case ) , and the horrifying double murder that resulted shortly afterward . Peretti must exhaust every lead , even the most minute detail , trying to uncover Vincenzo's past ( . . his investigation of the Moroni family ) if he wishes to discover the killer . Director Tonino Valerii crafts a very difficult , complex story that wields some very unsettling , unnerving truths about the Moroni family and the sadistic lengths a killer will go to remove key evidence linking him / her to the murder of Paradisi . Particularly disturbing is the discovery of a sculptor / artist who spent " abnormal " amounts of time with the deceased girl , Stefania , and it's subtly implied that he's an obvious pedophile . Clues develop that might shed light on just who was responsible for the murder of Stefania and her father . . an artistic rendering of a specific house , drawn by Stefania , and a mirror of such great importance that someone is willing to kill viciously for it . Other potential victims , such as Vincenzo's girlfriend ( Helga Liné ) , a school teacher ( Patty Shepard ) , and a belligerent penniless brute , Mattia ( Dante Maggio ) who lives in a shack located near the quarry where Paradisi was murdered ( . . also involved , is Mattia's live-in girlfriend , Adele , portrayed by Lola Gaos ) . Mattia collects various items left in garbage cans or nearby the quarry and he attains a key piece of evidence that makes him a target . The school teacher is involved because Stefania was in her class and the art book in her possession contains a left-over piece of a drawing ripped from it ( . . the larger piece of the drawing was in possession of Vincenzo's female companion , who was strangled shortly after removing it from a safe deposit box ) . The film shows that the killer stays one step ahead of Peretti almost every step of the way . . as soon as the Inspector figures out a potential detail ( . . or character ) detrimental to solving the case , almost always the killer gets to it or them first . There were several people involved with this film's complicated , exceptionally convoluted story-line and it unfolds with one hell of a revelation ( . . the girl , Stefania , was bright enough to implicate her killer while her hands and feet were bound by wire , using a mirror she rolled down a hill for another to discover ) . The finale has Peretti confronting all suspects , using a mirror to reflect each person's face . . it's a nifty indictment of each person who perhaps were responsible , in one way or another , in the result of Stefania's left to starve next to her dead beloved father's body ! Tullio Valli is the one-armed brother of the murdered Moroni , Oliviero and his estranged wife , Carla , is portrayed by Mónica Randall . William Berger is Giorgio Canavese , under suspicion for perhaps assisting in the kidnapping operation , who runs a shipping business , and is involved with trafficking drugs . While not particularly gory , the violence is still potent and shocking enough ( . . one's head is cracked over the head with a statuette , another is attacked with a Black and Decker saw , with the opening decapitation quite stunning way of opening this giallo ) and there is some nudity ( . . both Shepard and Marilù Tolo as Peretti's girl , remove their shirts displaying their breasts ) to keep giallo fans satisfied . It was neat watching Hilton is a rare detective role , sporting a mustache , but his life away from the investigation ( . . his strained relationship with Marilù Tolo ) serves as nothing more than filler , an attempt at giving his character a backstory regarding how his work interferes with his love-life . Eerie , spine-tingling score by composer Ennio Morricone . Fans of Helga Liné will be severely disappointed because her role is of no real depth . . basically a victim role , whose character is bumped off due to a drawing , clinched tight in her dead hand . Alfred Maya is especially creepy as the pedophile whose studio is used as a place where he brings naked girls ( . . one such scene is shown as Peretti is questioning him , with a nude girl interrupting their conversation ) .
Outland	Often this is regarded as HIGH NOON in space , and to a point it is very western flavored not to mention has elements one might could possibly claim as lifted from that classic Zinnemann film . First , Connery as the marshal of this mining outpost is the only one with enough integrity to stand up against corruption in the name of general manager Peter Boyle on Io , a moon with precious resources near Jupiter . As Cooper was in HIGH NOON , Connery will seek help and find none . The only one willing to stick their neck out is a woman . Sternhagen is the woman here as Kelly was in HIGH NOON for Cooper . Sternhagen ( a wonderfully underrated actress ; has the best lines in the film and is a joy to watch . . the perfect Howard Hawks ' archetype ) portrays a doctor who tends to everyone who gets hurt and knows how the entire outpost functions . She is there for Connery when no one else will stand up . Connery discovers that Boyle , through two drug suppliers , has been selling amphetamines to labor workers so that they can pull extra hours in order to break productivity records and make big dollars . Boyle is quite a shady character ; his reputation is so notorious no one on the outpost dares cross him . Those who offer help are executed . . such as one officer under Connery who was taking pay from Boyle to look the other way , but gained guilt and turned to the right side . This was a warning to Connery just how dangerous Boyle could be . When an attempt to kill Connery fails , the marshal discovers where the drugs are hidden and dumps them . Boyle , furious at the money he lost because of this , sends for bounty hunters to execute Connery . The final twenty or so harrowing minutes shows Connery having to find various ways to escape certain harm as the killers arrive and seek him out . The cat and mouse ensues but Connery will have assistance in Sternhagen . This film doesn't show off fancy effects but instead makes this outpost ugly , grimy , and very junk-metallic . I felt the film desires to show you a blue-collar future where workers look like people who actually operate oil-rigs and work in factories . The film utilizes Connery's abilities especially as he waits out the arrival of those killers , his dogged determination to take down corruption , his inner loneliness and longing to be back with his family , and especially his weariness of doing his job the right way with no one appreciating his efforts .
Diary	The Pang Brothers really outdid themselves this time . . what a powerful experience DIARY was . It's truly a tragic insider's look into the tormented mind and soul of a paranoid schizo woman ( Isabella Leong ) who sees horrors that haunt her , as well as reliving traumatic memories of a relationship that went sour , and a friendship that seems suspect . What makes DIARY so extraordinary is how the Pang Brothers ably create a disorienting nightmare we experience along with Leong . The twist at the end throws you for a loop because we come to a realization as to just how devastated Leong's state of mental well being really is . What we do know is that Leong is a good cook , writes her thoughts and actions in a diary , and crafts puppets she talks to . The characters of her life are Shawn Yue ( . . as both Seth , her long lost love who left her , and Ray , who looks identical to him ) and Charlene Choi ( . . as Leong's influential pal , and the one who may've took Seth away from her ) . The Pang Brothers highlight examples of Leong's schizophrenia such as the moment a thundercloud moves through her window into the living room , a chair moves on it's own when Leong and Yue are eating supper , and how the whole house trembles as the floor cracks open . Reliving certain situations which truly never cease to remind her of the separation , Leong is incredible at conveying the confusion , sadness , loss , and fear confronting her conflicted and sick character . It's a kind of disturbing poetry , performance and direction deftly portraying a character in turmoil . Shades of REPULSION , as this woman often isolates herself from the world , participating in a delusion she considers real . The Pang Brothers really throw some curveballs our direction as well , as we often relive situations two , three times , in certain ways , challenging us to figure out what is real and what is a fictitious creation of a disturbed mind . You could say we are like puppets on a string , manipulated often .
Shoot ' Em Up	Basically " Shoot'Em Up " is an 80's film using today's modern technology . Replace Arnie or Bruce Willis with Clive Owen and baby in tow and you have this film . Owen's carrot fixation is even put to good use pulling triggers and stabbing the villains in the eyeball or through the mouth and out the back of their necks . See how Owen kills special ops assassins while having sex with " hooker with a heart of gold " Monica Belluci ( . . she even climaxes as he blows one of these heavily equipped villains through a window ) . There are a great many stunts where Owen is allowed to create on his feet using his artistry with guns . There's a neon sign he uses to tell arch-nemesis Paul Giammati F-U . Just watch how Owen uses his gun to keep his baby protected on a merry-go-round . Or , when he's in a weapons factory , with Owen elaborately creating a method using strings to develop a labyrinthine maze where baddies carrying machine guns fall prey to gun fire when they turn corners ( . . even if this is the most ludicrous action sequence ever designed , it's a dream come true for action fans ) . And , the greatest trick of all . . pulling off an anti-gun message in such an insanely violent action film ! The way the film finds escapes for Owen is a thing of cinematic genius . . no matter how many times we roll our eyes at such absolute nonsense . The plot , if it truly matters , is about a man minding his own business who can not sit on his street bench and watch a pregnant woman get assassinated . This decision will cause a ton of complications as he assists the lady into giving birth . His name is Smith , and the head-honcho who wants the lady and her child dead is Hertz ( Giammatti ) . When a bullet through the forehead leaves this woman dead , Smith will have to find shelter for the infant while dodging constant gun-fire . Thanks to his uncanny use with an assassin's gun ( . . there was a reason why he didn't have a gun on his person even though he is a skilled marksman ) , Smith evades his pursuers sending a great many villains to early graves ( . . or , as chief businessman Hammerson , played by a scarily skinny Stephen McHattie , would say , a " dirt nap " ) . Hoping for a hooker's ( Bellucci ) help , whose specialty is feeding her breast-milk to wealthy clientèle with that kinky fetish , he will hope to provide the infant with a temporary home ( . . in a brothel ! ) . But , Hertz targets her so this hooker will join up with Smith and the baby on their own forming one very unique union . With Hertz undaunted despite heavy losses when several operations to kill Smith fail miserably , he will keep coming until our hero can discover why these murderers want such a precious child dead . Soon the story yields some wacky results like a bone-marrow transplant for an ill senator who wishes to pursue the presidency ( . . and has a strict policy against guns which would threaten Hammerson's business ) as the child is the key to his health and recovery , and an airplane meeting between Smith and who he thought were his allies ( . . this soon produces a parachute exit and shoot-out in the sky for the ages ) . And , to top it all off , watch how Smith , with broken fingers , uses a scalpel to evade certain doom . It's all tongue-in-cheek and unpretentious fare , gory escapist fodder for fanboys who love their constant shoot ' em ups with bullet-ridden bodies & colorful villains and dialogue . Outrageous , tricky ways a gun can kill people are on full display . And , this flick rarely takes a breath . Not a critical darling AT ALL , even hated by many , but I dug the hell out of it . Oh , and the use of a tank ( . . and how Owen provides a way for Bellucci and babe to enter in ) for the use of protection so that the baby can remain safe , is just priceless .
The Illusionist	I'm not sure I buy the end result ( an illusionary twist which depends on an awful lot of coincidence ) , but it's a lot of fun getting there . Visually dazzling and well executed drama about an illusionist named Eisenheim ( Edward Norton who is quite spellbinding in a very mysterious role ) who ruffles the feathers of Crown Prince Leopold ( Rufus Sewell at his nasty , slimy best ; he's just so menacing in these juicy roles as hot-tempered aristocrats who will not be made fool of in crowds as long as he has power ) with a trick ( a humdinger of irony ; it's an Excaliber trick which really pokes fun at Leopold ) . Torn away from his beloved Sophie ( he a son of a peasant cabinet-maker , she a duchess ) , Eisenheim once again meets her on stage only to find out she's possibly to marry Leopold . But , that flame burns as bright as ever , and Leopold uses his patsy of a police inspector , Uhl ( Paul Giamatti , who is very , very good ) to find dirt on Eisenheim to shut his illusion act down . Imagine the fury inside Leopold when he finds out from Uhl that Sophie and Eisenheim may be plotting a getaway . Leopold is not a man to be trifled with , and Sophie is a major factor for him to gain favor with the Hungarians . When Sophie informs Leopold that it is Eisenheim she wants , it appears that he may've stabbed her with his withdrawn sword . Her body is found with a gaping wound which seems to show signs of being stabbed through the neck . . gems from a certain sword may prove Leopold's guilt . This throws Eisenheim's life in a whole new direction as he finds an old theater and begins performing what appear to be resurrections of ghosts which shock and awe audience-goers . Uhl begins to notice a following and Leopold himself even attends a show under guise when Eisenheim shocks everyone in attendance by " resurrecting Sophie's ghost " ! Leopold is certainly enraged now and wants Eisenheim stopped at all costs because there are now vocal Vienna folk claiming the Prince as being a murderer ( his past murder of another girl he pushed off a balcony doesn't help his case any ) . The ending is a doozy ( the final illusion on stage and a little twist that occurs once we see Leopold's fate ) and really had my jaw dropped to the floor in amazement . The film offers many cool illusions performed on stage by Eisenheim , but it's also Norton's mysterious performer who holds you at a distance wondering just how truly gifted he really is . That mystery he has is vital to the strength of the film I believe . We don't need to see how he does the tricks he accomplishes because just wondering what kind of powers he really has a hold on not just the audience watching him perform . . but us as well .
Ravenous	" The man eats the flesh of another . He steals his strength . He absorbs the other man's spirit . " Deemed a coward by his commanding officer ( " You're no hero . I want you as far away from my troop as possible . " ) , despite decorating him with a medal for his supposed heroism for somehow surviving an attack during a battle in the Mexican-American civil war ( . . collapsing in a heap of bad nerves & fear , he was considered dead and buried underneath his fallen comrades only to drink the blood of his commanding officer , and hence gaining a peculiar strength which led to his capture of opposing soldiers ) which left his entire company dead , Captain John Boyd ( Guy Pearce ) is sent to an isolated outpost in the dead of winter , located at the California outpost of Fort Spencer ( " This place thrives of tedium " ) . The stations commanding officer is Colonel Hart ( Jeffrey Jones , in one of his best roles ) , a man quite easy to like , with manners to match an unwavering wit , who leads a motley crew of misfits which includes two Indians ( " . . who came with the place . " ) , George ( Joseph Runningfox ) & Martha ( Sheila Tousey ) , a pot-smoking private , Cleaves ( David Arquette ) , a very serious , intimidating & aggressive military man , Reich ( Neal McDonough ) , a quietly mumbling priest , Toffler ( Jeremy Davies , a method acting wannabee , who never ceases to annoy me ) , and a drunk doc , Knox ( Stephen Spinella ) . A mysterious man ( Robert Carlyle ) , calling himself Colqhoun , arrives at their camp nearly dead from the cold and starvation who talks about a group he'd traveled with succumbing to the harsh climate and cannibalism . When Colqhoun brings to light the possibility that two of his group might still be alive , Hart instantly rises to lead an expedition to the cave where they were last seen . What the group doesn't realize is that there's more to Colqhoun that meets the eye . Through director Antonia Bird , cannibalism is explored with grisly delight . . this is indeed both a dark comedy and a full-blooded horror tale . I found a joy operating within the film's darkness . I do think the film will be divided between those who buy into the supernatural ingredient , which enables those who eat human flesh to literally become superhuman , and those who'll consider the premise rubbish , rolling their eyes at what transpires as the film continues . I think specifically the " battle of the titans " conclusion will definitely have certain viewers shaking their heads in disbelief . I didn't realize that the film would actually be heading in that supernatural direction , but it seemed fitting since the overall tone embellished such wickedly morbid humor through the macabre elements of the story . I found the dialogue particularly amusing , and there's a relish in the story-telling regarding cannibalism and it's " powers . I found the excuse to eat human flesh through quotes from Ben Franklin ( " Eat to live . . don't live to eat . " & " Waste not . . want not . " ) . . in a lip-smacking " dinner sequence " . . quite humorous in a sick , twisted manner . The film , for me , remains a jolly good time , as poor Boyd must convince others that the group were eaten by a cannibalistic savage , while finding himself in quite a dilemma when the one that ate his fellow men becomes the fort's new colonel ! What makes the overall experience quite memorable for me , besides the unusual premise itself , is the setting in such uncompromising conditions and music which certainly adds to the mood of the film . The film is also quite grisly and unpleasant as we see how the cannibalistic villain embraces his lifestyle and it's " benefits . " There's also a twist towards the end which adds spice to the proceedings . . our hero realizes that his nemesis has a partner ( " It's lonely being a cannibal . Tough making friends . " ) .
The Scarecrow reviews " Horror Hotel "	Good " black mass " chiller with naive Stevenson , interested in bringing more depth to her term paper on witchcraft , is given directions by " Professor of the Black Arts " Lee to Whitewood . . an old village where a witch was burnt at the stake centuries prior . Unknowingly , Stevenson is the chosen victim of a ceremony held by the townsfolk { who are actually the undead living because of their cultic practices } on " Candlemas Eve " . Storeowner St . John is the next possible victim in keeping their eternal stay . It's up to Stevenson's brother Lotis and boyfriend Naylor to stop the evil Jessel who is the proprietor of " The Raven's Nest " , a hotel residing right above where the witch Elizabeth Selwyn was burnt to the stake . Plays like a full length Twilight Zone feature and works surprisingly well . The threat of the witch and the city of the dead and how it is photographed brings presence and spooks to the proceedings . Despite it's obvious low budget , this film uses fog , light , and shadow thanks in large part to the black and white photography . The atmosphere of the ghost town and how the characters within are framed creates a foreboding once anyone alive walks among them . It has the look of a teleplay , hence the comparisons to The Twilight Zone , but I couldn't be complimenting it more for making such relations between this creepy film and that great show . The essential elements of exploring witchcraft , and those who adhere to it , is perhaps what makes the film a really great find for horror buffs looking for certain gems out there that rarely get discussed . A great ending in a graveyard as the final battle between good and evil takes place only heightens an already blast of a movie .
Hell	Various characters descend into a type of Buddhist hell for their multitude of sins . Each individual is judged by the amount of sins they committed and punished accordingly . Film's main focus of tragedy is Shiro ( Shigeru Amachi ) , a student in love with a professor's daughter . His " friend " is Tamura ( Yoichi Numata ) who has an uncanny ability to pop up out of the blue . Tamura is the source of misery for Shiro and seems to be some sort of demonic guide in leading him into constant trouble such as driving over a gang member and a car crash which takes the life of Shiro's beloved Yukiko ( Utako Mitsuya ) . The film shows how Yukiko's death causes a domino effect of further tragedy with Tamura constantly around to smile winkingly as hidden sins come to the surface causing a giant death sequence resulting in a majority going to hell . The mother and sister of the slain gang member plot to kill Shiro and the mistreatment of the elderly at an old folks ' home ran by Shiro's father are main focal points within the plot's structure . But , the film's gimmicky draw is Nobuo Nakagawa's artistic vision of hell . We see Shiri running through the cycles of hell trying to find and save the son he never knew he had as the infant travels on a lotus leaf ! If I'm honest , I found this unintentionally hilarious at times , particularly the theatrics of hell . You just have to see the concoctions Nakagawa comes up with supplying surreal images of several characters suffering torments in hell . A vortex of suffering humans , feet sticking out of the ground like weeds , people imprisoned in head-locking devices , a man being severed in half , etc . It's really a tragicomedy . You can't help but giggle at some of the over-the-top performances in the film .
The Cat and the Canary	Divine little " killer - on - the - loose - inside - the - creepy - mansion " thriller as someone supposedly from an insane asylum will perhaps harm a group of cousins , hoping for an inheritance from dear Cyrus West ( Wilfrid Hyde-White , simply marvelous in his limited screen time ) , who stay the night in his eerie large residence , filled with secret passage-ways . Annabelle West ( Carol Lynley ) is the official heiress to the fortune and mansion because of her being the next in line by name . But , stipulations regarding her getting the money come with receiving the inheritance news . . if she is proved to be insane . . or murdered . . after that night , the next in line to the fortune will get it . When Cyrus ' lawyer , and preparer of the will , Allison Crosby ( Wendy Hiller ; simply wonderful when on screen ) is viciously killed , Annabelle is in fear for her life for anyone amongst them has reason for perhaps using blood shed if it means gaining a fortune . A great cast , macabre sense of humor , and stylish direction really works wonders off of your basic drawing-room , Agatha Christie mystery . The house is a delightfully ominous setting and such spirited , game performances really works wonders in the setting . Edward Fox has a great entrance , through a window no less , as a flamboyant " asylum doctor " who informs the cast of the escaped loony who has fashioned a likeness with a cat , creating claws and such to heighten the effect . Beatrix Lehmann also has a memorable role as the quiet and oddball Mrs . Pleasant , a maid for Cyrus West who often is seen sneaking around corners and entering situations after something important to the plot has taken place . Carol Lynley as the heiress is simply radiant and charming . . also having sparkling chemistry with American cousin , songwriter Paul ( Michael Callan ) who becomes the unlikely hero . Mustn't forget Honor Blackman as the scheming Susan , trying to push Annabelle over the edge while the simply beautiful Olivia Hussey ( it was quite hard for me not to drool she's so lovely ) is perhaps her lover ( it's hinted at mainly when they insist on sharing a room together in such a large place full of empty rooms ) Cicily Young who hopes to possibly inherit the money herself . Daniel Massey is Harry , a man who had gained quite a bit of wealth through corrupt business practices while Peter McEnery is the homosexual bit actor / double Charlie , who was quite " close " to Cyrus and favored by the old man . Some of the ugly stuff ( despicable slow death of Crosby by the killer ( s ) ; possible unsavory activities in one of Cyrus ' secret rooms no one accept a select few knew about ) is subtly hinted at in key moments of dialogue . A ton of fun , colorful , and at times quite spooky .
Death Note	Ultra-slick , ingeniously plotted crime fantasy ( . . based on a popular anime ) stars Tatsuya Fujiwara as a college kid , Light Yagami who gains possession of a " death book " accidentally dropped by the god of death ( . . a computer generated angel of death who carries the appearance of a heavy metal rock star with long , outstretched feathery wings ) who follows directions which teach him methods at killing criminals merely by writing their names down after heavily studying and memorizing their faces ( . . often from news broadcasts or educating himself through entering the police's documented computer files ) . The god of death follows Light from place to place watching him work often questioning his decisions regarding his murderous activities and human choices to die . At first , Light , known to the citizens as Kira , picks out solely criminals of all sorts , having them die by heart attacks , but when the Tokyo's finest work ( . . including Light's own father played by Shunji Fujimura ) with the mysterious ghost agent L ( Ken'ichi Matsuyama ) , begin a task force in stopping Kira from committing his attacks towards victims from all over the city , he'll go rogue , targeting innocents who threaten to expose him . FBI agent Raye ( Shigeki Hosokawa ) is the first , who is following him , targeted as they exchange identities when a bus they are traveling is taken control by a killer-on-the-lam . After Light rids himself of the killer through a brilliant course of action using a sheet of paper torn from his book of death , he will find out the agent's name and soon inherit knowledge of the covert team set to find him . When Raye , along with his FBI associates , is eliminated , his former agent fiancé Naomi Misori ( Asaka Seto ) will set her sights on catching him . When the Tokyo task is depleted due to fear , Light's father and those that remain will meet face-to-face with L and continue their efforts to find Kira . But , Light has a few aces up his sleeve even when L has cameras set up all throughout his room , as part of an operation to study the families of those who might could gain access to specific files and are smart enough to commit such deeds as Kira is continuing . Yu Kashii is Shiori Kashino , Light's love interest who becomes an unfortunate victim caught in the middle of her boyfriend's adventures . I must say that I watched this flick through word of mouth and was pleasantly surprised at how gripping and entertaining it was . A bit far-fetched ( . . of course , we must not forget what inspired it , a comic book tale where intelligent young men duel it out through a cat-and-mouse game while lives are at stake ) so the viewer will have to go out on the limb with the filmmakers as the film stretched credibility quite a bit . It's very much a fantasy with a strong morality tale at the heart of it . . how a man gains control of a power he shouldn't possess , playing judge , executioner and jury until he himself is threatened . Light becomes the very person he executes just to save his own skin . L is quite a creation , a teen prodigy ; a genius who loves candy and has a firm grasp on using the information superhighway , and our current technology , to find criminals good , old police-work can not detect . The addition of Light being the Tokyo task force's main detective's son only heightens the drama . He must watch his son's activities thanks to bug-camera devices planted all throughout the room and house . The god of death , and his addiction to apples , are used as a source of comedy and a voice questioning the reasoning of our killer , whose cold and calculating decisions effect innocent lives and families . There are serious repercussions when Light decides to murder those who threaten to expose him . It doesn't surprise me that Hollywood plans to remake this because " Death Note " is such an imaginative little feature with some very fascinating ideas lacking in our modern fantasies on these shores .
What's Up , Doc ?	Bogdanovich's mad-cap ode to the screwball comedies he so dearly loves from his youth about poor musicologist Ryan O'Neal who has no idea that his life will be turned upside down when feisty Streisand locks eyes on him . She will be a thorn that will change his life forever . She clearly is smitten to the point where she is always around causing mischief , but some of her shenanigans really assist O'Neal in his pursuit to win a grant from Austin Pendleton . His competition is the always entertaining Kenneth Mars ( throwing his hair back constantly as if by habit ) . Madeline Kahn makes her shining screen debut as O'Neal's pushy , loud fiancé who herself will see the wrath of her new competition in Streisand . The film is ridiculous nonsense about four specific plaid suitcases that each feature things that will lead poor O'Neal and Streisand on the run . Michael Murphy has Top Secret governmental papers in one , O'Neal has his " musical rocks " in one , Streisand's clothes are in one , and the prized suitcase many want contain jewels from Mabel Albertson . Bogdanovich shows the influence of those filmmakers he admires and cherishes so well by keeping the film moving at an unbelievable frantic pace while also having Streisand speaking dialogue at warp speed . The leads are irresistible and the film has so many hilarious bits including the disastrous happenings within Pendleton's home ( what occurs with his art is priceless ) , the constant changing of hands regarding suitcases showing the hotel rooms as revolving doors , and the final chase .
Gojira	Clearly more of an outcry against war , nuclear weapons , and violence , GOJIRA really packs an emotional wallop I never saw coming . It gets dead serious when , as Gojira attacks Tokyo , leaving buildings in rubble and the entire city ablaze , this mother nestles her three children in tight proclaiming that they will meet their father soon . If that doesn't grab you , nothing will . But , more importantly , it exposes the lingering effects of the dropped bomb and how that day still carries in the minds of many . With a bomb awakening a prehistoric beast from the Jurassic period , Gojira terrorizes a fishing island village . Soon , Tokyo itself , despite a well-equipped Japanese army blasting away at Gojira , will suffer the monster's wrath in a jaw-dropping rampage which impressed me a lot more than I expected . I was expecting a hokey , fun exercise of mayhem , but never realized that a powerful story lied in wait for me . The Japanese cast is surprisingly good with Akira Kurasawa vet Takashi Shimura ( as paleontologist Kyohei Yamane who wishes not for Gojira's death , but for us , since this is a rare find in the field of science , to examine it . . to test it ) heading it with Akira Takarada and Momoko Kôchi as lovers wishing for Yamane's permission to marry . Akihiko Hirata comes out with the finest performance as a scarred , eye-patched scientist Serizawa who represents the horrifying example of the anguish derived from war . . he is the creator of a potent " Oxygen Destroyer " that can separate oxygen from the atom resulting in the fish in his tank turning into mere skeletal bones . Emiko begs for Serizawa to use his invention to destroy Gojira because after the destruction of much of Tokyo , they need a savior to rid themselves of the seemingly indestructible behemoth . But , understanding the world ( or more importantly , other warring countries seeking the ultimate weapon to hold global power ) he wishes to keep his weapon secret . . he wants good from his work not evil and has lost all faith in mankind . The film really has a loud message against the cruelty of war and I believe Gojira represents that ultimate monster in mankind constantly warring one with another using the atomic bomb as the weapon of choice to expose . As Kyohei says at the end , if we don't stop using the nuclear bombs , what Gojira monsters will be awakened .
Bedlam	Excellent Val Lewton production is far more probing ( . . in dialogue ) than many films of this type . It dares to pit two people , who loathe each other's philosophies , against each other in a psychological duel over how to treat the insane in a period where the upper-class wealth often enjoyed the exploitation of the poor souls for their amusement . Often feeling he's a joke to those of wealth and prestige , Master George Sims ( Boris Karloff , who is both sophisticated , smart , yet one mean , manipulative bastard ) does what he can to please Lord Mortimer ( Billy House ) , a man of well means whose " woman of jest " , Nell Bowen ( Anna Lee , who matched barb with Karloff quite well ) doesn't like his dire treatment towards the unfortunate souls of unsound mind . He beats them , has them sleep without comfort of any kind ( sleeping in a cell , might as well call it that , with straw as the only bit of comfort they have . ) , and often passes them with glee doing what he can to raise fear in their minds to keep the prisoners at his harsh will . Her feelings toward Sims remain dormant until a kindly , well-mannered Quaker , Hannay ( Richard Fraser ) provokes those hidden feelings because he saw a look of horror and compassion on her face as she noticed what the supposed patients were being put through thanks to his awful way of handling their conditions . This begins a psychological duel between the two as Sims attempts to manipulate Mortimer against her and Nell becomes compassionate about ending the suffering of those within Bedlam . Soon , Nell speaks how she really feels about being a servant to amusing Mortimer , for who she deeply detests , thanks to Sims who informs the Lord that his agreeing to her proposal of lending money towards better living conditions in Bedlam would remove cash from his pockets . Nell continues on her journey for righting the wrongs of Sims by poking fun at Mortimer using a pet parrot given to her by the Lord after a showcase of her comic talents in a play . Finally , after much persuasion , Sims is given clearance from Mortimer to place Nell in Bedlam where he could both silence her and continue his psychological mind-games at her expense . What he doesn't predict is how Nell herself changes the atmosphere and conditions for the insane inmates within the cell . This will all lead to a powerful climax where the inmates turn on their harmful master . In a fascinating ending , a silent beauty Sims had poked fun at over the years gets her revenge . The film provides debate between Sims and Nell which is the cornerstone of the film . It's their duel over whether the insane can be treated without steady force , I believe , that provides the film's magic . She proves , through the guidance of Hannay , that these unfortunates deserve more than beatings and whippings in order for their behavior to change in a positive way . We see that having your foot in the door regarding the wealthy can send those without such backing to a place like Bedlam even though it's quite plain that the one sent packing is as sane as you or me . By far one of Karloff's finest hours . . he has a meaty role where he has a chance to use dialogue and express all the emotional elements often not foreseen under the guise of evil , tallish brutes or monsters . Anna Lee , as the fiery dame who is quite intelligent and forward enough to match wits with any one of high esteem , matches Karloff in her performance of Nell . As usual , the film is wonderfully conceived in Black & White photography making the Bedlam asylum quite a creepy place .
The Lost Patrol	A British regiment , lost in the desert after their guide ( who had the location of where they were headed in his mind ) is killed , must fend for themselves against hidden arabs who know the sandy dunes better than they do . They find an oasis surrounded by palm trees and a skeletal shelter . . this will have to be their outpost when the arabs sneak in the night , knifing their young watchman , and sending the horses off . The Sergeant ( played with a commanding performance from Ford vet Victor McLaglen ) watches as his men , one by one , fall prey to bullet-fire from the arabs hidden away , madness , and hysteria . Very good Ford vehicle shows us the suspenseful plight of being isolated in one location not knowing how to escape or where to go . Placing our heroes in a situation where their location for home in uncertain ( . . and never knowing where the enemy is hiding ) provides the viewer with little hope of any survival . Boris Karloff has a flashy scene-stealing role as a bible-thumper succumbing to craziness as he watches those around him dying .
Edmond	David Mamet scripted this existential undertaking directed by horror-meister Stuart Gordon about Edmond's slow journey into an abyss of sadness after leaving his wife . It really is a series of encounters that mold and shape Edmond into the unrecognizable man he'll wind up being by the end of the film . Startling and unpredictable , Edmond's search for truth and meaning in his life yields some very disturbing elements and nearly everyone he meets in the film have their own problems . But , Edmond's mental well being shifts to a dark place for those demons which have festered inside him come out and what we see as they do is quite throttling . . the violence that occurs to him and BY HIM is very potent and surprising because it often comes out of left field and hits us with it's spontaneity . The meandering dialogue is quite fascinating and often we simply listen to Edmond as he speaks from his embittered heart and fragile , cracking mind . There's a moments where he proclaims his life is 40-something years of fog . I think that the fog separates , but what comes from Edmond is not quite pretty , and often baffling . He is definitely yearning for something to hang his hat on and I believe Mamet's story is saying perhaps what he's looking for is there or not . Stunning cast , but Macy is simply amazing . He is in every scene and his character's struggles are quite intriguing to behold . I felt as if we were watching this man's life simply come apart at the very seems . Seeing that can be quite an experience , and this film is .
Dracula's Daughter	The title character is Countess Marya Zaleska played by the stunning Gloria Holden . Edward Van Sloan's Von Helsing has been arrested by the authorities for killing Dracula . Scotland Yard thinks his claims of vampire slaying is preposterous . Von Helsing calls on psychiatrist Jeffrey Garth ( played by Otto Kruger ) to assist him in trying to persuade others that he isn't insane . Soon , at a party where Zaleska ( who paints as a profession ) is invited , she meets Garth and hopes he can cure her of the affliction to drink the blood of victims . Soon , Zaleska desires to have Garth as her undead lover , and will use his secretary Janet ( the feisty , fetching Marguerite Churchill ) as leverage . Zaleska has this hulking brute Sandor ( portrayed by the brooding Irving Pichel ) to assist her . Zaleska wishes to be cured , and tests herself at Garth's command when she gets Sandor to bring a beautiful , down-on-her-luck model to the studio for a painting . In my favorite scene , it's hinted that the Countess might go both ways as she eyeballs the model's smooth , porcelain skin ready to have a drink . It certainly charged my motor , that's for sure . Anyway , soon Garth will have to face off with the Countess at Transylvania in the climax where a rejected and jealous Sandor will seek revenge for being pushed aside by his master . I really , really like this sequel to Dracula , but others might find it slow and uninvolving . I thought it was original and atmospheric . But , Holden is the reason I recommend it . She had this hold on me that's hard to explain . . she cuts the ravishing figure when the camera pulls back on her in a late scene where she requests / demands for Garth to become her lover . Edward Van Sloan only plays a minor part here , more or less , a guide to others about the abilities of vampires .
What a laugh . . Thirty years of madness	This is a glorified , down-beat & grim " biopic " of a Yakuza madman named Ishikawa ( Tetsuya Watari , who plays him as a quiet calm before the tornadic release ) who has this mentally unstable nasty streak that comes out in a fiendish explosion when others stand in his way . He almost causes a clan war when he attacks a rival Yakuza lord from another city . This causes a downward spiral for him as his seemingly uncontrollable path of violence and death leads to a vicious attack on his own Kawada Yakuza Godfather and a banishment from all clans for ten years , which is part of the code . After a brief stint in prison he's ordered to stay in Osaka for the remaining ten and would be allowed back once he served his time . After only a year , Ishikawa returns to cause havoc once again . While in Osaka he developed a drug habit which would lead him down an even more violent path for he would find those in possession of what he needed and threaten their very lives if they wouldn't fork over product to stick in his arm . His only real ally is a tragic geisha , Chieko ( Yumi Takigawa ) , who is slowly dying . . but , even she suffered rape from Ishikawa showing that he has no real respect for anyone when it comes to getting his own degree of satisfaction by any means necessary . When he attacks the godfather of the Imai clan , no real avenue of escape will ever be available again . He often seems unkillable as attempts on his life are frequent , though he is often cunning through his hiding ( . . and also not so cunning when he appears in public at gambling houses ) . When he kills the Imai Godfather , his life expectancy shrinks considerably . The film is told in a documentary form with narration depicting a specific tumultuous time in the late forties when clans operated almost like little governments dictating business within the city of Shinjuku . Each has their turf and tries to remain loyal to each other hoping to escape any means of war . All Japanese loathe a specific group of foreigners nicknamed " the thirds " making up mostly Korean , Taiwanese , & Chinese who seem to try to live within the city but are treated as the plague of the country . We also see how the loss to America in the World War seems to have created a child without it's parents as this massive collective of people frequent the streets in droves . The Yakuza clans do seem to be the only means of parent-ship available to those without a home or identity . The film is ultimately a blitzkrieg of gang wars , prostituting whores , " black-market " elections , gambling , drugs , and Ishikawa is immersed within the frenzied structure . . he's certainly a doomed creature because how can such a crazed heathen as he ever survive ? The film has wildly imaginative camera-work which seems to show an unbalanced world through the gaze of Ishikawa . It has visual verve and is certainly loaded with bloody carnage .
Effects	A cinematographer / special effects man ( Joseph Polito , Capt . Rhodes of Romero's " Day of the Dead " ) finds himself caught in a real snuff film , a tragic example of life imitating art . A demanding director , Lacey ( John Harrison ) secretly puts in motion a planned real snuff film , having his camera and f / x pro Dominic ( Pilato ) and gaffer , Celeste ( Susan Chapek ) a major part of the central horror . Dominic believes he's finally arrived in film-making having taken the position with his director as they currently work on a slasher film . We see how the cast and crew participate behind-the-scenes as they prepare for various scenes in the film they're working on . A troubled married couple , Barney ( Bernard McKenna ) and his wife , and the supposed star , Rita ( Debra Gordon ) portray the couple on the film and we see how their relationship off-camera is crumbling . Dominic believes he has a chance at romance with Celeste , but has no clue that she is portraying a role . Dominic is indeed the tragic character of the film for he's completely in the closet about the REAL movie being made . He brings up a point to his director about slasher films . . he complements his director yet complains that in order for the film to really capture an audience there must be a chase scene . He doesn't even have an idea that he would be a part of that exact argument . We bare witness as the director has a hidden film crew operating in a secret room within the house they're shooting . The director even has his effects man ( . . and true star ) Dominic watch a snuff film reel he claims he made himself as a film student . . this is both macabre and clever for the director openly admits , in a way , to having made the film , with Dominic shell-shocked at it's realism . Lacey has shown Dominic an example of what he's capable of creating . . in a grand sense of irony , Dominic will be the part of a snuff film , only on a much larger stage . I have to respectfully disagree with others who have commented on " Effects " , a small independently produced , acted & directed horror flick from Pittsburgh talent , that it should've stayed lost . I personally thought it was a nifty , well crafted take on " guerrilla " film-making . The closing scene at the end , the name of the real movie being made , adds a nice little sick twist to the proceedings . I think many will indeed , as some user comments attest to , find this film a laborious , often confusing , film to sit through , but I think everything comes together quite neatly by the end . I also thought it was exceptionally photographed . . this explains that independent films can have cameras which don't shake like crazy giving their audiences nausea . The opening of " Effects " pleased me because I'm a movie buff , and I was truly satisfied as the whole film , from director Dusty Nelson , comes together explaining certain odd actions ( . . and behavior ) from our director , not to mention , why Dominic and Celeste were being shot in blue hidden from within the woods , and how it spies on them . Little moments Nelson provides us informing the viewer that something completely sinister is amiss . This might work for Backwoods horror fans , specifically the ending as poor Dominic runs for his life having no clue that there are cameras everywhere capturing / covering every move he makes , except inside one particular house . The most creepiest scene for me is the reveal of Lacey's snuff film to Dominic . . it's quite masterfully staged ( . . a hint as to who the masked man cutting the tied female might be can be seen at the BBQ camp fire , by recognizing how the person sticks the knife into the floor ) in B & W with the film stock quite shoddy displaying scars and jumps . There's a unique film score put to the film , by actor Harrison on piano he dubs " neo-classic " , along with a chilling melody which shadows Lacey's scenes where his face is lighted ( . . while Lacey remains blanketed in darkness like a sneaky thief cautiously peeking from within a closet on the verge of snatching jewelry ) , and a series of drum beats during Dominic's terror in the woods . Debra Gordon has a nicely gratutous shower scene where the camera glides down her body following the soap as it travels . Violent film , but ultimately not gory . I think the character of director Lacey is the key factor in " Effects " . He seems mysterious for a reason . Too quiet . . there's something not quite right about him . You know the feeling where you come across someone with a hidden agenda you can't quite put your finger on . Tom Savini ( as Nicky ) has a crucial part , masked in secrecy which comes out at the end . . he seems , at first , to merely cause trouble to Dominic and Celeste always bringing up to his director a certain role he plans to play wondering when it would be time . In hindsight , he's ALWAYS been playing a role . Charles Hoyes portrays Lobo , a crew member who also plays a part at the end .
Frankenstein Created Woman	The diabolical , and deeply driven , scientist Baron Frankenstein ( Peter Cushing ) is still up to his old tricks , having discovered a method ( . . after being brought back to life from being in a cryogenic state ) of harvesting the soul within an apparatus , extracted from the body of a falsely accused young assistant , the kind-hearted Hans ( Robert Morris , so valiant and good , he could almost have achieved saint hood ) when he was convicted of the murder of a tavern owner , Kleve ( Alan MacNaughton ) . Kleve was actually murdered by a trio of rich deviants who often drink the man's wine and insult his crippled , scar-faced daughter , Christina ( Susan Denberg ) . Anton ( Peter Blythe ) is the ring leader of this group whose father is a powerful man within the village , who gets a slice across his forehead in a scuffle with Hans who pulled a knife defending himself against the slimeball and his partners , Karl ( Barry Warren ) and Johann ( Derek Fowlds ) . The fracas derived from the three criticizing Christina , for whom Hans is in love . With Hans in bed with Christina , Kleve interrupts Anton , Karl , and Johann drinking his wine illegally , after breaking into his tavern after closing . . the result , their flogging him to death with canes . In a moment of weakness Hans claimed he'd kill Kleve after he failed to take his side in regards to Anton's hideous actions escalating the violence that erupted . . this would hurt Hans due to the police being in the bar . Hans , charged with the murder of Kleve , has an alibi , Christina , but will not get her involved resulting in his execution by guillotine . . Anton , Karl , and Johann seem to escape without penalty for all their crimes . But , Frankenstein is able to seize Hans ' body thanks to his " hands " , dim-witted , but effectively gifted surgeon , Doctor Hertz ( Thorley Walters , the source of comedy within the morbid story ) who gets an hour from the gravedigger due to blackmail . Frankenstein still needs a body to put Hans ' soul into , and it's delivered to him . . Christina , who had been away to see a doctor on her various physical ailments , watches in horror as Hans ' head came off by the guillotine blade , drowning herself . Frankenstein , using Hertz's surgical hands as his guide , is able to rebuild Christina's body and repair her face , while also housing Hans ' soul within her . Through Christina's now beautiful body and pretty face , Hans is able to get revenge against the three who sent him to his execution . . yet again , Frankenstein's black science has created a violent monster . One of the most imaginative , original Frankenstein stories is still quite far-fetched and twisted . The idea of storing the soul of one into the female body of his lover creating the perfect revenge tale . It's intriguing yet warped at the same time . Cushing in this film , unlike the previous EVIL OF FRANKENSTEIN , doesn't have but a slight pinch of humanity , operating as the Baron rather determined , unemotional , relatively unsympathetic ( . . until the end at least ) , brilliant , and motivated to forge forward without weighing in advance the consequences of his actions . Always searching for the meaning of life and experimenting , with his own contributions to science leading down a dark world usually yielding nothing but devastating results . Thorley Walters steals the film as his overwhelmed assistant , Hertz , whose mind becomes overloaded by the Baron's intellectual theories regarding his experiments , but is in awe of his brilliance . He is who we sympathize with because Hertz sees the dark path the Baron's experiments are treading down , and is unable to stop it , trying to help a rather confused Christina who doesn't quite understand what is going on ( . . the vengeful soul of Hans motivates her to kill , using her alluring qualities to appeal to Anton and his lecherous brood , exacting blood shed when they are most vulnerable ) . We witness the exhausting environment of the Baron barking orders to Hertz and Christina , always needing their help as he continues his experiments . In this village , unlike those in the past ( . . in particular , EVIL OF FRANKENSTEIN , where he's a fugitive ) , he's free to do whatever he likes under his own roof , despite the grumblings of the locals and police . Even the ending changes from the usual where Baron's life is usually threatened , with him attempting to stop Christina from killing again , or posing harm to herself . This whole film is a change of pace from the norm of past Frankenstein films . I think it's rather criminally underrated , and would probably be appreciated more by a modern audience .
20 Million Miles to Earth	A spaceship , visiting and studying the Planet Venus , crashes into the ocean near a smallish Italian fishing village . Only one member survives , Col . Robert Alder ( William Hopper ) thanks to being rescued from the ship by fisherman pulling their nets . A canister containing the gelatinous cocoon of a Venusian creature is opened by a young boy named Pepe ( Bart Braverman ) who sells it to a local who pays for animals to send to zoos . Dr . Leonardo ( Frank Puglia ) whose daughter is studying to be a Doctor assists Calder back to health , but he realizes that no one from his crew was so lucky ( . . many of them perished from contacting a disease while on Venus ) . When back to health , Calder must find the creature brought from Venus and realizes that the thing escapes from Dr . Leonardo's cage as he was attempting to carry it to the prestigious Rome zoo . Something in the Earth's atmosphere is increasing the creature's metabolic rate and it continues to grow . . until at a massive size , it's considered a threat . Calder wishes to try and trap it for study before the Italians decide that it should be destroyed . The idea is trapping it in a cage , but when that doesn't work due to a farmer seeking revenge for his dog's death at it's hands , the creature breaks free to roam the countryside . The monster isn't really a threat , though , unless provoked which adds an extra element to this film . . it is being shot at and constantly bothered & attacked because it's misunderstood . It's hard not to side with the monster because it clearly just wishes to be left alone . Calder finally comes up with a plan to shock the monster with electronic wiring in the hopes that he can keep it under sedation as scientists study it . But , through a mishap that unleashes it again , the creature will again try to flee from those who wish to destroy it . Excellent creature feature thanks to Ray Harryhausen's astonishing stop-motion work . Particularly stunning is the battle between the monster and an elephant in the zoo , the Rome Colosseum sequence where the monster uses stones to crush Italian soldiers firing at it , and the monster's attack on the farmer who stabs him with a pitchfork .
The Fair-Haired Child	Now this MOH installment has one freaky monster ! William Malone helms this episode of Masters of Horror and it's one of the best of the series by far . He is able to just stammer you visually with wild images , yet connect them at the end toying with dream logic and flashback using a unique-looking form of black & white photography . The film itself is about lonely young teenage virgin girl named Tara ( Lindsay Pulsipher ) who is abducted by a sinister couple ( Lori Petty & William Samples ) and thrown into a basement with a mute boy named Johnny ( Jesse Haddock ) . Johnny was hanging from a noose and Tara " rescues " him . Tara is stuck in a difficult situation for the basement door is missing any stairs so escape from the easier access is out of the question . Johnny seems to be quite ill and pale in the face . Something also odd is how Johnny reacts to strange bolts of lightning that flash occasionally . Tara and Johnny also begin to find ominous messages left written in dust on the walls , doors , floor , and so forth foretelling anyone in that basement should find some possible way out immediately . What really sends Tara chills is a certain revelatory message saying that something will come . That thing is a creature with a very spastic walk ( . . it can also scale walls ) , but moves with quick speed . It's head is massive and eyes glow . . it needs to feed . It is also linked to Johnny , but how ? How will Tara escape the thing that needs flesh ? Why would the couple that put her in this terrible spot do such a thing ? An important element in the film is a dream / flashback sequence where we see the diabolical couple's son perish in a pond drowning . They wish to resurrect their dead son and make some sort of deal with a demonic spirit . Does this have anything to do with that nasty creature in the basement longing for Tara's flesh ? I really liked this one because it uses a story-arch that just works in horror films . Take an unfortunate victim placed in a situation by a couple who have no reason ( as far as we know ) to harm her , placing her in a room with seemingly no exits to escape some sort of monster hell bent to munch her bones . Fun trivia note . . the creature is inspired by the screaming Munch painting .
Dawn	Little , no-budget film that looks like it was filmed with a cam-corder and cost about $0 . 12 . But , it has more going for it than most over-bloated Hollywood Asian remakes being churned out ad-nauseum . I think why I liked it was because the story really gripped me . I will say that the flick is made with non-actors in black & white photography . But , director Jay Reel ( who portrays the psychic detective seeking the vampire ) expertly edits the film to optimum effect despite having little money . This film is inspired and ambitious . . a rare quality that I felt in every frame of the movie . The plot is simple enough , but works . . Dawn is a 9 year old girl with an insatiable thirst for blood . Her mother was a " vampire " ( more on why I have this in quotes in a second ) and died giving birth to her . Dawn's father ( Ray Boucher ) and her are nomadic , journeying all over the midwest hardly ever staying anywhere too long because she feasts on the sick and elderly . Unlike many films which would try to make this some sort of sordid comedy , the film plays this straight . She's a girl who doesn't wish to crave human blood , longs for the company of children and school . . she simply wishes to be normal . That is what drew me . Now , explaining just a small bit on the type of vamp Dawn is . She only craves blood , can not eat anything we eat ( food is poisonous to them ) , and can sense suffering and pain which allows them to find those who are near dying ( . . or living their final stage of life on earth ) . But , their mistake will be Dawn wishing to see where her mother was buried . . to visit a past town that will also have the psychic chasing them .
The Midnight Meat Train	This is essentially one of those " journey into the dark abyss " kind of horror films where an up and coming photographer / artist chooses a subject who leads him into an absolute nightmare . Ryûhei Kitamura brings a very stylized look to this film , very flashy camera-work with the director over-indulging himself so that you can be awe-struck at such technical achievements in film-making . I have read of conflicted views regarding the computer generated graphic violence ( . . such as a victim's head being crushed with such force the eyeballs explode from the sockets with another's face smashed in with one single blunt slam ) , but I thought the special effects were fantastic and delivered the grisly goods . Bradley Cooper is Leon , the photographer wishing to capture the kind of image that will earn him a reputation and wealth . Leslie Bibb is his live-in lover , Maya , who urges him to stay away from a specific foreboding subject , a butcher who catches a late night subway train after hours , in a custom made suit , with a leather physician's bag carrying a massive steel hammer and cutting tools . This subject awaits a victim ( . . or victims which is often the case ) on the subway train , prepares patiently for the most opportune time , and , using his hammer , bludgeons the unfortunate ( s ) chosen . Leon wishes to stop this murderer , but needs to capture him during the act with his camera , not an easy task . But , even more disturbing , Leon's obsession seems to be having a profound psychological effect on him . . and it doesn't stop there . Where do the victims ' bodies go after the killer cleans them ? They have to go somewhere because those chosen are never heard of again , no physical sign of their existence remaining . Vinnie Jones is finally rewarded with the defining iconic villain he's been destined for . Where other films failed to truly capitalize on his potential ( The Condemned ; Tooth & Nail ; Hell Ride ) , THE MIDNIGHT MEAT TRAIN delivers Jones an ideal role to capture the menace that he can certainly convey . Never saying a word ( . . until the very , very end ) , Jones ' imposing presence and intimidating eyes do the talking for him . The image of Jones with that hammer would strike terror in any unfortunate soul who just so happened to have taken the WRONG train in the lateness of the hour . Director Ryûhei Kitamura and his film-making team really ratchet up the violence , and the handiwork of Vinnie's professional butchery can be difficult to watch for the squeamish . We actually see Jones clean up a victim's body , witnessing the teeth pulled , hair trimmed away , fingernails plucked , and eyeballs removed . . this alone would probably cause the weak at heart to cringe . One violent attack is shot through the eyes of a victim as Jones crushes her across the skull multiple times until the head is taken completely off . . quite a virtuoso effect . As is a particularly memorable nightmare sequence where a victim's ( . . again shot through their point of view ) throat is slashed while hanging upside down , with us realizing that it's Leon because he sees his reflection his own puddle of blood . . adding to this is the revelation that the one behind the throat cut is also Leon ! The train's destination enters Lovecraft territory and leaves quite an impression . The depressing ending is quite a drag but it's one of those " process completion " type of conclusions where Leon comes full circle . Poor Roger Bart ( . . as Maya's loyal friend Jurgis ) doesn't fare well nor does Ted Raimi as a tourist on board the midnight meat train . Of importance is the train's driver , played by Tony Curran . . his role is as crucial as Jones in the meat getting to it's desired destination . I also have a beef with Lionsgate for not providing this film with an appropriate release theatrically . It deserves just as much a right to be seen as Friday the 13th . Tis a shame , really . The final showdown between Leon and " Mahogany " ( Jones ' character's nickname ) may be a bit hard to swallow ; one wonders if Leon would ever stand a chance against such a formidable opponent as Mahogany .
Versus	Delirius , no-holds-barred , full-throttle fantasy action , from director Ryûhei Kitamura ( Midnight Meat Train ) has a prisoner ( Tak Sakaguchi , whose crime is never revealed ) caught in the cross-hairs of a crime gang , within a supernatural wilderness ( Wilderness of Resurrection ) which is a limbo-of-sorts to " the other side " , a darkness which can be unlocked by two keys , as undead zombies ( . . the buried targets of this criminal Yakuza-type of group ) rise from their graves ( . . some with guns still on their person ! ) . The Prisoner ( . . known in number as KSC2-303 ) doesn't know where he had just came from and this woman ( Chieko Misaka ) seems to have answers . The woman was sent to the wilderness by a mysterious boss ( Hideo Sakaki ) who hasn't arrived , with the Prisoner ( . . along with a partner who also escaped ; a decapitated hand along with him ! ) squaring off with the Yakuza members in a gun battle . KSC2-303's partner is killed after he murdered one of the Yakuza . Retreating into the wilderness , KSC2-303 and the woman must contend with not only the Yakuza , with heavy artillery , but zombies as well . Meanwhile , the boss arrives , and his motivations soon become known . . he is the reincarnation of a great warrior who wishes to achieve his mission of using the mixed blood of KSC2-303 and the woman , hoping to gain access to the other side . The ridiculous plot , which is essentially a live action manga comic , doesn't really matter because director Ryûhei Kitamura is more concerned with entertaining the audience with non stop action , whether it be Matrix-like combats , sword-fighting or shootouts . It's all rather exhilarating and high-octane , with a pace that moves breakneck as the characters , colorful and cartoonish , strike hip poses and engage in mano-a-mano contests , with plenty of body blows , legs and arms moving at impossible speeds , blood shed ( . . as expected , the blood looks like kool-aid ) , and grisly aftermaths of graphic violence . Hideo Sakaki is so powerful he punches a hole through a victim's skull with such force he pulls away eyeballs . A heavy gun actually blows two victims to smithereens . Swords lop off heads . Zombie carnage aplenty as bullets rip them to shreds as they continue moving towards live humans who keep shooting rounds . The showdown between Sakaguchi and Sakaki delivers a sword-fighting ballet , carefully executed , exciting and riveting . The film's tone is rather light-hearted and even goofy at times , and the violence remains almost entirely tongue-in-cheek , and the characters display incredible skill as Sakaguchi always faces challenges from opposing forces . The wilderness setting is ideal for such a thrill-ride , and gorehounds will bask in the heaping helping of grue on display for our viewing pleasure . Not for those looking for a cohesive plot that makes any sense , but for undemanding fans of dizzying action , animated characterizations , and flashy camera work ( . . Ryûhei Kitamura is in love with the " spiral camera shot " ) , with expert editing , this will be sure to please . Kitamura pulls out all the stops , bound and determined to provide as much exhausting action as possible . If there's a way to kill a person , Kitamura shows it .
Criminal Woman : Killing Melody	This time Miki Sugimoto is the star and Reiko Ike takes the secondary lead female role . Sugimoto stars as Massayo , the daughter of a murdered alcholic / addict by powerful Yakuza boss , Obi ( ôji Hayama ) , sent to prison when she attempts to kill him in a club . Ike is Maki , Obi's squeeze , in prison she meets Massayo and they become respected " adversaries . " Massayo befriends other inmates and they partner up after serving their time , vowing to take down Obi's organization by causing a Yakuza war between him and another inferior gang , the Hamayasu clan who operate the docking port of the city . Massayo prostitutes herself to Americans exchanging sexual favors for artillery , concocting a weapons trade with old man boss Hamayasu's volatile son , Tetsu ( Takeo Chii ) . Maki is back around Obi's arm and warns Massayo of clearing out of town , or else . The rest of the film shows how Massayo and her clever female clan rip apart the two Yakuza gangs by pitting them against each other , while also shedding some blood themselves in the process . And , you can better believe Maki and Massayo will have one more confrontational showdown when so much money and dope are at stake . Fans of pinku revenge crime flicks get their moneys's worth with CRIMINAL WOMAN : KILLING MELODY . As expected nudity and ultra-violence are in abundance with lots of gunfire and Yakuza gangsters blown to smithereens . It's always entertaining seeing a motley group of gorgeous females waging war with the Yakuza , using their brains and looks to gain an advantage . You get a rather mild torture sequence this time around as Massayo is rescued from a rather grim fate by Maki . Chii's bonkers Tetsu ( . . always with a large bottle of liquor , downing it before shooting at somebody or raising hell against Obi ) is hilarious as are the instances where animated Yakuza gangsters are either lifted in the air by dynamite / grenades or shot to pieces by bullet-fire . We get not one but TWO hand-to-hand combats between Sugimoto and Ike ( . . the first in prison , testing each other's endurance , is a dandy ) which it in itself is added incentive for pinku fans to check this flick out . Plenty of bare flesh between Ike and Sugimoto as well . It was nice seeing Sugimoto this time getting to star as the lady of vengeance and when she stares you down with death in her eyes . . LOOK OUT ! Nothing more dangerous than Sugimoto scorned ! Ike may not have the lucrative role here , but she's still looking mighty fine . As expected , the pace is excellent ( . . the editing and camera work are first-rate ) and action set pieces thrilling . And , as you'd expect , nearly everyone is dead by the end of the film .
Wicked , Wicked	A mentally disturbed electrician for a beach front resort , Jason ( Randolph Roberts ) , a victim of a terrible childhood , murders selected blonde females ( . . modeled after a woman who adopted him , attempting to molest the child leading to her husband's beating him ) checking in for a room , peering from a hole in the attic with his binoculars . He's a skilled locksmith ( . . just one of many talents ) and has the ability to get into his victims ' rooms using a spare key , hiding in their closets , before attacking them with a knife he sharpens . Jason wears a red jacket ( . . the kind porters wear ) and grotesque Halloween mask before startling his victims who have no clue that a killer awaits them . Securtity guard for the resort , Rick Stewart ( David Baily ) , an ex-cop who lost his job after the unfortunate shooting of an innocent man , is called on to find missing women who supposedly left the hotel without paying their bill . As Rick begins investigating the case , however , he believes there's a murderer loose , but getting others ( . . like his boss who doesn't want any bad publicity ruining business and tourism , or a sergeant who wants this big city cop " from the north " to let the police handle the situation ) to listen is another story . Meanwhile , Stewart's ex-wife , Lisa ( . . the curvy Tiffany Bolling ) , on tour trying to find a record label , decides to dye her hair blonde , with Jason ( . . operating the spot-light for her singing performances at the resort ) making her his next target . Jason confides in Lenore ( Madeleine Sherwood of " Cat on a Hot Tin Roof ) , a relic whose incoming checks from the inheritance of her late husband having run dry leaving her with the possibility of being thrown out after nearly 22 years of living in the resort , perhaps representing the mother he never had . When an attempt to murder Lisa is unsuccessful , Jason's life slowly unravels with Rick nipping at his heels . Jason's hide-out , a specific room hidden within the resort whose blue-prints have been revised over the years as the hotel has been re-modified and renovated , gives him access to roam the halls quietly . But , it's only a matter of time before Jason makes that fatal mistake which leads to his ruin . Besides the gimmick of " duo-vision " , while the film is , in essence , the hunt ( . . by an amateur sleuth , with a detective's instincts ) for a serial killer , I think " Wicked , Wicked " is mostly a 70's " Grand Hotel " without the big name cast often associated with such a film . Utilizing the split screen , the director is able to build exposition on the characters . Like Jason . We're able to see what motivates his desire to kill , and why he chooses blonds . . this happens while he's speaking with Lenore on the other side of the screen . Lenore's real past is displayed on one side of the screen while she's telling a fabricated one to Jason on the other . The director can show Jason getting prepared for the kill while on the other side the screen we see a victim getting undressed for her shower . As a killer peers from the attic with his binoculars on one side of the screen , who he is eyeballing is getting her key to the room ( . . and while the killer is sharpening his knife , the female victim is closing in on her hotel room ) . The split screen allows the director a chance to tell simultaneous stories at the same time , without taking away from the viewer , even if such a process makes the audience work harder in gathering the information presented . I can understand why the use of " duo-vision " didn't catch on , though , because most audiences will probably find having to follow events taking place on two sides of the screen exhausting . I found the challenge stimulating , even if there were times where the director had nothing to do but show an organist playing " Phantom of the Opera " as a murder sequence was being carried out . The macabre premise of a killer working within the confines of a resort , achieving access due to his knowledge of old rooms abandoned by those who developed the hotel , really won me over big time . Especially , when we find out where Jason keeps the murdered corpses of the women who wound up missing . There's a clever use of a dumbwaiter which Jason is able to use to get into the Presidential suite of Lisa's newly applied quarters , and the cat-and-mouse between the killer and sleuth is fun to watch . Many found this boring , because a great deal of the film shows characters talking using split-screen to tell their stories , often in two ways . . the past and present . Slasher fans might enter expecting constant blood-shed , but I think this is about what drives this psycho to commit these deeds , his methods and travel , and the mistakes he makes along the way . There's a beheading by a guillotine , though , and the first knife-murder certainly is memorably nasty . I really think the film has so many clever ways of using the duo-vision process , that " Wicked , Wicked " shouldn't be totally dismissed . I think some folks , seeking something different , might like this flick . It's an interesting curio , and I thank Turner Classics for bringing it to me . Despite a PG rating , this film has a disturbing scene where Jason , as a child , is almost sexually molested by an adopted mother . And , the film has a warped sense of humor , not to mention a rather startling conclusion regarding Jason's fate .
Nightmare Concert ( Cat in the Brain )	I couldn't help but relish the entire premise of CAT IN THE BRAIN because it dutifully explains a director's steadily going mad , seeing people murdered from past movies he has made . Even mundane activities such as cooking a meal in the microwave or running a faucet of water yield some horrific butchery from a film in the past . Director Fulci playing himself , is directing GHOSTS OF SODOM ( ? ) and can not seem to deprive his mental well being from constant murder . He seeks help from a psychiatrist who , instead , uses Fulci's work as a method to execute a series of innocent people , hypnotizing the director into thinking that perhaps he's responsible . This is obviously a film playfully poking fun at Fulci's image , while exploring the themes of how such a profession , which produces so much death and destruction , rarely untamed , could mold and shape a legacy . The film features pretty much a wrap-around story surrounding non-stop graphic violence with every possible way to kill a woman expressed in grisly detail . This has a shower murder Hitchcock never could direct , or probably want to . The film's savagery compliments the mental state of Fulci's Fulci ( . . I know ) during the running time . Reality and cinematic fiction have fused and Fulci can find no escape . The ending ( . . explaining the old cliché : " It's only a movie " ) couldn't work any better than it does here . Fulci's boat says Perversion ( . . excellent touch ) and he sails off . . I can only wish this was his final film because that's a perfect close if there ever was one . David L Thompson is the deranged psychiatrist planning to kill his adulterous wife . Jeoffrey Kennedy is a cop Fulci fears had a family murdered by the fiend . The ultra-violence in the film features plenty of unique ways to take a head off such as the door to a chest , a scythe , a chainsaw , and hatchet . The most brutal violence derives from nasty chainsaw activity as a dead body is hacked to pieces ( . . how a gardener's chainsaw work on a log fits beautifully in one nightmarish hallucination sequence ) . . the most shocking use of a chainsaw is when a little boy gets decapitated ! The opening scene with the puppet cat tearing away , feasting on Fulci's brain , is a howler . The scenes which are spliced within the film , featuring a horrified Fulci looking on , are obvious , but I couldn't help but enjoy this anyway .
Divorce - - Italian Style	Marcello Mastroianni stars a Ferdinando Cefalú , a baron of a dishonored family who lustfully longs for his cousin , Angela ( the luscious Stefania Sandrelli ) . He has a wife , Rosalia ( Daniela Rocca ) who longs for attention and probes constantly of whether he loves her not . She is such an annoyance , he begins a scheme to corrupt her finding an old love from the past , a painter restorer Carmelo ( Leopoldo Trieste ) . Divorce in Italy is a no-no , but if a spouse is caught in the act of adultery , murder might be seen as merely a way of saving one's honor at such a disgraceful act . This is Ferdinando's desire . . to match his wife and her former love together and , upon catching them embracing , murdering them so that he can rightfully pursue Angela . Hilarious consequences ensue . This film is quite a treat . . it doesn't miss a note . There's a very funny plug for Fellini's " La Dolce Vita " ( starring Mastroianni ) towards the end of the film which is supposed to be a set-up for Ferdinando's catching them together at his home as he is away to the cinema . The ending has a great sense of irony as we see this man approaching 40 doing what he can to be with a 16 year old teen who is the daughter of his sister . That seems a bit taboo in itself , but the film is about exposing , and poking fun at , taboos .
Perfect Blue	Very adult animated thriller about pop idol Mima trying to make it as an actress with a stalker ( running a fictional supposed website faking thoughts she has amongst real actions she makes during each day ) making her life practically unbearable . She is also tormented by her past success which seems to stalk her subconscious popping up into reality at times even foiling scenes during filming . The bubble-gum pop image is diminished when the young actress commits to a grueling rape scene in her first film . Soon she does a nude pictorial completely shattering the wholesome image she had been conveying for so long . The film shows the poor girl's decline in sanity as illusion and reality are blurred . Even the film she partakes in seems all too real to her present state in life . Soon those people ( the writer of the script calling for the rape scene , the photographer which " spoiled her innocence " , her agent asking for the young up and comer to commit to a new image ) who the stalker holds responsible for the career change in Mima's life are being killed in nasty , vicious ways . The film offers the possibility that Mima herself may be committing the acts of violence with another personality converging to take over her body as revenge for the " descent into immorality . " Full of bloodshed and nudity , this animated tale is quite heady displaying Mima's struggle to grip onto reality . I'm not sure I buy that ending which seems too much of a cop-out letting their heroine escape from being a murderer ( . . using another character jealous of her abandoning pop stardom for an acting career requiring nudity in seedy situations ) , but the film is quite a fascinating and entertaining mind-trip . There are scenes in the film where the tortured actress Mima is chasing her alter ego . . and , the climax shows the alter ego supposedly trying to kill her ( . . this alter ego proves to actually be another completely different person ) .
Spider Forest	A TV station manager and female reporter under his employ are found brutally murdered in a cabin within Spider Forest . Someone at the scene of the crime ( Woo-seong Kam ) may have all the answers . Unfortunately , he walks in front of a moving vehicle which causes a major gash on the side of his head ( a powerful image shows a puddle of trickling blood pattern from underneath his face ) inside a tunnel and loses memory . During the duration of the film , he'll have to piece together everything that occurred during that time revolving around the murders . This outline is as easy as it gets because this is one very elusive , complex film which will probably take multiple viewings to fully become aware of how the Spider Forest controls the story's unfolding . In true Lynchian form , there are probably MANY different opinions to the film . Who's the voice telling our protagonist to see his lover's rendezvous with his boss ( the very boss who gave him one last story , on a " haunted forest " before looking for employment elsewhere ) in the Spider Forest ? Who is the man , cloaked in darkness who knocks out protagonist over the head after the knowledge of a horrible crime ? We have a scene where a spider bites our protagonist who later becomes feverish and needs assistance from a young , mysterious woman named Min Su-in ( Jung Suh ) who was his voice in an article regarding the " haunted forest " for which he was assigned in the first place . The spiders within the " haunted forest " , according to Min , aren't your ordinary garden-variety spiders . She tells our protagonist a story or two . Both have great importance to him for we understand that he is reliving these memories ( or reliving a jumbling of thoughts and fantasies where we're never quite sure which were actually lived or envisioned ) bit by bit unfolding what occurred to the two slain victims . One is that spirits live within the Spider forest . . forgotten spirits loved by no one . These spirits exist in our world . The legend is that if nobody loved the deceased spirit it becomes a spider and is trapped in the forest forever . SOOOO , the spider that left the fever and mark on our protagonist . . was it a spirit ? Min also tells him about a little girl and boy and the affair and murder they witness . A key piece to the conversation regarding the spider-turned spirits that interested me greatly was Min mentions that they don't know that they are dead because " all their memories disappear . " If anyone remembers them . . their spirits are set free . Now , if you're scratching your head at what I just wrote imagine the feeling many viewers have had sitting through it . So many questions and so many interpretations . As detective Choi ( Hyeong-seong Jang ) searches for the truth working from the information our protagonist gives him , things don't always add up . Min Su-in , for instance , isn't alive at all , but died as a little girl . The story of the little girl and the little boy becomes apparent as Choi finds a certain teacher who informs him about Min Su-in and her tragic death through illness , just like the little girl in the story told to our protagonist . Our protagonist's identity will be revealed to Choi and things SLIGHTLY add up . The one true element I believe that is a constant no matter what other unorthodox things are introduced to us . . the protagonist's wife died in a plane crash and two people were brutally slain . The other things within the mind-bending plot structure seem to always hearken back to one or the other . Specifically , our protagonist and what part he had that tragic night in Spider Forest . The use of ambiguity . . " what's not right with this picture & what really happened ? " is really well used here because we are sent through the ringer with the protagonist who experiences bizarre memories that seem very real . . but are they created within a confused mind ?
The Scarecrow reviews " Big Trouble in Little China "	Some films move so fast plot holes and incoherency can be less focused on . Carpenter's film is so energetic and fun , it is such an example . It is loaded with Chinese Black Magic mumbo jumbo and supernatural shenanigans , but if one can accept it on it's own terms might just find themselves loving it . It pretty much doesn't catch a breath as we watch Kurt Russell's trucker Jack Burton get immediately mixed into an old gang war led by the mysterious Lo Pan ( James Hong ) who desires the green eyed love of Wang ( Dennis Dun ) to become mortally young and all powerful . His supernatural cohorts have specific powers and are named " the three storms " as they are able to crush anyone who gets in their way . One has the ability to increase his body mass , another is able to build electricity from his hands , and another is able to move really fast . Each cause Wang and Jack problems when the poor trucker loses his truck during this blood feud that ignites in Chinatown . Kim Cattrall plays newspaper reporter Gracie Law , looking for a story along with her partner Margo ( Kate Burton ) . Soon even Wang's pal Eddie ( Donald Li ) gets involved . But , during their trials at trying to free Wang's green-eyed love , they will have to enlist in Egg Chen's service . . a wise old sorcerer played by the always reliable Victor Wong . The film is loaded with martial arts action and wild special ( and make-up ) effects and old Chinese lore . If one can indeed shut their brain off and not take this film at all seriously , this film is no doubt a blast . Kurt Russell and his cast bring such an enthusiasm to the proceedings and that electronic score from Carpenter is great .
An American Werewolf in London	" But look at me . Here I sit in a porno theater , in Piccadily Circus , talking to a corpse . " As you can tell from the dialogue above , Landis takes his werewolf film into a whole new arena letting it all hang out with wild ideas that somehow work despite how absurd they seem . David Kessler ( David Naughton ) watches as his best friend Jack Goodman ( Griffin Dunne ) is slaughtered by a werewolf and then gets a slash in his chest from the beast before townsfolk kill the lycanthrope . David might've survived , but he's a lot worse for ware , because he's now a lycanthrope who is warned by his friend's corpse ( Dunne , who is shown with skin deterioration after each visit at first exposing a nasty neck ripped open until his visit to David in the porno theater where his entire face has rotted away ) , unfortunately stuck in limbo like any werewolf victim who isn't freed until the werewolf bloodline is severed . Goodman offers suicide to his pal telling him that he'll kill innocent people if he doesn't . David , though , doesn't know if his decomposing dead friend is merely a product of other bizarre nightmares so he , at first , doesn't take the visits seriously . He and the nurse attending to him , Alex ( Jenny Agutter , quite yummy ) fall in love and when David eventually does change into the wolf ( this is the amazing transformation sequence CGI just can't top ) . . this complicates his life . How can he continue to live knowing that lives are in danger ( in a hilarious " day-after-the-transformation " sequence , David finds himself naked in a cage with wolves and must walk through a zoo naked until he can find something to cover himself with ) ? His continual visits from Goodman end in a porno theater where he is presented the dead victims he attacked as a wolf which is a gruesomely macabre moment that is quite funny at the same time as they offer David ways to kill himself . Landis surprises the viewer with an abrupt , chaotic conclusion in Piccadily Circus where the David turns into the werewolf rampaging through the streets causing an array of devastating crashes with many people being smashed by ( . . and thrown out of ) vehicles .
Planet of the Vampires	Spiffy little sci-fi horror flick regarding two ships ' crews coming in contact with an alien force that had been sending them signals from their Planet Aura . Something is willing the crew members , once they land on Aura , to turn on each other . The crew of the space ship Argos are able to gather their wits about them refusing to truly harm themselves by ceasing the evil yearning for the carnage to continue . The space ship Galliot's crew are not so fortunate . Captain Mark Markary ( Barry Sullivan ) and Doctor Sanya ( Norma Bengell ) will have to find out what is causing the disturbances on Aura as one crew member , Eldon , comes up missing while another , Bert is attacked by something that leaves a nasty mark on his face . Mark and Sanya will discover a damaged and ancient alien ship with the skeletal remains of giant beings exposed at it's entrance proving that perhaps their spirits are indeed to blame for the terror caused to the crew of Argos . Meanwhile , science officer Wess ( Ángel Aranda ) is trying to rig a combination of wires in order for the Argos to blast off . Soon , Mark and his crew find that these alien spirits invade the human hosts of those dead or willing / weak enough to let go . We see , in an eerie sequence , where the dead crew members awaken from their metallic crypts on the planet ripping away the body bags with one goal in mind . . blasting off from this infernal planet for greener pastures . They trick Mark , by using his brother's invaded body , to get inside the Argos and retrieve their " Meteor Rejector " . . a vital tool for the ship's being able to take off from the Planet . Mark and company plan to explode the Galliot ( whose entire crew killed each other in the major scuffle due to their minds being invaded by the beings on the moment they landed ; and they are now possessed completely by the alien spirits ) with atomic bombs , retrieving the Meteor Rejector , and getting the hell away the moment they re-board the Argos . . but , will they be able to return safely without being killed and their bodies ' being invaded ? If one were to judge the film by the rather hokey space-ship sets or the crew's campy jargon . . their banter describing the devices which operate certain ship's functions is quite funny to listen to . . one would be hard-pressed in believing this was a Mario Bava film . BUT ( and this is a huge BUT ) , when the crew lands on Aura , we see who the man behind the camera is . The alien world is quite otherworldly , with bizarrely shaped mountainous rock formations , fog that moves as if vividly guided by a living wave , and the planet's atmosphere colored in vibrant reds and greens ( including at times the fog ) . . it's quite a spooky place with unusual sounds and music layered in the soundtrack . The rocky formations nearby the ship have a way of providing a good hiding place for any human body captured by the alien force , with that shrouding fog ever so engulfing the screen , to jump out and attack . You also have the creepy scene near the old alien ship with the monstrous huge skeletal remains which are cleverly designed for ultimate use in creating an idea in our minds as to what they once were . Inside the ship itself is quite ominous as well with these long halls and weird shaped cones as lights . . we really see the artist Bava is at creating such imaginative stylish touches that awaken awe and wonder . If one can get past some of the hokier aspects and realize that the premise , even if the general idea is lifted from " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " , is quite a good one , then there's so much to enjoy . The ending is especially a down-beat delight . . quite a unique little twist that works .
Live or die . Make your choice	Jigsaw John ( Tobin Bell ) and his protégé Amanda ( Shawnee Smith ) are up to their old tricks , but in this third film ( and my favorite of the series ) there are some surprises I didn't see coming . On " trial " is Jeff ( Angus Macfadyen , who is blessed with a face and talent that can express all sorts of emotion ) , an emotionally unstable man , full of booze , wrath & pain , consumingly overwhelmed by the loss of his son in a car crash . The driver responsible was released shortly after thanks to a hasty trial with pretty much a slap on the wrist that might change a many of us who might have this same type of bitterness and rage if it happened to us ( or , at least I put myself in his shoes ) . The other important character in Jigsaw and Amanda's new game is a female doctor named Lynn ( Bahar Soomekh , another really great choice for the film . . this film is a success in my eyes because the casting excels ) who might be able to prolong his life among other things . Jeff must complete a series of games in less than two hours or face being shut inside the building . Each game consists of those certain people who played intricate roles in or around his son's demise ( the woman who , instead of assisting Jeff as he held his dying son , drove off ; the judge who gave the murderer a slap on the wrist ; the killer himself ) . Jeff has their lives in his hands . He can forgive or let them perish in Jigsaw and Amanda's crafted killing apparatuses . Meanwhile , Lynn has a metal collar , with chambered bullets , that is linked to Jigsaw's heart-rate . Her duty is to not let him die or else the bullets will fire right into her face . Also important is Amanda's role ( what she does know and doesn't know . . Jigsaw has prepared this whole game for a major purpose to be determined ) in the grand scheme of things . She will determine the outcome just as much as Jeff . . and not even know it ! The film does lots of things this go-around , delving into how Amanda formed her partnership with Jigsaw , the loose ends untied from the second film regarding Eric ( Donnie Wahlberg ) will be finalized , and we actually see how Jigsaw prepared the test of the two male characters in the first film . These " flashbacks " regarding Amanda are crucial to the development of the film and it's climax . Like the previous two films , this one works off of some coincidences provided by a screenplay that needs certain characters to die ( or suffer ) at the right moment before they can be saved , or a certain character saved who just happens to be in a specific place to be shot by a shotgun . I'm not convinced anyone could put together such elaborately designed games without something going awry , but this like the other two is orchestrated by a screenplay writer with devious intentions for his created characters . We see that Amanda has created games that give those tested no way to survive which is not Jigsaw's method . This film is also the most grisly and gruesome of the three showing one unfortunate victim ( caught in Jigsaw's favorite contraption , " The Twister " ) having his arms , legs , and head completely twisted around as bones snap out of the skin like broken wood . The ultimate goal of Jigsaw is choices and forgiveness . Can Jeff make the right choice and forgive those who have caused him so much agony ? There are many who might be able to pick this apart with a fined tooth comb , but I just enjoyed it despite acknowledging that no one is that skillful enough to get away with what the film's death-geniuses do .
Saint Jack	Atypical Bogdanovich feature about the passage of time in a life of pimp , Ben Gazzara , ( well cast ) in Singapore . Denholm Elliot brings a very good , melancholic performance as a accountant who comes to Singapore every year to work out the finances of Gazzara's Visa boss . Bogdanovich himself portrays a government man who uses Gazzara's pimping powers for Vietnam soldier relaxation ( among other things such as framing anyone the government deems as a threat ) . Very interesting and unpredictable , Gazzara is able to keep a mystery ( and sadness ) about his character as he often keeps things subtle when other men might react with hostility , but seems able to garner respect from everyone he meets . The film has a freshness about it because of the mostly Asian cast revolving around Gazzara . I think it's clear Gazzara desires to keep America away , but American history ( such as the Vietnam war , the Nixon administration , the changing of Singapore as time goes by ) seems to rear it's ugly head often interfering with with that desire . Gazzara also has to contend with the Chinese mafia who certainly have problems with his success in prostitution .
Incubus	Kia ( Allyson Ames ) is a succubus working for the God of Darkness who is bored with luring already lost souls to hell . She wants to be a major factor in the Dark Lord's legion and thirsts for the desire to turn a pure soul to the dark side . Kia's sister Amael ( Eloise Hardt ) , warns her that doing this might be a very bad idea , but she is determined to carry it out . The challenge she hungers for becomes quite great when she chooses Marc ( William Shatner ) , a man who is deemed heroic by a warning Amael who says he saved several men from a fire without any fear of death . Marc's faith in God is strong . When Amael sees that Kia has fallen in love with Marc , she sees an opportunity to turn Marc over by abusing his sister Arndis ( Ann Atmar ) by calling an incubus ( Milos Milos ) to harm her . This film is truthfully about good versus evil , an age-old theme which never tires because so many difficult stories spurn from it . In this film , Marc will have to overcome a lot of adversity because the evil side are nefariously sneaky in causing great harm to your emotional state , challenging your will of purity at it's core . On the other side , Kia is shown as a woman of pure evil who finds love and acceptance from a pure man she can not seem to separate from . The film is very , very good . . better than I possibly could imagine . It plays like a feature length " OUter Limits " episode and I was kind of hoping it would be that way . It has eerie , darkened black and white photography and the music is creepy . The way it is shot is also a plus . . a lot of talented people came together to make this film . The novelty of it being in Esperanto does increase the film's cult status , but it's the overall ominous mood and the way the characters are lensed for which I'd say try this little recently restored gem ( actually the restoration was produced by SCi-fi Channel ) .
The Grave	It's a major surprise to see such a rich cast of male actors who could make a theatrical western hum with excitement , featured together in a spooky Twilight Zone episode of twenty or so minutes . It features none other than Lee Marvin as a cranky and aggressive gunfighter paid by a frightened town to track a known and feared criminal to kill him . After a long period of time , Marvin's tracker , Conny Miller was not able to accomplish what he was paid to do ( . . with most , if not all , of the quiet little town believing Conny was afraid of the killer , Pinto Sykes ) so the citizens surrounded Pinto in the street , gunning him down in the process . Entering town after Sykes had been buried ( . . perhaps a sign in itself that he was chicken of the quick-drawing gunfighter ) , Conny is looked upon by those still awake in the saloon , " blabbermouth " Johnny Rob ( Jamed Best ; Dukes of Hazzard ) , trembling Mothershed ( Strother Martin ) and " businessman " Steinhart ( Lee Van Cleef ) , with quiet resentment , informing their tracker that Pinto was in fact dead , wagering him that he hasn't the guts to visit the murdered criminal's grave at Midnight . Angered at such a suggestion , Conny takes them up on it , although no matter how tough and rugged his appearance is externally , it's visible that he can not hide the fear lurking within . Bravely , Conny makes it to the grave by way of a path , notices Pinto's kooky ( . . and drunk ) sister Ione ( Elen Willard ) after just visiting her brother , and decides to confront the demons which haunt him . All he has to do is plunge the bartender's knife into Pinto's grave , but will it be that simple ? First , the town is rendered quite eerie thanks to the way the wind sounds and blows the coats of the characters . The town itself looks quite different during Pinto's death at the hands of the tired citizens in the shootout and once Conny arrives . I think the scene in the saloon is about as good as you can make it if attempting to show men deftly afraid of a man's grave . One can sense that Pinto Sykes struck terror in this town and that his grip was firmly held for a long time no matter where he was at any present time . Marvin , Lee Van Cleef , James Best and Strother Martin all in the same scene together is enough to send a western fan into a frenzy , and for just a twenty five minute episode of Twilight Zone , it's quite a thrill . I like how Best and Martin are presented so cowardly and stricken with fear over Pinto Sykes and how Marvin pretty much causes them a bit of nervousness as well . What I particularly like is how , though , they ever so delicately question Conny's manhood , and almost place Pinto Sykes on a pedestal . Sykes ' powerful hold over this town is etched so evidently on even Conny , even though he tries to hide under this menacing veneer , pushing weakling farm-boy Johnny Rob around when he attempts to challenge him on the dare to visit the grave . The graveyard itself is so threatening and creepy , the way dead trees surround tombstones and how the hill is so choppy , dark , and imposing . Still , without that wind , the show wouldn't have been as effective . The wind even plays a major part in Conny's fate , describing what seems obvious , explained by Steinhart ( . . who reasons a situation realistically , although he himself probably first felt that Pinto's ghost played a hand in it ) and what is far more probable and chilling thanks to Ione who uses his own theory against him .
The Killer Must Kill Again	Stunning manipulative giallo about a slimy , greedy womanizing husband , Giorgio Mainardi ( George Hilton , dashing even when portraying a loathsome jerk ) stuck in a marriage of convenience with a wife whose father is a wealthy industrialist , catches a sociopath ( Antone Saint-John ) disposing of a body in a creek . He wishes for the killer to murder his wife , setting it up as a kidnapping gone awry . The Killer will be paid 20 grand for this duty , but it's pretty much blackmail with him doing dirty deed or else . While Giorgio is out at a party of gathering rich , the killer strangles her placing the body in the trunk of his black Mercedes . But , what the killer doesn't expect is a young couple , Luca ( Alessio Orano ) and Laura ( the always lovely and wonderful Cristina Galbó who exudes a virginal innocence ) driving off in his car when he was inside the murdered wife's pad cleaning up any evidence of his ever being there . Joyriding to a beach-front many miles ahead , Luca and Laura have no idea that the very car they've stolen in the property of a psychopath with a corpse in the trunk . Giorgio and the killer's perfect murder scheme has yielded an unexpected problem . In hot pursuit of the couple , the killer will soon catch up with them as Luca and Laura find an abandoned villa to crash in for rest and relaxation . Meanwhile , an Inspector ( Eduardo Fajardo ) , who clearly suspects Giorgio in assistance of his wife's disappearance , tries to find out how much he is actually involved while pretending to console him . The film's macabre premise is quite a doozy . You have a poor couple who committed a poor act of judgment , paying the ultimate price when the killer finds them . The film plays off the angle of the " dead body in the trunk " where it is almost discovered numerous times . The killer is portrayed by the rodent-like Saint-John as well-tempered , quietly homicidal , and confident . We know what the killer is capable of doing in the first scene and when he kills Giorgio's wife . . so when he traps poor innocent Laura all alone with nowhere to run as Luca is off fetching her some grub ( . . well , actually , he's having cheap sex with a blond floozy , whose car was broken down on the side of the road , he picked up ) so it's obvious we fear for her safety and well-being . Through Saint-John , the killer's sadistic nature is calmly presented , yet we see the monster underneath as he skulks with slow foreboding steps towards possible victims . We see how inhuman the killer can be . . and just how evil he can become . . when he knife-attacks a dumb blond Luca picks up on the side of the road ( she saw Giorgio's wife's corpse in the trunk as the killer walked up to his Mercedes ) . The confidence he has is apparent in how he doesn't rave about when Giorgio proposes he assist in murdering for him or else face the consequences . . he has gotten away with murder before , why shouldn't he get away this time ? The most painful sequence comes when the killer rapes Laura as the director juxtaposes her agony ( lots of close-ups into Galbó's tormented eyes as mascara runs down with tears of horror ) with Luca's pleasurable sexual encounter with the blond .
The Spiral Staircase	Just magnificent psychological tale of suspense regarding a serial killer on the loose , who targets women with imperfections ( one was lame , another was simple-minded ) . The constable ( James Bell ) warns Professor Warren ( George Brent ) that he has traced the killer's whereabouts to the Warren estate and to keep an eye open for anything suspicious . Helen Capel ( Dorothy McGuire , who is excellent ) has been mute since the horrible house fire which killed her parents . A new physician in town , Dr . Parry ( Kent Smith ) believes the condition is psychological and that Helen must confront what has caused her silence . He believes there's help in Boston which can cure Helen's ailment . . Parry is also in love with Helen and vice versa . But , Helen is indeed a woman that the killer might target as she is hired help for the ailing stepmother of the Professor , Mrs . Warren ( Ethel Barrymore , also quite good in a rather underwritten role ) and so her life could be in danger as long as she remains at the estate's spooky mansion where a possible killer might be lurking . We see , when Helen returned from a movie house where the killer strangled the lame female , that someone is watching her hidden in darkness . Director Siodmak has the camera close in on the killer's crazed , widening eye as it peers at the next chosen victim . So we are informed by the eye staring at Helen ( . . with the bonus imagined face of Helen without a mouth inside the pupil of the killer's eye ) she is to be chosen as the next possible victim setting up the creepy story within the dark , rain-drenched mansion where shadow and light converge . A possible suspect might be the Professor's brother Steve ( Gordon Oliver ) who arrived home from Paris just as the murders started . Blanche ( Rhonda Fleming ) is the Professor's secretary , his former flame , now secretly Steve's lover . Mrs . Oates ( Elsa Lanchester , who is a hoot and easily steals every scene she's in ) , the maid , can't resist taking a nip of brandy when she can sneak a bottle from the Professor's cellar . She keeps having to close an open window which had been shut . . this is Siodmak's way of informing us that the killer is within the house . Mr . Oates ( Rhys Williams ) is the man who helps fetch supplies among other duties on the grounds of the Warren estate . He'll have to fetch some ether as the matriarch Warren falls ill often passing out when rattled in her weakened condition . Mrs . Warren constantly warns Helen to leave the premises for her own safety . . she seems to feel that danger awaits Helen in the mansion . With Mrs . Oates drunk as a skunk , soon a murder within the cellar has Helen fearing for her life as it seems most are gone from the estate . . Parry gets a call from a sick boy , Mr . Oates is off to fetch ether & someone is murdered while two suspects might have something to do with it as Helen must somehow survive on her own . This film has that kind of building dread , and great looking , atmospheric B & W photography one craves when looking for a classic Gothic thriller . The story regarding how a mute , who can not cry for help when the killer is revealed , is perfect within this mansion setting . Using candlelight when certain characters walk into the darkened cellar ( where a murder takes place ) , Siodmak shows his excellence at creating tension . You just know that the cellar is the perfect place for a killer to hide with the ability to catch a victim off-guard when they have their back turned . Also , the spiral staircase of the title is served well thanks to the moving camera and how Siodmak lights it . Just a wonderful little creeper with McGuire in a winning role as she must convey various emotions without uttering a word .
Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill !	Brilliant trash from Russ Meyer about three volatile go-go dancers who live hard and race their cars harder . Their leader is Varla ( Tura Satana ) , a benevolent sort of mad dame who loves pushing the boundaries of bad . She decides to kill an innocent man just out to test-drive his car for speed time . She is always looking for competition when it comes to racing , and this young man produces the seed to sprout that urge . He has with him a foxy young dame named Linda ( Sue Bernard ) for whom Varla just has to carry along ( she's bi-sexual , but is kidnapping her for kicks because that's just how bad she is . . always looking for something a little more dangerous ) . Varla is " supported " by lover Rosie ( Haji ) who is pretty much her servant girl for she even lights the woman's cigarettes . But , Billie ( Lori Williams . . who is absolutely scorching ) is often a thorn in Varla's side because she challenges her authority and is quite a lousy drunk . Varla sees an opportunity for monetary gain in a crusty old man , crippled in a wheel chair ( Stuart Lancaster ) who has his stash hidden some place . She will scheme her way through the family to find the loot using means at her disposal such as her figure and possible sexual favors by going after older son Kirk ( Paul Trinka ) who admits he's weak when lust passes by . Billie sets her sights on the retarded , muscular son ( Dennis Busch ) who has a specific irritable weakness when trains pass . . something about them scars his psyche . Will Varla find the old man's money ? What will happen to poor Linda , who tries so often to get away but seems to never quite make it ? Will anyone survive with Varla always scheming to find that cash ? Ultra-violence prevails in Meyer's flick which is interesting because he allows Varla to be such a tyrant and seemingly indestructible when battling men . She swallows the weak whole and dominates all the characters . She sets her furious sights on something and doesn't think twice about diving after no matter what it is . Men presented in the film are weak and they seem almost knee-bent to the lusts they carry . The film has wonderful , slick beatnik dialogue and the way the camera shoots the characters is excellent . I loved how Meyer shoots the women behind the steering wheel . We can easily tell that they are merely in a superficial concoction with film crew-members moving the fake car with the girls inside , but this provides Meyer with a unique way of lensing their expressions of joy and malice as they race each other and chosen victims who have no idea what kind of dames they are dealing with .
Kibakichi : Don't Awake the Beast	For quite a while humans and the Yokai shape-shifting monsters were able to live in harmony . But , soon the racist humans wanted the Yokai out of the equation with war sending the monsters into exile . Master Onizo wishes for harmony to exist once again and has benefited from what he believed was a satisfying relationship with Yamayi-sama , a leader-on-the-rise for the humans hoping to win a place in the hierarchy of the Lord . To decidedly earn a high position , Yamayi-sama plans to wipe out the Yokai remaining alive under Onizo's clan , betraying his trust and ruining his vision of peace . Kikio , a human , is actually Onizo's woman and a picture of beauty who is spiritually driven often seen on her knees praying . Enter in the Yokai Samurai warrior Kibakichi ( Ryuuji Harada whose penetrating anguished eyes peer from a mass of hair ) who is a loner often living amongst the humans , who now hates them with a prolonging passion . He trusted them once , like Onizo does now , and paid the price for it costing the lives of an entire peaceful village of hidden Yokai who were wiped out by the blind-sided human attack . Kibakichi makes his way into the clan of Onizo , whose major interest to the outside world is his illegal gambling table . In an interesting note , various Yokai killers , often find their way into secret rooms by Onizo where they are killed by the monsters . Kibakichi tries desperately to warn Onizo and his men against trusting Yamayi-sama , but the unrelenting hope for peace against the endless violence is all the boss is consumed with . As one would expect , Yamayi-sama does plan to attack what he considers a thorn in his side and that would be Onizo's village using more modern weaponry brought in from England . . a massive rotating machine gun that will eliminate the more primitive foes who merely use swords . Dubbing it the end result a massacre , would be an understatement . But , when you unleash the beast within Kibakichi all the machine guns , men , and grenades may not stop him . A stunning film , featuring some amazing swordplay , beautiful photography and lighting ( I adore how Tomoo Haraguchi and cinematographer Shôji Ebara hit a patch of light on characters ' faces as they sit amongst darkened rooms and also shade their monsters only giving the viewer enough during a portion of the film to know that they are not human ) , and some gut-wrenching gore . Lots of decapitated heads and arms , blood that squirts in endless supplies as complete arms are sliced off . One sequence shows , in Kibakichi's opening battle , a sword sticking in the ground with a chopped off hand still clutching it ! Kibakichi is essentially a werewolf , but director Haraguchi waits to unveil that beast late in the major showdown when the humans try to hit him with everything they got . Nozomi Andô as Onizo's human love Kikyo is very beautiful underneath a quiet exterior . I watched the subtitled version , so I saw the best the film could offer me . I know it's received some criticism on here , but I had one hell of a good time with this flick . The monster battle at the end and the intense gunfire exploding all around Kibakichi in werewolf form as the city is destroyed around him are amazing action set-pieces . Highly recommended to those with fairly strong stomachs .
Drácula	Conde Drácula ( Carlos Villarías , portraying the count with these fiendish eyes like a rabid dog on the prowl for rabbit meat ) has Renfield ( Pablo Álvarez Rubio ) bring documents to his decrepit , centuries-old , decaying castle in Transylvania for a place in Carfax Abbey near London . He has plans to use Renfield as his servant to do his bidding while he's asleep in his coffin . So after the papers are signed , Conde Drácula and his vampire brides bite him . He isn't bitten enough to die , but in a weakened state mentally , Renfield has become quite crazed . . the smell of blood stamped in his brain and through his veins . Renfield watches as Conde Drácula destroys a ship's crew on their voyage to a London harbor . The London police , newspapers , and scientists are baffled at Renfield's mental state and the shipping crew's slaughter . Doctor Seward ( José Soriano Viosca ) , who operates the city sanitarium , seeks the assistance of renowned Doctor Van Helsing ( Eduardo Arozamena ) regarding Renfield's bizarre condition . Also , the police start finding victims , such as the friend of Seward's daughter Eva ( Lupita Tovar , much more energetic and effective in this role than monotone Helen Chandler ) , with bites on their necks and blood completely drained from their bodies . Conde Drácula is attracted to Eva , who has a fiancé Juan Harker ( Barry Norton , also much better than his American counterpart ) worried about his future wife's worsening condition . What he doesn't know is that Conde Drácula appears at Eva's bedside taking just enough blood to keep her alive . Meanwhile , Van Helsing , who has expertise in all things weird , unexplained , and supernatural , explains to his medical colleagues that the one responsible for the rash of deaths is a vampire . Obviously , Van Helsing will be met with scorn and disbelief at such an accusation . That is until Doctor Seward realizes his daughter is Dracula's chosen bride . The rest of the film consists of Van Helsing and Dracula's cat-and-mouse battle with Renfield the centerpiece and Eva's life hanging in the balance . I think this version is superior in some ways to Browning version because director George Melford was able to see what he was doing during the day . Melford and company add richer , longer dialogue segments , use more of the sets ( especially exteriors ) , shoot certain scenes more imaginatively , and showing us certain scenes just implied in the American version ( such as the bars bent so that Renfield could escape , the vampiric bite wounds , etc ) . I love the scene where Renfield catches a fly when he has just told Seward and Van Helsing he was much better . I do not think Carlos Villarías was as memorable or foreboding as Lugosi , but he isn't terrible . He's just not memorable in an iconic sense . Tovar is given a chance to make her version of Mina sexier , livelier , and a stronger female presence on screen . Pablo Álvarez Rubio was a bit too theatrical as Renfield for my tastes and certainly doesn't match Dwight Frye in the role . I did think Arozamena was a better Van Helsing , given more to do in the role with the ability to spread his wings a bit . His scene denying Dracula's attempt to mentally overtake him was well-staged by all considered including how it was shot . Another important aspect where this version betters the American version is the relationship between Seward and his daughter Eva . He's the one that coerces Eva into showing Van Helsing the bite marks on her neck . As she lays sick and weak in bed , Seward closes in with such fatherly anguish on his face . That element is missing in Browning's film . . not his fault , but that's just difference in casting . The Transylvania sequences are stronger , dialogue-wise , with Dracula and Renfield's exchanges giving us more to go by . I love the cob web scene because Renfield takes his sweet time tearing into it due to intense fear . Oh , and the scene where Dracula smashes the mirror box . Hands down , Melford's version stands ahead . When Van Helsing asks Dracula ( in the American version ) to look at something , he opens it with Lugosi simply knocking it out of the good doctor's hand . In the Spanish version , Villarias ' Count takes his cane and smashes the damn thing into smithereens with cigarettes exploding all over the floor ! And , Melford , wisely , shoots certain scenes from the opposite side of the door Renfield and Dracula frequently enter and exit out of into the yard on the estate . Melford and cinematographer George Robinson also have lots of fluid dolly shots where the camera just moves delicately into scenes pulling in and backing away quietly . The film uses the sets beautifully . Such a magnificent film , both visually stunning and professionally made . A definite must-see for curious Dracula fans and certainly Gothic horror aficionados .
The Tracker	Three white hunters and an aboriginal tracker are combing Australia for another aboriginal accused of killing a white woman . Mostly on horseback , the nameless white hunters have their tracker walk on foot doing his work . The most aggressive white man is played by Gary Sweet . Sweet's authoritarian is a blinded racist who deems himself and his race superior to the aboriginals and unflinchingly shoots women and children without remorse . His methods infuriate the Tracker David Gulpilil and we can see that the aboriginal will eventually get payback when the time is right . Damon Gameau portrays the green , newly enlisted soldier a bit in over his head , but at least feels somewhat humane to the aboriginal race even stopping Sweet from continuing his slaughter of a family of women and children . Grant Page portrays an older gentleman none too pleased to having been volunteered for this mission of retrieving the supposed aboriginal killer . He clearly makes it known to Sweet how he disapproves of his situation . As they journey onward there will come a point of reckoning as The Tracker , who had been chained by Sweet and led around like a slave often tugging on him like a mutt , will quietly get his revenge . The Tracker is all smiles , but in moments when can see the wheels turning as he keeps the white men distanced from the quarry buying time for him . I felt this was more a meditation and indictment on racism toward the aboriginal people . Certinly through the artwork present throughout , and sad melody that accompanies the film , we get a feeling of what the harshness must've been like . The always reliable Gulpilil has the ability to prove that less is more through his subtle performance . The harsh environs of Austrailia again is put to good use .
Dr . Jekyll and Sister Hyde	Dr . Jekyll ( Alan Bates ) really wishes to cure the ills of mankind , but faces a moral dilemma . . he needs to live eternally so the act of death will not stand in the way of experimental progress for curing diseases . He finds that the female hormones is his answer for eternal life , but there's a catch . . when one ingests the formula , they turn female ! He finds this out the hard way . After ingesting some of his formula , he finds that a female emerges in his body and she ( played by the sexually dynamic Martine Beswick . . as far as I was concerned , Jekyll could've remained buried underneath her a lot longer ! ) doesn't wish to leave . Talk about identity crisis ! It doesn't stop there ! This particular film explains who Jack the Ripper , The White Chapel killer really was . . Dr . Jekyll ! Yes , the film has Jekyll murdering the prostitutes extracting their vital female organs for his experiments ! Lots of blood splatter in this Hammer tale . The film doesn't even stop there ! Before going gonzo slaying whores on London fog-shrouded streets , he depended on grave-robbers ( . . and murderers ) Burke and Haire to supply him fresh female victims so that he could remove what he needed for experiments ! This film is macabre at it's very core and director Roy Ward Baker brings an uncanny atmosphere , style , and wicked satire . . when a man faces the opposite sex within opposing , who ultimately wins in the end ? Jekyll ? Hyde ? Is the male stronger or the female ? Which gender ultimately wins that tug of war over mind , body & soul ? Great movie . . not only is it highly entertaining and a visual feast for the eyes thanks to Baker's impressive work , but intelligent and inventive . A triumph for Hammer studios . What great casting ! Bates and Beswick's resemblances are unbelievable ! I did forget to point out a very interesting story that plays out well . . Jekyll is in love with an upstairs neighbor , Susan ( Susan Broderick , quite charming and lovely . . a direct opposite of Beswick who is aggressive , fetching , and sexually overpowering ) and Hyde is in love with Susan's brother Howard ( Lewis Fiander ) ! Now that certainly complicates things ! The violent attacks on White Chapel drunken tramps are not blatant . . Baker shoots them in a way that is effective but not overly gory . A terrific score from David Whitaker , at times quite sinister , and when Beswick appears , enchanting . The transformation sequences are rather imaginatively handled as well . Only on a few occasions does Baker resort to camera dissolves . An interesting turn in the film has a friend of Jekyll's , Professor Robertson ( Gerald Sim ) , with a weakness for women and cheap sex , who suspects his friend for being the Ripper , only to be seduced by Hyde !
A Nightmare on Elm Street	" Whatever you do , don't fall asleep . " A Word of Warning : This user comment is for those who have seen the film . You know , I often take away the memorable frightening images when watching this film , but this particular viewing had me focusing on something else . . the ending . If you think about it , the entire film until that baffling final scene is one long nightmare . I was trying to wrap my head around it , because it seems we often overlook this very story arc . I always just told myself , that these four teenagers were being stalked by a nightmare slayer , whose perhaps targeting the children of those who burned him alive . But , it's all ( supposedly ) a scary concoction in the realm of Nancy's ( Heather Langenkamp ) sleep . I'm not sure if I just woke up from being under a rock or what , but it was something that startled me . Then the ending comes ( . . from what I understand , this confusing conclusion was set up by Craven as a favor to producer Shaye who was hoping to benefit from a sequel , and boy was rewarded ! ) and I was once again , as I always am , left with my jaw swinging open . I'll never truly make sense of that final scene , but Craven leaves enough lasting nightmarish images to take away that I'm completely satisfied each time I watch it . The shocking murder of Tina , sliced across the stomach , blood all over the place , dragged up the wall and across the ceiling . Then later , Tina in a body bag ( yikes ! ) calling Nancy's name , later seeing her body , in bag , being drug across the school hallway leaving a blood trail . The invisible hanging of Tina's thuggish beau Rod ( Nick Corri ) in his jail cell , locked up as the one responsible for what Fred Kreuger did to her . The monumental death scene of Johnny Depp's Glen , pulled into a void in his bed ( . . television in tow ) with a gushing water fall of blood erupting like a geyser throughout the ceiling and room . The imaginative occurrences which terrorize Nancy ( . . the telephone-tongue gag , the quicksand steps , the bladed glove slowly creeping from between her legs as she lies in her bath tub nearly asleep ) . Maybe Craven's overall product has flaws which seep through , but he provides so much to make your skin crawl . What playful ground Craven has to operate his ghoulish tricks . . the nightmare world provides such freedom to kill innocent teens anyway you wish , as they run for their very lives with nowhere , it seems , to escape . A " filthy child murderer " who would brings kids to a boiler room to kill . . certainly not the hero many would cheer down the road . Interesting , isn't it , that we often forget the evil fiend he really is . Craven gives this psycho free reign to torment and terrorize , the idea is certainly scary if you think about it . And , as far as Nancy , I was doting on the idea that this film is almost entirely ( . . if not entirely , depending on your opinion with that crazy finale ) inside her nightmare , regarding her parents . Interesting that her mom is an oddball drunk and her dad is always gone . They rarely have anything nice to say to each other , and one can sense that this is in the nightmare for Nancy to deal with . . a daughter bothered by the separation of her parents and how her mother deals with it through downing alcohol . And , it's always nice to see Freddy before he was the jokey psycho-clown . You rarely ever get a full glimpse of his face , he's the epitome of a prowler in the shadows who is always near yet hard to find . . until it's too late , and you are caught in his grip . While I think the Shoulder's " Freddy's Revenge " has the scariest incarnation of Freddy , he's certainly given moments in Craven's film . . such as that one scene where his arms stretch wide as he comes towards Tina , or when he " stretches " through a wall spying on Nancy . And , the smashing sequence where he elastically stretches from the center of a bed after " carrying away " Nancy's mom into some sort of abyss , ripping open the sheet from behind his arch nemesis who has seemingly figured out his ultimate weakness . . he preys , like many a predator , on the quarry's fears . If one doesn't fear him , then he's vulnerable . Anyway , the film is always a roller coaster ride I hate to get off of . . maybe it doesn't scare the hell out of me as it did when I was a kid , but I appreciate and admire the creativity and imagination Craven's supernatural slasher has .
The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh	Mrs . Wardh ( the fetching Edwige Fenech ) has a vice . . dangerous men . They excite her sexual desires and director Martino shows this as we peer into her fantasies as many are strangely violent . Julie had married stockbroker Neil ( Alberto de Mendoza ) to separate herself from Jean ( Ivan Rassimov ) , who fulfilled her sexual needs and hungers . She wished to put that part of her on the backburner , but finds another replacement in the handsome George Corro ( George Hilton ) who is cock-sure of his abilities at wooing women and catches an eye for Julie . There is a killer of prostitutes in the area which has caused wide-spread paranoia . This is merely a detail until someone photographs Julie making love to George and demands a ransom . It's instantaneous that Jean , a sleaze photographer , is the likely suspect ( the person demanding ransom disguised his voice ) and Julie's friend Carol ( Conchita Airoldi ) convinces to replace her at the meeting spot . What Carol doesn't expect is to be killed and is by someone dressed up like the serial killer in the papers . In a car garage leading to Julie's apartment , the same man tries to attack her as she was preparing to take her usual elevator up to home . Scared out of her wits , Julie and husband Neil go over to Jean's place but find him dead in his bathtub . The film then shows someone trying to attack an airplane stewardess who is able to kill him . The details line up until we're not sure who is trying to kill Julie which provides the key mystery of the film . I think this film suffers from familiarity with so many different types of mysteries and melodramas and unfortunately doesn't set itself apart from countless clones dealing with the same subjects verbatim . The director has worked with most of this cast over and over so when we see who is actually trying to kill Mrs . Wardh there's not that shock and awe one might expect . Now , this could be because I've watched a few others gialli prior to this one , but this particular giallo really doesn't offer anything really new . It is still quite polished and suspenseful , however , and Martino seems more akin to show lurid sexual activity and the naked bodies of the female form . Fenech just lets herself go in the role and appears quite naked in many ways in the film . . particularly the rough fantasy sequences with Ivan Rassimov's Jean .
Hausu	There are some films that are bizarre beyond words . HOUSE is such a zany and really warped haunted house tale , unlike your typical of the genre , this one has such surreal sequences as a girl being eaten by piano ( . . her decapitated fingers actually playing the musical instrument afterward ! ) , a girl's removed lower torso actually karate kicking a painting of a cat causing the evil cannibalistic spirit to overflow with blood , a disembodied head biting a girl on the buttocks , mattresses attacking a girl , giant lips attempting to eat the remaining girls not yet swallowed , and our lead girl's face shattering like glass , her body becoming a human inferno . This has to be seen to be believed . The premise is bonkers . A young teenage student , Gorgeous , rebels against her widower father after he informs her of his future plans to wed a new love in his life . Along with her fellow school chums , including Fantasy ( . . who's in love with a teacher named Mr . Togo ) , decide to spend their summer vacation at Gorgeous ' mysterious Auntie's creepy mansion resting on a hill overlooking a uninhabited town ( . . featuring only a very suspicious watermelon salesman ! ) . Over the night , the girls discover that wheel-chair bound Auntie is actually a ghost awaiting her lover to return home after heading off to war . Auntie eats unmarried women which provides her with a life force to continue living as an undead spirit with supernatural powers witnessed over the length of the movie . Auntie and her white cat Blanche are ever present images as the girls futilely attempt to escape , succumbing to her unwillingly . Director Nobuhiko Obayashi never allows the film to look realistic and the music is often melodic featuring a bubble-gum score to match the energetic , naive teens who walk right into a truly difficult and unusual situation , to say the least . Obayashi tries every cinematic technique in the book and while his special effects are indeed dated , they provide the audience with a jaw-dropping bombardment of weird images and set-pieces . There's nothing quite like this film anywhere . It's one of a kind , and continues getting stranger every minute , from scene to scene , as Auntie's power grows and the terror towards the girls heightens , with each character falling one by one in very creative ways . While the film is by and large a film whose reputation is built on it's wacky nature , there are some genuine scenes of beauty , often even melancholy , but even the most romantic moment is off-set by a truly eye-popping follow-up . The characters are bubbly , enthusiastic , giggly sorts one is accustomed to in regards to teenage girls . What happens to them over the course of the film is what gives HOUSE it's growing cult following . I can promise you that HOUSE definitely lives up to the hype regarding sheer insanity and crazed visuals .
Hitch-Hiker	One of the best films made about the misfortune of picking up the wrong hitchhiker . Ida Lupino's tough little programmer about two men , Roy Collins & Gilbert Bowen ( Edmond O'Brien & Frank Lovejoy ) who pick up killer Emmett Myers ( William Talman , who is really intense and creepy in this role ; very effective portrayal of a remorseless monster ) . He holds them captive with a pistol always in his hand . Control is his drug and wielding his weapon brings a rush he often parlays through mind-games . . especially with Collins who is more fragile than tough-minded Bowen who is able to keep his mind centered on their freedom at the right moment of surprise . This film follows them through the Mexican desert and mountainous plain ( the location work is as much a reason why this film is so successful as the very good leads ) while we wonder how our unfortunate captives will or will not survive . A little eerie touch to the film is that Talman's Myers has an eye that doesn't shut so at night it makes it harder for our heroes to determine whether or not he's asleep . Above everything this film is a psychological thriller between psychopath and his hostages . He relishes having them under his power with no real way to escape without harming one or the other . Collins and Bowen could easily betray each other's trust and run for it , but this film shows the character they have . They are flawed people ( as Myers often pokes at them . . why didn't they go to Arizona like they were supposed to ? ) who are faced with this ever-growing knowledge that at anytime he could kill them . That tension is really what makes this film so very good . The trials of the place they inhabit is also a major theme as that harsh sun and dust beats down on them after their car goes on the fritz . They are always having to elude capture because of that blasted gun aiming for their bodies . We also see how the Mexican police cooperate with US authorities to find Myers . . that is also showed by Lupino is great detail . The film is thrilling to watch . . Lupino really made a humdinger of a film here . The three leads really only bring an added professionalism to this film making it more than just a cheap B-film .
Crimes at the Dark House	Devlishly wicked tale of a murderer ( the deliciously vile Tod Slaughter ) stealing the identity of Percivel Glyde , a man supposedly on the throes of receiving a large castle and possible fortune . What the false Glyde doesn't expect is that the ancestor not only left him the castle , but in a state of massive debt . He is told , however , that his ancestor had arranged a marriage between Percival and Laurie Fairlie ( Sylvia Marriott ) , the daughter of a nobleman who left her in the care of a selfish old disease-phobic uncle , Frederick ( David Horne ) who is squeamish when anyone challenges him or sneezes around him . . he often goes into outrageous fits when Laurie's very vocal , high-strung sister Marion ( Hilary Eaves ) confronts him on his wrongs and attitudes towards them . But , Laurie , despite being madly in love with " paint-instructor " Paul ( Geoffrey Wardwell ) , agrees to marry Percival , although she's deeply sad regarding the weighted burden of marrying a man she'll never love . The arrangement of marriage could lead to quite a fortune if the false Percival can get Laurie to sign a document turning over her assets to his name . Marion , Laurie's confidant and adviser , however , will always be a thorn in the false Percival's side . Also , weighing on the false Percival's mind is the mother of the real Percival's child , a woman bound in a private asylum , ran by the slimy director Dr . Isidor Fosco ( Hay Petrie ; playing him as a sly scoundrel , almost as devious a character as the false Percival ) . He'll have to be rid of the mother , Mrs . Catherick ( Elsie Wagstaff ) and somehow get rid of a nagging nuisance that develops . . the real Percival's daughter , the " woman in white " Anne Catherick ( also played by Sylvia Marriott ) escapes from the asylum in an unfortunate mishap and begins raising havoc informing Paul that the false Percival only wishes to marry Laurie for her money . And , he has ANOTHER problem he'll have to deal with , a lovely servant girl he soon makes a chambermaid . . she's pregnant with the false Percival's child and wants to marry him herself . He contends with all this drama while being blackmailed by Fosco who will keep his lips sealed if the false Percival feeds his pockets with a large sum . Together , the false Percival and Fosco etch out a plan . . because Laurie and Anne look almost identical , they could let Anne die of the pneumonia she contacts being out in the open too long and switch her body with Laurie's . They'd lock Laurie away in the asylum with everyone believing her dead using the corpse of Anne as the disguise . Through and through , however , Paul and Marion will not easily sit on their hands when they know deep down inside that the false Percival is indeed not who he he says he is . And , it's only a matter of time before the relationship between two scoundrels , Foscoe and the false Percival will deteriorate . Marvelously twisted black comedy is played with such relish and glee , the flick is intoxicatingly entertaining . . if the material suits your tastes . The false Percival , played with such demented joy by a great Tod Slaughter , who cackles with widened eyes as he strangles innocents unfortunate enough to meet him late at night at an isolated boat house . The film is also startlingly adult presenting some pretty disturbing material played to the hilt . I mean , in the opening scene , Slaughter kills the real Percival with hammered stake to the temple of his skull ! Despite watching a bad quality print ( this terrific film deserves a pristine copy if ever a film deserves one ) , the film's still atmospherically rich with a very noirish , Gothic , decadent beauty . A must-see for fans of macabre comedies . Not for all tastes .
Spasmo	Slippery giallo from Umberto Lenzi has young swinging bachelor Christian Bauman ( Robert Hoffman ) , a wealthy heir to his dead industrialist father's massive factory , abandons his painter girlfriend for the beautiful woman , Barbara ( Suzy Kendall ) , he meets under awkward circumstances lying face-down on the muddy sand of a beach , with the appearance of a corpse having washed ashore . Their strange introduction gets even weirder when , not having been in each other's company that long , prepare for a sexual encounter ( he even calls her his " sweet little whore " ! ) when Christian shoots a scary stranger with the mysterious man's own gun . Barbara , in the other room getting undressed , doesn't see what took place , but persists that Christian leave the body where it's at and prepare to hide it , not calling the police to implicate her or him . But , Barbara has a man in her life , Alex ( Mario Erpichini ) who doesn't like Christian's moving in on his catch . Meeting at Alex's yacht , Christian startlingly remembers leaving his necklace at the hotel he and Barbara planned to have sex in . The man he shot is missing with only spots of blood leaving any indication that any person was there . From this point on , Christian's life spirals out of control as Barbara takes the poor , confused soul to a luxurious villa overlooking the sea as a couple who rents the joint show up . . older gent , Malcolm ( Guido Alberti ) , and his much younger squeeze , Clorinda ( Monica Monet ) . Christian becomes quite bewildered because it seems he has met Clorinda somewhere before , meets a strange man ( with shades hiding his eyes ) who was spying on him and Barbara earlier , seeing him having a conversation with Malcolm into the night . Clorinda and Barbara both act oddly around Christian as if they know certain things , but keep this vital knowledge ( that might help him sort out his plight ) to themselves . Soon , the man he thought he murdered shows up at the villa , and Barbara just might prove not to be the woman he thought was the chosen love for his life . Giallo mainstay Ivan Rassimov has a small but crucial role as Christian's brother Fritz known for bailing his brother out of trouble , and the actual responsible one running the factory business . . yet , he plays a heavy part in the story revolving around Christian . The film also opens the idea that Christian is schizophrenic since his family is known to have that unfortunate mental illness , an example being his grandfather . The death of Christian's father also reveals a specific aspect regarding his deteriorating mental state . Everything that seems weird and odd , those pesky loose ends that seem unresolved as Christian's life gets spun around in circles regarding the killer he supposedly murdered , come together in an incredible montage of death scenes unleashing a killer and his victims . It takes the typical giallo framework and spins in on it's head . Is the protagonist , who we begin to gain sympathy towards since his life is becoming a roller-coaster ride of bizarre psychological trappings , really who we think he is ? And , his brother Fritz . . what's with this guy and his motives towards his brother regarding the unfolding of events to come to a head at the end of the film ? I have read comments from many who have problems with the film's structure and logical story-telling , but I think this creates a most unusual and unique experience compared to the other gialli which flooded the Italian marketplace . Umberto Lenzi's premise goes into all sorts of directions with the protagonist captured in a state of paranoia and confusion , not knowing who he can trust or if what he's experiencing is even real . Motives of characters are often unclear . The overplotted chaos Christian is swirling in , I felt , creates a schizophrenic experience for the viewer . . in a sense , we feel as baffled as Christian does . I like this myself . . a lot . The mannequins Lenzi layers the film ( Lenzi himself titles this idea . . " the doll motif " ) are obviously designed to catch the viewer off-guard and provide an even weirder experience coupled with the mystery unfolding before our eyes . I think this film is great fun , mainly because I like these psychological thrillers where nothing is what it seems and anyone is suspect . The climax which explains what Christian and Fritz are suffering with ( . . and finally stamping what the hell those mannequins are indeed about ) I think works tremendously .
Curse of the Blair Witch	Brilliantly conceived fake documentary of the Blair Witch mythos , Burkittsville's past origins ( . . how the township of Blair became Burkittsville ) regarding a witch banished to the woods by superstitious locals in Colonial times who is reported to haunt those very woods at least every 60 years , children disappearing , others dying . Also , this explores the footage found of three missing student filmmakers and their descent into the woods on the outskirts of Burkittsville . We get a series of interviews from actors portraying professors , a historian , sheriff , & detective . We get an eerie narrative voice summarizing the spooky recorded documents regarding past haunts of Elly , the Blair Witch and those who mention seeing , communicating , and obeying her ( . . such as the infamous child murdering hermit Rustin Parr , who proclaimed that voices directed his methods of execution ) . What I found stunningly believable were the interviews with those who either knew or were related to the three missing filmmakers . I remember watching this on the Sci-fi channel way back in ' 99 before The Blair Witch Project , and must say that " Curse . . " and the movie are almost an essential package together . " Curse . . " really adds to the marketing juggernaut that was The Blair Witch Project , giving the " lost footage " a rack to hang it's hat on . I applaud directors Daniel Myrick & Eduardo Sánchez for creating a complete phenomenon , forming a history and origin of a fictitious witch , using the medium of television and movie-making to birth this whole " missing students " and their supposed " lost footage . " Sure , these guys were inspired by such as " Haxan " ( . . and I'm sure Deodato's " Cannibal Holocaust " was as well ) , but The Blair Witch Project , even if it doesn't give you a definite answer as to what happened to those college students who went into the Maryland woods never to return , still lives and breathes thanks to imaginative efforts like " Curse of the Blair Witch . " Heck , the guys even had an old interview with Parr on B & W film stock ( . . looks like something culled from old crime footage ) , and this 70's archival interview with a hippie cultist with an astute knowledge of witchcraft . A Blair Witch tome , photos of the student filmmakers working with equipment . Old child and family photos of the lost filmmakers . These guys went out of their way to create the success that was The Blair Witch Project . Too bad neither filmmaker has quite lived up to The Blair Witch Project , making little genre films , but never quite achieving the same experience as The Blair Witch Project & Curse of the Blair Witch . Maybe it is a product of it's time , but it's influence is seen to this very day . . it's undeniable . As a promotional tool , " Curse of the Blair Witch " excels , and , heck , some might say is as creepy if not in fact creepier that the film it's supposed to sell !
Lady Snowblood	In turbulent Japan , in the 1870's , the political system was corrupt and often peasants and the poor suffered for their wicked ways of living . But , Yuki Kashima's ( Meiko Kaji ) mother was a victim of criminal swindlers who would thrive off villagers for protection against being drafted for war . Tsukamoto Gishiro ( Eiji Okada ) , Takemura Banzo ( Noboru Nakaya ) , Shokei Tokuichi ( Takeo Chii ) & Kitahama Okono ( Sanae Nakahara ) were responsible for Yuki's father's horrifyingly violent demise , proclaiming him a corrupt member of government just because he wore white ( . . he was actually an innocent schoolteacher on his way to teach in the village the four thieves had just swindled ) . Also brutally slain was Yuki's mother's little boy . Yuki's mother was able to kill Tokuichi , but before getting her retribution towards the others was imprisoned . Knowing that she would not have a chance to get revenge towards the others while stuck in prison , Yuki's mother continuously whored herself to any male she could just so she could become pregnant . Through the child could vengeance be dealt towards those who wronged her . Instead of a man-child , Yuki was born , but her mother died shortly after giving birth ( . . the birth was an extremely difficult one ) . Through the intense and difficult training with a Master ( Kô Nishimura ) , Yuki would become a weapon of vengeance , her sword-fighting skills unmatched by her foes . But , those she seeks to kill aren't playing by rules , and will use whatever means possible to keep her from achieving the goal from her very birth . Conceived in hate and vengeance , Yuki couldn't merely just hide all emotion and live like a cold-blooded killer , she was fighting for a cause . . the right wrongs caused by the ones who not only robbed her mother of a happy life , to die in a prison cell , but swindled her people as well . Essentially , Toshiya Fujita's film is a four-chapter tale of revenge , with Yuki an unstoppable highly-skilled assassin whose sword ( . . which slides from it's umbrella holster , a perfect-hiding place for a beautiful female killer ) opens many wounds that gush blood . Each chapter , " Vengeance Binds Love & Hate " , " Crying Bamboo Dolls of the Netherworlds " , " Umbrella of Blood , Heart of Strewn Flowers " , & " The House of Joy , The Final Hell " displays Yuki targeting those who wronged her mother . Other sub-plots emerge as she blazes her trail of blood . Her first victim , Banzo , has a young daughter who prostitutes herself so that he can have booze and medicine for what ails him . The daughter herself will desire revenge towards Yuki , proving that vengeance begets vengeance . Yuki meets a newspaper reporter , Ryu ( Toshio Kurosawa ) who novelizes her story , provided to him by her Master , the Reverend . Later , Yuki will discover an unknown fact about Ryu regarding her final target , thought to be dead due to his tombstone , Gishiro . But , through Ryu's novel ( . . Yuki's exploits which are stirring up the village readers , as if she were a Christ-like figure inspiring them ) , a hidden adversary will seek Yuki's whereabouts , Okono . Okono has the police in her hip pocket , but no army of men will be prepared for what Yuki has in store . Thanks to a change in times of cinema in his country , Fujita's film is incredibly violent , the blood is actually used not only as a gore-device to display torn flesh spewing , but as an artistic symbol ( . . despite being grisly , there's something oddly spellbinding regarding Banzo's gushing body being battered by the waves of an ocean as the water slowly turns red , the way blood trickles from the tip of Yuki's sword , or the haunting river pool that flows from her mother's husband's decimated corpse , his ravaged suit barely white any longer ) . The battles , while not as long as you'd expect , are appropriately staged in grand style with victims falling to the sword in number , screaming from the agony as Yuki slices her way through them . We see Yuki's sword go through certain victims as she pulls it out very slowly . There's a really nifty sequence where one of her targets commits suicide with Yuki slicing the dead body in half with blood showering shortly after . But , Fujita does provide a backstory Yuki lives within , a land riddled in wickedness and corruption , and she is a symbol of justice , while her adversaries represent the evils that are sweeping the country . But , above all , this is an incredibly mounted tale of revenge , using a female assassin as the lead this time , who will stop at nothing to see that her mother's death wasn't in vain . Kaji's performance is stunning ( . . those moments where we actually see on her face how wrought in agony she is when facing the idea that one of her quarry possibly escapes the slice of her sword while alive , especially ) and this is quite an iconic character .
The Desperate Hours	Simply outstanding , genuinely suspenseful thriller about a group of escaped convicts terrorizing a suburban family as they hole up in their home . It's a game of cat-and-mouse as Dan Hilliard ( Fredric March , just terrific ) must find a way to keep his family safe against gruff louse Glenn ( Humphrey Bogart , unshaven carrying a scowl and sneer most of the film's duration ) , his mild brother Hal ( Dewey Martin , clearly portraying a brother whose life suffered because of the influence of his hood brother ) and unhinged , unpleasant , child-like Kobish ( Robert Middleton , playing him with quite a few screws loose ) while they await money at Midnight from the lead hood's dame . That dame is being tailed by Deputy Sheriff Bard ( Arthur Kennedy ) who has a history with Glenn . Bard receives cooperation from the FBI through agent Carson ( Whit Bissell ) . Glenn warns Dan that if he even sees coppers near the house the family gets it . Soon , though , Glenn's plans on receiving the cash from his dame at Midnight doesn't go according to plan meaning an extended amount of terror towards Dan and his family . Through it all , Dan must match wits with his captors somehow contacting the police without Glenn and his cronies knowing . The tension in this film is so thick you could cut it with a knife . . gripping from the very moment Bogie begins his takeover of the home until the end when he must face the music , this film caused me to bite my nails to the quick . With a masterful director like William Wyler calling the shots behind the camera and the caliber of March as the heroic father and Bogie as the chief hood , you just can't go wrong . Gig Young has a crucial role as lawyer Chuck , Dan's daughter's boyfriend .
The Big Knife	One singular mistake in Hollywood " star " Charles Castle's life ( a criminal one at that ) haunts him to the point now that it has caught up with him . He had dreams of being a star of quality pictures , but along the way sold his soul to a producer , Stanley Shriner Hoff ( the great , ferocious Rod Steiger ) who only uses his image to sell pictures . The time has came to sign a new contract with Hoff , but Charles really wishes to simply move out of Hollywood somewhere because he is just tired of being part of the mechanisms of Hoff's meat grinder . But , his mistake ( the death of a girl who was hit by a car with Charles behind the wheel ) is wielded by Hoff in his face as a reminder that he has to make the " right " decision or else face possible dire consequences . Charles is under pressure from his wife , Marion ( Ida Lupino ) to not falter to Hoff's demands to re-sign ( she does not know about the car accident ) . Marion has suffered much being the wife of an unhappy man ( more importantly , an unfaithful husband ) , tormented by his unfortunate cartoony career , and wishes he'd gather enough guts to face off with Hoff and not break . There's a blabbermouth named Dixie ( the incomparable Shelley Winters ) who knows about the car accident and Hoff is constantly under strain to supply her with a happy enough life to keep that trap shut . Keeping her from spilling the beans since she's always drinking like a fish is yet another source of agony for Charles whose shoulders and back are so weighted , we see him always twisting in a knot of bad nerves and strain . Couple another problem on top of the heap being his manager ( and best friend who took the wrap for his crime ) , Buddy ( Paul Langton ) , whose wife Connie ( Jean Hagen ) pressures him to sleep with her . The film follows the tumultuous emotional roller coaster Charles faces trying to come out unscathed against such terrible odds . . a certainly tall stack decked , that's for sure . Powerfully acted drama has it's moments of melodrama , but is potent stuff with Palance at his greatest in such a difficult role . He is a fragile man trying to remain tough in a world that is beating him to a pulp .
Thunderbolt and Lightfoot .	Preparations are in order to rob Montana Armoured when a young goof-ball roadie named Lightfoot ( Jeff Bridges , nothing short of amazing ) convinces ex-bank robber Thunderbolt ( Clint Eastwood , very mellow and pleasant in this particular film ) and his ex-heister partners ( Geoffrey Lewis as Goody & George Kennedy as the extremely volatile Red Leary . . who originally plan to kill Thunderbolt believing he hid the loot they stole from that very bank of Montana Armoured ten years prior ) to attempt the daring feat of working over a bank twice . It's a ballsy suggestion , but Thunderbolt gives it considerable thought and talks his " pals " into making plans to commit to robbing it . But , Red doesn't like the young drifter and swears that harm will come to him after the heist is over . Red has some issues controlling his anger and his partner Goody often receives the brunt of the punishment . This is a heist film so you know even if the robbery goes well , complications are bound to ensue , especially when you have a partner like Red who can not control his rage . At first the film is a road movie with Thunderbolt and Lightfoot bonding almost , if not , like brothers . They grow on each other , and that chemistry between Eastwood and Bridges is a pleasure to watch . Kennedy really plays Red like a fireball operating on a very short fuse . Lewis is pitch-perfect as the unfortunate punching bag of Red , though he doesn't deserve to be treated the way he is . . he's loyal , but not a violent man . Perhaps associating himself with Red was not wise and would certainly lead to an early grave . The film is filled with colorful characterizations , but this provides Jeff Bridges with the perfect star vehicle to show his incredible talent .
Homicidal	Emily ( Jean Arless ) is so beautiful , yet so . . HOMICIDAL ! ! We watch as this blonde bombshell murders a justice-in-peace after coercing a bellhop , through a substantial sum , to marry her and this opens up the movie ! You know right here that this woman is truly nuts because director William Castle shoots her demented eyes close-up as she stabs repeatedly this old guy awaken in the middle of the night just to marry someone . . why would this happen ? Later , Emily drives home and torments this stroke victim named Helga ( Eugenie Leontovich ) by informing her of the evil deed she just committed . She's Helga's nurse and they have recently returned to the United States from Denmark with a man named Warren . Warren is to receive a multi-million dollar inheritance when he turns twenty-one . He has a sister Miriam ( Patricia Breslin ) who witnessed as a child the abuse Warren suffered from his father and then later from Helga . Helga , now , is mute and uses a wood-piece to communicate . She knows more than the viewer regarding Emily and her mysterious motives . We watch as Emily acts strangely , eyes full of hate , as she speaks to Miriam . . something about Miriam just enrages Emily to no end . Emily later , after leaving Miriam with Helga to get a prescription from the pharmacy , breaks into her flower shop destroying various wedding & floral decorations not to mention destroying Warren's photograph and picture frame . Meanwhile , the plainclothes police are out combing California for the murderer of the justice-of-peace and it's only a matter of time before Emily will have to finish whatever plan she has in store for others lying in her path . Miriam has a beau , Karl ( Glenn Corbett ) who works as a pharmacist and will assist police in finding the possible murderer when Emily fits the description . Another interesting twist in this bizarre tale , supposedly Emily is married to Warren who eventually shows up shocked that Miriam and Karl would even think his wife could commit such a violent act . But , there's a certain twist that comes right out of the blue Miriam certainly didn't see coming . . Seemingly inspired ( elements anyway ) by Hitchcock's PSYCHO , this flick tackles some themes such as sexual ( dis ) orientation and the after-effect of a traumatizing childhood due to abuse . Emily is the chess piece that holds all the answers to the film's ultimate mystery . . why is she so unhinged and what causes her to react so negatively towards Helga and Miriam ? Littered with clues in the screenplay , Castle succeeds at building this unique story that makes more sense as the twist emerges and all the pieces fall into place . Simply Castle's finest hour as director . The Fright Break is a hoot , but this film is brilliant without Castle having to resort to such measures at corralling viewers into theater seats .
Scars of Dracula	Paul ( Christopher Matthews ) , a consummate ladies ' man , has the misfortune of being caught with the burgomaster's daughter by the father himself . Trying to evade his guards , Paul winds up at Dracula's castle when he can not find shelter anywhere else when his horse carriage was driven way too far from his village . Simon ( Dennis Waterman ) , Paul's brother , and his gorgeous girlfriend Sarah ( Jenny Hanley ) , seek out of their village to try and find him not knowing what evil lied ahead . This is continuing right after " Taste the Blood of Dracula " and we watch as a bat swoops over the remaining ash of the Count releasing blood from it's mouth . That very blood will revive Dracula back to his former bodily state where he can again unleash terror on the countryside using servant Klove ( Patrick Troughton , " Dr Who " fans might remember him as the second Time Lord ) to bring him victims . A specific bat , the one that fed the ashes of Dracula blood , does much for the Count such as killing , spying , and sending messages to it's Master . Can Dracula's reign of terror be quenched ? Or , will he now have enough weapons to continue his blood-lust and evil ? By far , the most sadistic and violent of the Hammer vampire films to that point , this is by far Christopher Lee's best rendition of Dracula . He's able to really be vicious and nihilistic , almost like a released animal from it's cage at times . His eyes are blood red as he prepares to take a bite out of females who wander into his midst , and his bat tears into the faces of his enemies and foes . The ending is quite a hoot involving fire which starts from a bolt of lightning as Dracula squares off with Simon .
The Diabolical Dr . Z	Those of the scientific community ( mainly three in particular , doctors Vicas , Moroni & Kallman ) who berated Dr . Zimmer ( Antonio Jiménez Escribano ) , whose experiments concerning mind control procedures which have the ability to cease the violent tendencies in the criminal element ( for a while Z worked on monkeys amongst other animals before an exhausted escaped convict dumped right in his lap ) they vehemently disagreed with , cause him to ultimately die of stress when they threaten to stop him from completing his work . Zimmer caused a major outburst at the conference where he proposed a chance to use a convict on death row ( . . a human being ) as part of testing his theories before them proving that he could change human behavior . His daughter , Irma ( Mabel Karr ) , goes mad from the loss of her father and hatefully vows revenge against the main three culprits she considers the cause of her father's death . Using a pretty actress who goes under the stage name " Mrs . Death " , with these long fingernails , named Nadia ( Estella Blain ) as an instrument to possibly seduce the three doctors one at a time , Irma has a plan in place while adopting her father's controlled convict Hans Bergen ( Guy Mairesse ) as the muscle ( . . he is often used to kill when Nadia fails in her part of the scheme ) . Irma will fake her own death by running over a hitchhiker who resembles her , burning the body with a specific ring she's known for wearing , in her car driving into a pond . Meanwhile , an ally ( . . of sorts ) of her father's work , Dr . Phillippe Brighthouse ( whom Irma sleeps with ) who attended the conference Dr . Z was ridiculed at , lends a hand to two Scotland Yard detectives working the case of Irma's supposed death and the sequential murders of the doctors who " killed Irma's father . " Phillippe and Nadia had begun a love affair when Irma kidnapped her , using the experiments to control Mrs . Death's will . Will Phillippe find Nadia in time to save her before Irma decides to dispose of her ? Can the detectives and Phillippe silence the blind rage of Irma before more people come to violent harm ? Can Phillippe stand a chance against convict Bergen ? Fantastic mad Scientist / revenge thriller , beautifully photographed in moody B & W by Alejandro Ulloa . Thankfully , this is a focused , finely paced , well crafted thriller which doesn't wander from it's story staying on course delivering the goods . I particularly like how Franco shoots Mable Karr's face in angles which show hints of the dementia thriving behind her beautifully , sweaty reconstructed face ( her face had been burnt during Irma's attempt to push the flaming car into the pond containing the look-a-like hitchhiker ) .
Children of the Damned	Little Paul is specially gifted as are other kids around the world ( six to be exact ) brought together because the UN is fascinated with their intellect . . bad mistake . As in the previous VILLAGE , these children are conceived through a female without sexual activity as the source of childbirth . Whatever these children are , they have the power of mind control and can force others to do their will . Two British scientists , Tom and David ( Ian Hendry and Alan Badel ) wish to study them , understand what makes them tick and why they are so advanced in intelligence . Yet , other governments are worried about these children as they are different and not understanding something always increases fear & paranoia . The six unite on their own and barricade themselves in an abandoned church creating a unique weapon that runs off of solar power and produces such strong sound waves it kills anyone whose ears are open to it . We see their power early on when two of Colin's ( Alfred Burke ) men are attempting to find them in the church . One shoots the other and leaps from the balcony at their command afterwords . Susan ( Barbara Ferris ) , Paul's aunt , is the adult they use as a beacon between the humans and themselves . She's their voice / mouthpiece . . their spokesperson . Because of their unique abilities to see and hear through each other no matter how far apart they are ( . . not to mention , their abilities to read the thoughts of others and have the power to manipulate minds ) , governments decide they must be eliminated as these children seem to pose too great a risk to be left alive . But , attempts at execution fail when it's realized that the sound device can kill when some men walk into the church . Tom is able to shoot the device but also kills one of the children . Exiting with some of the kid's blood , it is analyzed and seen as being not of this earth . Through further study a renowned doctor informs Tom and David that these children have the cells of man advanced a million years . The climax shows the military planning an attack on the children . David tries every way possible to stop further violence just wishing others would question the children's purpose on the earth . The answer exposes our urge to push the trigger without much thought . In hindsight , we often wish to eliminate what we don't understand . What a pleasant surprise ! I can't believe I'm saying this ( because I'm such a fan of VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED ) , but this is actually on par with the original if not slightly better . The film's got a good head on it's shoulders . We , the human race , are put in question this time as the children are more motivated through survival because they are often threatened by those who wish to kill them right away without attempting to understand them . Though-provoking little sci-fi picture uses dialogue instead of special effects to get it's point across .
Blind Beast	Aki ( Mako Midori ) is a famous model for an artist who frames her in all forms of sadomasochism such as being nude within tied ropes and buckled chains . A friend of that artist actually sculpted Aki's body with which , through gossip , beckons a blind sculptor to the gallery . Aki finds this man , Michio ( Eiji Funakoshi ) , fondling the statue with extreme delicacy , touching every part with passion and care . Later , Michio uses a false identity in getting a job as a masseuse so that he can get into Aki's apartment . As he massages her , Michio can not resist groping her private no-no areas and is told to leave . What Aki doesn't expect is Michio using a drug to knock her out as his mother assists in a kidnapping . Aki awakes inside Michio's own personal gallery where plaster casts of body parts , he has felt through various encounters with women , protrude from the walls creating a creepy surreal landscape . Aki tries desperately to escape , but the only door is locked and encased with iron . She will not be allowed to leave unless she poses for what he confirms will be his greatest sculpted work . . he wishes to feel her body inch for inch and sculpt it . Aki simply wishes to leave , but even when she almost escapes his clutches , Michio's mother ( Noriko Sengoku ) prevents her from fleeing . Seeing very few chances for freedom besides being his model , Aki will use manipulation , through sexual advances to virginal Michio ( while also tapping into the mother's obsessive love for her son , the only male she has had close contact with over the years ) to separate the son from his mother . Mother loathes Aki and sees her as nothing but a slutty harlot who uses her nakedness for greedy pay-off . Aki still just wishes to leave , but Michio slowly grows more and more obsessed with her pushing away the mother who has taken care of a blind child by herself for many , many years . The shattered relationship ends in a scuffle and tragedy as the mother tries to kill Aki with Michio interfering . The more notorious portion of the film is the last 30 minutes as Aki will be raped and sodomized by a vengeful , heartbroken Michio who realizes that his beloved model was merely deceiving him so that his relationship with mother would deteriorate offering her a possibility of escape . Not allowing Aki to leave , they slowly bond through animalistic , continual sex which descends more and more into sadomasochism and violent depravity . . or as Aki put it , " . . descent into a nonhuman abyss . " It starts through biting into each other's skin , grows into being tied up by rope and whipped , before descending into bruising and knife-stabbing . They even drink each other's blood from the knife-wounds . But , the magic of this disturbing tale is that director Yasuzo Masumura doesn't really show you anything much . . he uses the sounds of the objects hitting and penetrating the flesh creating the act in your own mind . Seeing somewhat normal people grow more and more mad ( Aki even goes blind ! ) through the pleasures of pain as they stretch the boundaries of what the human anatomy can take is the raw power of this film . The warehouse gallery is quite a bizarre , unusual , yet poetic setting for this groundbreaking masterwork .
The Host	A member of the US military orders his Korean counterpart to unload lots of formaldehyde ( bottles upon bottles ) into the Han River of Seoul with a type of enormous mutated marine life form emerging as a result . In the opening of this film , a mass of people at the banks of the Han River are attacked by the monster as it rampages . Hyun-seo ( Ah-sung Ko ) is abducted by the monster and taken to a pit inside a certain sewer system with her father Gang-Du ( Kang-ho Song ) " infected " with the monster's blood supposedly when it is cut during the attack on an American . That American contracted some sort of virus which sends the government into an uproar with Gang-Du and his family quarantined . When Gang-Du receives a cell-phone call from his daughter , he'll try to break free with his family to find her wherever she may possibly be . We watch as poor Hyun-seo struggles to come up with a plan of escape as another little boy is dropped into the pit with her . . the monster begins dumping bodies there while also using it as a hideaway and sleeping spot . With the government and medical personnel all over the place ( not to mention police looking for them ) Gang-Du and his family will search endlessly for their beloved Hyun-seo . When Gang-Du is recaptured after a tragedy towards his father , we also see a very destructive paranoia towards a supposed virus develop . An American doctor orders a Korean medical staff to " disect out " the virus from Gang-Du's brain when it seems that they can not find any location of a virus present in anyone near the monster's initial opening attack . If Gang-Du will ever survive , he'll have to flee again . . and the idea that his daughter is still out there has not left his thoughts despite being cut into once . Now THIS is a monster movie . . a scary creation that director Joon-ho Bong is not afraid to unleash on viewers countlessly . There are some great sequences where it chases various people while the city of Seoul is thrown in a state of turmoil . This flick is very reminiscent of " Gojira " and being based on an actual event regarding the dumping of dangerous chemicals into the Han River only heightens the drama . Also , a great film about the power and dynamic of family and what lengths they'll go to rescue one of their own .
Kill , Baby . . Kill !	Want to understand how to direct a film with style and atmosphere ? Well , in " Kill , Baby . . Kill ! " you are the student because the teacher is showing you how it's done . Exceptional cinematography , dreamlike score , and fluid camera-work heighten this unusual ghost story about victims forced to commit suicide by a vengeful spirit in the shape of a girl ! ! Melissa ( Valeria Valeri ) , the girl ghost , suffered a horrible death under a bell-tower tugging the rope trying to summon help . Her demise is most unfortunate for the town where that fateful day took place during a festival where drunken townsfolk did nothing to save Melissa . It is said that Melissa's death has opened a curse where villagers are afraid to even leave their homes with many exiting town for greener pastures . The silence of this town with it's decrepit skeletal remains of buildings that once stood , now cobwebbed , shrouded with fog that seems to live and breathe , while pockets of light shine through the open cracks and crevices , is a chilling reminder of how vibrant society can be taken away when a curse invades the hearts and minds of a people . Giacomo Rossi-Stuart portrays Paul , an outsider called in to do an autopsy on this women who committed suicide . He finds a coin in her heart and a frightened public hiding away from sight . He's a non-believer who feels that the entire town knock-kneed with superstition and can not accept the supernatural element everyone persists exists . He meets Monica ( Erika Blanc ) , a woman who came to town to visit her parents ' grave-site , but is much more important to the current ghost story than she could ever imagine as her very dreams are penetrated by some evil force . Soon , two other characters play an important part in the mystery behind Melissa's evildoing's . . the crazed Baroness Graps ( Giana Vivaldi ) and a sorceress ( Fabienne Dali ) , both of whom understand her power and how to control it . A chilling Gothic masterwork .
Prince of Darkness	Father Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) wishes for Prof . Howard Birack ( Victor Wong ) and his class ( . . along with some other students majoring in other scientific fields ) to use scientific data by way of technology and computers in deciphering what the ancient text written means guarding a mysterious green , circulating liquid inside a canister predating millions of years . The Brotherhood of Sleep was a secret sect of Catholic priests who guarded the canister also re-writing over the text during a many years so that it could not be understood by the outside world . Whatever is inside that canister , the Brotherhood wished it to stay there . Loomis only realized all of this once the elder priest guarding the room dies . What they discover is , I believe , that an anti-god ( the negative side of God ) roaming the earth was condemned to darkness while his son , Satan , was placed inside the canister . . that very canister containing the green liquid is he . Weird occurrences around the church begin surfacing such as derelicts surrounding the building watching in a gaze ( . . killing anyone that might exit the church ) and insects such as ants and worms collecting on windows amongst other things . Jesus Christ , the text announces , was an extra-terrestrial who tried to warn others but was killed . Jesus ' disciples were able to successfully cover it up by fabricating the truth using the false doctrine by what we read in the bible . Now Satan is growing powerful . . the canister is no longer able to hold him as the liquid splashes in the mouth of a student zombie-fying her . She subsequently " turns " other students into zombies by passing the liquid from her mouth to theirs . A small group remains , led by Brian and Catherine ( Jameson Parker & Lisa Blount ) along with Birack , Walter ( Dennis Dunn ) , & Loomis trying to find away out of the church when it seems that another student ( . . with a specific mark on the arm signifying her as the chosen vessel for the remaining liquid ) is chosen as the host for Satan himself ! It seems that there's no escape . Satan invades the chosen host like a parasite invading a foreign organism taking it over . To top all this , Satan wishes to free his master from the darkness ( . . using the mirror as an entrance into the world ) . A premonition " signal " is sent to many as they sleep verifying a certain event to take place traveling to them from light years in the future ! To be honest , the film is quite confusing and demanding , but also quite creepy and haunting . Who the figure is in the premonition is a powerful image that stays with you . The idea that the evil Prince of Darkness awaits the chance to enter our world condemning it is a scary aspect , but seeing our heroes trapped inside while demonic possessed humans await them outside and inside is just as frightening . The story is so convoluted , though , it's no wonder many don't care for it . The story regarding the evil our characters are up against and the dialogue ( scientific gibberish ) spoken by Birack & his students can be exhausting for those who can not understand it . But , the film has enough terrifying aspects , I believe , to retain interest . In my opinion , it's one of Carpenter's scariest , most effective horror films on his impressive resume . I'm guessing some may find the strong religious subject matter , heavy in the cryptic jargon between the characters , who also use scientific language frequently , might turn many away head-scratching . Hell , I'm not even sure my explanation of the synopsis is absolutely accurate . Probably a film many might return to over and over just to see if they can penetrate it further than the last time .
Play Misty for Me	Disc Jockey David ( Clint Eastwood in one of his finest performances ) is quite the swinger , but he gets what's coming to him . . a psychopathic chick , Evelyn ( Jessica Walter , who is the epitome of creepy , twisted stalkers ) he beds who makes his life a living hell . While constantly stalking Dave , Evelyn has quite the tendency of showing up at his doorsteps always forcing herself on him . When Dave's old flame , Tobie ( Donna Mills ) , returns to Carmel , they fall back in love which throws Evelyn into a complete frenzy . Solid suspensor may've lost it's impact thanks to countless clones and imitations . This may also be considered dated , but I really thought the whole addition of the Monterrey Jazz Festival was cool . The jazz is also a fine element Eastwood ( who loves the music ) adds as a special ingredient to the film background music . But , without Walter's dynamic performance this film couldn't fly . It seems that nearly every actress ( especially Glenn Close in " Fatal Attraction " ) has rehashed Walter's performance , but she stands at the top of the heap . The film's photography from the great cinematographer Bruce Surtees is stunning as he frames some magnificent long tracking shots and good angled close-ups . The film is really lean and doesn't waste a whole lot of time setting up the plot and Eastwood , always considered wood by critics , shows his disc jockey terrorized by Evelyn as conflicted and annoyed . He just wishes to start afresh with Tobie , but has committed the mortal sin of sleeping with the wrong person .
The Parallax View	After a Senator is assassinated ( he was a popular candidate on the hinges of running for the presidency of the USA ) , those people surrounding him high on Seattle's Space Needle are being killed one by one . While the Warren Commission proclaims the hit as a work of a lone assassin ( who falls to his death when being chased ) , we see that Bill McKinney is hidden out of place with a smirk ( and gun he is putting away ) and leaving posthaste . It seems like the one who falls to his death was a decoy for McKinney . To keep those silent who were at the scene of the crime , phony " accidental " deaths are staged . Warren Beatty , a renegade reporter , is visited by Paula Prentiss ( a former lover ) who claims that her life is in danger and that he must search for the ones responsible for the Senator's death . He doesn't take her seriously until visiting Prentiss ' dead body in the morgue . Beatty will have to uncover the identity of the assassin and the truth behind who is pulling the strings over the numerous killings taking place . The question is will Beatty stay alive long enough to find out the truth ? What unfolds as Beatty persues the truth is truly terrifying . It all leads to a mysterious corporation called Parallax who hires assassins through a unique questionaire ( the corporate title is " Division of Human Engineering " which shows it's possible recruits a montage of clips to see how they respond to the images on the screen ) . Absorbing , tense political thriller makes all the right moves at a good pace . Well acted , not to mention well photographed . A real gem . If this has the atmospheric feel of " All the President's Men " , that is because most of the same technical people from this film ( director and designer ) were behind the creation of that masterpiece .
Dressed to Kill	Along with Body Double , De Palma's definitive homage to his greatest influence , Hitchcock , an answer to PSYCHO , brilliantly tongue-in-cheek from the daft title to the answer of who the killer REALLY is , the director is at his very level best , crafting one incredible set piece after another . The contemporary theme of " gender politics " is utilized beautifully here and the whole idea of why the killer commits the grisly razor blade murder ( . . and stalks a second victim , played by Nancy Allen ) is quite brilliantly executed . Unfortunately , like Hitchcock's masterpiece PSYCHO , De Palma's " cat is out of the bag " and everyone knows the identity of the killer . MAJOR SPOILERS Watching it for the first time in years , I grinned so many times at little sly moves conducted by De Palma in word and visual image , setting up the twist at the end so wickedly . Such as how bored house-wife , Kate Miller ( Angie Dickinson ) discovers after her sexual encounter with a complete stranger that he has a venereal disease , rushing deliriously in panic from his room . It's a sly move because you are horrified at the fact that she harbors that " sin disease " , believing this discovery will move throughout the rest of the film , only for her to meet her doom at the hands of a female with blond hair , black coat , and shades , slicing her with a glimmering razor blade . But , the way the tryst itself is executed was a wonder to behold . The way De Palma expresses on the side of the screen images of various items Kate lost along the way , them returning to her mind ( . . glove in the art museum , panties in the taxi , wedding ring left in her lover's room ) , how she initiates contact with the potential exchange with the lover without saying a word , how she attempts to slightly fight away her desire for the tryst , and her eventual terror for even instigating the frivolous sexual encounter at all . The way the transsexual killer's identity is discovered is also one hell of a doozy . We watch as Kate's psychiatrist , Doctor Robert Elliot ( Michael Caine ) listens to a feminine voice from his answering machine , a " client " on how she will be seeing another doctor , plans to have a sex change , and admits to borrowing his razor , threatening something criminal . Elliot has this recording , must meet at the police station with a hot-head , very disgruntled police detective , Marino ( . . De Palma regular , Dennis Franz , perfectly cast ) , and conceals her identity . . why does he do this when it's basically a confession ? The exciting " race against time " angle , involving prostitute Liz Blake ( . . the gorgeous Nancy Allen , in a role tailor made for her , who charms in a winning performance , bringing an amazing likability to a provocative character ) who is told by Marino , in a very hostile way , that she is the chief suspect because of accidentally grabbing the murder weapon at the scene of the crime ( . . in the wrong place at the wrong time , she was at the elevator with a male client , who runs away , as the doors open to reveal Kate reaching out for help , the killer hiding ) . She has 48 hours to save her skin . . to find evidence of the mysterious female killer , Kate saw in a mirror ( . . cleverly established by De Palma ) , while also being hunted by the psycho herself . There's an amazing set piece where Liz is stalked by the killer to a subway where she also is confronted by a gang of thugs and is painted into a corner when a police officer , a none-too-friendly exchange between these two , exits , leaving her to potentially fall prey to either one or the other . Her blossoming friendship to science wiz , Peter ( . . Keith Gordon , in a role he's often typecast , a brainy geek with some nifty inventions that come in handy along the way ) , the son of the slain Kate , is also a marvel of plot convention . . together they are able to discover the killer's identity in a thrilling climax as Liz infiltrates Elliot's office , disguising herself as a new client in need of counseling ( . . her attempted seduction produces a smoldering sexuality Allen easily conveys ) to retrieve a patient's name from his appointment book . I recognize that many will always consider De Palma nothing more than a rip off artist with considerable skill , deftly able to use the cinematic toys at his disposal , but films like DRESSED TO KILL are so entertaining in their own right . . it's the bravura way De Palma concocts his ideas and unleashes the surprises in such a heavily stylized way , executed with marksman's precision , understanding how to cleverly / cunningly use gimmicks to tell developing stories . Like Hitchcock , De Palma uses visuals to communicate with the viewer , but unlike the master director , is able to incorporate seedier elements and enhance his films with the color / allure of more provocative characters and settings ( . . such as New York City , and the people who live there ) . Like this cheeky title , De Palma perhaps used " BODY DOUBLE " as a joke regarding his use of such a person in Dickinson's steamy shower scene . Two scenes rather bother me : ( 1 ) regarding the protracted explanation of why the killer murdered and the psychological events that brought it about ( . . obviously a direct homage to the similar sequence at the end of PSYCHO ) and ( 2 ) the nightmare sequence at the end . . I felt neither is really needed , although these are ways to engage the audience , giving them extra when all is over , said , and done .
The Last Wave	David Burton ( Richard Chamberlain , quite good ) is a lawyer , more adept at handling corporate taxation ( . . and suffers from unusual dreams which bother him seeing this aboriginal man shrouded in darkness ) , who is called on to take a case concerning a group of aboriginals charged with the murder of one of their own named Billy . . we see that he tries to steal stones with ritual painting on them and is killed when a leader of an aboriginal tribe named Charlie ( Nandjiwarra Amagula ) uses a " death bone " to stop his heart . Meanwhile , revolving around David , bizarre weather patterns effect Sydney such as rain beating down polluted dirt and rock-sized hail during bright blue skies ( with no sights of clouds , such as the one that hits a school in central Australia ) , not to mention , a " deformed " rainbow which is split ( ! ) into groups . As David pursues the case he finds that he is far closer to the weird events taking place than he could ever realize . One aboriginal named Chris ( David Gulpilil ) appears to him in a dream holding a stone with blood and he finds that this man is one of those he is to represent at trial ! He finds that it's quite possible , after some strange meetings with Charlie and conversations with Chris , that he very well might be linked to a spirit named Mulkurul and that his dreams are actual premonitions of possible horrors yet to come . Absorbing apocalyptic drama builds it's story methodically and is completely original and unpredictable . With Peter Weir in charge , the film is visually arresting as we see these very overwhelming images of possible doom towards civilization , but the film's most compelling angle is certainly David's journey to find that monumental truth that plagues him as he questions Charlie and Chris countlessly , at first to help his men get off from a crime they didn't commit , and ultimately to find out what he has to do with anything catastrophic that is occurring or might occur later .
Daughters of Darkness	Euro-horror tale about what occurs when Countess Bathory and her " female companion " become " involved " with a troubled couple at a very elegant hotel . The husband is supposedly unkind towards his wife , who becomes seduced / bewitched by Bathory . I thought it was fantastic , but do believe many might be turned off by the rather icy presentation ( I wasn't ) . When anyone ever mentions EBath around me , from time to time , I will always think of Delphine Seyrig . She epitomizes theatricality in a good way . I love one scene , after the burial of a specific person , when the Countess opens her cape , as the camera pulls , back draping over her new acquisition . I think one can see the exact , pain-staking detail by the director and film-making collaborators to orchestratingly compose each and every scene . . I respect the approach given to the film and think their efforts work splendidly . I found each female lead exuding their own type of beauty . . and feel it's pretty difficult to take your eyes away from them . AS far as our male lead , I particularly found one scene fascinating as a layer is slightly unpeeled when he contacts " his mother " on the phone . One might just see why he's in such mental turmoil just from this slight gaze into his life before his courtship and marriage to Daniele Ouimet . I didn't think Ouimet needed to bring any acting into this film , I felt the director was using her beauty , hypnotic ( . . a term I throw around a bit too much , but that's the reaction I felt so I use it here ) as it was , to frame artistic shots within the frame with John Karlen . I also liked how the director won't reveal Countess as a vampire , per se , instead showing her blood drinking in one particular scene ( . . probably my favorite of the film , when Seyrig isn't given the camera to do her thing ) from afar . One thing that many might criticize ( . . that doesn't bother me ) is the deliberate slow pacing . This is an atypical horror film . . it's more stylized art film ( . . for instance , what the director does with a red scarf as it drapes over a colorful lamp with the room dimmed a specific hue ) where presentation from scene to scene is just as important as the characters , and what their goals are , within the scene . A user friend on the IMDb horror message board I felt was exactly right when he mentioned how Seyrig modeled her character after Dietrich . The way she moves her hands is exquisite , how she smoothly delivers her dialogue , how seductively she takes over the conversation and mood of each gathering , and the way she is dressed . She's an amazing sight , and I won't soon forget her " departure " from the film .
Sea of Love	Detective Frank Keller ( Al Pacino , in a perfect star vehicle ) is a middle-aged lonelyheart , recently divorced , whose ex is married to his partner . He begins thinking about his mortality as his 20 years of duty on the force has come up and longing for a female presence in his life has weighed on the mind . He's on a case regarding a swinger who was shot in the back of the head while listening to an oldie record 45 titled , " sea of Love " . A chance meeting with another detective from another precinct , Det . Sherman ( John Goodman in a terrific performance ) points to a possible string of killings as they find both their cases have the same MO . They decide to work together when they find that prints match from both of their cases and both males had put poems in the singles-ads . Frank wants to try this himself , with both he and Sherman believing the killer is a female with wrath towards ladies ' men as the motive . Keller , after going through several dates with many women who answer the ad ( . . which came from a poem Frank's mom wrote ) , begins a steamy love-affair with a sexy divorcée into kink . That female is Helen Cruger ( Ellen Barkin , heating the screen ) , and she has Frank feeling like a teenager . But , Frank begins questioning their relationship when he begins noticing little signs that may point to Helen possibly being the very killer he's investigating . This is true center of the story and a conflict plaguing Frank who is just head-over-heels for Helen . I must say this is one of my favorite Pacino performances because he wears weariness like a badge on his face . I felt Pacino plays him right showing a cop really damaged by a failed marriage and hitting the point in his life where he could retire from the force which brings up his age which torments him . Then this seductive gal comes along and throws him for a loop , rejuvenating him . I think Barkin is flat-out hot as the love-interest . I think she provides just the right amount of mystery that has us questioning her much like Frank eventually does . The film has a great dynamic between Pacino and Goodman which only makes it even better .
Christine	Arnie Cunningham ( Keith Gordon , who has never been better ) finds a junker Plymoth sitting in a yard for sale . It is shown at the opening of the film to have smashed one automaker's hand with it's hood while suffocating another with carbon monoxide . So we know what Arnie doesn't . . that this car whose name is Christine isn't your ordinary Plymoth . Something deep within this car is evil and it grips a demonic hold on whoever drives it . Dennis ( John Stockwell ) , a star football player , tries to warn his best friend to not buy this hunk of junk , but Arnie can not resist it's pull . Arnie's parents do not approve of buying it and his resistance towards them begins here . Arnie is shown as sweet and self-deprecating . He is mistreated by three bullies in machine shop , and the leader plans to assault Arnie , and Dennis who takes up for him with a switchblade knife . They take their anger out on Arnie when he and Dennis report them to the autoshop teacher , by destroying Christine . . that will be quite a mistake ! The film's main conflict , however , is Leigh ( Alexandra Paul ) . . a hottie who becomes Arnie's love interest . She is truthfully Christine's main nemesis other than the thrill bullies for she comes between the car and Arnie . You see , anyone who comes between Christine and her man must be punished . I believe Christine gets better every time I watch it . Now , I know the story and / or idea of a car with demonic powers ( . . not to mention her hold on whoever is the rightful owner ) might be regarded as silly , but there's something so compelling about it . I guess what comes out the creepiest is Keith Gordon's transformation as the film continues . He's so self-deprecating and timid , we love him at the beginning which makes what Christine does to him even more tragic . We watch as he begins to resist his parents ( using foul language towards them in defiance ; even attack his father ) , turns away from possible love with Leigh { who deeply cares about him } , barking at those who wish to insult his " lady " , growing apart from Dennis , and seeing this evil slowly overcome him . We truthfully see what Christine does to those who " become hers " . The film also shows that she can repair herself after serious damage is inflicted on her . When the gang of bullies smash her to smithereens , Arnie { . . by this time almost completely psychopathic } gives her the extra push to reshape her torso so that they could seek revenge towards those who hurt her . Despite it's reputation , the film isn't graphic for Carpenter wishes to ratchet up the suspense instead of bloodying the screen . We watch as Christine chases down each of the three who caused her and Arnie harm and the car's wrath brings on an investigation directed toward Arnie . That detective is played by Harry Dead Stanton . Dennis and Leigh ( who both have now realized how evil Christine is thanks to Leigh's near choking death thanks to the evil car ) must try and save Arnie before the car destroys him . But , can Arnie be saved ? Ultimately , the film is about obsession . Arnie becomes obsessed with Christine and vice versa . But , perhaps Christine finds certain suitors who are weak and need affirmation from someone when life deals them a bad deck . Certainly in Arnie's case , Christine awakens something sinister , though at first he simply gains courage by asking out Leigh and facing overbearing parents . But , by the end we know that the quiet , hurt young man who just wanted more out of life is erased and all that is left is a monster a certain girl created .
The Devil Rides Out	Hammer studios scores a knock-out with this superb supernatural horror flick starring Christopher Lee as Duc de Richleau who finds a battle on his hands with a Satanic cult , led by Mocata ( Charles Gray ; played the villain Blofeld in DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER ) . Richleau had a war pal who died and so he took over fatherly duties for the man's son , Simon ( Patrick Mower ) , who is being pursued by the cult to become a follower of Satan . Richeau , a devout man who understands the methods of the dark magic , must stop them from taking Simon . Mocata has a powerful gift and that is of controlling weak minds . The key to the evil forces ' power is direct eye-contact . . you , in a sense , give over yourself when that form of contact is connected . Things get even more complicated when Richleau's other war pal , Rex ( Leon Greene ) finds that another has yet to have been " re-baptized " in the Satanic cult named Tanith ( Nike Arrighi ) for whom he falls in love . Mocata uses Tanith as his medium and can control her from a long distance . Tanith doesn't wish to harm anyone , but the evil commanding inside her is too strong to control . The Eatons have a home nearby where the Satanic cult hold a place of worship . Richard Eaton ( Paul Eddington ) thinks all that Richleau tells him is gibberish and is skeptical . His wife Marie ( Sarah Lawson ) is Richleau's niece and she does , albeit reluctantly , believe what her uncle speaks regarding the cult . But , it's only through action where Marie and Richard begin to understand what Richleau and they are up against . There are quite a few moments of peril for Richleau and Rex as they must somehow keep Simon and Tanith away from the clutches of Mocata and his group . It's proved in ritual that Mocata has the ability to summon Satan . If this flick were in anyone else's hands , it might turn out as a silly , campy horror film . But , in the capable hands of Terence Fisher with Lee leading the way FINALLY having an opportunity to be a heroic figure , this flick is played seriously with optimum effect . Charles Gray was well cast as the chief villain for he has a foreboding , yet sophisticated , presence that works well . At hindsight he might even look like a gentleman . . it's when he's able to practice his devil worship that we see his pure evil . Squeezing every ounce of tension at their disposal , our heroes will have to remain in a " circle of safety " as they are tempted to move out via fake manipulation showing them images that are not really there playing on the inner fear of each individual . Adding the final scary piece is when Mocata kidnaps the Eatons ' little girl for a sacrifice to their Lord .
Spider Baby	Bizarre cannibal comedy regarding a family of mental savages under the " parental supervision " of Uncle Bruno , The Chauffeur ( played with heart and gusto by the great Lon Chaney , JR ) who just wants them to quit killing passersby . You have Virginia ( Jill Banner , who despite her insanity is oddly sexy ) who loves spiders so she often behaves like one and eats them ! You have poor Ralph ( Sid Haig , such an inspiring bit of casting ; steals the entire film ) whose condition has worsened to the point where he behaves like an animal . And , the quietly demented Elizabeth who seems all too innocent and peppy until we see the monster pop out of the closet . Bruno seems the sanest of the clan of oddball weirdos and promised his brother that he'd never let anyone take them away to be probed by the public at large . Yet , it was only a matter of time before their wealth would be exposed ( . . although , one wouldn't think they had any money at all considering the way their place of residence has become so ruined by uncare , decay , and time ) by other more normal family members ready to cash-in . Those " distant relatives " are the Howes , Emily and Peter ( Carol Ohmart & Quinn K Redeker , the cousin who tells us his story regarding the trip to meet this group of nuts ) who use an attorney , Schlocker ( Karl Schanzer , quiet a weaselly character who wreaks of pomposity and snobbery ) to inform the family that they stand to lose everything because of their unfortunate conditions due to family inbreeding which slowly turns functioning human beings into mental deficients . Ann ( Mary Mitchel ) is Peter's love-interest who becomes a target of the family when they deem her a threat at exposing their deep dark secrets from downstairs . The film has little sick jokes which come from the woodwork towards the end which gives this twisted little black comedy an air of unpredictability that is priceless . . in a sick way that is . Seeing Sid Haig mutting around like a dog is truly reason enough to see director Jack Hill's cult classic , but Jill Banner as the Spider Baby is truly hard to turn away from . She has a scene where she ties up Peter in her " spider web " with plans to kill him like a bug . Now in this scene she pulls up her dress to expose this pair of lovely legs , kissing Peter delicately on the cheek with her tongue ever so gliding on his face . . you forget for a moment that she's crazy and find yourself , like Peter was , in a state of lustful abandon . But , Chaney , Jr . has an endearing , beautifully realized scene where he dotes on the notion of his family being taken away from him ( . . and breaking the oath promised to his brother ) and you see these tears just well up . . it's actually rather touching . And , his singing the theme song is just terrific . If you are into strange cinema , SPIDER BABY is a must .
The Pit and the Pendulum	The Grand Inquisitor , Torquemada ( Lance Henriksen ) , known for his public executions and torturous methods of those he and his foot-soldiers deem heretics and witches , is overcome with lust when he gazes upon the naked body of baker Antonio's ( Jonathan Fuller ) lovely wife Maria ( the stunning beauty Rona De Ricci ) on trial for being a witch after halting the never-ending whipping of a boy child in front of a crowd of people . The film shows Torquemada's battle with his desire for Maria and how Antonio will try to save her , which will not be an easy task . I think the main success of this film is Lance Henriksen's powerful performance as the sadistic , psychotic Inquisitor . While his chosen men , Gomez ( Stephen Lee ) and Dr . Huesos ( William J Norris ) bask in the joy of making others suffer , Don Carlos ( Tom Towles ) drunk with the role of captain riding his horse with great pride , and Francisco ( Jeffrey Combs , who looks like a bookish accountant tending to his recorded testimonies of sin and acknowledgments of witchcraft as if he were an IRS agent seeking debts owed by clients ) logging the accused , very business-like , with little remorse , Torquemada is completely serious in his role as executioner and judge wielding his power as if he were the mighty hand of God striking down anyone he so chooses . Henriksen's always intense and frighteningly believable . . I do feel that he best represents what kind of monster those Inquisitors were like during this horrible time in history . While we often watch as his victims suffer , thanks to director Stuart Gordon and screenwriter Dennis Paoli , those who mistreat get their comeuppance in the end . It's fun watching Torquemada fall prey to his own madness , guilt , hypocrisy & buried iniquities which surface and confront him in a fantastically realized climax . Frances Bay steals every scene she's in as accused and imprisoned witch Esmeralda , who befriends Maria and gets revenge on hecklers and executioners when she's set at the the stake to burn with the use of gunpowder . Mark Margolis ably portrays the abused torturer Mendoza , a puppet Torquemada ( . . and his goons ) uses to do his dirty work ( . . he has these nasty Christ-like wounds on his hands which Torquemada gave to him as punishment as a reminder of what can happen when you " sin " ) . Stuart Gordon's wife , Carolyn Purdy-Gordon ( . . as an ancestor of one Torquemada deems a heretic as his torturer whips the skeletal remains of an unearthed corpse ! ) gets you-know-what again ( . . he likes to murder his wife on film in devious ways ) and it's quite a grisly fate . . she is strangled by a rope over the back of an executioner as her child watches helplessly . Oliver Reed has a very memorable cameo as a visiting Cardinal , with quite the taste for drink , who brings orders from the Pope for Torquemada to end his violent methods , meeting a horrifying end ( . . yep , the dependable wall entombment ) . I also loved the preposterous , but ingenious , way one escapes the swinging razor-sharp pendulum which closes in to his body thanks to rats . That pit of spikes , underneath a trap door where the poor victim lies as the pendulum swings , is also put to good use . And , I think that Gordon utilizes Rona De Ricci's beauty and innocence quite well . . she's certainly a sympathetic figure we root for as it seems her fate is doomed because of the trap Torquemada has placed her in . But , this is Henriksen's movie . . he's a force of nature and Gordon ideally shoots him in sinister ways . You do not want this man pointing you out of a crowd for the possibility of consorting with the DEVIL , that's for sure .
The Beast from 20 , 000 Fathoms	A prehistoric dinosaur , Rhedosauras , is awakened from it's North Pole icy prison by atom explosion testings , and follows the Arctic current to NYC destroying whatever lies in it's path along the way . Scientist Tom Nesbitt ( Paul Hubschmid ) who survives an avalanche which kills his fallen colleague , tries to tell others of the creature he saw and is disbelieved by everyone proclaiming his story as a momentary lapse of reason during a traumatic occurrence . Nesbitt tries to convince Paleontologist Thurgood Elson ( Cecil Kellaway ) of what he saw , and is yet again rejected , but finds an ally in the professor's assistant , Lee ( Paula Raymond ) who persuades him to seek out a surviving eyewitness who can corroborate his story . When he does , finally convincing Elson that there might just be a living dinosaur ( . . and such a scientific discovery worth seeking after ) , they will attempt to persuade Colonel Jack Evans ( Kenneth Tobey ) to keep watch over the coastlines for the beast could surface at any moment risking the lives of innocent Americans . When the Rhedosauras attacks a Massachusettes lighthouse , among other damaged wreckage along the way , Evans will humor Nesbitt and Elson , despite how his superiors and peers might react at such a request , and send a small vessel into the oceanic depths with Elson himself hoping to find the dinosaur under water . He does , and with a price . Soon the Rhedosauras surfaces NYC and causes panic and destruction to buildings , vehicles , and people with civilians running for their very lives as the beast moves through the streets on a rampage . When Evans orders his military men to fire upon the beast , he doesn't know that the Rhedosauras ' tissue is diseased . . when anyone , including Evan's men , come in contact with the dinosaur's blood a viral plague causes major sickness and death . Nesbitt believes that the only means of destroying the dinosaur without spreading the virus into the air , is through a radioactive isotope blasted through a wound inside it's bloodstream , disintegrating the tissue . Ray Harryhausen's first film on his own is a must-see for creature feature fans . The dinosaur attacks a lighthouse , takes a ship underwater , eats a police man , destroys buildings , and rips apart a roller coaster in the harrowing finale . As always , Tobey , although in not as lucrative a role as he would be in " It Came from Beneath the Sea " , shines once again as the reliable pillar of knowledge and strength as the military colonel . As is a staple in monster movies ( . . well the good ones anyway ) Hubschmid is the model handsome , extremely likable heroic scientist with charm and manners , and the lovely Paula Raymond fills the usual role of beautiful scientist who motivates , assists , and falls in love with him . Kellaway is simply delightful as the engaging paleontologist with a glowing smile and cheerful attitude , which makes his fate all the more sad because he's such a lovable character . I have always felt that a creature feature , a really solid one , needs a good cast to match the effects of Harryhausen , and " The Beast from . . " is such a movie . Thankfully , the characters are well developed and seem to know what they're talking about thanks to swell writing and dialogue that isn't too cerebral , yet smart enough to make the plot believable . A serious approach and a superb creature causing some major damage to New York City really raise this above the other films that would follow . Along with " Them ! " , " The Beast from . . " is one of the all-time greats in the monster movie genre . I'm a major fan of stop-motion effects and I think others who are will lap this film up . It has stunningly realized f / x for a movie made in ' 53 such as the lighthouse's destruction and when that poor cop is chomped on , eventually gulped . I read elsewhere that the Godzilla remake from Emmerich favors this film more than the Tokyo fire-breather and , after finally watching " The Beast from . . " I definitely concur .
The House of Fear	" Murder is an insidious thing , Mr . Watson . Once a man has dipped his fingers in blood , sooner or later he'll feel the urge to kill again . " Wealthy members of a prestigious club , known as The Comrades ( . . retired friends without ancestral heirs , live together in a Scotland castle ) are being bumped off by a mysterious killer who leaves a small envelope entailing a number of orange pips with the next victim's name on it ( . . the pips are the number of the members left alive after the recipient's death ) . . the murders are rather hideously presented , the victims bodies horribly disfigured to leave no identification , except certain little items which each member carried on their person , whether it be a signet ring or a familiar tattoo . An insurance man calls upon Sherlock Holmes and Dr . Watson to solve the case because the members still alive changed their policies so that each other would receive their inheritance in case they wound up dead . Arriving to the castle , Holmes is quite baffled by a series of events while bodies continue to pile up , but soon little details ( . . such as the murder of a tobacconist , suspicious footprints , a body removed from it's grave , an empty tobacco case ) emerge and he , along with Watson , whose life is threatened multiple times , soon piece together the clues in order to uncover a brilliant , but flawed , scheme that will lead them to a murderer . Great dark house chiller with a really nifty finale as Holmes and Watson discover a sinister plot that almost works , with certain minute mistakes unraveling as they put together the clues available . Poor Watson and soon arriving Scotland Yard detective , Inspector Lastrade ( . . series regular Dennis Hoey ) often play patsy to the wily Holmes who must embarrass them at times when pointing out their bumbling mistakes at pointing fingers at who they believe to be the killer , when all the details haven't been assembled together . Nigel Bruce is wonderful comic relief as Watson , often assigned to watch over the Comrades when he has trouble even protecting his own neck . The film has a gallery of suspects , with lots of interesting characters among the Comrades , all a bit suspicious in one way or another , with motive to kill . Aubrey Mather in a colorful part as the affable , soft-spoken Alastair and Paul Cavanagh as the obviously questionable surgeon Dr . Simon Merivale who represents the film's most blatant suspect ; he's mentioned early on as perhaps behind the slaying of his wife , and Merivale is often seen reading a murder mystery as if teasing Holmes to catch him in the act . Basil Rathbone is perfect as you'd expect in the role of Holmes , this time showing a degree of puzzlement due to just how many suspects there are , knowing with his inquisitive mind that there's something feasible which explains the odd nature of how the murders are set up and reasonable answers behind the destructive appearances of the bodies when found as if the work of a fiend . Director Roy William Neill provides an ominous mood through effectively noirish B & W photography , using the darkness of night , often following Watson running around trying to catch a killer while Holmes is elsewhere . There's a touching scene at the end between Holmes and Watson ( . . which just describes why Rathbone and Bruce were so wonderful together as the investigating duo ) as they celebrate a job well done while Inspector Lestrade ( . . who had to be led by Holmes like a horse to a water trough ) gets the credit by the press . You can see at times how much fun Rathbone has with Holmes at the humorous expense of Bruce's bumbling Watson , smoking away at his pipe . I think this is one of the finest examples of Holmes / Watson under the elegant treatment only the Universal Studios could provide . Watson's work opposite an owl during a grave-digging sequence is hilarious , as is his scene shooting a pistol , aimed at anything that slightly moves .
Son of Frankenstein	Stunning sequel to " Bride of Frankenstein " has the son of Baron returning to the castle and being met by villagers with less than welcome salutations . The village nearby is so traumatized by the monster's rampaging violent past that even the name of Frankenstein gives them the willies . Bela Lugosi stars as broke-necked Ygor who has a secret he bestows upon Baron Wolf Frankenstein ( Basil Rathbone , who is nothing short of outstanding ) . . the monster that was said to be dead is in fact alive and intact in a secret location only they know about . Wolf sees this as an opportunity to make this creature humane while studying what makes it tick through careful research , assisted by butler , Benson ( Edgar Norton ) . Lionel Atwill stars as Herr Inspector Krogh , a policeman who knows first-hand what power the monster has since his own arm was pulled from the torso thanks to Baron's creation . He now has a fake one attached with limited mobility to offer . The conflict within the film is provided by Lugosi's sinister Ygor who has formed a bond of friendship with the monster and when Wolf is able to resurrect the creature from a comatose state , the creature is able to kill certain members behind the hanging of the broke-necked fiend ( his sentence was for grave-robbing ; in an inspired scene Ygor is being questioned by his peers in regards to what Wolf is up to in his laboratory where the broke-necked fiend pokes fun at them for not finishing what they started ) . Despite good intentions from Wolf , Ygor has complete control over the monster and soon the violence that erupts will bring the village down on him . He becomes a bundle of bad nerves as Krogh is often probing him not to mention Ygor's murderous activities . Josephine Hutchinson is given a thankless role as Wolf's worried wife who wishes to leave because of this unsettled fear and seeing her husband behaving out of sorts doesn't help . . she is quite good and makes the most of the role . But , ultimately , you return to Karloff who just understands how the monster ticks bringing human traits and life to the monster . I feel that the other " Frankenstein monsters " pale in comparison because he is played merely as an emotionless beast killing and maiming . Karloff makes him human and shows pain and angst in his face ( the best scene , in my opinion , is when the monster sees his reflection in the mirror and is terrified at the sight ) . I think those who question Lugosi's skill need to see this film especially . I think " Son of Frankenstein " gives Lugosi a chance , much like his primitive Sayer-of-the-Law in " Island of Lost Souls " , to express himself . Lugosi provides us with an evil , sly creature who knows how to manipulate those around him in various ways , often using his rough exterior to an advantage . It's easy to see others deeming themselves superior to someone who looks so ragged and nasty like Ygor , but he has cunning and knows how to control situations just because he is frowned upon as inferior . The film has amazing massive sets , some fascinating moments such as the " interrogations " between Krogh and Wolf , and the cast really bring this up to a high level . Not to mention , the film explores the innards of the monster and how his simplemindedness can be used against him , case in point being how Ygor has gained his trust and how he can use the monster to do evil deeds for him . Probably the most underrated of all the Frankenstein films . . and perhaps , the best .
The Nameless	I think what makes THE NAMELESS so terrifying is the fact that it's grounded in realism . . the idea that a flock , perverted by the deranged fundamental ideas of a very sick man , are arranging this diabolical plan to achieve an imagined profound state ( . . synthesis ) through the absolute act of evil , in turn , causing an innocent to suffer even more . The group is called the Nameless , those who choose not to have a human title ( . . it , in essence , removes them from purity and humanity , free to commit atrocities , not bound by laws or morality ) completely embracing immorality and evil , following the pathological ideals of Santini ( Carlos Lasarte ) . Claudia ( Emma Vilarasau ) is the tormented victim of the film , her young daughter kidnapped , reporting to the morgue to determine if the devastated corpse of a female child is her own . A bracelet of her daughter , Angela , was found by the corpse , and Claudia accepts the loss as best as she can , but five years later , still in deep mourning , her phone rings with a voice claiming to be her child , begging for help . Claudia , finding a beach house , from the directed voice across the phone , discovers a boot and various photos all over the place . Confused and distraught , Claudia confides in recently resigned detective , Bruno Massera ( Karra Elejalde ) , the one who worked on her daughter's case , for help . Another unexpected ally emerges , Quiroga ( Tristán Ulloa ) , a tabloid journalist / photographer , whose establishment was sent a tape with Claudia's phone number on it . Soon Bruno hits the pavement , Claudia often in tow , trying to uncover the whereabouts and background on the Nameless . An aspect that really makes Jaume Balagueró's THE NAMELESS such an intense experience is the fact that this cult could be everywhere , lurking in the shadows , close nearby , because the people involved look like normal , regular folks you pass on the streets , in bars , and elsewhere . There are examples of these cults throughout history , willing to kill themselves or others at the command of a charismatic leader who spellbinds them . The film is an investigative thriller following three lead characters in pursuit of a dangerous group who may be leading them into a trap . Convenient clues throughout the film , left for the characters to discover , perhaps motivate Claudia and Bruno into a spider's web , heading for a confrontation with the epitome of menace . What's really scary is how willing this group is at killing . The opening of the film displays the depths of their malice , as we see a coroner and Bruno around the destroyed body of a girl who was tortured while still alive , practically unrecognizable the corpse is so pulverized . The fate of Claudia's obsessive ex-boyfriend , Toni ( Pep Tosar ) , a grisly site left for her and Bruno to discover . The fate of another who discovers their lair and is systematically slaughtered by the group using box cutters . Despite the cult's activities , the ultimately unsettling moment ( . . along with Claudia's discovery of Angela , no longer the loving , sweet little girl she once knew and her actions as the screen fades to black ) is when Claudia meets Santini . . in an asylum after being sentenced for the rape and anal violence of two boys . His chilling ramblings about learning from those in concentration camps ( . . a symbolic link between the Nameless and Nazis ) while feeding Claudia riddles awaken us to the fact that those under him were manipulated and mentally captured by a raving , but intelligent madman . The scene is haunting because of Lasarte's performance of Santini . . you loathe this roach , but can not take your eyes off of him , a completely unpredictable monster with a way of commanding an audience . Jaume Balagueró's film is incredibly depressing , and bleak as can be , but fascinating and unnerving . . like Claudia and Bruno , we are led down a really dark path into an abyss of insanity and see how something innocent can be polluted by the depraved ideologies of a twisted belief system . Extremely well acted ( . . you truly feel for Claudia and Bruno , both victims of loss ) and the direction is solid thanks in part to Jaume Balagueró's control of the viewer ( . . or , me , at least ; I found it quite gripping ) following the sequence of events which will change Claudia's life forever .
Don't Come Knocking	One day , out of the blue , western star ( this is ironic that he's a western star since in our modern times , the American western genre is quite quiet ) Howard Spence ( the terrific , laconic Sam Shepard , who also wrote the screenplay ) rides off from his movie set in Utah . He calls up his mother ( Eva Marie Saint ; she's wonderful every moment she's on screen ) for whom he hasn't spoken in nearly thirty years and asks if he may come for a visit to see her in Nevada . He finds out , through conversation with mama , that he may have a child he never knew existed . So , after a little while with mama , Howard heads off for the little town of Butte , Montana ( where most of the film , lovingly photographed by Franz Lustig , takes place ) to find his old lady love , Doreen ( Jessica Lange ) . He indeed finds that he has a son , troubled with booze , melancholy , & bitterness named Earl ( Gabriel Mann ) who sings nights at a pub . He also finds out , through fate , a daughter named Sky ( played by the simply wonderful Sarah Polly , who portrays the character understated ) for whom carries around the remains of her mother in an urn . There are , of course , laws that state you just can not leave the set of a film , so the producers send off " detective " Sutter ( Tim Roth , hilariously subdued ) , a by-the-numbers blank just trying to do his job . . and quickly , with order . Another inspired bit of casting has Fairuza Balk as the funky , cooky , punky girlfriend of Earl ( she calls him , " Early " ) named Amber . One of my all-time favorite films is a collaboration between director Wim Wenders and writer Sam Shepard called Paris , Texas , and this film plays in the same vein . It's about a man who ran out on everyone , through a haze of time ( Howard even tells Doreen that time just went by so fast ) , trying to set things right as his career has hit the skids . He has come across guilt and loneliness . I fell in love with this movie mainly for how it is shot ( the cinematography is perfect for fans of westerns ; I believe we see the John Ford influence in Wenders ' western pictures ) and the casting . The film's soundtrack is mostly country tunes and some strumming on a guitar which provides an easy-going feel that plays off the atmosphere and structure of this character piece . It took 3 years to write and 5 years to finish according to Wenders . Butte is the main focal location as we see Howard walking the streets of a simple country town set in amongst a Montana that seems ordinary and comfy . Fans of Fairuza Balk will love to know that she steals every scene she's in and Sarah Polley has never been more beautiful .
R-Point	Those who liked " Deathwatch " may wish to check out this ( even better ) Korean ghost tale from director Su-chang Kong about a group of South Korean troops in Vietnam searching for a missing group they heard a distress signal from . Once they get up to a location called R-Point where these old Temple Ruins are located ( signifying in a different language that anyone with blood on their hands would be cursed ; it's stated that this location goes untouched by either the North or South Vietnamese ) weird things start to occur . They meet people , actually talking to them in conversations , only later finding their dead corpses . They set-up a base-camp at an eerie dilapidated castle and try their damnedest to find the soldiers . . but even finding their own way out of R-Point seems impossible . Soon various soldiers loose their grip on sanity . . we soon learn that ghosts and guns can only lead to a heap of trouble . There's possibly even some possession involved as well . I thought it was good and creepy . The setting amongst the grass-infested ruins and castle just adds to the eerie atmosphere of the ghosts often appearing from the dark .
The Fifth Cord	Exceptional giallo thriller from director Luigi Bazzoni starring Franco Nero as a boozing news journalist , Andrea Bild , who is assigned a story regarding various individuals who are murdered on Tuesdays representing a specific horoscopic point of birth by a killer whose chilling voice diabolically whispers on a recorded machine his plans of executing chosen prey with anticipation . The selection of the killer all tie into an inner circle of wealth , as the film introduces us to an important doctor , Richard Bini ( Renato Romano ) , his crippled , wheel-chair bound wife , Sophia ( Rossella Falk ) , a French businessman , Edouard Vermont ( Edmund Purdom ) who doesn't realize that his up-coming marriage to Isabel Lancia ( Ira von Fürstenberg ) is what is ultimately fueling the the unusual murder spree , and Andrea's ex-lover Helene ( Silvia Monti ) . What Andrea soon realizes is that he has ties to all those who are chosen for annihilation , and , despite being so wasted he couldn't hardly stand , doesn't have an air-tight alibi during the time each individual was killed . He's soon removed from covering the story , approaching his editor angrily , threatening to kill him for being taken off . . and , in doing so becomes an even greater suspect when his editor is found dead , dying of a heart attack as someone chased after him with a knife in the bushes near the newspaper office . To truly clear his name , and motivated and driven to bring the real killer to justice , Andrea will not stop until the madness is over . And , as each body is found , a glove with an extra finger is missing at the crime scene of every subsequent victim who is discovered , with the final chosen perhaps being Helene's own son ! What Andrea discovers is quite a perverse side to those involved with the victims killed , Edouard and Richard's extra curricular activities regarding their enjoyment in watching a couple , a race car driver and underage prostitute whose father likes to watch in hiding , making out in a secret establishment . In a sub-plot , Andrea has a on-again / off-again sexual relationship with a lovely fashion model who is the sister to the race car driver and he still carries feelings for Helene . Very important is the attack of a certain character , Lubbock ( Maurizio Bonuglia ) in a tunnel and how he communicates with Andrea regarding supposed threats from an unknown person harassing him with phone calls and letters . But , Lubbock is a key character in this film for , unlike the other victims killed on Tuesday , he was attacked on Monday . An image that means everything in the grand scheme of things is Lubbock's reaction to Edouard and Isabel's loving embrace at a fancy restaurant . The creepy voice delightfully explaining how he / she couldn't wait to strangle and kill accompanying a fish-eye lens into the restaurant at the very opening of this movie sure sets the tone for this well crafted giallo which definitely benefits from the talents and artistic eye of cinematographer Vittorio Storaro ( . . who turned down working with director Michaelangelo Antonioni as a favor to his pal , Bazzoni ) who was red-hot and on his way to great success ( . . but , he had already achieved this with Bernardo Bertolucci's masterpiece " The Conformist " ) . The exquisite camera set-ups , the masterful way he shoots characters from long distances in stunning locations exploiting beautifully empty spaces ( . . a massive flight of steps , a long tunnel , desolate ruins of skeletal warehouses ) , how the lens at times looks like a spying mechanism , a type of eye that's looking at the world from a different point of view all give this a thumb up over Bazzoni's contemporaries . But , to limit the film's execution to just Storaro is taking away from what everyone accomplishes , from the editing on down . I will say that while the twist wasn't that surprising , the finale ( . . from the moment Helene calls her son Tony about locking the doors only to discover that the killer is inside the house , to Andrea's chasing him into the ruins of decaying buildings where they scuffle often throwing each other through glass ) is a nail-biter . And Morricone's musical accompaniment only adds to the visual work and tense sequences where danger possibly awaits Andreas . And , finally an actor of the caliber of Franco Nero , called Mr . Bill by almost everyone , in the lead as our troubled and fallible hero searching for the truth while confiding in the very police inspector tailing him , puts the final jewel in the crown of a gem giallo , and it comes highly regarded from yours truly . This is a must for giallo fans . The eerie sequence concerning Sophia , alone in her room up-stairs on the floor crying for help as a killer turns out the lights with only the flaming fireplace guiding her , is definitely a high-light .
Body Double	An out-of-work actor , Jake Scully ( Craig Wasson , quite good in a rare starring role ) , struggling after a broken relationship and a career marred by his claustrophobia , is allowed to stay in the fine , palatial home of another actor , Sam Bouchard ( Gregg Henry ) . Jake is a certified peeper and Sam introduces him to a gorgeous woman across the way who likes to flaunt her naked body in front of an open window . Jake frequently peeps at her during his stay , but never imagines that this woman's life would be in jeopardy . An " Indian " who works for the satellite company , repairing a dish on the woman's property , spies and follows her . The woman's name is Gloria ( Deborah Shelton ) and Jake takes a particular interest in her himself , but wishes ultimately to protect her from the Indian . In a long , marvelous sequence ( which is , in my opinion , some of De Palma's best work as a director ) , Jake follows Gloria to the mall and beach apartments worried for her life when he spots the Indian , in his Ranger , right behind her . At the beach apartment , Gloria was awaiting a certain someone . . when he doesn't show , she heads to the beach only to have her purse stole by the Indian as Jake pursues him . Once they make it to a tunnel , Jake freezes in fear because of his paralyzing vertigo . The Indian gets away with a pass key that can open Gloria's home . This sets off a harrowing , and ultimately haunting , sequence where the Indian enters Gloria's home , taking her jewelry as Jake looks on in a state of horror . Instead of calling the police , Jake tries to play hero with Gloria being killed by the Indian thanks in part to a nasty use of a drill . Jake couldn't help her because the house's dog attacks him . This haunting aspect looms over Jake for he could not heroically ride in like a knight in shining armour and save the woman he cares for . This set-piece is the catalyst for the rest of the film as Jake desperately desires to redeem himself after the loss of Gloria . This entails a porn star named Holly Body ( Melanie Griffith , who is good in her short screen time ) who may've played a part in the murder and didn't even know it . And , a possible revelation might prove that Jake was playing a part in a very dangerous plot not of his doing , but because of his faults . I fell in love with De Palma's camera-work in this film . Not just that , but the amazing editing work and the twisty story which kept me on edge . I was repulsed at how De Palma unapologetically and blatantly rips off Hitchcock , but what he does with the themes from VERTIGO & REAR WINDOW do make up some wonderful visual set-pieces . But , this film is the anti-thesis almost of REAR WINDOW as the hero isn't able to save the woman he loves because he was simply too far away , while also oh so close . Using the paralyzing shock of vertigo and claustrophobia plays the most important role in this film because Jake is damaged by this . It affects his life in such traumatic ways . De Palma has a field day with the pornography business , submerging and propelling the film often into sleaze . Dennis Franz has a small memorable role as Jake's film director . The " Relax-Don't Do It " porno video is a highlight .
Miller's Crossing	Tom ( Gabriel Byrne ) is Leo's ( Albert Finney ) right hand man and intelligent voice of reason . Being the city's top gangster , Leo depends on Tom's advice . The pot is stirred when Leo's moll , Verna ( Marcia Gay Harden ) has a pesky brother Bernie ( John Turturro ) who is stealing from rival mob boss , Casper ( Jon Polito ) . Casper wants Bernie dead and will clear Tom's gambling debts with a local shyster Lazarre if he'll complete the task . Tom has another problem besides his debt and that is his sleeping around with Verna . Casper makes it known that he wants to be head honcho of the city and offers a partnership with Tom if he'll switch sides . Casper even tries , and fails , an attempt on Leo's life sending goons with tommy guns to kill him . Leo does lose his position , but won't go away . It appears that Tom has switched sides , but things are always uncertain in a Coen brothers film . The story unravels as circumstances surface such as Dane ( JE Freeman ) , Casper's heavy who doesn't trust Tom and follows him . You have Bernie who is indeed a thorn needing removal even towards Tom . But , one figures that the " cool-under-pressure " Tom has a scheme brewing that will benefit himself first . Leo seeks blood for the death of one of his men , tailing Verna . Also , a pal of Bernie's , Mink ( Steve Buscemi ) plays a special part in certain key moments in the way the plot carries out regarding both Tom and Verna's annoying , thieving brother . As in most film noir , the characters are all flawed , imperfect and corrupt . . there's no one who escapes unscathed without at least one skeleton poking it's head from the closet to wink . The protagonist , Tom , isn't exactly the kind of hero one roots for as he is , it seems , merely out for himself . But , the motivations of Tom and his manipulation , without the blood caking in the cracks of his hands , is the real reason to check out this nasty piece of work that represents the noir genre dutifully . The photography , and era detail are flawless . The complex story as it unwinds is a lot of fun . Twists abound and many characters will just about have Tom licked when it seems a guardian angel rescues him from underneath the tightening noose .
The Scarecrow reviews " Lady in a Cage "	Olivia de Havilland ( in a performance that could've easily been hammy , but instead is completely true and heartbreaking ) portrays Cornelia Hilyard , a widow with a bad hip who uses an elevator to move from one floor to another . On one unfortunate day , her son leaves for a few days ( there is a sad angle to his life that we see in little increments as mother does little overbearing things which etch subtly on William Swan's Malcolm's face ) , and during an accidental power failure , Cornelia is trapped in her elevator and her alarm bell doesn't seem to attract anyone for assistance . Her constant bell ringing does bring one visitor , unfortunate for Cornelia it is a wino played by Jeff Corey who seeks a relationship with Ann Sothern's ( who is very good ) Sade , a hustler . The wino escapes Cornelia's home with a toaster for a quick sell at a pawn shop where the sadistic pack of wolves led by an evil James Caan ( who is simply brilliant in an inspired method performance ) as Randall Simpson O'Connell notice him . They see possible riches so they follow the wino ( who has enlisted the aid of Sade ) to Cornelia's home . From this point on , we must watch in horror as Cornelia dangles in this contraption while Caan and his gang terrorize Sade and the wino while mocking her . . and taking her possessions from the house . They decide to it might be wise to kill the wino and Sade , not to mention ending the life of Cornelia . Cornelia , however , has tricks up her sleeve . Seeing Caan harassing de Havilland I feel is the most powerful part of this film . . that and the unfortunate tragedy of Cornelia's son who can not accept his mother's overbearing ways { there is also perhaps hints of incest which might even broaden the the tragedy of the entire film } . The film has us in an unpleasant position . . we are on-lookers to a poor woman's fate for she has nowhere to go and is almost at the mercy of heathens who have this nihilism that is unpleasant . The film itself is so uncompromising I found myself surprised at how early it was made . 1964 ( or perhaps even 1960 ) was perhaps an example of how films would begin to leave the normalcy and comfort of feeding audiences only happy subjects and endings when the world was anything but . Caan and his bunch are a representation of the youth culture abandoned by society . . perhaps that's why the rage and hostility towards the older sect comes from . Caan's Randall informs Cornelia he's been in reform schools and institutions since he was 9 . One can perhaps see why he's so willing to smash and maim . . there's such pain there that can only surface through volatile means . Cornelia is a victim not only of health and age , but because of her wealth . That wealth only fuels Randall's will . The film , I believe , is a masterwork that was way before it's time . It has not aged at all .
Alice's Restaurant	A moment in the life of a folk singer , Arlo ( Arlo Guthrie ) who spends time trying to make it in the music biz by doing the bar scene while also frequenting at a hippie commune / restaurant derived from a former Catholic church . His many numerous acquaintances are a major part of this story as we get to know those who hang around the commune . Arlo also pays visits to his ailing father , Woody . We see the humor , tragedy , and response towards living the hippie lifestyle . Alice ( Pat Quinn , who is simply delightful ) runs the kitchen at the commune often tired of her man , Ray's ( James Broderick ) constant decisions to bring more and more off the street for her to cook for . She's the surrogate mother for those that choose this way of living , but often yearns for more . The tragic element of the film is Shelly ( Michael McClanathan ) , a young man trying endlessly to kick a nasty drug habit and loved almost as a son by Ray & Alice . We see in a love-making scene that Alice also cares for him sexually . They try their damnedest to keep him off the pipe , but seeing the agony of that decision leads us to believe it's only a matter of time before he caves in . Through Arlo's narration , we get some witty interludes such as the " littering " sequence where Deputy Obie ( William Obanhein ) obsessively goes completely by the rules in exact , hilarious detail . The sequence where Arlo goes in for his numerous tests to see if he's fit for Vietnam is also quite funny ( in that sequence , there's a hilarious cameo from a young E Emmet Walsh as a fast-talking test-giver ) . But , the film depicts the characters and dialogue with such richness , intelligence , and heart . . there isn't a false note amongst the cast . The film's subject matter and portrait of this lifestyle rings true . The narration is marvelous and the film keeps that tone pretty much throughout .
To Live and Die in L	Secret Service Agent Richard Chance ( William Peterson , who is brooding with intensity ) wants counterfeiter Eric Masters ( Willem Dafoe , wonderfully slimy with an underlying menace ) really bad for the murder of his partner Jim ( Michael Greene ) , who was two days to retirement . They had been working hard on a case against Eric and Jim had found the location where he was creating the " funny money " . Unfortunately Jim goes there alone and Eric was hidden along with his " iceman " Jack ( Jack Hoar ) plug him . Assigned a new partner , John Vukovich ( John Pankow , an actor I think has always been underrated ) whose father and grandfather were cops , Richard will do whatever it takes to bring Eric to justice . But , Richard's blinded need for revenge causes many goofs and problems as he doesn't operate through proper channels ( especially when Richard steals money from an FBI agent he believes is just a hood ) . Richard has an informant , Ruth ( the sexy Darlanne Fluegel who has a steamy sexual encounter with Peterson as both appear in the throes of quiet lustful abandon ) he keeps out on parole who often feeds him bits to work from especially concerning specific targets he presently goes after . She , however , may've set up Richard with a bogus hood who is supposedly carrying hard cash for a diamond trade-off which leads to his and John's foiling a FBI sting . In a humdinger of a car-chase through the streets and freeways of LA , Richard and John try to elude an army of FBI agents out to catch them . That money they attained from the FBI agent Richard and John thought was a hood , is what they plan to use to pay an up-front cost to Eric for funny money so that he will be caught in the act . The meeting is arranged and everything seems to be in order , but this isn't a typical by-the-numbers cop drama and ends in tragedy . John Turturro has a memorable role as a bag man for Eric who gets caught carrying the funny money , but after being sprung by Richard to show him where the new counterfeit factory is located , escapes by duping the agent ( . . using a supposed sick daughter in the hospital as a means to trick Richard ) . Debra Feuer has the role of Bianca , a lover of Eric's who also assists him in various duties regarding his counterfeiting practices . Dean Stockwell has a role as Eric's dirty lawyer . Steve James has a role as a street worker for Eric who supplies his people with the funny money turning quite a profit for them both until one tries to betray the other . Of note is Robby Müller's fantastic photography of LA really bringing a color and grit to the look of the city at this time in the mid-80's . Müller , who also lensed Wim Wenders ' Paris , Texas a year prior to this film , really has a way of showing the lights from a distance and steam from the city allowing us to feel the energy and atmosphere of LA . Also , Wang Chung's electronic score provides a thumping beat that matches the intensity and energy of the film's pace and style .
Control	Inside a fictitious underground subway system ( the entire film is set in a real Budapest subway transit , but what occurs within it is all fiction ) ticket inspectors go through the torments and doldrums of daily life when dealing with the unruly , disrespectful , and cruel public who often don't pay for their tickets . The film's protagonist , Bulcsú ( Sándor Csányi ) sleeps on the platform of the station and one wonders what keeps him from leaving . In a certain scene , we get an answer when a former associate , now the leader of a certain team in an organization , asks Bulcsú where he's been since " not finishing his work . " That work isn't necessarily provided to us , nor does it need to be . . all we needed to know was that the daily strife of competing with others up the corporate ladder was too stressful . He quit when he could've possible been at the top . . the idea of failure sent him running to the underground subway and the fear of what might lie ahead for him keeps Bulcsú inside . Bulcsú also meets a young woman in a bear costume who is the daughter of a train conductor . Bulcsú doesn't know that she is " Uncle " Béla's ( Lajos Kovács ) daughter and both are quite enamored with each other . There's a hooded killer pushing victims in front of on-going trains and a runner nicknamed Bootsie ( Bence Mátyássy ) who never pays for a ticket , sprays whip cream in the faces of the inspectors , and openly challenges them to catch him . You have a gang that considers themselves the best inside the subway transport organization whose head leader ( there are set groups who operate different sections of the underground subway system ) named Gonzo ( Balázs Lázár ) challenges Bulcsú to the deadly " railing " competition ( which goes practically unseen . . we really get more of an understanding of this deadly game when Bulcsú is running from the hooded killer later ) consisting of two people running behind the last passenger train having to not only miss all the wires and cables , but also escaping the Midnight Express train behind them . All this and so much more ( such as the tragic character Laci , portrayed by László Nádasi , who succumbs to the mad aggression the public places on them by slicing the throat of a civilian who punches the inspector when asked if he had his ticket ) inside the tunnels of this setting . Vividly sketched characters , the various public debacles that fall on men ( and the women who are able to hang on ) trying to do their jobs facing a public who hates them , the unpredictable nature of staying too long in the tunnels , and a solid cast all create a very fascinating and entertaining film . Director Nimród Antal has an incredible visual eye always coming up with various stylish ways to frame shots of things , events & people within the subway . There's an undeniable atmosphere created within it and Sándor Csányi as Bulcsú is really good at expressing the somberness of his character which really meshes with the flow and tone of the film .
It's Alive !	A family is riddled with tragic repercussions when a baby is born a mutated monstrosity with an urge to rip the throats of victims after it escapes the hospital . Starting with the hospital staff in the delivery room , Frank and Lenore's ( John P Ryan & Sharon Farrell ) monster baby goes on a rampage , attacking citizens in Bevery Hills including a milk man . Frank and Lenore's names are released to the media as the parents with their life taking a turn for the worse . Not only do they have to deal with having such a monster baby , but knowing that it's killing folks in the Beverly Hills area and that people look at them strangely as if they were at fault somehow . There's a killer monster baby out there , somebody's got to take the blame so why not point the accusing finger at the parents , eh ? Frank loses his lucrative public relations job ( . . kind of a sense of irony here , considering Frank's life is a public relations nightmare ) and Lenore is slowly growing mad . As the police issue a man hunt , researching scientists wish to study the child , although the pharmaceutical company who created certain pills Lenore was taking during her pregnancy wish for it to be dead . . destroyed beyond recognition so that any kind of scientific study would not yield results damaging the precious reputation of the medication issued by any big name company . While their eleven year old son Chris ( Daniel Holzman ) remains with a friend , Charley ( William Wellman , Jr ) , the couple try to cope somehow with the various traumas put upon them . But , the baby wishes to find mommy and daddy . . You know it's been quite a while since I last saw this , but I never remembered Larry Cohen's pinnacle of monster / killer baby flicks ( . . honestly , when you hear the moniker , " killer baby flick " , what's the first movie that pops into your head ? ) being as depressing and thought-provoking as this viewing turned out to be . A nice little twist at the end pointing out that perhaps a plague was developing across the nation , and questioning whether or not certain medications or radioactive elements cause abnormalities and various deformities to born children , really give this flick a surprising sub-text not often associated with these type of films . The performances , from Ryan and Farrell as the tormented , agonizing parents who didn't ask for the problems forced on them , really won me over . There are scenes where Farrell as Lenore attempts to return to a sense of normalcy that her family's lives had , with those around her ( . . and us ) noticing that she's deteriorating emotionally and psychologically . . this burden of not being able to hold a child you carried in your womb for 9 months and the fact that everyone wishes to kill it certainly is displayed to the viewer through Farrell's crumbling demeanor and burdened face , attempting to smile with nothing but sadness behind it . There's one terrific scene for Ryan ( . . although , he has many when the film pointedly expresses his aching and thoughtless determination to kill the beast which has caused so much pain to his family ) where he . . in the sewers with the police searching for the baby . . is face to face with his monster child realizing , through tear-swelling eyes , that he can not kill what it essentially his son . I think that's another aspect that impressed me . . the idea that society looks at the deformed and ugly as inhuman only fit for death , while the parents see a child of theirs with a right to live regardless of how it was born . I felt Cohen did the right thing by hinting at the monster baby without elaborating in great detail what it looks like . Through visual tricks , Cohen keeps the baby from being completely visualized , escaping ( . . mostly ) giggles and chuckles from an audience . I do think , believe it or not , that the film holds it's own thanks in part to the serious tone and interesting subject matter , performed admirably with a straight-face . There's no doubt , though , that the film was made on a cheap budget , but I felt Cohen overcomes that thanks to the performances and script which I think work .
Next Stop , Greenwich Village	Slice-of-life piece about a young Jewish man , Larry Lapinsky ( Lenny Baker ) , with designs on being an actor , struggling not only to make ends meet so he can carry out his profession and grow as an actor through a studio teacher , but also overcoming the domineering presence of his overbearing , at-times maniacal mother ( " She invented the Oedipus complex " says Larry ) Fay ( Shelley Winters , outstanding as always ) . The setting is Greenwich village in the 50's amongst the art crowd where Larry becomes immersed in the lifestyle . We see how his life changes as Larry becomes good friends with several various people ( a young Chris Walken as a poetic Lothario who enjoys bedding all kinds of women ; Lois Smith as a suicidal painter ; Ellen Green as Larry's love-interest Sarah ; Antonio Fargas as a gay wannabe actor whose whole life is one big lie ) . It's a breath of fresh air , this movie , and a break from the doldrums of typical Hollywood cinema . This is the kind of film that allows actors to spread their wings and create vivid , realistic characters . The film feels so fresh and authentic . You really are a vital part of these people's lives and dreams thanks to Mazursky's intelligent portrait . You can really see how much Mazursky loves New York City ( specifically Brooklyn and Greenwich Village ) and these people that live there . Jeff Goldblum has a very funny role as a smart-mouthed struggling actor whose loud-mouth is like a leaky faucet which can not shut itself off .
Pépé le Moko	Pépé le Moko ( Jean Gabin ) , an elusive gangster ( with a special gift as a master thief ) hides out from the French authorities in the labyrinthine Algerian Casbah . The citizens within this place assist their local celebrity because he represents that anti-authoritarian way of life against the government outside their city walls . A paid informer within the city , Régis ( Fernand Charpin ) , has concocted the perfect plan to draw Pépé out of the city by using the gangster's best friend , Pierrot ( Gilbert Gil ) as bait . By using a fake note stating Pierrot's mother was sick just out of the city , he will be cornered by police and arrested . That plan doesn't exactly go as planned because Pépé doesn't leave the Casbah and Pierrot returns badly wounded ( . . eventually dying ) . Killing Régis doesn't take away the agony of losing a brother ( their relationship modeled that of family ) and the only true thing that helps bring Pépé out of his sadness is a growing love affair with a Parisian nicknamed Gaby ( Mireille Balin ) . Unfortunately , he has no further use for Algerian Inès ( Line Noro ) who loves him dearly . Pépé even tells her that he has been bored in their relationship for some time describing tying her to the very Casbah for which he wishes to escape . This triangle will certainly open a possibility for Pépé's downfall . Yearning for Paris , Gaby represents a " different landscape " for Pépé who just wishes to escape Casbah's cage he's boxed in . This is a quintessential french noir and Gabin is the European actor who represents a symbol of the stylish gangster films from this golden age of crime film . As he often does , Gabin plays his gangster as cool , dashing , charming & mysterious only conveying to us little elements a bit at a time . He IS the film and it's style matches how he plays Pépé . But , as many noir have always tended to operate , Pépé is a crook and must be denied true love . A man with past mistakes ( . . and , let's not kid ourselves , Pépé had made many in his long life of crime ) will certainly reap what he sows . It's interesting to note that the man who eventually traps Pépé is the smallish , yet cunning , Inspector Slimane ( Lucas Gridoux ) . . a cop who knows Pépé's exact locations , chats it up with the criminal , but faces off with him saying that he will be the one to catch him . He's the very man who schemes the perfect plan to nab the gangster by using the man's bounding love against him .
Vital	A troubled , enigmatic amnesiac , Hiroshi ( Tadanobu Asano ) , who lost his memory and beloved Ryôko ( Nami Tsukamoto ) in an accidental car crash , discovers that the one he's assigned to dissect in his medical class is her ! Ikumi ( Kiki ) , whose adulterous lover and medical professor committed suicide after she rejected his love towards her , desires Hiroshi but finds that he is overwhelmed by Ryôko's memory . Ryôko's memory unravels in Hiroshi's mind as he continues to dissect , articulate on paper every vital organ , and study her . . it seems that , through this type of thorough examination , he can feel emotionally whole . There's this place he goes where Ryôko exists ( imagine an ideal , idyllic beach setting or inside a forest whose beautiful , lush trees stretch endlessly towards the sky for miles ) that feels so real , but it's a fabrication he will have to return from . This unhealthy obsession develops which engulfs his life . . he grows more and more distant from the outside world as Ryôko takes center stage . It seems that Hiroshi was partaking in a form of sexual strangulation with Ryôko that he now continues with Ikumi , but when doing such a dangerous thing he seems to travel to the place where he's the most happy . . where Ryôko awaits and wishes for him to stay . Everyone around Hiroshi are disturbed at his obsession with Ryôko's body as he often continues his dissecting work into the night causing discomfort towards the students assigned to her ( he often harasses them by staring , charging at them when they clown around , or causes intense pressure when they seem to mess up ) and the professors who believe he's too attached . By the time the class is over , only Ikumi remains there and that's because she loves him in an unhealthy way . . it's as if she is competing , and losing , with a dead woman clinging to the hope Hiroshi will snap out of it . The question is , how do you let go when you are that close to someone ? When that spirit of someone feels and seems to real that you wish to stay right where they are , how can one truly escape that ? When life outside of Ryôko doesn't even have that same passion and joy , why would Hiroshi wish to leave her side ? You know , this is a beautiful , challenging , and ultimately rewarding film about somehow letting go of the person you love when their memory comes rushing back to you . That overwhelming desire to hold them , love them , cherish them , and just cling them . . I think , through this unusual and unique premise , that we experience those things through Hiroshi . Director Shinya Tsukamoto is quite multi-talented . . he was in control of writing this very elusive work , editing it which wildly swings from reality into the fantasy created by the character Hiroshi , and beautifully photographing it . It's a stunning film , very moody and visually rich . The film does have very odd behavior by the central characters , mainly Hiroshi and Ikumi , who are dealing with their own obsessions and violent emotional tendencies and Tsukamoto doesn't hold back peering into their dementia . But , yet , despite their forays into the bizarre , this is still a very sad and effective tale of loss & acceptance that I found quite spellbinding . Very good performances from the male actors who played the fathers of Hiroshi and Ryôko , both deeply mournful of the loss of a young girl whose death was too soon .
The Hired Hand	Harry Collings ( Peter Fonda ) decides it's time to head back to a home where a wife of his he left behind resides ( he has been traveling for seven years as a hired hand making ends meet and moving to the next town ) . Arch Harris ( the great Warren Oates ) has been riding with Harry pretty much seven years and tags along when his design to ride to California goes bust . . a third party is killed by a mad husband claiming the young fellow was in bed with his wife . Harry and Arch get revenge on the shooter , blasting holes in his feet . They do not count on repercussions and hope that after burying the young man , whose sights were so set on the ocean water of California , they can leave this whole mess behind . Once Harry and Arch make the distance to the farm place of Hannah ( Verna Bloom , very good ) things are a little sticky at first . I mean your husband up and leaves you with child and then reappears seven years later . . how would you react ? Still , deep inside the love for Harry burns as bright as ever . Arch begins to feel out of place ( . . or in the way ) after a while and decides it's best to let Harry , Hannah , & their daughter Janey ( Megan Denver ) begin a new life together . Harry and Hannah find that renewed joy and love that had been kept separate for so long , but it will be tested yet again when the past comes haunting back . . the man whose feet Harry shot has taken Arch captive and wants him to return or else he'll cut off all his fingers and toes , eventually killing him . The thought of seeing Harry ride off again with the uncertainty of what will happen to him is too much to bear . But , Harry just can not sit back and let them slowly kill Arch . . Sad , somber , beautiful film is about romance and love lost then regained , but also about the strength and bond of friendship . Perhaps a bit slow-going for more traditionalist western fans wanting shootouts and faster pacing . The photography of Vilmos Zsigmond is absolutely stunning ; a western has never quite been framed this way before . The performances are top-of-the-line and the film is made with heart and care for the characters . But , I won't lie , the visual work from Zsigmond is the main reason to give this western a try .
Reincarnation	" We'll stay together forever . " College Professor , Kazuya Omori ( Shun Oguri ) claims the lives of eleven victims ( including his wife , son & daughter ) before committing suicide in a hotel in 1970 , the 45th day of Showa . Movie director Ikuo Matsumura ( Kippei Shiina ) is motivated to create a portrait which focuses on the lives of the victims , shying away from the murderer . In a sense , his screenplay , " Memories " fashioned from memoirs and items involving those unfortunate victims whose fates were sealed on that day , is a testament or way of honoring them . Actress Nagisa Sugiura ( Yûka ) is selected to portray the little girl who was killed by her father , Omori and as soon as the script is delivered to her , strange occurrences plague her . She sees memories of that horrifying day , often reliving them as if drawn into that specific time . A college student , Yayoi Kinoshita ( Karina ) is having dreams of a specific hotel , and in her pursuit for that location , realizes it is the hotel where the eleven murders took place . Are these specific events related or mere coincidence ? We watch as the film dedicated to the victims is recreated with poor Nagisa experiencing more and more horrifying occurrences . Both Nagisa and Yayoi will discover terrifying truths about why they experience these visions . . they do correlate with that hotel and we watch in disturbing detail as those events from 1970 unfold . I think both " Ju-on : The Grudge " & " Marebito " were stepping stones to reach Takashi Shimizu's masterpiece , " Rinne / Reincarnation " . He takes " cryptomnesia phenomenon " ( . . or the idea of a " past life " , viewed as a symptom ) and spins it as an unpleasant horror tale where those who are the proponents ( " the human body is just a vessel " ) of this are stuck with having to carry the burden of reliving the same grim fates of their predecessors . The significance of the little boy's red ball , the little girl's eerie doll , and even the Professor's 8 mm video-recorder all are distinct images that Shimizu uses to optimum effect . In an amazing feat , Shimizu runs three different events occurring at the same time simultaneously , depicting the calculated events of Omori and those he killed in one sequential span of screen time . . Nagisa running through a crucial scene for Matsumura , Yayoi finding the hotel she's been searching for and discovering more than she could ever want to know , and Omori's video-recorded carnage viewed by Nagisa's agent ( after an incident Nagisa ' relived in her dream , she found Omori's video-camera in her bed ! ) . The final closing minutes as Nagisa discovers whose reincarnated spirit represents her and those who seek after her is quite unsettling and haunting . Actually the whole movie is quite wicked and disturbing . This was an amazing experience . . more horror films should be this smart and gripping . This film doesn't hold back on child violence , either , as we see what Omori actually does to his son and daughter with a large knife .
Horrors of Malformed Men	Let me just start by saying this film is crazy . . but , I had such a thrill and few films leave me as breathless with my jaw hanging in shock as " Horrors of Malformed Men " . It was like the door to an asylum of depravity and insanity was opened and we bare witness to the madness that springs forth . It starts out rather conventional . A young man , Hitomi is placed in the cell of an asylum and remembers the image of a seashore and the tune of a lullaby . A bald prisoner tries to murder him in his cell , but our protagonist gets the better of him and escapes . He meets a female circus performer who he heard humming the lullaby tune from his memory down a street from the institution . This circus performer was about to reveal the whereabouts of the seashore location he seeks , but is stabbed by a knife in the back . He is framed for her murder and flees . On a train he sees the photo of a recently deceased heir to a fortune named Genzaburou who looks exactly like Hitomi . After Genzaburou's burial ceremony , Hitomi assumes the man's identity having the surprised family believing his death misdiagnosed . Strangely , both Hitomi and Genzaburou have a specific scar on their foot and our protagonist notices the seashore from his memory nearby where his new identity lives . As Hitomi tries to falsely lead others who knew Genzaburou astray , continuing to remain in this new identity becomes quite exhausting . . how long can Hitomi continue this charade . Hitomi is told that across the sea on an island lives Genzaburou's father . Hitomi's wife is murdered by a poison , and his secret lover is supposedly getting threats through letter so he decides to take a trip to the island and that's where the film takes a detour into insanity . . The film really doesn't get good until Hitomi , his assistant ( who may be more than he appears ) and lover ( . . along with their man-servant who is of major importance and a voice that brings answers to some things left unanswered back at Genzaburou's estate ) land on the island where he finds his father , web-hands and dancing in some state of lunacy , who has turned normal women and old men into " malformed " animalistic primitives conducting all forms of depravity and unhinged behavior ( . . not to mention , the way that many are covered naked in forms of paint , chalk , feathers , etc ) . Some of them , in cages , eat grass from the madman's hand , making animal noises ! The madman explains what motivated this island of the bizarre and odd , speaking of his wife's adultery and his own web-hands . He plans , the nut , to turn loose his malformed army on the normal , enslaving them so that they can experience what it's like to feel his anguish . He also answers an important question that has troubled Hitomi . The film also explores an incestial relationship that blooms between Hitomi and the Siamese woman he separates from a creep the madman " sown " onto her , that culminates into " fireworks " at the end . Really , this film has to be seen to be believed . . especially the closing hour on the island . It's like nothing I've ever seen before . There's a lengthly " reveal " segment where everything that has occurred gets fitting explanations specifically Hitomi's missing history and how his life as a medical doctor was thwarted by betrayal which resulted in his attempted murder in that asylum . The " human chair " , " human fireworks " and , especially , the scene where a woman , imprisoned in a cave , has to eat the crabs which had spent a few days munching on her lover's corpse , are just highlights of many surreal sequences in this truly one-of-a-kind film .
Withnail and I	Two down-on-their-luck actors awaiting that chance to be on stage must overcome the obstacles of poverty while also battling various addictions . Withnail ( Richard E Grant who is excellent ) and Marwood ( Paul McGann who also narrates ) are pretty fed up with the city and take to the countryside for some rest and relaxation from their horribly unkempt , rat-infested flat in London . Surviving there will be easier with Monty ( Richard Griffiths ) furnishing food and wine hoping to land in the sack with Marwood who finds that his good ole pal Withnail has told his uncles lies regarding their " relationship . " Sufficed to say , Marwood is placed in a difficult predicament when Monty advances his feelings of sexual adoration one night with a drunken Withnail in the other room . The film provides us with the hilarious drug-dealer , Danny ( Ralph Brown ) who supplies them pot as they often lend him a place amongst them in their dirty flat . The film's mystery is will either of these two ever make it in the acting world or struggle to lead a normal existence with actual money lining their pockets . The film's narrative thread is thin , but the film is a droll comedy on the aspects of surviving on literally nothing but ingenuity from day to day dreaming that the letter will come to inform them of that major part which might change their lives forever . The leads are terrific and the dialogue rich . Witty and introspective , the film looks like it cost as much as the lead characters have in their pockets . That's an appealing quality I think .
Dellamorte Dellamore	A caretaker for Buffalora cemetery has the difficult task , along with his mute subservient simple-minded assistant , to keep the dead ( . . who rise from their graves days after their demise ) from leaving their new homes , using specially marked bullets which split apart their skulls on impact . The job weighs on him as a lovely widow returns to the grave of her much older husband , turning his world upside down . . her otherworldly beauty shakes him out of the daily grind of blasting holes in the skulls of the undead . But , when she becomes a victim of an unfortunate error caused by his hand , our dark hero's " life " follows a downward spiral . What a film ! If the ending doesn't leave you breathless , Anna Falchi as the unattainable muse our hero Francesco Dellamorte ( . . played dead-pan by the handsome Rupert Everett ) covets deeply , with fate always snatching her from his grasp , will . I have to say that Falchi must be considered one of the most beautiful women to ever grace a horror film , in or out of clothes . I would even agree that sex in cemeteries isn't exactly the most erotic choice for a locale , but thanks to the attractive leads , these moments are actually highly charged . Visually , the film , scene to scene , offer one dazzling , brilliantly conceived set piece after another . Such as the ossuary with the walls of skulls , roots & skeletal bones as Dellamorte and Falchi's " She " kiss while their heads are covered by veils was just stunningly realized . Or , the amazing silhouetted kiss with the massive backdrop of an enlarged moon . The Grim Reaper , as he forms from the burning pages of phone books ( . . Dellamorte's favorite reading material ) , warning Dellamorte against " taking his job " . Dellamorte's shower interrupted by zombie cub scouts , and an enraged male nun ( ? ! ) , trying to receive help from his assistance Gnaghi ( François Hadji-Lazaro , nyah ! ) whose immersed in his television program . The mayor , always concerned with keeping his role in office , being attacked by his dead daughter's angry severed head when he wouldn't blessing in her marrying Gnaghi ! Zombie Claudio exploding from his grave on a motorcycle with mortal girlfriend allowing him to feast from her flesh , furious when Dellamorte wished to put an end to her undead beloved . It seems that the film leaves some cold because of the macabre comedy such as the killing spree that ignites supposedly by Dellamorte on live humans . But , I think , the film , through an enigmatic , existential script , shows the disturbing plight of a man burdened with a career that has denied him of a life that perhaps doesn't ( . . or never has ) exist . A theme that never dies is the denial of love for Dellamorte . He's teased by the idea of love when Falchi returns , in various forms as other characters , but is always left wanting . That ending which leaves the jaw-dropping , " what the . . " feeling I think is hinted at during Dellamorte's " chats " with Death . His final moment with the Grim Reaper , as Dellamorte decides to leave the only place he's truly ever called home , has Death asking him , " Where are you going if you don't understand the difference between life and me ? " Ahhh , such food for thought once you add that statement to a visual touch igniting that question , as Dellamorte and Gnaghi pursue what lies at the end of a tunnel . What " life " has this cemetery man ever known other than the job of sending the dead back where they belong , just yearning to return and ending up back in their graves ? Besides the more difficult material presented , zombie fans ought to get fulfilled by plenty of gory attacks such as the use of Dellamorte's pistol as it blasts through heads and the way a spate sticks into the skull . There's a very violent sequence where Dellamorte shoots hospital staff and a nun come to check on an old pal of his , comatose on the verge of death , which might leave a few people disturbed . . even though it seems played as tongue-in-cheek . And , even before this a massacre leaving several dead by Dellamorte's hand seemed like a dream , until the police detective came pounding at his door with the news ( " At time I get ahead of my work " ) . And , a gag the film plays with is the police detective who never suspects Dellamorte despite evidence of possible wrong-doing . There's also some very quotable dialogue , often thought-provoking and interesting . There's laughs aplenty through poor Gnaghi , with his ugly looks and rather untidy manner . . . he's such a lovable ( . . and devoted ) character , though . Some of the effects are flawed such as the little balls of flame where string can easily be seen , or some zombie heads which get destroyed . I guess this could be a bit heavy-handed and outrageous for some , but I found it Gothic bliss with non-stop visual imagery and an unpredictable nature I loved . It's quite wicked , though , and not for everyone . I think this will be Soavi's considered masterpiece like SUSPIRIA was for his teacher Dario Argento . The snow globe that closes the film adds the perfect touch of mystery that leaves you pondering on what you had just finished watching .
Deranged	A film inspired by the notorious killer , Ed Gein has Roberts Blossom portraying Ezra Cobb , a man who slowly grows sociopathic after his mother dies . We see more of how Cobb becomes crazy rather than his killing which comes out towards the end . I felt the film is completely a black comedy playing off the absurd gimmick of documentary even having a narrator popping in at times to tell us this and that about Ezra . It's straight-faced , but one can see this is supposed to be parody . I'm pretty sure many might find this film a tasteless exercise sending up a sick individual who did horrible things , but I felt the filmmakers were stating that Ed Gein was an absurd person , quite deranged and aloof . He was quite simple-minded and a shut-in from the outside world where his whole being swirled around the care of his mother . The " mother complex " one associates with Norman Bates in PSYCHO is played to the hilt here as we see Ezra seeing images of mom warning him about sin and it's curse to those who commit acts of lust . The film really has a weird vibe ( as I'm sure we would all feel weird if we peered into Ed Gein's nights at homes with his dead skin and body parts . . and dear old mama ) once Ezra begins to bring home corpses and chats away with them believing whole-heartedly that they were quite alive . He even admits to having bodies in his house to neighbors who laugh it off as if Ezra is just joshing with them . That whole " not taking Ezra serious " attitude may've cost lives because once he admits to holding the body of a missing waitress ( we see what happens to her when she tries to escape Ezra's clutches while throwing the corpses at him in desperation only to receive a femur bone to the skull ) he is on a dark path to kill as many as it takes for fresh skin . The film really has only two disturbing death sequences , the waitress and a beautiful young girl , operating the register of a department store ( she is the girlfriend of Ezra's neighbor's son ) who almost gets away until she walks right into a bear trap her boyfriend's father just planted down . I think what makes this such a unique experience is that the film starts as a very dark comedy showing how goofy a man completely cut-off mentally from those around him , living in his own created world , can be in a realistic way . The bodies in his home is absolutely abnormal obviously , but somehow seeing this man joyous with these lifeless shells of former people is fascinating in a sordid , sad sort of way . He never much had a chance of a normal life because of his unfortunately sheltered upbringing , specifically with how he was told by his mother that females were nothing more than sluts with disease . The film then takes a very disturbing , ominous turn once Ezra begins selecting and destroying innocent women who have no ill will towards him and seem comfortable around him . The film lives and breathes because Blossom is absolutely convincing as an Ed Gein sociopath . I accepted completely as this strange , quiet man whose little normalcy dissolves when he wishes to preserve the corpses in his home . The film is also quite well made despite a very low budget which can often either be a hindrance or a blessing . In this film , using unfamiliar faces is indeed an asset as I felt it was as if we were watching real people in a grotesque situation no one could've imagined . I'm sure the Ed Gein situation was the same way .
Pelts	A fur-company owner , Jake ( Meat Loaf ) is an abusively nasty bastard to his employees and lusts after a stripper , Shanna ( Ellen Evusie ) unattainable to him because of not being a strong fixture in the market place . Father and son fur-trappers , Jeb & Larry ( John Saxon & Mical Suchánek ) find these remarkably beautiful pelts from these mysterious raccoons who were caught around the remnants of a past civilization nearby a creepy old lady's home . These pelts have the strange hypnotic power to make those who come in contact with them commit grisly acts to themselves and others . Despite the ghoulish violence that Jake finds awaiting him when he goes to meet Jeb and Larry , his allure and desire to possess and manufacture the pelts is too much to resist . When members of his staff start enacting violence to themselves , Jake still won't give in because the idea of finally gaining wealth , success , and Shanna overwhelm everything else . It will all come to a head when the coat for Shanna to model is completed and brought to her by Jake as they finalize their proposal together . Gruesome , nasty Argento effort packs a punch for a Masters of Horror episode . Original story , even if it's a bit off-the-wall , gives Argento an opportunity to enter supernatural territory again while also allowing him to let it all hang out in extreme gore . One man slices into his stomach with a pair of shears , one woman uses a needle to thread her mouth , eyes & nostrils shut resulting in suffocation , one sticks his head in an animal trap after bashing another's face in with a bat , and another removes his torso skin with a blade . And , the icing on the cake . . another female unfortunately has her hand removed when it gets caught in the door of a service elevator ! This just proves that Argento hasn't lost his touch regarding shocking graphic violence . Certainly strong stomachs required .
All the Colors of the Dark	Unrelenting suspensor about a woman so tormented by her nightmares ( after losing a child stillborn when her boyfriend Richard hit a tree ) , she's willing to try anything including black mass ritual performed by a Satanic cult introduced to her by a neighbor , Mary . Her sister , Barbara has tried to get her psychiatric help from Dr . Gordon , but Richard sees this as a silly waste of time . Jane's trauma is so disorienting , she believes a psychopath has emerged from her nightmares and manifested himself into reality . Shades of " Rosemary's Baby " is obviously present throughout the film particularly the photography of the black mass rituals , but they are none the less chilling to watch . I think what worked so well for me was the idea of this poor , frightened woman not be able to separate herself from this demented stalker with blue , piercing eyes . The film's location plays greatly into the style of the piece , but Martino's surreal lens really creates this foreboding that gets under the skin as characters { the Satanic High Priest , especially } literally grab toward the viewer . The camera loves to slide up and down Fenech's wonderfully silky body { one of the best scenes in the film is a steamy shower shot up her body as she wets herself with only a shirt on } , but it's her performance as the paranoid , nearly crazed Jane that really sells this film . Hilton is good enough given very limited screen time .
Night Call	An elderly cripple is terrified of night calls from an ominous voice and demands answers as to who it is . What is truly unsettling is who / where the calls derive from . It's not surprising that one of Twlight Zone's superior tales comes from the pen of Richard Matheson and is directed by the great Jacques Tourneur . Gladys Cooper is ideally cast as an incredibly worried and fussy old woman , wheel-chair bound and , without visits from her hired help , Margaret ( Nora Marlowe , portraying the loyal every-woman who tries to reason with her burdensome employer ) , rather lonely and melancholy . . she has no one and , through the incredible direction , we feel her terror at night when that moaning caller desires communication . She's on the bed , and who awaits across the line ? The level of spookiness and the dread that slowly builds is a credit to a talented crew of experts in their field . The finale , our answer to who it is that frightens Elva Keene , adds icing on the cake , carefully and richly executed to deliver chills down your spine . The reaction of Cooper ( . . she deserves equal credit with the greats involved in this terrific episode ) is perfect ; her horror truthfully realized . Yet , it doesn't stop there and the story follows Elva , whose past mistakes still haunt her , as she confronts that caller , ending rather sadly for her . It's the idea of " missed opportunities " which close this story and Elva , through her dismissal of the unknown voice which beckons her , loses a chance at getting a peace which has eluded her . The story really is gripping thanks to the mystery at the heart of it , and Matheson's work provides director Tourneur with the perfect kind of tale to display his gifts using night and shadow as a device to blanket poor Elva . Bathed in darkness on her bed , Cooper's scared eyes reveal a terror explicitly conveyed by Tourneur's intrusive camera . The telephone itself is also heavily focused on . . it's a symbol for which haunts Elva , not knowing when it will ring and what will be said across the line . This episode , as short and concise as it is , is a testament to what Twilight Zone is all about . I watched this during Sci-fi channel's New Year's Day Twilight Zone marathon , so I recommend watching this in proper form in the box set if one has it because commercials constantly break the flow and certain trimmings for time are evident . I also recommend watching it late at night for supreme effect .
The Cranes are Flying	While Boris ( Aleksey Batalov ) is off to fight in war against the Germans for his Mother Russia , his beloved Veronika ( Tatyana Samojlova ) marries his conniving cousin Mark ( Aleksandr Shvorin ) in a moment of weakness shortly after her parents were killed in an air raid over Moscow . Through various trials and betrayals , Veronika will await word or letter from Boris no matter how long it takes , holding hope that he will return to her . Powerful piece of film-making boasts simply incredible photographic work by cinematographer Sergei Urusevsky . Some of the many magnificently framed , moving shots include the scene where the camera follows Veronika through a crowd of loved ones saying goodbye to each other as she rushes through the mob of bodies to say goodbye to Boris . . and doesn't quite reach him even as we watch Boris looking impatiently into the swarm without luck . The sequence after the air raid where Veronika walks up the standing stairs circulating up the destroyed building she once called home and the scene where Mark makes his lustful move on Veronika as another air raid continues just outside the building as wind rustles the curtains and flashes of light emanate inside are just two of MANY examples where Sergei Urusevsky shows his genius at framing images that will last forever on film . But , without the power and tragedy of the story regarding how war can forever shape the destiny of a couple who dearly , deeply love each other , this film couldn't hold up with the beauty of the visual alone . Together , however , we're left with an amazing film . . simply a haunting masterpiece from the Soviet Union after Stalin breathed his last breath . I feel honored just have beheld such a great film .
Anatomy of a Murder	Long time former DA , Paul Biegler ( Jimmy Stewart , simply amazing ) is told by his buddy , Parnell ( Arthur O'Connel , simply wonderful as the boozer trying to keep sober because of the privilege of being asked by Paul to partner up with him ) to take a case concerning the murder of an Inn bar owner , Barney Quill . The one responsible , Army man Lt . Frederick Manion ( Ben Gazzara ) says he had couldn't control the impulse to kill Quill who had just a while before abused and raped his wife Laura ( the lovely Lee Remick ) . Laura's character will be questioned and we do see she can be a flirter ( mainly the way she behaves toward Paul ) . We also see that nasty streak that rises in Manion when someone seems to be offering lusty remarks or other ways of behavior toward his wife . These actions will leave opposing questions in the viewers mind to whether they are honest with Paul or holding back certain truths . Parn does some nosing around and finds out something regarding Mary Pilant ( Kathryn Grant ) , a certain young woman Quill brought down from Ontario , Canada . Quill's bartender , Al ( Murray Hamilton ) , knows certain things about the possible rape that could also hold a key to the guilt or innocence of Manion ( . . and how Laura might behave when loaded a bit with drink ) . Paul's opposing prosecution is two cunning lawyers who really give him one whale of a time during the trial . Asst . State Atty Gen . Dancer ( George C Scott . . his moments opposite Stewart are magic ) will assist newly appointed DA , Mitch Lodwick ( Brooks West , who shows his weariness of battle with Paul in that courtroom which can often wring sweat from any brow ) , who beat Paul soundly for his position . Outstanding courtroom drama . . the best of it's kind . Eve Arden produces wonderful chemistry with Stewart and O'Connel , as Maida , Paul's secretary who hasn't received a check in some time , but stays pat with him hoping this case will bring them some kind of monetary gain . Joseph Welch is inspired casting ( a real judge who brought down Joseph McCarthy ) as Judge Weaver , the one man who exasperatingly tries to control his courtroom which can often turn into a circus with heated fireworks as both sides ' attorneys duel . The film was quite controversial at the time for it's adult content along with specifics regarding taboo subjects at that time .
Afraid of the Dark	A young boy , Lucas ( stunning , haunting performance from young Ben Keyworth ) who is slowly going blind , dreams up a horrifying nightmare about a serial slasher of blind women nearby his London home ( . . with a graveyard located outside his window , no less ) . It seems to take shape when he places his thick-lensed glasses on which might mean that the impending surgery of his eyes has created such a subconscious fear it has taken shape in reality . A poor dog , Toby , becomes a victims of this . Those in reality , Tom Miller , a locksmith ( David Thewlis ) , a window washer , and photographer Tony ( Paul McGann ) all seem to become foreboding possible killers in the horrifying fantasy . Lucas ' step-dad Frank ( James Fox ) , in reality a florist , is a cop on the case of the slashings of the blind women in his nightmare . Mother Miriam ( Fanny Ardant ) is pregnant in reality with perfect sight ( . . who says she would rather be the one going blind rather than her son ) but blind in the nightmare which has the young lass worried for her safety . . and later the child after it's born , although the film paints the possible picture he'd rather harm the infant than keep it safe . Rose ( the beautiful , fine-figured Clare Holman ) is Frank's daughter in reality on the verge of marriage with Tony , but in the nightmare also blind , married to someone else blind , who is possibly threatened by Tony , anything but the person in real-life . In the nightmare we follow the boy as he canvases the area around where the serial slasher might frequent , but watch his unusual , cold manner about things . . he's an observer who seems almost unphased at the terror occurring around him . His voyeuristic activities has him seeing people from a different perspective because . . and this is the powerful aspect in the nightmare I think . . most are blind except Frank , the policeman , an ice-cream vendor who lusts after Miriam , the locksmith , window washer & photographer . So obviously he sees what the innocents do not . . how certain people truly are . In the reality , we also see a cut-away Lucas who seems like Waldo amongst a group of people existing as if he's not there . I don't think he is for the most part . . his on-coming blindness and the pregnancy about to take place take shape over everything else . The surgery is also the main event that truly terrifies him . . the doctor who will have the knife is a scary blind hobo in Lucas ' nightmare ( one of his eyes has an albino white tint for extra ominous effect ) . I'm afraid this flick will be frustrating to many who might not attach to the lead character who can be quite creepy , and detached , for most viewers . I saw this as an interesting approach seeing him as a young boy struck with fear losing his sight , both mentally and physically . I think this film goes into some dark psychological places . . treads onto that territory of fear using blindness and impending blindness as catalysts to tell the dark tale . The slasher , the glasses and what they see when Lucas puts them on and removes them , and the knitting needle which seems to be his weapon of protection . . all seem to represent symbolic images of the blindness he fears of .
Dracula	I know that over the years many do not consider Tod Browning's Dracula film to be as great as reputed to be , but I just continue to love it each and every time I view it . I certainly believe this is a crash course in how to shoot Gothic horror the real way . The opening is just astounding with all the cobwebs , possums , the lady vampires and how they submit to their awakening master , and Lugosi appearing for the first time in all his splendor . His eyes , as the light glistens upon them , wreak of power and lust . . whoever faces these eyes have to submit their will to his . Few weak minds , if any , can outlast the power of Count Dracula . Such richly macabre dialogue stands etched in horror lore from , " I bid you welcome , " to " The blood is the life , Renfield " . . each line becomes so eerie when rolled off the tongue of Lugosi . Some consider Lugosi's performance hammy , but I just revel in the way he stretches his dialogue . . it becomes so quotable . Lugosi was simply born to play this creature of the night and when someone says Dracula , some might think Chris Lee , but most envision Lugosi with his vile stare that penetrates the very soul . His equal , let's just admit it , is Dwight Frye as the crazed Renfield , once quite a sane , intelligent , soft-spoken office type reverted to a blood-thirsty maniac because of Dracula . It's that fiendish , stark-raving madness that is so intensely memorable . . no one can match this performance , so why even try ? But , it's the way director Browning and cinematographer Karl Freund set up creepy darkened shot after creepy darkened shot of Dracula waiting out in the darkness commanding others to do his bidding that makes this such an endearing horror classic . Some might think Edward Van Sloan might be a bit too theatrical as Van Helsing , but I can't imagine anybody else in that scene where Dracula tries to pull his rival towards him with mind control only to find his adversary's will is too strong even for him . My favorite scenes , to be honest , occur in Transylvania before the film settles in London because the castle and way Lugosi is shot are so burned in my mind . Just the way Dracula looks inside his decrepit abode on the stairwell as he stares at Renfield with that fiendish blood-lust so apparent or where we see an armadillo climbing from a coffin with this skeletal hand peeking ever slightly out . Or , the scene where Renfield receives his ride on the horse carriage as Dracula hides enough under a black cloak to remain anonymous . . each Gothic set-up is a hypnotic entrapment for the fan in love with the moody set up of atmospheric horror . I watched this with the Philip Glass score and must say I prefer it . . something majestic occurs when we hear the eruption of strings as Dracula appears . The score , for me , takes away the " creaky " criticism that so often accompanies one's insult towards it .
Martin . . The Scarecrow says Wow .	I'll be honest , when I got my DVD in the mail from netflix I never thought this film would knock my block off like it does . I think this is an amazing achievement from George A Romero in just how to shoot a very scary , ultra-realistic horror film which feels like some documentary filmmaker decided to follow this family of nutcases with his camera . . well mainly supposed vampire Martin and his " vanquisher " Uncle Tada Cuda . George does a little trick to set up the possibility that Martin is indeed a vampire by filming certain scenarios in black and white photography with a younger , shorter haired Martin facing certain ordeals like his family who wish to stop him or a possible blood feast . Still , George always offers that it is simply delusions put in his mind by a bizarre family . Cuda seems completely transfixed with stopping Martin , the vampire while Christina , Martin's cousin , thinks this is all nonsense . The creepy portions of the film exude such eeriness for the way George photographs Martin's devious planning , bloodletting , and clean-up . The decision to shoot the film independently and as low budget as possible gives it a street-crud that really only brings this up to such a high degree of excellence . In showing this psychopath search out for victims in this quiet , boy-like manner , we can understand how he gets away with his nasty deeds . Keeping the film contemporary inside this little junk-suburbia , it feels like someone just picked a disturbing subject and began shooting his twisted activities . What also works is using unrecognizable faces with these people who like like average Joe's . . it's a trait that always seems to work in Romero's films . They really look like next-door neighbors and Martin looks like your basic kid around the block . What adds a level of creepiness to Martin is his job at taking delivery groceries to an assortment of housewives and older women places him in a position to map out future victims . Also , Martin often goes for the kill at night which George photographs with a Gothic realism that is quite frightening . The best examples of this is the first crime in the film where Martin attacks a woman in a street-car of a train . She fights as hard as she can , but Martin drugs his victims with a hypodermic before any of the other funny business . We see him take advantage as she fades away and it is grotesque in that Martin seems completely overwhelmed by the bloodlust as if he really was a vampire . Martin , it seems , rejects certain labels his family has cursed on him such as being a " Nosferatu " { . . he often makes it known that " there is no magic " } , but does believe he is 84 years old . Romero lets you decide for yourself which is just terrific in itself . This is a film that really gets under the skin and stays with you . A powerful work of art by a very accomplished director .
Petulia	Archie Bollen ( George C Scott , very good ) is a square peg in a very circular world . He seems to be a Waldo amongst flower children . There's a scene I find humorous ( . . while others might find strange and / or pathetic ) that shows Archie in the middle of a crowd of hipsters dancing in a psychedelic hall as some band was playing with weird-colored strobe lights flashing throughout . What makes this film so great is that he has no business having any connection whatsoever with " young-married " Petulia ( Julie Christie ) . She has this feeling for him that spurns from an operation she watched him perform on a young Latino child named Oliver . Oliver , as the film would confirm later , is caught under a speeding car and it has everything to do with Petulia and her volatile , unpredictable , " quick-to-rush-into anger " husband David ( Richard Chamberlain ; he's unfortunately the unsung actor here because all the roles are so great that Chamberlain can be forgotten until his character changes Petulia's life through a horrible beating ) . Archie's previous married life to " Polo " ( Shirley Knight who is outstanding as the conflicted wife ; clearly , her work on here outshines everyone . . even Christie in my opinion ) wasn't a bad one , but something was missing . He felt suffocated , not to mention , there was no joy . When he can not get rid of Petulia , he succumbs to her charms and beauty . This film shows their unusual relationship , specifically how their differences bring them peculiarly closer because of this transfixing , overwhelming attraction that morphs into love . I have to say that Richard lester's direction just floored me . The way he edits the lifestyle of that period in San Francisco life and how he captures the people in that era . . it's just Wow . I wish films like this were made today . It just vibrated off-screen to me and I was completely hooked to it's charms and visual fervor . The performances are already superb to begin with , but how Lester brings the past within the frame-work of the present . . it's so fresh and innovative . This movie just wreaks of craftsmanship . A masterpiece .
Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid	Gumshoe dick Steve Martin is called on by lovely Rachel Ward to find her missing father , a cheese manufacturer . When he finds a list containing names , people put a licking on him to keep those names from turning up in the wrong hands . An exhilarating , amazing , and rewarding film experience for Classic Movie fans , most of the key characters in this plot are played , through astonishing editing by Bud Molin , terrific cinematography by Michael Chapman , marvelous period costumes from Edith Head ( her final film for which this is dedicated ) , by classic film stars such as Ava Gardner , Bette Davis , Barbara Stanwyck , Ray Milland , Humphrey Bogart , Cary Grant , Ingrid Bergman , among others as they are confronted through meetings and conversations from detective Martin . The flawless , seamless ability to place Martin in scenarios with so many stars of the great films from the 40's and 50's is such a pleasure to behold . Sure , many might feel some of the comedy falls flat , but I think Martin ( . . and Ward & Carl Reiner who also directed ) is perfectly cast . His scenes dressed as a woman are hilarious especially when he kisses Ward and confronts James Cagney ( . . from his role in " White Heat " portraying his mother ) .
Assault on Precinct 9 , Division 13	Director John Carpenter's ode to Howard Hawks , " Night of the Living Dead " amongst others is really well made on a low budget . Carpenter , I'm sure , has a metaphor regarding the youth drones who kill without emotion ( perhaps making a statement about how he depicts America's descent into violence . . has a potent point in our culture today , actually ) together as a collective not afraid to die in the process . Clearly , Darwin Joston's Napoleon Wilson ( really as inspired nickname which just works beautifully ; he always promises to tell others who ask him how he got the name later ) is a lovingly created character Carpenter came up with in writing the film and certainly seems to be the precursor to Snake Pliskin later in " Escape from New York . " Napoleon is always asking if anyone has a smoke , but often no one does . He is to be transfered with two other prisoners , but one of them is infectiously sick so they stop off at a police precinct ( Precinct 9 , Division 13 ) operated by newly appointed Lieutenant Ethan Bishop ( Austin Stoker ; perhaps another " Night of the Living Dead " homage making a black man the chief hero of the picture as he is intelligent , courageous , and thinks well in difficult situations ) . Two other females are still working at the precinct as it is almost completely emptied in the move to another precinct . One is Leigh ( Laurie Zimmer ) , a female perfectly molded from the archetypal Howard Hawks films who doesn't blink at danger coming her way and is not afraid to use a gun if need be . The other is Julie ( Nancy Loomis ) , a telephone service operator who is not strong when danger is present which is why she will probably not be able to survive once threatening circumstances strike . There a sad irony to the whole conflict to the attack that circumvents on Precinct 9 against those unfortunate to be inside there . A little girl is shot point-blank by a gang member of the Cholo's . . it's in a cold , non-emotional way which leaves a bitter taste . That curdling evil murder points out to us that the Cholo gang is completely cut-off from feeling anything remotely human . They simply serve their own cause to kill anyone that doesn't represent whatever cause they believe in . Why they do what they do is not explained which might drive some viewers crazy , but I think that doesn't matter much in Carpenter's whole grand scheme of things . Why did certain kids open fire on the school of Columbine ? Why do killers attack innocents in the first place ? It's not an easy question to answer . The dead girl's father kills the one responsible for her death and is targeted by the Cholo . He enters Precinct 9 so traumatized he can not speak . Hence , the terror lying in wait for those inside Precinct 9 commences . The film works from " Rio Bravo " ( . . or perhaps " Night of the Living Dead " ) in regards to our handful of heroes being trapped in a building against a legion of zombie-like Cholo gang-members . They are on a quiet street in an abandoned precinct ( not to mention the location is in a violent part of LA according to how Carpenter sets his film up ) against an onslaught who have so many stationed all over surrounding it . We watch as the heroes will have to use their brains to figure out how they'll be able to defend themselves with barely any weaponry ( this precinct is cleared of most of it's weapons ; the transfer was to be completed the very next day ) . Bishop will have to release Wilson and another prisoner , Wells ( Tony Burton ) after many were shot to death as they were attempting to get back on the prison exchange bus in the back of the precinct . Bishop and Wilson form a quiet camaraderie as they fight those marauders outside . . there's respect here that isn't perhaps present when either are around their peers . Interesting developments occur between Wilson and Leigh as well . I liked this particularly because if you read between the lines they fall in love during the crisis , but speak without saying too much . Yet , they know how they feel about each other and need not say it out loud . The film works best as an action pic about which group will out-smart the other . The Cholo gang work well to try and keep anyone from noticing their strikes against the precinct . They remove all the bodies and any other evidence of their attacks . The Cholo gang is calm and methodical . . they have a goal and do everything in their power to achieve just that . Our heroes inside have to come up with an intelligent counter-attack . . and do it fast because they are the ones at the disadvantage .
What Have You Done to Solange ?	Catholic School teacher Enrico Rosseni ( the very cool Fabio Testi ) and a student he's in love with are on the verge of having sex in a canoe when she partially sees the murder of a fellow classmate take place . A psychopath is murdering members of a clique of girls who behave naughty outside the school grounds by stabbing them vaginally in secluded areas nearby a maid's abode . Enrico's marriage to German school teacher Herta ( Karin Baal ) has been on the decline for some time and his virginal student Elizabeth ( the simply lovely Cristina Galbó who is so wonderful in her limited screen time ) is such a tender , lovely sweetheart his heart melts for her . But , the killer ( who dresses as a priest and perhaps heard the confessional of the certain girls he wishes to murder ) has been following Liz and can not take the chance of her remembering something of importance . Her life is in danger . When the killer drowns her in the tub of a secret love-nest she holds with Enrico , the case takes a unique turn . Liz was not killed the heinous way the other girls died and Enrico loses his job . . this gives him added incentive to pursue who killed the young woman he was in love with . Better yet , weary and troubled Inspector Barth ( Joachim Fuchsberger ) will need all the help he can get in order for the madness of murdered Catholic girls to end and enlists the aid of Enrico ( . . after he himself is no longer deemed a suspect ) to assist him . Herta , finding that her husband had not officially taken Liz's virginity , wishes for their marriage to rise from the ashes and pledges to help him find the beautiful 18 year old's murderer . The title plays a major role in why the murders are occurring and the reasons they are directed at the specific females hunted down and stabbed in such a nasty way . The vaginal stabbings is a painful reminder of something that possibly happened to a sixteen year old girl named Solange ( Camille Keaton , the constantly raped avenger in the notorious " I Spit on Your Grave " ) . Enrico will have to find the truth about Solange in order for the killing to stop and answers to arise . Stunning , disturbing & ultimately compelling giallo impacts because of the vicious nature of the crimes and who they are occurring to . I must admit that the photo of the first victim with the knife buried in her vagina certainly shook me and that image allows us knowledge that this killer is committing this act with a passionate intent . The photography is first-rate , the developing mystery is outstanding , the final result is truly not only tragic but powerful . The cast is really good . This film had me under it's control from the get-go and I was held until the end . And , what's most interesting about this film is that , in a sense , you'll gain an understanding at exactly why the killer is committing such gruesome crime against the victims when everything falls into place and that may be it's greatest success . One of the finest examples of the Italian giallo .
A Scanner Darkly	Substance D and how the drug has caused societal collapse with nearly everyone experimenting ( . . or totally hooked ) on it . Our main character is Bob Arctor ( Keanu Reeves , perfectly cast ) who has a " split-brain phenomenon " where the two hemispheres of his brain ( the right and the left ) are " competing " with each other . He is supposed to be undercover , but is actually studying himself ! Arctor is a tragic victim because in dwelling with these drug-induced people he's narcing , he has himself fallen under the destructive spell of the Substance D drug . This is where , through the marvelous animated process presented , Arctor battling the disorienting and conflicting thoughts . Through the artform of the film , we can properly see how the drug effects the user in a hallucinatory way . Charles Freck ( Rory Cochrane ) is the extreme example of the devastating effect the drug can cause in the opening minutes as he calls James Barris ( Robert Downey Jr . ; he's nothing short of brilliant in this film ) for assistance . Freck can not seem to remove these ugly green bugs crawling throughout his body . We later understand , through Barris , that the drug is causing these bugs to appear . We see a different form of this ugly vision in Arctor when he watches Barris ( and his other druggie pal , Ernie , portrayed by Woody Harrelson ) shape into a bug . Winona Ryder is the fifth important character of the piece because Arctor is her boyfriend , yet the running joke is she won't put out for him . She seems to be deep into dangerous operations thanks to the Substance D drug , but perhaps Donna ( Ryder's character's name in the film ) has a greater role than anyone can realize regarding the drug . But , ultimately , I look at this film as showing one particular tragic victim , Arctor , who is being used by others to try and thwart an overwhelming drug . There's a U-turn this film takes towards the end I never seen coming which will use Arctor yet again , but this time his role ( he'll be exploited with his barely functioning brain ) will be infiltrating a certain place facilitating the manufacturing , growing , and distribution of the drug . . by an organization which adds just the right disturbing touch to this " paranoia-future " science-fiction film .
Valerie and Her Week of Wonders	You know I looked at director Jaromil Jires's film from a different perspective , hoping to perhaps take an " outside the box " view regarding the bewildering madness which continues for 80 minutes . I felt that Valerie's situation was a thirteen year old , blossoming with curiosity about sex , in a sexually repressed , deeply religious peasant village . Her one escape is the fantasy world of dreams / nightmares which unlock all the inner wonders and feelings brimming inside the young virgin , just having her first experience of adulthood through a period . Missing parents , a grandmother with worsening health , a theatrical troupe passing through , servant girls who blissfully enact in sexual pleasures with the village hunk , and a priest with his army of nuns . A vampire ( . . who could possibly be her father ) who desires Valerie , a " brother " named Eagle ( . . an " assistant of the vampire who goes against his master's wishes when he returns magical ear rings to Valerie he had swiped while she slept ) who always saves her , a younger form of her " granny " who is sexually driven and always a threat to her existence , and other countless characters drift in and out of the dream for the film's duration . . these characters could very well represent troublesome realities that awaken in metaphorical forms , both hostile and serene . At any event , this dream / nightmare is Valerie's terrain , and , no matter what " predator " threatens to either harm or threaten her sexually or by any other means , she is always given passage to escape . Again , this is also her terrain and Valerie is the central motivating character that everyone covets or desires . At one point or another , those main characters she confronts , from Eagle to her youthful granny , make an attempt to ravage her . Another interesting aspect I noticed was the gloomy marriage of a peasant girl to a much older , wealthy farmer . . perhaps this is another sad reality plaguing Valerie for I'm never sure , myself to be honest , if what we ever see ventures into reality ( . . that's what I love most about this film : the idea of not knowing if anything we see is actually real or all concocted through the dreams of a young or old woman looking back at what she would've desired and never ultimately received ) . Through the lens of director Jires , Jaroslava Schallerová as the heroine of the film , is shot seductively . A mere thirteen years old , Schallerová has an angelic beauty that is evocatively photographed . . I felt it was crucial to this film's success that she have an innocence and purity that would off-set the sin and danger all around her , threatening to corrupt what she has . Jaroslava Schallerová spends a good portion of the film in flowing gowns with the arm straps dropping to expose her tiny developing breasts . . I found this a bit alarming and daring considering the fact that she is still a girl , but artistically we must be aware of what others desire and covet . If she were an ugly duckling ( . . which she very well could be in reality , but this is Valerie's fantasy so she's pretty and creates yearning from those in her dreamlike world ) no one would bother her . But , this is Valerie's dream and she is at the forefront of every action that takes place in this film . That's about all I got folks , because what we see for 80 minutes sure had a grip on me . Overflowing with one incredibly bizarre sequence after another , I felt entranced by what this fantasy delivers visually . Cobwebs , chickens , vampires ( . . especially the very dead looking " Weasel " with his black cape always wrapping around someone as if shrouding them from Valerie's sight ) . . ugliness and beauty often intertwined and separated in Valerie's unique world . Jire's film in unbridled , flooding you and me with remarkable visions , both macabre and stunning . I will say , though , that this film's often sensual depiction of Jaroslava Schallerová might be off-putting to many . An amazing experience I plan to enjoy again in the near future . It's nearly impossible to grasp everything in one single sitting .
Memories of Murder	Two rural detectives , their chief & a well-educated Seoul detective search for a serial killer who specifically chooses certain victims when it rains , using their own undergarments to bound and strangle them while he rapes their tied up bodies . We watch as the rural detectives , who often use rough tactics to secure their admittance of guilt from those they question , try to find the killer and how the effected the city detective is when attempts to catch him often fail . We see their dogged , weary pursuit of suspects and the exhaustive , emotional let-down when each is ruled out by one way or another . When a possible suspect emerges , and seems the ideal candidate fitting the profile of the rapist who nearly murdered one living victim ( . . and also requested a specific song only on the nights the murders took place , not to mention the fact that he started working at a factory right before the murders ) , they believe that their misery might finally end as they await a DNA semen report from America possibly pinpointing him as the murderer . But , is this suspect the murderer , and better yet , can the rural detectives keep from exploding in anger when they interrogate the suspect ? It'll all come to a head when the city detective looses his suspect after falling asleep on his watch and yet another young woman is horribly butchered in a much more heinous manner during one of the town's common blackouts . . the detective will take his suspect to an isolated location claiming him guilty even though the American lab results may say otherwise . Powerful , haunting , gut-wrenching , & heartbreaking . . we see how these men fail at their methods despite giving their heart and souls to the case day after day . Developed obsessions with possibly suspects even have the detectives at each others ' throats . The film is quite absorbing as we see how each detective loses a bit of their humanity as they cripple at the leads that fail them or at an eyewitness who perishes accidentally during a horrible train accident . The Korean leads all bring much to their roles . . during the film each character is fleshed out and exposed of their flaws at trying desperately to catch a killer against many odds such as unavailable forensic techniques or civilians trampling over crime scenes . Beautifully crafted by director Joon-ho Bong who adds many humorous bits sprinkled throughout so that the achingly tragic story will not be such a burden to sit through . Bong respects the victims by not dwelling on the murdered bodies too long .
The Whip and the Body	The suicide of a jilted fiancé holds a scar over the House of Menliff as the black sheep who left her returns , Kurt ( Christopher Lee , who is simply outstanding in his limited presence . . even dubbed he holds you under his ominous spell ) wanting to reclaim his heritage , but receiving scorn from his ailing father ( Gustavo De Nardo ) . His real lover , and sadomasochistic partner , Nevenka ( the luscious , ravishing Daliah Lavi ) has married his brother Christian ( Tony Kendall ) who Kurt has always hated . Christian is the caring , straight-as-an-arrow son . . the direct opposite of Kurt who seems to cast a malignant shadow over his family . Kurt and Nevenka carry on their passion in a scene where he slashes her with a horse whip and we see that she likes it very much . There's a history of this as we can see . She claims to hate him , but he's perhaps merely a male mirror image of her own ugly side she tries to hold imprisoned in herself . Someone kills Kurt with a dagger . . the very dagger that was used by the love he left to stab herself with . This death will haunt the rest of the characters as Kurt reappears to Nevenka setting off a growing madness in her as no one else seems to see his presence , but her . When the patriarch , Count Menliff is killed by the same dagger in the same fashion as Kurt , the idea that Kurt's ghost has returned becomes a looming , frightening possibility . Among the other melodramas , Christian is actually in love with servant girl Katia ( Ida Galli ) , maid Giorgia's ( Harriet Medin , the mother of the female suicide that Kurt left to suffer ) daughter . Losat ( Luciano Pigozzi ) is the manservant spooked by the terrifying circumstances emerging after Kurt's demise is often walking the grounds and family mausoleum expecting to find specters . We also call into question whether Kurt's ghost is real or simply imagined by a grieve-stricken ( . . and guilt-stricken ) Nevenka harboring a secret love for the murdered aristocrat and now coming face to face with the inequities she's kept buried inside . Fantastic Gothic masterpiece from one of our treasured Horror directors . . the lush color photography is jaw-dropping and awe-inspiring . Every frame of this film looks like it was lifted from one painting or another . Superb uses of red and green , especially when Lee's " ghost " appears to Nevenka . Sure , the whipping S & M aspect adds a naughty flavor to the proceedings , but it's the way Bava brings this castle setting to life with his camera and artistic eye that makes this such a pleasure to behold . I loved how Bava returns to the muddy boots and the prints they leave behind without showing who is treading the floors with them . I think this is Bava's finest film . I hope in time ( . . and I believe it already is starting to gain an official . . and rightfully deserved . . following ) this film will be mentioned more and more as a classic horror film to be seen . It really is a Gothic horror fan's wet dream . Great atmospheric trappings are benefited by a grand , sweeping score . If there ever was a director who painted a canvas using the cinematic form as his paint brush , it was Bava . And , the way he shoots faces as the characters seek out Kurt in the darkened rooms of the castle at night . Or , the way Bava lights the family crypt as others dare step inside to possibly find Kurt's ghost within . See how Bava uses a tree vine whipping in an open window reminding Nevenka of her sordid past with Kurt . Not only does Bava use color , but symbolism describing the passionate , yet violent , nature between Kurt and Nevenka . Lavi's captivating beauty is wonderfully shot , often in her room , engulfed in darkness , the wind roaring , her frightened eyes constantly veering right & left . . she's completely at the mercy of Kurt's presence . I feel Bava establishes the fact that , even though Kurt's dead , his hold over this family is long-lasting , especially Nevenka , who keeps pronouncing her hatred for him even though she's in denial of her true feelings . Perhaps Kurt's spirit did truly live and breathe , even if it didn't exactly manifest in our realm , he certainly was real to those still living within the confines of the castle . This is truly a masterpiece .
Bay of Blood	A husband hangs his wheelchair-bound ancient wife of wealth and is subsequently stabbed viciously . A developer , illegitimate son , and heiress ( with her patsy husband who obeys her every command ) all wish to secure the dead woman's land and bay for there's quite possibly a very lucrative tourist future in the area . Four young , horny adults make the mistake of stopping by the dead woman's empty home and fall prey to a killer spying on them . A neighboring couple who live nearby are against any development laying concrete over a place once dear to them ( the husband , an avid bug collector , worries that it will disrupt his chances to collect any future insects . . his wife , a supposed clairvoyant reads doom in her cards ) . The film shows the ongoing bloodshed committed by certain individuals who attack from behind so that they can gain the inheritance of prestigious land all to themselves . One killer uses a spade to tear open a beautiful Scandinavian woman's throat , shortly after burying that blade into a young man's face ( . . and subsequently pulling it out ; a very impressive gruesome sequence that puts a lot of slashers to shame ) . A young couple having sex get sandwiched when the killer decides to place his spade away for a moment using a spear , thrusting it into the male's back through the unfortunate french chick on bottom . . the spear kill in Friday the 13th Part 2 pales in comparison . One woman gets beheaded , one is stabbed in the stomach with a pair of scissors , there are nasty strangulations , and a shotgun blast that puts everything about the gain of wealth by any terms in perspective . The granddaddy of all slashers , this is Mario Bava unhinged letting loose his greedy characters to kill and maim . Nearly every last character is corrupt and dies . The ones who commit the final act of violence may prove that Bava was allowing this particular film to be so gratuitous as a means to poke fun at those loathsome heirs graveling for the scraps of their dying rich relatives .
Santa Sangre	A young man escapes an insane asylum and " meets up " with his arm-less mother . As a young boy , Fenix ( Axel Jodorowsky ) was a performing magician for a circus where his father was a portly knife-thrower and his mom did acrobatics while dangling by her hair way in the air . His mother , Concha ( Blanc Guerra ) , is the leader of a cult whose church is named Santa Sangre and has enshrined their tabernacle with the arm-less mannequin of this female who was brutally murdered and raped by two men while fighting them . Her sanctuary was bulldozed , but that wasn't what really harms her . Her husband , the knife-thrower , was seen often flirting with the tattooed lady who made her message known that she desired him greatly . As they are about to have passionate sex , Concha burns them both with acid ( he receives his in the crotch for his act ) . Dear ole husband retaliates by cutting off Concha's arms as Fenix watches in horror as he slits his throat as no hope for a decent life after his scarring . The film provides Fenix with a paramour . . a sad , deaf mute named Alma ( Sabrina Dennison ) who has the misfortune of being under the care of the tattooed lady . As Fenix sees the bodies of his parents taken away , he's mentally wounded and perhaps any hope for a normal life is in doubt . However , inside Fenix's mind , Concha has found a place to flourish . As a young adult , the director AJ masterfully creates a surreal , unpredictable portrait of one man's madness as he is the arms for his mother who is now a performing artist . Someone finds the tattooed lady , now working as a hooker , and slaughters her graphically . Any woman who dares to try to lure Fenix into a lustful sexual relationship are to be exterminated because Concha will not allow anyone to take her boy away from her . In an interesting twist , anytime Concha desires for him to kill , Fenix can not control what his hands do . He fights and fights to no avail . She has created a link to his mental willpower so strong , Fenix is a tragic victim . I was blown away by this film because we see what lies inside Fenix's fractured , tortured mind . He was stained mentally at such a young age , from seeing an elephant die ( this is a constant in the film and a haunting scene ) to his parents ' ultimate falling out . His visions become so surreal , we never know what is real and what isn't providing us with the fact that Fenix is a tarnished soul in need of rest from his weary trauma . Graphic , colorful , and truly unforgettable . . AJ is a true artist who is not afraid to bleach his screen with the macabre , bizarre , and strange .
Suspiria	American New Yorker Suzy Bannion ( Jessica Harper ) finds that the prestigious European ballet school she is attending could very well be operated by practicing witches ! It seems certain females who might've gotten a bit too close to the truth of where the teachers were meeting inside the school at night , meet grisly ends . Even a blind man , whose dog bites the nephew of Madame Blanc ( Joan Bennett ) , meets a grisly fate . . his dog mysteriously tears his throat out ! When Suzy's new school pal , Sara ( Stefani Casini ) comes up missing ( we watch as someone pursues her within the darkened school as she meets a horrible death getting trapped in wire with her throat slashed by the murderer's blade ) , she must find out the truth about this school or her life might meet the same fate as the other victims . Suzy also suffers from health problems once the portly female cook ( with Blanc's nephew by her side ) blinds her with the reflection of sunlight bouncing off a butcher knife . Argento , thanks to the supernatural aspects of the story , is set free of the limitations a giallo holds him to . The marriage of the Goblins ' thrilling , unnerving score and his vibrantly effective use of color creates a very unique experience . The opening grabs you instantly even before you enter the world of Suzy . . we see how genuinely vicious this mysterious killer is . Built to scare the hell out of the viewer , Argento attacks the senses with graphic attack sequences where it seems the killer will never stop penetrating his knife into the victim's torso . Developing the story of the school and the evil deep within it's center , Argento gives the viewer an outrageous finale where chaos ensues when Suzy meets the killer . Alida Valli is almost unrecognizable as Miss Tanner , a tall , brutish teacher who seems as if she were secretly a Nazi foot-soldier . And , horror icon Udo Kier has a minor role as a psychiatrist who once had Sara as a patient .
Healter Skelter	Stunning , matter-of-fact television film runs around three hours but holds it's grip the entire time . Steve Railsback is absolutely mesmerizing ( . . and terrifying ) as Charles Manson , the cult leader claiming to be Jesus Christ and commanding his followers ( four of them mainly ) to murder rich " pigs " in California . Most notable was pregnant actress Sharon Tate , famous director Roman Polanski's woman , along with others in the house that horrible night . Along with those were the La Biancas , also unfortunate chosen victims of the Manson followers . Along with Railsback chilling portrayal was Nancy Wolfe as Susan Atkins who will bring eerie goosebumps as she describes in luridly evil ( yet coldly and unapologetically ) detail how she murdered Sharon Tate as she begged for herself and the unborn baby she was carrying . Not to mention how she describes the " gurgling sound " that a victim makes choking in their own blood . We also hear about how a fork was used to carve " war " in Mr . La Bianca's torso . Another interesting ( . . and good ) casting choice is Marilyn Burns in the important role of Linda Kasabian . . the young follower who would be the ultimate voice that put away five cold blooded killers . George DiCenzo portrays DA Vincent Bugliosi , the man whose life would certainly be effected by the immense strain of putting together an extremely difficult case against Manson . . who was the lynch-pin in causing a rest in the fear so many were feeling . The film covers in pain-staking detail the events before , during , & after the case ( even the mass media aspects revolving around the case ) .
Revenge of Frankenstein	This is the 1958 sequel to the wonderful first film , Curse of Frankenstein . It stars Cushing as the Baron , saved from certain head-chopping thanks to a badly paralyzed Karl who is promised a brand new host body with his brain being transplanted into it . Assisting Baron is Dr . Kleve , but the experiment hits a snag when the body irritates during the final stages of the procedure with the body going out of control damaging one cell in the brain . In an impromptu fight with a drunken janitor of Baron's laboratory , Karl's body is again damaged , this time his body receives paralysis like before with tragic results occurring in the aftermath . It's interesting that the culprit behind all the tragedy of the film is the man who Baron pays to sweep the floor , but he does more snooping and lounging than his own job . He motivates most of the action , first spying on Baron and Kleve when they move Karl to a certain room in the surgery building of the doctor's practice , showing Baron's " goods supply girl " Miss Conrad where they keep Karl , and even providing the poor who seek Baron's help info on where the parts the doctor uses come from . The film is well executed , I think , because this time the end results did work and it is not exactly Baron's fault for the tragedy that will eventually occur . But , Karl's failure to heal his body before leaving his bed is really the turning-point of disaster for Baron . The film takes an interesting detour from the first film showing Baron as a much more sympathetic person . . still determined to see his experiments through , but no longer mad as he was willing to do anything to continue his work . But , I think the film's statement regarding Baron's work is as long as he continues playing with the laws of man in trying to create like God in the name of science , he'll always most surely hit some sort of snag .
The Invisible Man	One could say that Claude Rains ' invisible man is just as much the Universal Studios monster as any of the rest of them for his madness is so unhinged and wacky he even turns over a woman's baby carriage in a nearby village during quite a temperamental outburst . Claude Rains stars as a scientist who invents this formula to create invisibility . The problem is that he uses a certain chemical which affects sanity and creates this ever-growing madness that quickly unleashes a violent wave to just about anyone that draws near . Imagine the difficult position for the police who must try and stop him and the doctor's rampage of violence . He even causes a train to collapse over a cliff and throws two hunters ( . . looking for him ) over also . He wishes for Dr . Arthur Kemp ( William Harrington ) , a colleague , to assist him in his murdering ways and ultimately to gain wealth and prestige through the power he can wield being invisible . Kemp is in an unfortunate situation because he has little choice but to because Rains ' doctor can kill him without his knowledge . Only his lady love Flora ( Gloria Stuart of James Whale's film " The Old Dark House " ) can perhaps tap into the once human part that might still slightly exist inside this evil shell . The police will seek the help of Dr . Cranley ( Henry Travers ) who was Rain's employer for guidance in how to stop the man's rage of terror . James Whale really brings a great film together using stunning special effects considering when it was made . He infuses humor into the piece , including the screeching Una O'Conner as a hotel proprietor's snooping wife . The invisibility is quite a showcase and we feel and see the very terror that can wake from it being used on the wrong person not in the right state for such an experiment . Claude Rains has quite a challenge . . he has to make his presence known without being shown on screen at all until the very end and express himself through voice only . Whale is up to the task of creating the difficult part of having this man go throughout the film invisible through cunning and wit . The dialogue is key and the pacing of the film is excellent . This film may very well be Whale's true best film . I think it is .
Seance on a Wet Afternoon	Chilling masterpiece from Bryan Forbes about a supposed medium , Myra , whose hold on her husband Bill is so tightly gripped he's willing to kidnap a wealthy man's child to prove her gift legit . It's quite evident Myra is deeply wounded and a bit off-her-rocker , but Bill's love for her is so entrenched he'll sacrifice everything to do as she commands . " You miss all the good things in life just because you won't reach that bit further to touch the truth . " This is what she truly believes especially when Billy wishes to put an end to this fiasco , but Myra's undying devotion to her cause for making people believe her " gift " is definitively real . The true key to the entire film is Arthur . . a child that died at childbirth which is the true ingredient behind Myra's descent into quiet madness . We must not forget that , despite early success in the whole strategy put in place by her , the mastermind is quite disturbed . Evocatively photographed and stunningly acted ( Attenborough is especially outstanding as Billy , a man who so wishes to stop this from going further , but whose deep devotion to the woman he so cherishes is willing to carry it out all the way ) , you are instantly pulled into the plot and how this seemingly perfect plan will inevitably fall apart . Last but not least is Kim Stanley as Myra , the main character of the picture whose vacant eyes display cold reserve as if she really doesn't quite have control of what she is doing and saying . The person she once was isn't here , but somewhere in a morass of guilt and sorrow . . the longing for her Arthur is always out in the open painfully .
The Wages of Fear	Incredibly underrated and very intense re-imagining of " Wages of Fear " has four men , forced from their respected countries having fled to this Latin American village due to criminal activities , who wish to seek enough monetary gain to get out of the hellish poverty-stricken wasteland they inhabit . In order to see their wishes fulfilled , these four men will have the terrifying duty of carrying old crates of nitroglycerin across rugged terrain 200 miles to a massive oil fire . The four men to try and accomplish this are Roy Scheider , Bruno Cremer , Francisco Rabal , and Amidou . The photography is superb and the story involving these men and their nearly impossible task of somehow making it through such heavy ordeals as damaged elderly bridges , bad weather & muddy swampy earth will have your stomach tied in knots . The sequence regarding the swinging bridge immersed in a battlefield of unfriendly rain is a harrowing highlight as is how these characters will get along with each other so that they can make it to their destination . The overall power of the film hinges on those very difficulties that occur to our characters . A major work of unheralded greatness that should be appreciated more than it is .
Mania	Shocking , surprisingly potent horror feature about the possible downfall of Edinburgh anatomy professor Dr . Robert Knox ( Peter Cushing with one eyelid collapsing ) who illegally accepts murdered bodies from supposed graverobbers Hare & Burke ( Donald Pleasence and George Rose ) . Burke and Hare's scheming of killing and supplying works until they murder Knox's apprentice Chris Jackson ( John Cairney ) , Chris ' prostitute lover Mary ( Billie Whitelaw ) , and especially well-liked young Jamie ( Melvyn Hayes ) . Cushing as the cold , logical doctor who abandons emotion because it just gets in the way of his work , and Pleasence as cruel scoundrel Hare are both chilling in their own way . This film should be quite an interesting pairing with the 1987 film , " The Doctor and the Devils " because both films deal with the same themes yet change in certain ways . In " Flesh " there's a positive outlook for Knox who comes to the understanding of what he was doing wrong because he had abandoned any emotion when it came to accepting any corpse those two brought him only thinking about science and leaving away the conscience . In " Devils " , Timothy Dalton's anatomy professor was always sympathetic to the plight of those around him and always had emotion present on his face . Yet , Dalton's doctor's outlook is a bit gloomy in that film . Also Julien Sands and Twiggy ( representing the characters played by Cairney and Mary in the " Devils " version ) have a much better outcome in their film than the pupil and prostitute in " Flesh and the Fiends . " This is quite a well made chiller , atmospheric and quite stunningly violent for the time it was a made .
The Changeling	Superb ghost story starring George C Scott as a recently widowed pianist who moves to Seattle in an old mansion . That mansion is haunted by the restless spirit of a male child who will not stop until Scott seeks out the truth regarding his demise . The truths Scott finds along the way are quite stunning . Trish Van Devere plays Claire Norman , the woman who was his Realtor , and assists Scott in his pursuit of the truth . Melvyn Douglas ( outstanding in his limited work on screen ) is Senator Joseph Carmichael , someone who might have more to do with the ghost's identity than realized . It's everything I expect a good ghost story to be . The camera visuals and lighting of the house ( especially that spooky attic Scott finds hidden and closed up where the ghost child's room was ) are splendid , but the special effects are also solid . But , it's how the story develops that really worked for me . It isn't merely a special-effects laden exercise , but a legitimate mystery as well . Most ghost stories wish to show off their fancy effects , but this film slowly lets it's spooky stuff happen throughout the film more carefully . Scott is very good ( not just sleep-walking like a lot of once-prominent actors tended to do in horror of the 80's ) and his traumatic character's past is etched in pain on his face . A perfectly executed film on all counts .
The Haunted Palace	Warlock Joseph Curwen ( Vincent Price ) is burned alive by the worrisome folk amongst the village of Arkham as they catch him in the middle of his almost giving a hypnotized innocent girl over to his monster summoned by the Necronomicon . If Curwen finishes this process , the monster gods from the " other world " will be freed to roam the earth once again like they did at the beginning of time . Before going up in flames , Curwen puts a curse of the village and their generational offspring vowing to return to seek vengeance on those culprits behind his being burned alive . That comes 100-or-so years later as a descendant of Curwens , named Charles Dexter Ward ( also Price ) with his wife Ann ( the beautiful Debra Paget ) arrives in Arkham to see his ancestor's castle due to his receiving it in a will . The descendants of those who set Curwen on fire warn Charles and Ann to not go to the palace because it is haunted . Charles , quite bemused at what he believes is gibberish from the guilt and suspicious minds of a townsfolk riddled with fear , goes to the palace anyway . . and finds out the hard way that they were correct . A painting of Curwen seems to house the powerful spirit of the deviant and almost immediately the gentle , courteous Charles is taken over by the more dominant forceful warlock who , in time , will almost gain complete control over his host body . Ann sees her husband slowly disappearing and the monstrous Curwen crudely demeaning her trying his damnedest to force her away from the castle . . in truth , Joseph has his assistants Simon ( Lon Chaney , Jr . , whose presence is often put to good use when Corman sets the right light to his face providing some ominous creeps ) who poses as the caretaker and Jabez ( Milton Parsons ) remove the coffin of his mistress , Hester Tillinghast ( Cathie Merchant ) from the graveyard so that he can resurrect her soul bringing the corpse back to life . It's Curwen's wish to complete the ceremony using Ann as the beast's bride ! Will Ann be able to save Charles , buried almost completely away deep inside or will the warlock gain complete control with Charles never to return ? Ann's only ally is the levelheaded Dr . Willet ( Frank Maxwell ) who has a hard time believing in the village's age-old terror . This should be every Gothic horror fan's wet dream . . dripping with pure atmosphere thanks to this excellent fog-shrouding cemetery which leads to the eerie , decadent Curwen manor . Price brings two multi-faceted performances often showing Curwen taking over Charles with facial expression . . it's quite remarkable to watch . Seeing Chaney , Jr . in a Corman Gothic Haunted House flick where moody lighting is used to increase fear in the audience is just a dream come true for me . The age and years of strain from alcoholism actually forms a formidable demeanor on Chaney as he appears from the darkness . . it's all about how Corman introduces him to us ( . . a really terrific scene has poor Ann searching for Charles at night , quite frightened encountering a darkened Chaney in the distance silhouetted scaring her as he approaches with the light showing us his face ) . The scenes where Curwen gets his revenge is a nasty bit of violence that rather raised my eyebrows . . Corman really shows the warlock setting poor Gideon ( yes , the one who always dies , the great Elisha Cook , Jr . with his bulging horrified eyes and shivering quiver ) on fire and arch-nemesis Edgar Weeden ( Leo Gordon ) is attacked by the monster he kept in a locked room , stolen from Curwen's manor when the warlock releases him . The film features marvelous sets such as Arkham , the village with the fog striding on it's streets and especially the Haunted Palace itself with it's expansive rooms and secret doors leading to a creepy chamber holding the Tillinghast coffin and Necronomicon ritual spot where the Lovecraftian god-beast awaits it's release from a well . The film is mostly a success because it has the magical collaboration between two major geniuses , Corman and Price both giving us their all . You just can't go wrong with this flick if you love Gothic horror . It deserves greater mention than it seldom gets .
Roman	Roman ( Lucky McKee ) is a welder who lives a pretty monotonous existence while he obsesses after work over a young , beautiful woman ( Kristen Bell , her name is never mentioned , but Roman calls her Isis ) who walks nearby his apartment everyday . He fantasizes about her and can not stop thinking about this woman . A chance meeting between the two has possibilities of romance . She is quite a charmer , with this radiant glow and unflappability which works awkwardly opposite the aloof , slumbering quiet of Roman . What comes out is mostly compliments because he can not help staring endlessly into her face , waxing poetic in his heart for her . She stops by his apartment at his request and Roman handles her leaving badly because the idea of exiting from his sight at this point in time seems too much a burden to bear . But , in wrestling " Isis " to the ground , he accidentally strangles her . With options limited , Roman places her body on ice in his bathroom . Then , the film at times almost forgets about her . A new woman enters the picture , Eva ( the truly wonderful Nectar Rose , who is a revelation in this part ) . . a sexual dynamo obsessed with death and conversations about it . Death is the topic that plays the heavy part over the story . It's everywhere and Roman can not seem to escape it . Roman , every Sunday , extracts a major body part ( arm one Sunday , leg the next week ) of the girl and spends a day with it at a lake off the beaten path in a secluded spot where the possibilities of being caught is almost nil . He spends his time with each part as if it was Isis right there with him slurping a beer like the first time they ever met on the apartment rooftop . Isis is his girl on this day , while Eva slowly becomes the other vital part of his life during the rest of the time . She's unusual , a little weird , but has an air of spontaneity . . this encapsulating aura that pulls you in her orbit . Through her spirit , we see bits of humanity slowly emerge . The woebegone nature we were seeing at the opening is changing as he awakens from his emotional purgatory . But , Eva's strong feelings about death , talking about and discussing it , analyzing why people are sore afraid of it makes him very uncomfortable . Obviously , the topic of death is something Roman would truly care about avoiding , but Eva is persistent that he get with the program and not turn away from it . Being close-minded is something she can not tolerate . The keys to this film I believe are the main emotional punches to the gut of the title character , Roman . Two women impact his life . . and their lives end in tragedy . One didn't wish to die and another embraced it without backing away . The film comes to a head when Eva completes her artistic project allowing Roman to feast his eyes on the results . They impact him in ways he would never imagine .
Hatchet for the Honeymoon	A handsome sociopath named John Harrington ( Stephen Forsyth , perfectly cast ) , stuck in a bad marriage with a wife who holds her fortune over his head like a badge of honor , enjoys murdering females before they wed . Taking place in Paris , John has a breeding ground to work from since marriages occur frequently there . Only adding to that is the fact that he operates a wedding boutique founded by the mother he adored . . John has the provided extra motivation to slay . Disturbed by this calling of his name , after each kill John gets closer to seeing the face of she who haunts him . Does he really want to see this , though ? Using a hatchet as his weapon of slaughter , John incinerates the bodies in his flower hot-house . His wife's vicious overbearingness only presses the madness underneath his calm exterior . An inspector ( Jesús Puente ) , on the case to find who is killing all the brides-to-be , hounds John passing off little verbal jabs poking about the idea that he's a prime suspect . To add to John's paranoia is the ghost of the wife he kills and buries in the hot-house flower garden . It seems her presence looms over him like a shadow and she associates ( . . and is seen ) by those around John . He's also " visited " by a young boy devastated by the sight of his mother collapsing after someone attacked her . We ought to know who that boy is and the fact that this visual horror might've lent a hand in John's descent into killing . Bava's a master at creating lucid nightmares and images that haunt and remain with you . There's a scene every Hitchcock fan would love after John kills his wife . After completing this task , before he could take her body from top of the stairs the inspector comes knocking at his door . The missus's dead arm is dripping blood on the carpet below as John tries to work his nemesis out of the room . And , how he evades the question about hearing a woman screaming from the inspector is also very ingenious . Bava also lenses a fascinating sequence with John alone as he caresses his mannequins . They are lifeless , but he doesn't seem to care . . John holds them with this kind of deep cherish relishing the silence that exudes from within the room . Also , the way Bava photographs the hatchet as if providing a lustful allure . . it's as if the camera embraces this weapon of execution . I mean just watch how John holds the hatchet in his hand . . it's like holding the woman you love . Lastly , Bava's decision to have us be a part of John's madness and despair is another important creepy part that makes this whole film quite an experience . This is an amazing piece of film-making . . a truly bizarre masterwork of genius .
The Vanishing Point	You know I can not really answer the question that is posed to cross-country car deliverer , Kowalski ( Barry Newman ) towards the end of the film by a man he made a daring , ridiculous bet with stating he could take a car from Colorado to California in 15 hours , but there's no doubt in my mind , he knew the answer as he drives his car into certain death in the final climactic scene . You might wish to wring my neck for just tossing the climax to you in such a forward way , but I don't think most viewers will expect Kowalski to make that deadline after committing the felonies he breaks along the way . There's a look on Kowalski's face that shows peace with this smile of almost gratitude for having made his long journey . Or , at least that's the way I gaged his reaction at the end as he knew his time was up . The question is . . Why even bother trying to make an exhausting trip so far in such a short time to begin with ? I have my opinion as I'm sure others do . Perhaps , the film offers to each individual a chance to make their own mind up regarding why our hero decides he must try and achieve the impossible task he sets out for . I felt it was a way of proving to himself he could achieve something to fulfill an unsatisfied existence that has been , for the most part ( I'm speaking in regards to the flashback sequences offered us sprinkled throughout the film ) , full of tragedy and sadness . I think the film appears at the start to be just a racing-against-time chase film with cops in hot pursuit , but it takes on a greater meaning to me anyways . Cleavon Little has an interesting role as Super Soul ( an interesting name , isn't it ? ) . He's a deejay who almost becomes K's spiritual guide along the way . K represents something to different people . Some look at him as the " last American dream " , others as nutty as a fruitcake . I think he's only on this journey for himself - - this calm exterior hides loneliness I think and loss ( the young lover who dies in a surfing mishap ; seeing a young druggie almost raped by a cop-partner he had on the force ) . I think the loneliness part is briefly fulfilled by Charlotte Rampling's mysterious hitchhiker ( her scenes were cut in the American version , but I watched the European one ) towards the end . I love the film for what it shows . . the American landscape allowing a car and it's driver room to navigate and live . In the time-span available , K does just that .
Marat / Sade	The Persecution and Assassination of Jean-Paul Marat as Performed by the Inmates of the Asylum at Charenton Under the Direction of the Marquis de Sade . The title pretty much sums up this powerfully visualized " play " , set in 1808 , during France's supposed success rate at educating the insane . This play by de Sade which is a scathing dissection of the French Revolution using Marat as the voice for the war as the Marquis takes the role against it . Morality obviously being this is a play from Marquis de Sade is also under the microscope as those that are insane fulfill certain roles under the celebrated masochist's direction . Monsieur Coulmier ( Clifford Rose ) is the mediator watching de Sade's behavior regarding what his script can and can not say . Blasphemy in this supposed golden age of France can not be warranted so Coulmier , with the assistance of nuns and guards inside , try to keep the deranged - - and de Sade - - in check . The play itself is told through not only the characters written on page , but from the insane themselves who often intervene on their own behalf . The ending is a fine slap in the face of the so-called success the French asylums seemed to have employed as the maniacs , after finishing , attack all the normal folk inside ( two aristocratic women are audience members inside the cell - - what were they thinking ? ) as Marquis relishes the chaos with glee . The staged film is disturbing , bleak , but profound and spellbinding . The way the camera moves throughout the cell ( and several shots through the bars and on the darkened audience outside the cell ) is hypnotic and deeply luridly fascinating . The cast is so good , they really convinced me I was watching a directed play using loonies !
Witness	John Book ( Harrison Ford in perhaps his best film as an actor ) discovers through the eye-witness of a young Amish boy , Samuel ( Lukas Haas ) , that cops have murdered one of their own because said slain had uncovered a drug ring taking place with confiscated materials used to create speed . Unfortunate for John , he goes to a man he believes he can trust , Chief Paul Schaeffer ( Josef Sommer ) , but doesn't know he's actually the mastermind behind the whole operation . Book is fired upon by Lt . McFee ( Danny Glover ) , the cop who slit the throat of the cop . Book , bleeding profusely , flees with Rachel ( Kelly McGillis , who is excellent ) and her son Samuel to their Amish residence in order to keep them from possible harm . Book has been bleeding so badly , the Amish doctor will have to heal him and this opens the door for the film's " fish-out-of-water " theme never utilized better than in this film about a man who discovers the wonderful people in a village often criticized and slanted because of their differences in living in regards to society . It's always present , though , that Schaeffer would not rest until he finds Book and the child . . their operation would ruin him . An important piece to Book's whereabouts lies in his partner Carter ( Brent Jennings ) who knows where he is . Schaeffer obviously understands their relationship is tight and needs to squeeze the information of Book's location from him . The film's main centerpiece is the growing bond between Book , an outsider , and Rachel . We can clearly see that this will never come to complete fruition because their worlds are so far apart , but we understand this love that permeates when they are near each other . It's a beautiful thing to watch slowly develop because upon Book's arrival , the village were quite worried of what troubles he might bring to their peaceful co-existence . The violence Book comes from is stagnant in one particular scene where John breaks the nose of a trouble-maker wishing to cause emotional distress the Amish people just desiring to go home . Eli ( Jan Rubes , who is wonderful ) tries in many ways to tame John , but he can not stand by , as the Amish people have , and see them mistreated because of who they are . His reaction is seen as immoral , but there seems to be an understanding that takes place here . We see that John absolutely cares for these people and when someone wishes to poke fun at their modest and quiet ways , it brings out the worst in him . I think the film's true beauty is how director Weir casts a respectful eye to the Amish way of life rather than the jokingly scornful way they are often portrayed . As most films of Weir are , this is magnificently photographed with a haunting lyrical score . The film also shows the clashing of two different ways of life as Rachel shows throughout her growing attraction to John . A suitor possibly for her is Daniel Hochleitner ( Alexander Godunov ) , but the film thankfully stays away from him clashing with John over Rachel . John knows where Daniel stands and vice versa . We actually seem to see a camaraderie form between the two during a sequence where all the men band together and build a barn for a newly married couple . Book's being able to use his abilities at carpentry brings him a workman-like tolerance from the village despite being not one of them . Slowly but surely , John has been appreciated and loved by all as they accept him with the understanding that he will eventually go , but be remembered fondly . The final twenty or so minutes is the eventual encounter of Schaeffer and his two cop cronies trying to find John so they can silence him for good . John has found out that his partner was killed and threatened Schaeffer's life . In the confrontation , Schaeffer and John will meet and this shows a stand-off against the violence that has existed for too long . John wishes for the killing to stop after his successful survival against McFee and Fergie ( Angus MacInnes ) . I think this is another great example that the 1980's was the decade of Harrison Ford . Hit after hit starred Ford and " Witness " is simply another fine example of marvelous work . Weir frames some magnificent shots of the green fields ( I call them " The fields of life " ) and the camera lovingly captures the landscape of a peaceful group of people who just want to live without the outside corruption . Perhaps a little of what they live rubbed off on John . . I believe it did .
Death has no Master	Death himself , cloaked in red , delivers a plague to a village under the rule of the cruel , corrupt Prince Prospero ( Vincent Price , in one of his finest roles ) . Prospero is offended by two villagers who ridicule the way he treats their people and decides to imprison them keeping them in a dungeon alive temporarily thanks to the pleading of the father's red-headed daughter , Francesca ( Jane Asher ) . Prospero fancies Francesca , who is quite homely at first , and wishes to corrupt her innocence and purity . Gino ( David Weston ) is Francesca's beloved and Ludovico ( Nigel Green ) is her father and both are to partake in a devious game plotted by Prospero where one will die among the two in a " poisoned dagger " deal where each will choose from a group of blades cutting themselves until one receives that bad one that will end their life within five seconds . Ultimately , the film is about Prospero's devilish reign over everyone as he seems to hold the power over who lives and dies . Or , does he ? What Prospero doesn't know is that Red Death has his own plans and everything that has occurred from the plague that kills almost all the villagers to the capture of Francesca . . it's a plan devised by Death to show Prospero his fate . A universal theme of " good versus evil " is employed skillfully by director Roger Corman in arguably his finest film using Satanism as the source of the evil and love as the source of good . Prospero and the woman of his castle , Juliana ( Hazel Court ) , are " duelling " for Satan's affections and Corman often uses dream-like surrealism to show their desire for the vile one's favor . Juliana even takes the mark of the upside-down cross , burnt to her chest , to hopefully become Beelzebub's bride . We watch as Prospero shows no pity on villagers who wish to lodge in his castle and even certain aristocrats who just wish to barrier themselves from the red plague ravaging the countryside . We also see the wealthy denizens as they scrap for their host's truffles and humiliate themselves often for Prospero's sheer amusement ( one sequence shows them mimicking animals at Prospero's command ) . Prospero relishes misery , specifically from God-fearing Christians , and he often uses people he deems of lower value as entertainment for his visitors . An excellent example is two miniature people , Hop Toad ( Skip Martin ) and Esmeralda ( Verina Breenlaw whose voice is dubbed by an older woman ) who perform recitals for them . When Esmeralda accidentally tips over a glass of wine on slimy aristocrat , Alfredo ( Patrick Magee who portrays him as a devious toad ) , she is slapped by him rashly . In a moment of pure vengeful delight , Corman shows good triumph over evil when midget Hop Toad gets the better of Alfredo tricking him into a gorilla suit during a masquerade ball Prospero was putting together . But , the film is about fate and death . We all shall meet that point and time and Prospero's about to meet Death face-to-face . The ending where Prospero can not control the horror that will come to him is quite satisfying . Corman used sets from the film " Becket " while making this film in England and provides us with a lavish look , magnificent color , really wonderful surreal nightmarish sequences . . that's just inside the castle . Death is photographed inside an eerie fog and the film's final sequence where we hear a collection of " deliverers " talk in jest and sadness of their unfortunate duties of taking souls as they wander is a fine artist rendering of a great story adapted from Poe's magnificent macabre tale . Price as the evil prince and the way Corman films the depravity really provides a template for that finale where everyone who inflicts their cruelty must meet their own cruel fate .
Blood Simple	Abby ( Frances McDormand , so beautiful and young ) decides to have a torrid affair with Ray ( John Getz ) , her husband's employee . She is just plain tired of her husband , Marty ( Dan Hedaya ) who runs a beer joint in Texas and is a little nutty . Loren Visser ( M Emmet Walsh's finest hour ) is a slimy PI who takes photographs of Ray and Abby together in a cheap motel bed . Loren is a porcine swine who will do just about anything for money and is willing to take as many lives as possible so that no trace of his crimes lead back to him . Marty is sick to his stomach with the adultery and calls on Loren to assassinate his wife and lover , erasing every trace of their existence . But , Loren has been eying Marty's safe which holds a lot of cash from the beer joint business . . Complex , ultra-stylish neo-noir is beautifully photographed by MEN IN BLACK director Sonnenfeld on a tight budget . The southern drawl and location of Texas add atmosphere and a fresh take on the corrupt layers of old school noir where no one comes out unscathed and everyone has a skeleton in their closet . Joel and Ethan Coen show right away their abilities to develop a jerky plot which can shift into a different gear when it concerns motivational violence and betrayal . Especially interesting is how Marty seems to be the one who betrayed by all sides suffering because of those around his orbit . But , Marty's downfall is even consorting with the likes of Loren who has the appearance of an alligator with eyes slightly above water with intentions of striking it's prey . What happens to Marty makes up the macabre aspect of the plot . . it is what ultimately sets up the confrontation between Loren and the star-crossed lovers .
The Brother from Another Planet	A black skinned alien , who doesn't utter a single word yet understands what others are saying , crashlands in Harlem . He meets various people , such as some quirky , interesting black characters in a bar setting who would befriend him even though he doesn't say anything to them . He often sits or looks on as people just chat away . He has gifted abilities such as his touch being able to repair equipment magically , the way his right eye can be removed and used as an image recording device , can heal wounds , or how anything solid object he embraces with his touch can speak from the noise of a past incident . In Harlem , he's introduced to racism , poverty , lust , drugs , crime , sex , among other things as two alien " police " ( played by director Sayles and his frequent actor David Strathairn ) are trying to locate his whereabouts so they can " haul him in . " The film show our alien's particular interest in two tragic dope-pushers ( . . and abusers ) and how their plight might result from wealthy uptown types . I think ultimately , the film is a candid fish-out-of-water view of Harlem's plight from a babe's point-of-view . Introspective tale regarding Harlem and how it is viewed by many ( a beat cop who chats with our alien , two white men from Indiana who get lost , etc ) . I thought the film was on target using comedy as an avenue to expose what had happened to Harlem over the years . Particularly interesting is listening to the men in the bar as they often are our real insight into how Halrem has changed over the years . Joe Morton is really amazing because he has to be convincing without a line of dialogue . Having us believe he's from some other planet is not the easiest task , but it's a credit to the actor and his director that this flick accomplishes it . Just a brilliant indie from acclaimed writer / director Sayles .
The Unknown	Alonzo , the " Armless " ( the master of expressionistic cinema , Lon Chaney ) is in love with assistant Nanon ( the alluring Joan Crawford ) . Nanon grows tired to the brink of psychological woe because of men's desires to grope her with their hands . Malabar , the Mighty ( Norman Kerry ) , a Strongman who works for Antonio Zanzi's circus wishes to forge a relationship with Nanon , but when he attempts to embrace her , the phobia she has pushes her away from him . Zanzi is Nanon's father and his disgust towards Alonzo heightens when the Armless one attempts to woo her . Trying to bludgeon Alonzo , Zanzi is pried away by Malabar . Alonzo vows to his ally , Cojo ( John George ) , that no one will have Nanon but him . We soon find out that Alonzo actually has a harness underneath his clothes which hide his arms from others and that he is secretly homicidal with one of his hands having two thumbs ! This two-thumbed hand leaves quite an indelible mark on others , especially when Alonzo murders Zanzi . Feeling he's closing in on Nanon's love , Alonzo will make the ultimate sacrifice by having a delicate operation which proves how far his obsession has taken him . But , what he doesn't know is Nanon has relinquished her phobia and has accepted Malabar's plea of love for marriage . The scene where Alonzo discovers from them their plans for marriage , his face twists in a state of madness , anguish , and horror ( Chaney's expressive facial emotion is powerful ) . The morbid attempt at retribution from Alonzo towards Malabar ( who is planning a certain stunt regarding horses pulling his arms on treadmills ) will ultimately spell his doom . This silent film is breathtaking mostly because of Chaney's commanding performance . His abilities to use his feet ( throwing knives , wiping the sweat from his brow , and especially LIGHTING CIGARETTES ) just makes his performance even more amazing . The film's bizarre nature only brings this film a much deserved notoriety . An astonishing , unforgettable work from Tod Browning .
Deep Red	A vicious stabbing silhouetted on a wall , the bloody butcher knife thrown to the floor , an unsettling children's tune chanting away on a record player , and a pair of children's legs walking onto the scene of the crime . . Argento masterly introduces us to the central event where all the other events that come after contribute to . A psychic announces at a parapsychology session in a theater that she senses the volatile thoughts and feelings of deeply disturbed person . This person leaves the theater , with Argento shooting from POV as he rushes to get away . We know exactly what she " sees " because we were witnesses , slightly , ourselves to the grisly murder of someone not yet determined . Later this psychic is brutally murdered by a psycho in a raincoat with a hatchet . From the street below her apartment , a pianist / professor , Marcus Daly ( David Hemmings ) sees her face slammed through her window thanks to the harsh blow of the hatchet to the back of her head . Briskly moving to her apartment , he finds her hanging over a broken piece of window glass dead . Something irks him , an image he believes was a painting , that he feels is a vital clue in discovering the killer . Morbidly curious as to why this psychic was killed , Marcus decides to pursue the psycho's identity not only putting his own life in danger but other innocents as well . . his pursuit will undoubtedly lead to the murders of those who might find out who the killer is . A house with a hidden room holding a secret , a drawing of a bloody stabbing , a book containing the photo of the specific house , a writing on a bathtub as steam provides a nearly-dead victim a chance to identify a certain fact important to finding the killer all assist Marcus in his pursuit . But , his pursuit gets others inadvertently killed because someone is truly motivated to keep a secret that has remained buried for quite a long time . A woman is stabbed with her face immersed in boiling bathtub water . Another victim gets a knife plunged into his neck . And , an important victim , whose forced into perhaps killing Marcus so that the killer's identity would remain unknown , is dragged by a truck , his head hammering into a concrete sidewalk , before being crushed under another car's tire . A supporting character , Carlo ( Gabriele Lavia ) , Marcus ' boozing , depressed , troubled , homosexual pal , has a major role in the film , as does his unflappable mother . Argento builds the mystery by uncovering each layer , one step at a time , with consequences for those who find out too much . A variety of camera techniques , a throbbing , groovy rock score from Goblin , good chemistry between Hemmings ( . . much more likable and endearing than his rather soulless artist in Antonioni's Blow-up ) and Daria Nicolodi ( . . as sassy , sexy , and tough-talking liberal reporter Gianni ) , and some spellbinding set-pieces ( . . especially when Marcus is inside the infamous , deteriorating mansion which is a shadow of it's once palatial state , just teeming with spooky atmosphere ) really make this a winning giallo thriller . Some fantastic sequences include the discovery of a corpse , Hemmings face reflected from a pool of blood , and an eyeball isolated in the darkness of a closet . I watched a rather inferior , lower quality transfer in pan'n'scan format , and highly recommend seeking out the wide-screen version instead . Deep Red should be seen in the proper way , where Argento's work can most appreciated . Probably Argento's most intricately plotted , delicately structured film to date .
Creature from the Black Laggon	The finding of a large amphibious hand leads a research team in a quest to find any form of fossil of past life . . perhaps extra remains to back up the hand . What they do not expect is a living , breathing gillman who will kill anyone who threatens or draws near his habitat . In a fascinating developing angle , the gillman takes on an infatuation for the incredibly sexy Kay ( Julie Adams ) . David ( Richard Carlson ) is the head scientist , and love of Kay's life , who was called to the expedition by Carl ( Antonio Moreno ) whose village help assisted in finding the fossil hand . Mark ( Richard Denning ) , who is funding this expedition , becomes obsessed with catching the gillman because not only does it provide proof of existing undiscovered life , but sure to bring a heavy profit . Yet , one by one members of the Rita boat crew are being killed by the gillman as do various members of the scientific team which bring David to an unfortunate decision . . leave their locale for safety forgetting the new discovery . Complications ensue when the creature blocks their passage out with a massive tree and Mark's desperation causes conflict . But , the major suspense comes from the gillman's desire to steal away Kay posing quite a threat as he tries to sneak on board various times . The underwater photography is magnificent , the rubber suit is excellent providing us with quite a monster , and the film is well acted . The fact that this film is intelligent made by a group of filmmakers desiring to make a good film , not just some sort of hokey nonsense to make profit . One of the very best , if not the best , Universal monster movies made .
The Devils	Nicole and Christina believe they have committed the perfect murder of a lover and husband who was anything but the tenderhearted , most loving person in the world . That man is Michel , a principal of a male boarding school his wife Christina paid for with her wealth . Michel holds everyone at bay because he has this powerfully vile hold over everyone from his perpetually " walking-on-egg-shells " wife to the teachers under his watch . He is really abusive toward Christina who is weak with an exterior so shaken with fear she suffers from a heart condition . What makes the opening of this film so fascinating is Clouzot doesn't show the building of the set-up for murdering Michel , but we hear through their dialogue this planning of the event for quite some time . What is also jarring is that Nicole and Christina seem to be friendly with one another which is startling since Nicole is Michel's lover . There's an instance when Nicole is about to share what Michel told her in bed regarding his wishes for his wife's demise to Christina ! It is quite interesting that Nicole is the instigator of the actions that soon occur regarding how they set-up Michel and kill him . We watch as this whole scenario takes place which leaves little doubt that Nicole and been premeditating how to kill Michel for quite some time . One mistake of course is deciding to include Christina in her plans to the whole set-up and murder since she's so weak-kneed that any little minute ordeal would throw her into a frenzy . Once the deed is indeed over and they toss Michel's body in the nasty , murky pool beside the school , it's all about someone discovering it . That tricky part really ratchets up the true tension in the story . Christina , who is finding it unbearable waiting day after day as that body is supposedly waiting on the bottom undiscovered , has the pool drained but , to her horror , no body is found . Where did that body go ? Who removed it ? Was he dead ? Throughout the film , Nicole and Christina deal with the underlying guilt from their deed and mistrust which starts to loom over their " relationship " like a rain-cloud when going to the police station often becomes a topic of conversation . A detective makes things even worse as he represents a constant reminder that their crime is always on display as awaiting that final axe to chop never goes away . Christina is also a devout catholic which only adds to the luggage of guilt already weighing her down . Good casting , very intelligent story-line ( that develops after the " perfect murder " rather than focusing on it as what usually takes place in mysteries ) , and a suspenseful build-up with questions abound that keeps the viewer guessing at what will happen as that body stays missing . Though clues of his existence as a living man seems possible , the film is slippery at actually showing him while pulsating the theme of Christina's inner strife at what she has done . Great film-making in every possible way .
Malpertuis	A sailor stops by his old town , realizes his family's home had been removed , attempts to find his sister , gets stuck in a bar fight over a dance hall girl , gets hit across the skull knocking him unconscious , awakening in the home of his bedridden uncle , Cassavius ( Orson Welles ) . The sailor is Jan , portrayed by blonde headed , blue-eyed , scrawny Mathieu Carrière ( Born for Hell ) , and he , at first , just wishes to leave but his demanding uncle has something of importance to tell him regarding a will which could prove profitable if he decides not to leave . Within the house are an eccentric group of oddballs , all attempting to appease their master , hoping to leave Malpertuis once Cassavius kicks the bucket . Even still , Jan has no desire to stay until a ravishing red head , Euryale ( Susan Hampshire who plays multiple roles , presenting an astonishing range , making three specific characters completely unique and different , a multi-faceted performance that deserves praise ) , his cousin , arrives , throwing his life into torment . The proposition in Cassavius ' will is for those inside Malpertuis to remain until one couple survives , gaining the inheritance . Relatives and hired help , the greedy vultures they are , remain , awaiting for the chance to gain the giant piggy-bank and property entitled if they can outlast their peers . Meanwhile , Jan decides to trek through the halls , mysterious rooms , and spiral staircases of Malpertuis , a massive ring containing an army of keys , hoping to unlock the secrets of the place , hoping to understand Cassavius . Along the way , Jan discovers that Malpertuis may be much , much more than just a mansion , and those people within it's walls could be more than they appear . The film incorporates dream logic which has you wondering what Jan might experience next . We are , in a sense , on the same surreal journey as Jan is , experiencing what he does , bombarded by unpredictable behavior , always yearning to learn more . Lots of symbolism , and director Harry Kümel ( Daughters of Darkness ) establishes the importance of faces . . through the multiple characters portrayed by Hampshire ( . . as not only Euryale , the one Jan desires and seemingly can not touch , but also his beloved sister , Nancy , and a lusting Alice who openly engages him for sexual favors , longing to be " human " , despite what she " really is " ) , we realize that what we are seeing isn't a real world as we know it . The mansion itself ( . . the astonishing spiral staircases and endless rooms / halls ) is a veritable maze , about as maddening as the unusual characters which inhabits it's domain . We keep discovering , like Jan , new things regarding the characters that remain in Malpertuis , and what their true relation to him ( . . in a dream , faces of people that exist often derive from those you have contacted in real life ) . Harry Kümel's visual style is magnificent and his camera vividly captures the nuances of this remarkable habitat observing what Jan sees . Everything from the art direction ( . . every room produces a different kind of mood , and yields a startling color / atmosphere all it's own ) to the editing ( . . the way Kümel is able to feature three Hampshires in one single room is awe-inspiring ) , everything's first-rate , developed with top-notch skill . Color me impressed because I hadn't ever heard of it's existence until just recently , and I'm thankful I had an opportunity to see it . I watched the director's cut , dubbed into French with English subtitles . Orson Welles , entirely in bed , commands the screen moving very little . . it's simply amazing how much presence he had . Hampshire is positively divine , her beauty hypnotic at times . The twists at the end ( . . who these people are is revealed not once , but twice ) really dazzle , but the pace slowly develops so many might grow impatient , but I couldn't wait to see what was gonna come next .
Sleepless	I feel " Sleepless " is a fine example of how to make a giallo and make it right . The red herrings , the reasons behind why and how the killer works , the violence which is jarring and graphic , the strength of having a legend , Max Von Sydow , as the central sleuth detecting , and the great finale which is actually quite satisfying . You'll have detractors saying that this has such familiarity to it , but I felt this is a completely original story in it's own merit while exhibiting the traits fans of this genre know and love . The film concerns killings from the past and how they connect with a fresh crop of new killings . It is said that a killer dwarf ( ! ) was behind the death of three women , one being the mother of Giacomo ( Stefano Dionisi ) . . viciously slain by a musical instrument . It is stated that Ulisse Moretti solved the case which ended when a dwarf named Fabritiis decided to commit suicide instead of tolerate the scorn of others lying guilt at his feet for the slayings . The fresh killings bring that case back to fruition and Moretti begins to suspect he was wrong in fingering the dwarf . It seems the killings are following a pattern from a nursery rhyme book with animals . After each female is killed , a cut-away picture of an animal is left by their body . Giacomo , who had left the area , returns at the invitation of an old school chum , Lorenzo ( Roberto Zibetti ) . With Moretti , Giacomo go on their own investigation and make some startling discoveries on the way . During the course of the film , Giacomo will also have a passionate affair with a talented harp player , Gloria ( Chiara Caselli ) . This film has some very nasty killings such as a poor woman who gets her face bashed up against a wall , a man who receives a gold pen inserted in his skull , not to mention some knife slayings for good measure . The train sequence in the opening ( . . not to mention what happens shortly afterward ) is very well done . There's an inspired sequence where a ballerina is beheaded during the intermission of a " Swan Lake " concert . I love how the film develops over time as we discover the connection between the animal rhyme book and the slayings , not to mention who the killer really is . Everything comes together in such a thrilling was . An essential giallo , and one of Argento's finest films .
The Blair Witch Project	" We are going to die out here . " Hard to believe it's been practically a decade since " The Blair Witch Project " was all the buzz , revolting some with how it would not give in allowing us to see what is terrorizing these three unfortunate would-be documentarian filmmakers , causing some audience-goers to almost up-chuck at the dizzying , skakey camera work ( . . but , if you think about it , this only gives this piece merit , these are amateur filmmakers who have yet to truly master the right form of precise camera-movement ) , and leaving many furiously duped at how producers claimed it was real , that footage of vanished film students had been found and pieced together for our benefit . Watching it for the first time since , hell , 2000 I guess , I was surprised at how this gave me the creeps . It was as if I were with them , deep into the woods lost , the sinister trappings of wilderness imprisoning me . I envisioned just what it would be like , there in that tent hearing noises out in the distance , even those giggly sounds of children brought chills up and down my spine . . particularly when you see and hear the slight pounding on the exterior of the tent . I mean , snapping twigs and sticks out in the darkness actually gave me the willies . At first , I could understand how three film students , Heather , Josh , & Michael would find their little adventure such a thrill . . it was like a vacation with the goal of capturing a documentary for an extra grade in school lifting their average of say to possibly a This documentary , as seen early on , seems to be little more than to photograph and convey the legend of some Witch who supposedly haunts the woods . It's treated with rolled eyes as locals share what they know second-hand about it , providing our students with fuel for later laughter . I enjoyed how , as this continues , the camaraderie deteriorates eventually leading to shouting matches and ridicule . I found this actually rather believable and realistic , it worked for me . I could see a couple of people I either barely know , or know just from reputation , getting lost with yours truly as the guide with these sort of reactionary emotions and situations happening . These are just people with everyday jobs hoping for brighter futures facing unforeseen horrors which spiral out of their control despite the fact that getting lost in the woods in our modern age shouldn't happen . Is it some mythical witch behind the spooky noises and unusually shaped rocks and stick-men ? The film sure paints a picture of this in the final moments as Heather and Michael enter an eerie dilapidated house with children's hand-prints and ritualistic symbols inscribed on the walls as Josh cries for their help . The basement with a person standing with their face to the wall as a camera falls helpless to the ground after a hard thud sure opens up the scary idea that something truly disturbing was happening away from the camera . I like not knowing because I could just imagine the horrors taking place as if it were me being treated to a rude awakening that far from the civilization I know lies in the heart of the wilderness evil has freedom over those unlucky enough to enter it's domain . I know that a lot of f-king people hate this with an absolute passion , but this sure worked for me . . I mean just think about it for a minute : lost in the woods , sounds and voices in the distance , you have heard about a supposed witch haunting the woods , one amongst your party is kidnapped with his agony just out of reach echoing the wilderness , and rocks ( . . not to mention something bloody wrapped in a napkin , neatly intertwined within sticks , cloth & string ) formed in a specific manner warning you that you are not alone . It sure would have me peeing in my pants .
Targets	Byron Orlok ( Boris Karloff , essentially playing himself , but wonderful to watch in every moment he's on screen . . WHAT A VOICE THAT MAN HAD ) wishes to retire from making movies after seeing a screening of a Gothic horror he made called " The Terror " ( . . a Roger Corman quickie ) that made him quite depressed . He deems himself a relic or museum piece . In an alternating story is a young man named Bobby Thompson who appears to be one of those smiling relics from television , but what seems to be a modest , quiet , and obedient person is merely a facade that masks a lurking evil that will finally burst out in a calm rave of violence as he guns down his family ( and an unfortunate grocery deliverer in the wrong place at the wrong time ) , and then perches himself on a tower sniper-shooting passing motorists on the highway . For a final assault , Bobby will hide behind the screening of Orlock's " The Terror " waiting for the right moments to open fire on innocents watching the film from their vehicles . This is where the two alternating stories unite as Orlock decides to give one last guest showing at the screening of his new movie before calling it a day . The film follows Orlock's time before his scheduled appearance at the drive-in , just discussing with director Sammy Michaels ( Peter Bogdanovich , who used this name to honor Sam Fuller who played a major role in developing the screenplay of this film as a favor demanding not to be given a screenwriter credit ) why he wishes to leave the business and how he feels regarding his career . He just wishes to close this chapter in his life explaining that the horrors in the cinema can not compare with what is occurring in reality . That statement gives the other story a twisted sense of irony as we ultimately see that Orlock is indeed correct . I think what makes this film so powerful is the unflinching realism of the sniper and his activities . We watch as Bobby completes his tasks before taking all the lives of his victims . He goes to the gunshop purchasing his ammo . We see him chewing his candy bars . When he murders his wife ( . . as she is about to kiss him ) and mother it stopped my heart . There's something jarring about watching this man buy all these bullets and knowing that these will be used to harm innocent people who have no idea what awaits them . Bogdanovich paints this exactly as it should be . . it doesn't matter how normal or likable a person appears to be , we just don't know what sinister thoughts are churning deep inside . But , to see him operate his path of slaughter in this cold , work-man like ease is even more alarming . When he shoots , it's as if he is killing animals he normally hunts . . does he even distinguish the two ? Here's an idea . We all escape through horror films because we can watch others experience horror in the safety of our automobiles at a drive-in . Take that comfort and safety away as this madman rests his rifle through the opened hole of the theatre screen and that provides a horror all too real .
Gabba Gabba Hey	Fascist principal Miss Togar ( Mary Woronov , who is lensed by expert photographer Dean Cundy as if she were ten feet tall ) has a plan to turn her high completely square . Complications ensue which challenge that goal in delightful rock'n'roller Riff Randell ( PJ Soles who lights up the screen - - she's got a hot bod , too ) who is an obsessive fan of the punk band THE RAMONES . Pal Kate Rambeau ( Dey Young , whose big rimmed glasses and nerdy role can not hide her stunning beauty ) joins forces with Riff to put an end to the supposed crisis of killing rock'n'roll for good which is Togar's desired mission . Vincent Van Patten has a hilarious role as Tom Roberts , a success at everything , but getting laid . Kate is crazy about Tom . . if only he could pull his head out of the sand and see it . Clint Howard steals the film almost ( honestly , who can steal this film away from Soles ? ) as Eaglebauer , " the supplier " who can get everyone almost anything . His office is located in the boy's restroom ! Paul Bartel is also hilarious as a music teacher who becomes an ally of Riff's when he enjoys a concert of THE RAMONES . A raucous high school romp that defies all rules of normalcy . . and I loved it . It's like someone just says , " Let's make life fun for 1 ½ hours . " The film really is anarchy . . a plot-less chaos lovingly adoring THE RAMONES with all it's heart ( even if they are horrible actors , they have an opportunity to gain new audiences with this film ) . The ending pretty much sums up the film as a whole . . Riff and her classmates take over the high school and one massive party begins . To be honest , I didn't want the party to end ! Not conventional in any way whatsoever , this film just let's loose a frenzy . Accompanied by a great rock soundtrack featuring some of THE RAMONES best songs , this film allows a viewer to accept a time in life when war didn't dominate headlines and people just had a good time . Those , I guess were the days .
The Three Faces of Fear	Trio of macabre terror tales from Italian Horror Master Mario Bava , with the great Boris Karloff opening and closing the anthology . This is a minor review for the newly restored Italian Language version , The Three Faces of Fear . In " The Telephone " , an evil voice across the phone terrorizes a beautiful young woman , Rosy ( Michèle Mercier ) threatening her life . Who is the voice across the phone ? Could it be Frank ( Milo Quesada ) , a man who has recently escaped prison , put there by Rosy ? Rosy is so terrified , she'll call a former lesbian lover , Mary ( Lidia Alfonsi ) to stand by her side . But , who exactly is that person with such supposed malicious intent across the phone ? This not one but two twists which are a doozy ! In " The Wurdalak " , Count Vladimire d'Urfe ( Mark Damon ) is passing through a specific area when he comes across the headless torso of a Turkish killer with a certain dagger stuck in it's back . That dagger belongs to the patriarch , Gorca ( Boris Karloff , quite sinister ) who may be a wurdalak , a bloodthirsty corpse who yearns for the blood of those he loves the most . d'Urfe soon meets Gorca's family and falls in love with the lovely Sdenka ( Susy Andersen ) who , along with her brothers , tries to warn the Count to leave the premises before Gorca returns . Gorca told his children upon leaving to find the Turk that if he didn't return in five days at the stroke of Midnight he would probably be a turned wurdalak . When Gorca returns , with a very creepy disposition , d'Urfe watches as he slowly turns the family into wurdalaks hoping to at least save Sdenka . But , Gorca will not rest on his laurels until his whole family joins his side . . In " The Drop of Water " , nurse Helen ( Jacqueline Pierreux ) steals a very valuable ring from the finger of a dead Countess who fooled around with the spirit world , holding séances every Friday night . The Countess ' maid ( Milly Monti ) tells Helen she just didn't die of a heart attack , but was frightened to death by the spirits . Helen , after returning to her apartment , is tormented by the spooky sounds of dripping water , creaking doors , and . . the demented stuck grin of the dead Countess coming towards her ! Each tale is filled to brim with style , color , eerie chills , and atmosphere . Seeing Karloff in great form as a vampire , through the artistic Gothic eye of Bava is thrilling . I think the final two are Gothic triumphs , while the first is a fine little unraveling thriller where those who wish to deceive another will fall on the sword . The third tells us that we should never steal from the dead . I felt the second tells us that family is important ( a little bit of black humor for you kind folks , forgive me . ) . Probably the best horror anthology ever made ( . . although , I'm sure fans of " Dead of Night " might think otherwise ) .
